16-12-2020||News||Indian diplomacy’s climate test, writes Syed Akbaruddin||Come 2021, the climate for diplomacy will change. In 2020, the black swan event of the pandemic was unforeseen. In contrast, the pivoting of the global diplomatic agenda towards the climate crisis is visible.Numerous conventional diplomatic issues loom on India’s horizon. They include tackling China’s increasing assertiveness and engaging a new United States (US) administration; reinforcing bonds with our neighbours and strengthening bridges with our extended neighbourhood; bolstering relations with the European Union (EU) and reinvigorating ties with a post-Brexit United Kingdom; countering the perennial pestilence of midnight’s other child; and enhancing our burgeoning ties with developing states globally. However, its the unconventional that may upend all these important goals.When climate takes centre stage of global policymaking, the economic, social and political implications of the solutions to address the transboundary concerns are likely to override all else on the diplomatic agenda. The announcement of John Kerry’s appointment to the new post of special presidential envoy for climate is an indication that US President-elect Joe Biden’s climate agenda is global. Kerry’s assertion that, “America will soon have a government that treats the climate crisis as the urgent national security threat that it is” reflects the thinking that the impact of the climate crisis is becoming more complex.Calls for greater ambition to reach net carbon neutrality by 2050 have gathered steam. The Virtual Climate Ambition Summit held on the fifth anniversary of the Paris Agreement on December 12 is a precursor to the efforts underway. More than 125 states have committed to the goal of a net zero carbon future by 2050. Others are veering towards it. A majority of the G-20 are on board; 38 countries have declared “climate emergencies” until carbon neutrality is reached. China has provided a goal of 2060 and sees climate diplomacy as an opportunity at resuming the G-2 playbook of the Paris Agreement. The incoming Biden Administration is expected to set its target too. Once the US gets on board, those accounting for 63% of global greenhouse emissions would have agreed to carbon neutrality targets. Despite their announcements, there are gaps between 2050 targets and the policies that these countries have put in place.India is one of the few overachievers in terms of meeting the Nationally Determined Contributions announced under the Paris Agreement for 2030. At the same time, India, as yet, is not in a position to set an economy-wide net-zero target as it needs to sustain economic growth, pull millions out of poverty and provide power to them. Our policymakers are struggling to find solutions to restrain stubble-burning in some regions despite their horrendous impact in nearby regions. The diverse sensitivities that need to be borne in mind in our global engagement will far surpass the concerns our trade negotiators went into Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) negotiations had to take into account. Climate negotiations potentially are more far-reaching for our polity, economy and society. Several are suggesting that our best option is a “No” to more ambitious commitments.However, we need to be cognisant that some are preparing tools of coercive climate diplomacy. EU is eyeing a carbon border adjustment mechanism by 2021. The Biden administration will also look to favour a carbon tax with border adjustments, although whether it can get through such legislation remains uncertain. Kerry will try for a major international breakthrough in his first year. Having witnessed his hectoring approach to promote ratification of the Paris Agreement, caution needs to be our watchword. For a sui generis state such as ours with varied interests, to gather allies with similar climate goals is not easy.The Conference of Parties (COP) 26 in Glasgow next year will not be just another multilateral meeting. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, addressing the Climate Ambition Summit, signaled that, “Centennial India will not only meet its own targets, but will also exceed your expectations”. It is now for our thought leaders and officials to flesh this out and suggest options. These could perhaps be of a sectoral nature and encompass power, transport, agriculture and forests as possible areas for achieving decarbonising target dates.India has set up an Apex Committee for Implementation of Paris Agreement (AIPA) to ensure coordination among 14 key ministries and to engage business and other stakeholders. We will also need to leverage bilateral ties with key players such as the US and EU; espouse common concerns in plurilateral groups such as BRICS which we currently chair; and make tactical alliances where possible. Besides, the thrust towards climate crisis as an international peace and security issue is likely to grow. Diplomacy will inevitably be a tool in addressing the growing importance of the phenomenon. It may be time for the ministry of external affairs to foster greater integration and coherence in the evolving external dimensions of India’s approach to the multi-faceted nature of climate crisis challenges in various forums.The world cannot solve the climate crisis without India’s active participation. While contributing to the global effort, we will need to seek an equitable outcome based on climate justice that also provides for financing and space for our transition. While the policies of the developed countries are the primary cause of this phenomenon, a sustainable global transition is in India’s interests too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/indian-diplomacy-s-climate-test-writes-syed-akbaruddin/story-ogaUjjNgfU4I7EtTO1AsxJ.html
16-12-2020||News||To revive the economy, go back to the grassroots, writes Bhupesh Baghel||These are difficult times. We are in the middle of a pandemic which is claiming hundreds of lives daily even after 10 months of disaster management. The economy is officially in recession, unemployment and reverse migration or ruralisation is a hard reality. Additionally, there is the farm sector crisis and the Centre cutting social sector and welfare spending. In contrast, the stock exchange is at an all-time high. Something seems missing in our reading of the situation. The pandemic has only worsened already deep inequality.The Congress government in Chhattisgarh believes that no economy can prosper by leaving the majority of the rural poor behind. Democracy is the first in the line of fire whenever the economy is in trouble, from the same people who never realised that all economies start at the grassroots.One pivotal argument is that we have been a consumption-driven economy unlike the export-based Asian economies, and for our true potential to be realised, we need to expand consumption patterns across the entire demography. But apart from consumption, our productivity needs to grow, and that means the health and educational standards for the poorest and remotest must improve. For this, we have taken steps to reopen the schools closed in the last 15 years in the Maoist-inflicted areas and launched an extensive nutrition program, Mukhya Mantri Suposhan Abhiyan, which aims at eliminating malnutrition in the state within the next three years. We have brought 67,000 children out of around 500,000 children out of malnutrition within six months. Coupled with mobile medical services of Haat Bazar Clinic, we wish to make healthcare accessible to all. Our special drive in remote areas of Bastar has helped in reducing malaria cases by 65% in just one year.The challenge of this developing state has been to empower the poor and tribals with a sense of dignity and confidence to enable them to enter the modern economic system and market. To do so, we first need to give them some bargaining power, which means they get freedom from the debt trap and have subsistence income. This was successfully made a reality through higher returns of paddy, sugarcane and maize through direct cash support in Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. Under this scheme, about ₹10,000 of cash support per acre of cultivated land is given to those who are growing paddy, sugarcane and maize. This scheme was substantially supported by a sensitive public distribution system (PDS).After taking oath as chief minister two years ago, we began this journey of enabling the grassroots by waiving off ₹9000 crores of farm loans for around 1.8 million farmers, as promised. Implementation of forest rights act (FRA) entitlements is crucial and we have ensured that land rights — both individual and societal — are transferred as a matter of top priority. So far, we have given individual FRA titles to almost 450,000 people, 46 thousand community FRA and over 5 million acres of community forest resource rights. During the pandemic, we realised that the tribal people should be empowered with accessible resources within their vicinity. An increase in the cover of minor forest produce, under minimum support price regime, from seven to 52 helped achieve this objective.The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) has again proven to be a wonderful scheme, creating huge opportunities for migrant labourers who came back after the lockdown mishap. It provided them with some cash to survive and spend on necessities.To strengthen the rural economy, we need to strengthen the rural ecology too. Our flagship programme Narve, Garva, Ghurva, Bari tries to unify ecology and economy, and aims at improving the riverine system, both surface and groundwater availability, stray cattle and village waste management, and small backyard farming to maintain diversity. Along with forest water conservation and increasing the share of fruit-laden trees in the forests, we are trying to firm up the rural productivity which is more democratic in access and not limited to those with capital and resources.To provide the impoverished with the necessary familiarity with the monetised economy, there needs to be a significant source of cash income. Only then will capital be able to streamline labour and make it productive. Our leader, Rahul Gandhi, had rightly advocated for minimum ensured income through Nyay. In these difficult times, the way out for the economy is to invest heavily in the rural system. The ongoing nationwide farmers’ agitation directs us towards the lack of such pro-people initiatives. The agitation shows both the dominance of predatory market forces and how the building blocks of our economy and democracy have been egregiously offered up for exploitation.By surviving the slowdown, Chhattisgarh has developed a new model and proved what Mahatma Gandhi had advocated to be the best way forward - strengthen the villages and poor, the country will become strong automatically. We read in school “durbalanaam balam rajah” — the power of the king or State is the strength of the weak. These are not the times when the State can withdraw under the garb of reforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-revive-the-economy-go-back-to-the-grassroots-writes-bhupesh-baghel/story-o7X43jHHOGTOPw2sydoG0N.html
16-12-2020||News||Decoding the DC-Brussels-Beijing geopolitical triangle||Joe Biden’s election as the United States (US) president has led to talk of greater coordination between Washington and Brussels over China. In early November, European Union (EU) foreign affairs chief Josep Borrell was quick to call for “a coherent and robust China stance” between the transatlantic allies. Biden, meanwhile, has promised to consult traditional allies to “develop a coherent strategy” on China.In late November, Financial Times reported that a draft EU Commission paper had called for working with the US to deal with the “strategic challenge presented by China’s growing international assertiveness” with the technology domain being the “the backbone of a wider coalition of like-minded democracies”. This was followed by reports of the EU proposing a new Transatlantic Trade and Technology Council to jointly set standards on new technologies, strengthen technological and industrial leadership and expand trade and investment. None of these reports have been confirmed. But the EU Council highlighted “shared priorities” for Brussels and Washington.At the same time, however, Borrell was keen to point out the need to strengthen European autonomy. This desire lies at the heart of EU-US tensions, particularly after the tumult of the Trump era. Autonomy has emerged as a strategic objective for the EU. Not surprising then that it is one of the spaces around which Beijing has focused its efforts. For instance, Chinese officials have repeatedly emphasised the threat of US unilateralism and a new Cold War undermining EU’s interests. Chinese media and analysts have been dismissing the possibility of a coordinated EU-US action. At the same time, Chinese officials have emphasised the economic opportunities that Beijing has to offer. In an article last week, Zhang Ming, China’s ambassador to the EU, said that “China’s domestic demand is the EU’s external demand, which means a source of growth for the EU”. He added that the two sides had signed an agreement allowing greater market access for European agricultural goods and highlighted that the investment treaty was just around the corner.This has some merit. China pipped the US to become the EU’s largest trading partner through the first half of this year. The trade remains skewed, with European imports outstripping its exports. This does lead to some consternation. However, as a recent study by the Mercator Institute for China Studies argued, cheap Chinese imports free up greater disposable income of European citizens. The researchers found that there were 103 product categories in electronics, minerals, pharmaceuticals, etc, in which the EU “has a critical strategic dependence on imports from China”. The study also informs that on average, China accounted for over 11% of the profits European companies in 2019. That’s not a huge amount, but it is still significant, considering that despite the calls for building supply chain resilience and decoupling, only around 11% of European companies in China say they are thinking about shifting investments to other markets.Irrespective of this economic engagement, there is friction between Beijing and Brussels, which is independent of Washington. This is evident in frustrations over market access and State subsidies, as it was in the European discourse over China’s mask diplomacy. On values, Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s threat to Czech Senate President Milos Vystrcil from the podium in Berlin in September highlighted the challenge. A few weeks after that fiasco, during the China-EU summit, Xi dismissed concerns over Hong Kong and Xinjiang, saying that China didn’t need an “instructor” on human rights.The adoption of the European Magnitsky Act is a manifestation of Europe’s desire to lend teeth to its proposition on human rights. It remains to be seen, however, if the bloc will be using this against Beijing. Borrell has said that he doesn’t want the designation of China as a “systemic rival” to lead to a “systematic rivalry”. Gaining from economic engagement despite the political and strategic gap remains the EU’s challenge in dealing with China. In this, Biden’s victory lends it leverage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/decoding-the-dc-brussels-beijing-geopolitical-triangle/story-8F5zATmd4QSd5yKASAjrPK.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||TRP case: No coercive steps against Republic TV and its employees till January 6, 2021, HC says||The Bombay high court (HC), while accepting the statement of the state that it will not take any coercive steps till January 6, 2021, has granted liberty to the investigators to continue their investigation and approach the court in case of urgency against Republic TV, its editor in chief Arnab Goswami and its employees, in the TRP manipulation case. The court also directed the state to serve notice to the other party before approaching the court and granted similar liberty to Republic TV and its employees. The HC had granted interim relief to the channel and its employees on December 15. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik also continued an interim relief, through which it directed the Mumbai Police to summon employees of Hansa Research Group, the complainant in the case, for inquiry only two days a week for a “reasonable time” until the next hearing. The company had asked for the probe to be transferred to the CBI. On Tuesday, the bench, while hearing the pleas of Republic TV and ARG Outlier against the probe was informed by senior counsel Aabad Ponda that Mumbai Police had reached Delhi and there was an apprehension that they would arrest him, hence they sought a restraining order against Mumbai Police till the next hearing. He had further submitted that clause 12 of the charge sheet wherein the police had filed form 5 (c) giving them the right to arrest any employee of Republic TV was not valid as the Apex court had deemed the form to be illegal, hence the court should grant them relief. On Wednesday, senior counsel Kapil Sibal for the state government sought time to file a response to the plea, and on instructions, submitted that the statement made on Tuesday that no coercive steps would be taken, will continue till January 6. The court accepted the statement and also permitted parties to the case, to approach the court in case of any urgency. Anvay Naik abetment of suicide case In the abetment of suicide case of an Alibag-based architect Anvay Naik and his mother, the court permitted Goswami to amend the petition to include the aspects mentioned in the charge sheet filed by the Alibag police, which has been taken cognisance of, by the Alibag magistrate on Wednesday afternoon and posted the matter for hearing on January 6, 2021, through video conferencing. After allowing senior counsel Aabad Ponda the liberty to amend the petition, the court also directed the Alibag court to expedite the issuance of charge sheet to the petitioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-case-no-coercive-steps-against-republic-tv-and-its-employees-till-january-6-2021-hc-says/story-8GwKoZ5qxIMP9OogAYCCCO.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Returning officers appointed for municipal polls in Mohali district||The state election commission (SEC) on Wednesday appointed returning officers (ROs) and assistant returning officers (AROs) for the general elections of the Mohali municipal corporation and municipal councils which will be held in 2021.The sub-divisional magistrate of Mohali will be the RO for MC’s ward numbers 1 to 25, and divisional engineer of civil 2, GMADA, will be the ARO. Director of public instruction (DPI, secondary) will be the RO for MC’s ward numbers 26 to 50 and divisional engineer (civil), GMADA, will be the ARO. The district revenue officer has been appointed RO for Banur municipal council and naib tehsildar, Banur, will be ARO. Similarly, for Nayagaon, assistant commissioner (G), Mohali, will be the RO and executive engineer, water supply and sanitation, division number 3, Mohali, will be the ARO. For Derabassi, the SDM is the RO and executive engineer (B & R), provincial division, PWD Mohali, is the ARO. For Lalru, estate officer (housing), GMADA, is the RO and executive engineer, water supply and sanitation, division number 2, Mohali, is the ARO. Assistant commissioner, Mohali, is the RO for Kurali and naib tehsildar, Majri, is the ARO. For Kharar, the SDM is the RO and the naib tehsildar is the ARO and for Zirakpur, the estate officer, (plots) GMADA, is the RO and naib tehsildar (agrarian), Mohali, is the ARO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/returning-officers-appointed-for-municipal-polls-in-mohali-district/story-cO1nzSwVWRUUEtH5ANZP5M.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai corporator seeks public participation to address local problems||To ensure maximum public participation in solving civic issues, a corporator from Wadala has invited citizens of the area, to join him as representatives. These representatives will act as a mediator to bring up civic issues and suggest improvements to the corporator. Shiv Sena corporator Amey Ghole from ward 178 in Wadala has already received more than 150 requests from his ward who are willing to be a part of the ‘Join team corporator’ initiative.Ghole said, “All civic issues including drainage, water supply, illegal parking, pothole-ridden roads, among others, can be addressed better through public participation. This also gives a sense of responsibility to citizens about the problems of their areas.”Zenobia Unwalla, one of the residents of Ghole’s ward, who has participated in the initiative, said, “This initiative seemed to be an opportunity to address civic issues efficiently.”Ghole added that suggestions for civic improvements can also be placed through the representatives. “The locals are aware of the problems than anyone else, as they face it daily. Majority of the times, they are in a better place to suggest changes and if they are feasible, they could be worked out efficiently,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-corporator-seeks-public-participation-to-address-local-problems/story-8QJUmGI77NCVXwOiBOGjSL.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Station house officers reshuffled in Mohali||The senior superintendent of police reshuffled multiple station house officers (SHOs) in the district on Wednesday.Three SHOs of Mohali city, Manphul Singh, Rajneesh Chaudhary and Rajiv Kumar, have been sent to police lines. Daljit Singh Gill of Sohana has been shifted to Kharar city and will be replaced by Bhagwant Singh. Shivdeep Singh Brar of Mohali Airport police station is the new SHO of Phase 1 and Himmat Singh will take his place. Rajesh Kumar of Sadar Kharar has been deputed to Phase 8 and will be replaced by Ajitpal Singh while Ashok Kumar has been posted to Mataur. Similarly, Deepinder Singh has been posted to Dhakoli and Amardeep Singh from Balongi to EO wing, Mohali. Sukhbir Singh has been posted at Lalru while Baljit Singh at police lines from Sadar Kurali. Malkit Singh has been posted at Kurali and Gurmel Singh is the new in charge of district CIA staff, Mohali.Apart from this Yogesh Kumar has been posted to Mullanpur Garibdas and Shamsher Singh to Gharuan. Narpinderpal Singh has been deputed as additional chief officer of Kurali city while Kailash Bahadur has been posted to Nayagaon. Amandeep Singh has been posted to Majri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/station-house-officers-reshuffled-in-mohali/story-qXIKUEBQRIJWJxgU9A1abK.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College’s board of governors to take call on closure of MTech programme in industrial design||Punjab Engineering College’s board of governors (BoG) will take a final call on discontinuing the MTech programme in industrial design during its meeting on Thursday.The PEC senate in September had recommended the closure of the programme from the 2020-21 academic session. In the 2018-19 academic session, only three students were admitted against the 18 available seats. In 2019-20 and 2020-21, there have been no admissions. To take call on awarding degreesThe BoG will also take a call on awarding degrees to undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD students. As of now, the awarding of 644 UG, 194 PG and 21 PhD degrees have been proposed.They might also deliberate on whether the convocation ceremony will be held online or physically. In a survey, majority of the students expressed unwillingness to attend the convocation virtually this year, and instead demanded that it is held physically when the situation allows.Fundraising activities to be discussedThe members of the BoG will also be informed about the fund-raising activities of the institution. This year, PEC has introduced the Covid-19 emergency fund. During the meeting on Thursday, at least 19 items will be tabled for discussion. Other items to be discussed  re-establishing the centre of excellence, recruitment rules, launch of first official PEC alumni portal and action plan to make the Siemens Centre of Excellence self sustainable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-engineering-college-s-board-of-governors-to-take-call-on-closure-of-mtech-programme-in-industrial-design/story-gY321dRHPVCmQrOlazH6dM.html
16-12-2020||City||Protesting Mohali farmer dies at Delhi’s Singhu border||A 67-year-old farmer from Kandala village in Mohali district died of cardiac arrest at the ongoing agitation at Delhi’s Singhu border. Identified as Gurmeet Singh, he had accompanied other farmers to the protest site on December 5, said Kandala sarpanch Bimla Devi. After suffering cardiac arrest, he was rushed to a medical camp at the protest site, where he was declared brought dead, she said. Gurmeet is survived by a wife and son. His son Sukhbir Singh said his body was brought back late on Tuesday evening and was cremated on Wednesday.Farmers from Punjab and other parts of the region have been protesting against the new central agricultural legislations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protesting-mohali-farmer-dies-at-delhi-s-singhu-border/story-MgRe2EFVCNt8I4eTESmFuI.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||HC rejects plea against Mohali MC delimitation||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday dismissed a plea challenging the delimitation exercise carried out by the Punjab local bodies department to redraw the boundaries of wards of the Mohali municipal corporation.The HC bench of justice AG Masih dismissed the plea of Bachan Singh and others who had challenged the exercise on December 2, arguing that it was in violation of the Delimitation of Wards of Municipal Corporation Order, 1995. After hearing, the court had reserved the judgment for final order on December 7. The detailed judgment is awaited. The petitioner had alleged that objections were moved on October 29. However, neither the objections were decided by passing a speaking order by the competent authority nor any survey of the population was conducted. As per former councillors of Shiromani Akali Dal and Bharatiya Janata Party, 70% seats held by them in the previous House had been recarved or reserved or dereserved to their detriment. The five-year term of the House ended on April 26 this year. Among the 50 wards, 25 have been reserved for women besides five for scheduled castes (including two for women) and two for backward classes (men). The elections are slated for February next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-rejects-plea-against-mohali-mc-delimitation/story-u11pDY61UbXCsU8f33DZtJ.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||135 test positive, 1 succumbs to Covid in Chandigarh tricity area||In a respite, Chandigarh and Mohali reported no casualty due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, though Panchkula reported a death after nine days. Meanwhile, 135 people tested positive, including 67 in Chandigarh and 34 each in the two neighbouring districts.Chandigarh’s tally has climbed to 18,843, with 627 cases still active. While 17,912 (95.1%) patients have been cured, 304 have succumbed to the virus.Mohali district, which has seen a spike in deaths this month, reported no casualty after two weeks. Its toll stands at 318, while infection tally has reached 17,203. As many as 14,858 (86.4%) patients have recovered and 2,027 are still undergoing treatment.The death of a 74-year-old man from Sector 15 has taken Panchkula’s toll to 136. Of 9,555 people who have tested positive so far, 9,094 (95.1%) have been discharged, leaving 325 active cases.Mohali admn imposes restrictions on social gatheringsIn addition to the existing night curfew from 10pm to 5am in all cities and towns and closure of hotels, restaurants, marriage palaces by 9.30pm till December 31, district magistrate Girish Dayalan, under Section 144 of the CrPC, has ordered some more restrictions.The new restrictions imposed include social gatherings to be restricted to maximum of 100 people for any indoor event and 250 for outdoor gatherings.It will be enforced with immediate effect and continue till December 31, 2020.Any violation of these guidelines will be punishable under the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).All officials concerned will have to ensure compliance with advisories issued by the health and family welfare department of Punjab.The district has seen a spike in Covid deaths this month, with 39 casualties reported in just 15 days, as compared to 29 and 42 throughout October and November, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/135-test-positive-1-succumbs-to-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity-area/story-SLxY4c0M7behi4oGTrsXWI.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||EWS admissions: Private schools to get reimbursement for only 10% students, Chandigarh admn tells HC||The Chandigarh administration has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that private schools are to get reimbursement under the economically weaker section (EWS) category for only 10% admissions made each year. The response came on the plea by Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Chandigarh, which runs Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 27. The school had approached the high court in August, alleging that the UT administration was dilly dallying on reimbursements since 2012. It had demanded that the UT be restrained from compelling the school to admit students under the EWS category till the previous dues are reimbursed. Almost ₹2.5 crore are due since 2011-12, it had claimed before court. However, in its reply, the UT has told court that these educational institutes have been allotted land on leasehold under a 1996 scheme, according to which they were required to admit 5% of students as part of social responsibility from EWS category without charging any dues. Subsequently, the 5% limit was enhanced to 15% in 2005, and it covered all schools that got land prior to this policy or after the notification of the policy, it told court. As per data available with the UT education department, for 2019-2020, 56 private schools had reserved 730 EWS seats under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009. The UT told court that the Act was implemented in 2010, according to which schools were to admit 25% students from EWS category, for which reimbursements were to be made by the respective governments or administrations. However, the law said it clearly that where the school is already under an obligation to provide free education to a certain number of children for getting land on concessional rate, then to the extent of that obligation no reimbursements would be made under the Act, court was told, adding that in view of this, schools are entitled for reimbursement for only 10% students and not 25% students admitted by them each year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ews-admissions-private-schools-to-get-reimbursement-for-only-10-students-chandigarh-admn-tells-hc/story-Ect40wXqDkb2zNevD1ybBK.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Fog delays 5 flights, cold wave alert for 2 days in Chandigarh||Five flights were delayed by around an hour at the Chandigarh airport owing to dense fog on Wednesday morning.The visibility dropped below 200 metres around 8:30am, though sunny weather returned after 11am.According to the weatherman, dense fog is likely to continue on Thursday, but will reduce from Friday onwards.On Wednesday, minimum temperature dropped to 6.2°C, lowest this season. At 16.6°C, even maximum temperature was six notches below normal.The IMD has also issued an orange alert for cold wave on Thursday and Friday. It is declared when minimum temperature falls 4.5-6.4°C below normal after going below 10°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fog-delays-5-flights-cold-wave-alert-for-2-days-in-chandigarh/story-O1x71Zbw3UgYOhfwM4nV7K.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board set to launch group housing scheme at IT Park||Finally, Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) is all set to launch its group housing scheme for the general public at Rajiv Gandhi Chandigarh Information Technology Park (IT Park). UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has already given the go-ahead to its design in July this year, but due to the pandemic, the project could not take off. The project report will be placed before the board of directors in its meeting scheduled on Friday. CHB will develop the project on two plots, measuring 10.51 and 6.43 acres. In all, there will be 728 flats of three categories (4, 3 and 2 BHK) in seven-storey towers. The towers will have two basements with provision of parking of two cars for each flat in addition to surface parking for visitors. UT adviser Manoj Parida, who is also the CHB chairman, said: “Everything has been finalised for the launch of the scheme. The date will be decided on Friday.”Though the exact rates of flats are yet to be decided, tentative cost ranges between ₹1.5 crore and ₹2.75 crore, said another senior CHB official.There is a seasonal drain passing through the site, which is to be channelised. An agency is being appointed to conduct a survey to assess its catchment area and channelise it along the Haryana and Chandigarh border before its final disposal into the Sukhna choe, said the official.A long-delayed projectThe project land is part of 123 acres that CHB got back from Parsvnath Developers after a long-drawn legal battle.It was far back in October 2006 that CHB had decided to develop residential, commercial and other infrastructure with Parsvnath Developers at IT Park. The amount deposited by allottees was to be shared in the ratio of 70:30 between the developer and CHB. Thereafter, CHB transferred 123 acres as freehold to the builder, but the project could not materialise due to various issues. As applicants started demanding their money back, the builder approached court. In January 2015, the arbitrator appointed by the apex court directed the board to refund ₹567 crore to the builder.CHB had decided to launch the scheme on its own after it failed to sell 18 residential and commercial sites at an e-auction in 2018. Due to the high reserve prices, not many developers showed interest in the auction. High-end flats for government officials of the Chandigarh administration, Haryana and Punjab are also planned in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-set-to-launch-group-housing-scheme-at-it-park/story-UmaIhElTfZ6Udr5XfiXRkK.html
16-12-2020||Gurugram||DTCP seeks report on status of unauthorised colonies in Bhondsi||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has sought a report from its Gurugram office regarding the development of unauthorised colonies in an area of around 500 acres in Bhondsi village between 2009 and 2017. The department has sought details such as the action taken against such unauthorised colonies and their developers, the criminal complaints registered against violators, the status of investigation of these cases, the officials who were posted in the area and the details of registries that were carried out in violation of the rules. The department has sought the details following a probe by the state CID department, which took up the matter in 2018. The department has now asked the officials in Gurugram to prepare a report in this matter and submit it to the headquarters so that action can be taken against officials, who have shown negligence in curbing the development of unauthorised colonies. The department also aims to form a strategy to ensure that illegal colonies are curbed not only in Bhondsi but also in others parts of the district as well, said a DTCP official. Between 2009 and 2017, a large number of illegal colonies have come up in Bhondsi. Some of these include Shriram Enclave, Bhajan Park, Mohan Nagar, Shyam Kunj, Lakshmi Kunj, Shanti Kunj, Shani Enclave, Krishna Kunj, Sneh Vihar, Kesar Nangla, opposite BSF colony, Defence Colony, Defence Enclave, Bhavani Enclave, RBS Colony and Prem Kunj, among others.Sanjiv Mann, senior town planner, said that directions have been issued to enforcement wing to compile a report in this matter. “We are keeping a strict vigil in this area and neither construction of houses nor carving of colonies is being allowed . Large number of demolition drives have also been carried out and, by next month, a drone survey would also be conducted to know the exact status of such colonies not only in Bhondsi but also across the city. The report in this matter will be sent to the headquarters at the earliest,” said Sanjiv Mann, senior town planner. The enforcement wing officials, meanwhile, said that there has been considerable check on illegal constructions and also on the sale of plots in these areas after they started a concerted drive against such colonies in the last one year. “The decision to bar registries of small plots by increasing the area and insistence of an NOC from DTCP will also help in curbing illegal colonies. A number of FIRs have also been lodged against the developers of illegal colonies” said a senior enforcement wing official, who wished anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-seeks-report-on-status-of-unauthorised-colonies-in-bhondsi/story-26LeoRiEkra27zVAdPvI6N.html
16-12-2020||Gurugram||Two held for running fake call centres on Sohna Road||The chief minister’s Flying Squad on Wednesday raided two fake call centres, which had been operating out of Spaze IT Park, a commercial mall on Sohna Road, for the past two months. Two people were arrested, and the police also recovered ₹8.5 lakh from a suspect’s possession. The Flying Squad has busted six such call centres over the last two months and has also carried out a mapping of the areas from where illegal call centres have been found to be operating across the city. The officials involved in the raid said several fake call centres have sprung up in the city over the last six years and people have been duping US and UK citizens of hundreds of dollars. Many suspects involved in such call centres have been arrested several times before, the police said. Most of them know each other and not even a single person has been convicted for such crimes, said the police. On Tuesday night, Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police, crime investigation department, said that he received a tip-off that two call centres were operating from Sohna Road. A team of five officers was formed and a raid was conducted. Yadav said, with the help of cyber police and local police station, a raid was carried out on the fourth floor of the complex. “In the first office, we found six men and four women making calls and entering details on their computers and laptops. In another office, 10 men and two women were busy making calls. They had a script in front of them and were speaking in English in an American accent using their headphones,” he said. The police said the telecallers were explaining the victims, who were US nationals, that they were providing government grants like loans at zero percent interest. They used to offer them grants between $1,000 and $5,000 and duped them by deducting $100 to 500 dollars from their Google cards. Harish Budhiraja, inspector, chief minister’s Flying Squad, said that two brothers were running one of the call centres and their friend was running another one. They have worked in call centres in Gurugram four years ago and used to earn hefty incentives, following which they planned to star their own business. “They took one year to understand the concept of duping and met lot of people who had knowledge of operations. They used to be present in the call centres and used to monitor calls. In November, they had earned ₹15 lakh after deducting all salaries and office expenses,” he said. The police also seized four laptops and hard disks from both call centres. A case under sections 420 (cheating), 120B (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) and sections 66D and 75 of the IT Act was registered at Cyber Crime police station on Wednesday. Budhiraja said the suspects did not possess any valid OSP(Other Service Providers) licences from the Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement or MoU related to their work. The suspects were identified as Anshul Mehta (33) and Akshay Mehta (34), residents of Meera Bagh in Delhi, and Ansh Saxena, a resident of Indirapuram, Ghaziabad. The latter managed to flee from the spot. The suspects, during questioning, revealed that they had duped more than 800 US citizens so far.“The telecallers used to collect information such as names, mobile numbers, e-mails and later sent them a voice mail. They trapped them after offering them a grant. They used to ask victims to purchase Google cards and then redeemed 100 to 500 dollars from their cards. Through this, they managed to dupe more than ₹1 crore from over 800 people,” said Budhiraja. The suspects were under the process of hiring more than 50 employees who were scheduled to join from January 1. The police said the new executives had to pose as officials of the US law enforcement agencies, threatening to cancel the social security numbers of victims if they failed to pay a fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-held-for-running-fake-call-centres-on-sohna-road/story-mmxQyHojor1H3HwdKFpXUL.html
16-12-2020||Gurugram||Cold wave to persist, mercury set to dip further||The ongoing cold wave conditions in the city are likely to persist till at least Friday, while shallow to moderate fog in the early hours is likely to persist well into the weekend, experts and officials said on Wednesday. With no major weather systems expected to pass over north India for the time being, the minimum temperatures across most monitoring stations in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi-NCR are expected to drop below 5 degrees Celsius in the coming week.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) declares a cold wave in north India’s plain regions when the minimum temperature is below 10 degrees Celsius for two consecutive days, or if the minimum temperature remains at least 4.5 degrees below the normal for two consecutive days. While the IMD’s automatic weather station in Gurugram did not record the minimum temperature on Wednesday, it had recorded 4.5 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, the coldest day this season.Meanwhile, Delhi’s Palam Observatory (which is the closest AWS to Gurugram) recorded a minimum temperature of six degrees Celsius on Wednesday. Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of regional forecasting at IMD, said, “In Delhi, the Safdarjung observatory is recording minimum temperature that is five degrees below normal and is expected to fall further in the next two days. Corresponding dips in mercury will be felt even in Gurugram.”This is a sudden dip from Gurugram’s minimum temperature of 10.5 degrees Celsius on Sunday and marks a perceptible nip in the atmosphere.Navdeep Dahiya, a Rohtak-based meteorologist who has been tracking weather systems in Haryana and Delhi-NCR, attributed this to a combination of two factors. “One is a recent western disturbance, which did not affect Gurugram much but deposited isolated rainfall in other parts of the plains. This has caused temperatures to dip across Delhi-NCR and adjoining states. It has also increased the level of atmospheric moisture, which is why we can see moderate fog taking place in the morning,” Dahiya said.Moreover, northwestern winds originating in the Himalayas are blowing cold drafts into the plains. “Even though Gurugram has been seeing clear skies during the day, we are not seeing an increase in the daytime temperature because of these cold winds,” said Dahiya.Wednesday’s maximum temperature in Gurugram, as per IMD data, was 16.6 degrees Celsius, the lowest of the season.According to experts, minimum and maximum temperatures will continue to dip over the next few days. “There is no significant weather activity forecasted for the next week. With cold winds blowing from the north, and with increased moisture content, foggy conditions will continue till at least the weekend. There is presently a buildup of fog in Punjab, where some weather stations have recorded minimum temperature as little as two degrees Celsius on Wednesday. This will likely spread to Haryana and Delhi as the week progresses,” said Dahiya.According to the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Gurugram, the minimum temperature is expected to dip to four degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature is expected to hover in the range of 15 to 16 degrees Celsius. Cold winds of speeds up to 12kmph are expected to exacerbate cold wave conditions during the day time.Despite the dip in mercury, pollution levels remained relatively low in Gurugram, recording 221 on the CPCB’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin on Wednesday. “We typically see a buildup in pollutants when the temperature dips so drastically, but fortunately there are strong winds blowing over Delhi-NCR. This is expected after a western disturbance. When the temperature falls even more in coming days, it will coincide with a slowdown in wind speeds. This will trap both pollutants and humidity and we may see very poor to severe air once again, after the coming weekend,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cold-wave-to-persist-mercury-set-to-dip-further/story-mWHxnBY6qAJhP783P44axJ.html
16-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG clears 1,600 illegal hoardings, posters||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) removed more than 1,600 illegal posters and hoardings over the past three days and lodged police complaints against at least 70 violators for defacement, based on which FIRs were registered, officials said on Wednesday.The list of violators also includes those who had erected illegal hoardings on behalf of political parties and owners of various commercial buildings as well. “Based on the numbers or names given on the illegal posters and hoardings, we have been able to track down a few violators so far and subsequently, issued a fine or registered an FIR against them. This is a special drive organised by the MCG that started Monday and work on tracking more violators is underway,” said Kuldeep Singh, assistant engineer, advertisement wing, MCG.Singh explained that police complaints are lodged only in cases of repeated offences or failure to pay the fine.“We emailed the police stations, depending on the area jurisdictions, following which the FIRs have been registered. We are aiming to carry out the drive throughout December,” said Singh.He, however, declined to give specific details about the violators.The MCG had removed 600, 550 and 450 illegal hoardings on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively.Besides registering an FIR against 70 people, the civic body also levied fines amounting to Rs 4 lakh against at least 150 violators, under the Haryana Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1989. The Act allows MCG to levy penalties up to Rs 10,000 and imprisonment for up to six months, or both.As per MCG officials, hoardings and posters were removed from Golf Course Road, Galleria Road, Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road, Sohna Road, MG Road, Southern Peripheral Road, New Railway Road and the underpasses at Rajiv Chowk, Iffco Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk and Bajgehra flyover.In the run-up to the 2019 state elections, the MCG had issued notices to political parties for putting up posters in undesignated areas. In a notice, the MCG had informed political parties that there were over 200 designated spots in the city where political advertising was permitted and hence, advertisements in other areas would be considered illegal and lead to action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-clears-1-600-illegal-hoardings-posters/story-iGuYJ8dZQ717nQYSyRl5yK.html
16-12-2020||Gurugram||Vij remains in intensive care; condition stable on oxygen support, says health dept||Haryana health minister Anil Vij, who is currently undergoing treatment at Medanta Hospital for Covid-19, continued to remain in the intensive care unit (ICU) on Wednesday. According to a health bulletin issued by the state health department and the hospital, Vij has been maintaining vital parameters on high flow oxygen support. Vij, who is also the Haryana home minister, was admitted to the ICU of Medanta Hospital around 9pm on Tuesday with Covid-19 pneumonia. “Relevant investigations, including a CT scan, have been done and the results are satisfactory. His condition is stable and he is maintaining vital parameters on high flow nasal cannula on oxygen support,” the bulletin read. Senior health officials said that the next health update would be issued on Thursday morning. “The next 48-72 hours are crucial in treating Vij as his lungs have been impacted by the infection. The health minister has multiple co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, thyroid and heart disease,” said a senior doctor with the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, who is privy to the matter. A team of doctors, including Dr Deepak Govil, director, critical care, and Dr Sushila Kataria, senior director, internal medicine, of Medanta, along with Dr Virender Yadav, Gurugram’s chief medical officer, are monitoring his condition. Vij, 67, had tested positive for Covid-19 on December 5 and was admitted to the Civil Hospital in Ambala. On December 12, he was shifted to PGIMS, Rohtak, where he was diagnosed with moderate Covid-19 bilateral pneumonia, leading to infection in lungs. He was put on convalescent plasma therapy. After three days of treatment, Vij was shifted to Medanta. In November, a fortnight before he tested positive, the minister had received one shot of a Covid-19 vaccine candidate, which was part of a two-dose trial. It was a fortnight before he tested positive for the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/vij-remains-in-intensive-care-condition-stable-on-oxygen-support-says-health-dept/story-oRUJDtAVoP5ReXCd87ILsK.html
16-12-2020||Gurugram||Experts included in Covid-19 adverse event committee||Senior doctors in the fields of neurology, cardiology and pulmonology have been included in the district-level Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) committee, which has been reconstituted for the Covid-19 vaccination programme. It is for the first time that the committee will have experts to monitor and study the adverse health events after inoculation.An AEFI is an untoward medical occurrence following immunisation, which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the usage of the vaccine, as defined by the World Health Organisation (WHO).Before the outbreak of the SARS-CoV-2 virus pandemic, the AEFI committee existed only to check adverse events in routine universal immunisation programmes, mostly limited to child and maternal health care.Due to Covid-19, the committee had to be revamped, considering that the vaccination drive will include a larger section of the population in different phases of vaccination. This may lead to increased reportage of adverse events.The district-level AEFI committee was revamped on December 7 and is likely to hold its first meeting next week, said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer.“The committee has been extended to 15 members from the existing 12 members. Medical officer, a representative from WHO, Indian Medical Association (IMA), chief medical officer and paediatricians are the existing members. Doctors with expertise in cardiology, pulmonology and neurology from two private hospitals are also included in the committee to examine the patients who will report severe or serious adverse events related to Covid-19,” said Singh.Singh said that some cases might need confirmation and planned study if there is a sign of an unexpected adverse event.As per the Covid-19 guidelines, there are three categories of adverse events — minor AEFI, which includes common reactions like pain and swelling at the injection site, fever and irritability; severe AEFI, which can be disabling and rarely life threatening but do not lead to long-term problems; serious AEFI, which can require hospitalisation and death.Serious cases are extremely rare, pointed out Singh, as vaccines are introduced only after stringent safety guidelines followed during the vaccine trials. In AEFI, cases that will show symptoms even after a few days of inoculation will be included.“As per the guidelines, vaccine beneficiaries are to be observed at the session site for 30 minutes post vaccination to detect, manage and treat immediate adverse reactions, if any. The committee will work on the management of such cases as to how they can be immediately reported and handled,” said Singh.For handling such cases, an AEFI management centre has to be identified in each block, which will be linked with the session site. At the session site, the vaccine beneficiaries will be counselled about these events.Recently at the state-level, health department officials have been imparted training on infection prevention and control practices during vaccination. Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, state nodal officer for Covid-19 management and co-principal investigator on the Covaxin trials at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, said, “AEFI is a pharmacological intervention to ensure the vaccine is administered safely. Sometimes in normal immunisation, people develop pain, swelling or fever which are common and varies in people. Through AEFI management, vaccinators will be trained to handle and record such cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/experts-included-in-covid-19-adverse-event-committee/story-wtmeYraunEKMJ2hA7v26zN.html
16-12-2020||Gurugram||Farmers to increase strength before taking a call on entering Gurugram||Farmer unions of Haryana and Rajasthan formed teams on Tuesday to reach out to other farmers and urge them to join the ongoing protest against the new farm laws passed by the Centre. They are visiting villages and meeting sarpanchs to get a large number of farmers and their family members to join them in Rewari and Rajasthan border, where they have been sitting in protest since the last Sunday. Protesters said they would decide if they should move towards the city or not only after they gather up to 3,000 people. Farmers protesting in Bawal in Rewari and Shahjahanpur on Delhi-Jaipur highway at the Haryana-Rajasthan border set up more than 30 tents on Wednesday. Traffic movement slowed down as only one side of the carriageway was operational. The police since Monday have set up barricades to stop the protestors from crossing the border. Members from some opposition parties also reached the protesting sites and extended their support to the farmers. However, the protestors said they do not want any political interference in their protest and denied taking any help from any of political parties. More than 20 tractor trolleys from Gujarat and Maharashtra also joined the protest at the two protest sites and started langar (community kitchen) for the farmers. One of the protestors said that local villages are sending up to 300 litres of milk and fresh vegetables along with flour every day. Satnarayan Nehra, president of Nehra Khap of Haryana, said that they are expecting more farmers and their family members to join the protest. “The strength is yet to increase and once we touch 3,000, we will move towards Delhi to support our fellow farmers. We are in touch with other farmers at the Singhu and Tikri borders in Delhi and we have planned to move forward after they give consent for the same. We have in store a month’s ration. We will take a decision by Thursday regarding our next step,” he said. The agitation staged by more than 1,000 farmer bodies on the Delhi-Jaipur highway has entered its fourth day. The protesters clashed with the police at Banipur chowk in Bawal on Monday, after which the police detained at least 10 protestors under the Preventive Detention Act. They were released after four hours. Ram Krishan Mehlawat of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Indian Farmers’ Union) from Bawal, said that the police can only stop them from protesting on highway. As such, they are protesting on the service lanes and are trying to increase their strength. “More farmers from various parts of Rajasthan, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra will be joining us on Thursday and Friday. If need be, we shall enter Gurugram forcefully,” he said. Tej Bahadur Yadav, a former constable of the Border Security Force (BSF), who was earlier sacked from service and who contested the election from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Varanasi Lok Sabha seat last year, also joined the protest and said that he was taking care of the logistics and administrative work related to the protest. “The number of protesting farmers is still below our expectations. We are waiting for more farmers to join us so that we can block the highway till the new farm laws are repealed. We will go on hunger strike if police do not allow us to cross the border,” he said, adding that he plans to visit more than 500 villages to convince farmers to join their protests. Abhishek Jorwal, superintendent of police (Rewari), said that farmers were not allowed to occupy the National Highway-48. “They are protesting on the service lanes where they have stationed their tractor-trolleys, cars and motorbikes. The traffic is being managed by the police personnel. Anyone who breaks the law will be arrested. We have deployed enough force to maintain the law and order situation. However, till now there has been no untoward incident,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmers-to-increase-strength-before-taking-a-call-on-entering-gurugram/story-YdYY092ReaSQ4iAx0yjmgL.html
16-12-2020||City||Open-air gyms to come up in Greater Noida parks||The Greater Noida authority on Wednesday said it will build open gyms in at least 35 parks across the city for residents to use free of cost.City Park, the Greater Noida’s largest park, is set to be the first in line for this scheme and is likely to be ready by January, said officials. The tendering process to hire contractors for the remaining parks will be completed by March-end. The authority is expected to spend ₹30 lakh on the open air gym project.“By next year, at least 35 parks will have open gyms. These facilities will help in keeping the visitors fit and healthy,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer (CEO), Greater Noida authority.The gym will be equipped with air walkers, sit-up benches, exercise bars, sit-up stations and rowing machines, among other equipment. Each gym will have guards to ensure that the machines won’t be tampered with, said the officials.The equipment will be easy to use so that anyone can use it without any special training.The other parks that are slated to have such open air gyms are the ones at sectors Alpha-I, Alpha-II, Beta-I, Beta-II, Delta-I, Delta-II, Gamma-I, Gamma-II and Swarn Nagri, among other residential areas.“The gyms will be suitable for all age groups. The ease of accessibility and free usage may even prove to attract the uninitiated Greater Noida residents into a healthier lifestyle,” said Bhooshan.The authority hopes that, by the end of next year, such open gyms would cover all 35 parks in the city. According to the officials, the city has about 300 parks in different residential areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/open-air-gyms-to-come-up-in-greater-noida-parks/story-MOFdV7ACcULZVyfotQDL7J.html
16-12-2020||Noida||Noida police register 11 cases against builders this year so far||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar police have registered as many as 11 cases against 26 real estate developers in the district this year so far. The cases have been lodged against the realtors for cheating and criminal breach of trust, among others, the police said. While final closure report has been submitted in one of these cases, investigation has not been completed in other 10 cases. The GB Nagar additional commissioner of police, Love Kumar, said that these cases have been lodged against altogether 26 developers and their associates, who have reportedly duped many innocent people in the district. “On the basis of the complaints, cases have been lodged against the developers under various sections of IPC, including 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 471 (using a forged document as genuine) and 467 (forgery of valuable security). It has also been found during the investigation that non-delivery of possession on time is the main reason of conflict between the developers and the buyers,” he said. The additional CP further said that while four of these cases have been lodged at sector 20 police station, two each have been lodged at sector 58, phase-3 and beta 2 police stations and one at sector 39 police station. “In a case lodged at sector 20 police station, the police have submitted final report in one of the cases, involving five persons. The police have yet not completed its investigation in the remaining 10 cases,” he said. It can be mentioned that in 2019, the GB Nagar police had lodged seven cases of similar nature against the developers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-police-register-11-cases-against-builders-this-year-so-far/story-w7nDUVBX501mnvAaHfFpyO.html
16-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Aqua Line records highest ridership since resuming services after lockdown||Noida: The Aqua Line of Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Monday recorded a ridership of 9,822, the highest since it resumed services on September 7 after the lockdown. On September 7, the Noida Metro’s ridership was only 600 when services were available in the morning (7am to 11am) and evening (5pm to 9pm) hours at an interval of 15 minutes. The Aqua Line started its full fledged operations running trains throughout the day from September 12 when 2,148 passengers used the services.Thus the ridership has increased by more than 4.5 times in three months of resuming services, NMRC officials said. However, the post-lockdown ridership is significantly low if it is compared to that of pre-lockdown period, the officials said. Before the lockdown, on an average around 18,000 riders would use the Noida Metro services daily. For example, the Aqua Line had recorded a ridership of 19,064 and 17,720 on March 16 and 17, respectively.Sandhya Sharma, deputy general manager of NMRC, said that the Aqua Line has been recording steady rise in ridership since resuming its operations after the lockdown. “On September 12, the Aqua Line had recorded a ridership of 2,148 and since then the ridership has seen a steady rise,” she said.Sharma said that the rise in the ridership this month could be due to winter season and farmers’ protest. “It is believed that motorcycle users prefer to use metro during winter. We also feel that due to farmers’ protest, people commuting from Noida, Greater Noida to East Delhi and vice versa are using metro to evade traffic jam,” she said. Rohan Kumar, a commuter from Greater Noida, said that he uses metro for commuting to Mayur Vihar in Delhi. “Farmers’ protests have affected the traffic on roads. Metro facilitates a hassle-free commuting,” said Rohan, a law student. Meanwhile, NMRC has also planned to restart its citizen friendly initiatives. Sharma said that NMRC had planned to rent out Aqua Line metro’s coaches for birthday celebrations and pre-wedding shoots in February this year, but due to Coronavirus outbreak and the lockdown, the initiative could not take off. “We have again started seeking applications from interested candidates to book the metro coaches for such celebrations. They will have to follow the social distancing norms and wear masks,” she said. “The initiative gives residents a unique destination for photo shoot. It also generates non-fare revenue through short term licensing of NMRC’s coach/ train for sustainable development,” Sharma said.As per the policy, an undecorated coach in a regular running metro train for an event would cost Rs 8,000 while an undecorated coach in static metro train would cost Rs 5,000. A decorated coach in a regular running metro train for an event would cost Rs 10,000 and a decorated coach in static metro train would cost Rs 7,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-aqua-line-records-highest-ridership-since-resuming-services-after-lockdown/story-AW7KRQPClrLb5Jcge3yjWK.html
16-12-2020||Noida||In Ghaziabad, 25,000 to get Covid-19 vaccines under phase 1||GHAZIABAD: At least 25,000 people in Ghaziabad will get Covid-19 vaccine in the first phase of the immunisation programme in the state, district officials said. Also, out of these 25,000 beneficiaries, about 20,500 (82%) will be frontline health workers, the officials said.Giving the information, Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, who took stock of the preparations for the Covid-19 vaccination in the district, said that Ghaziabad has one district-level vaccine depot and 29 block-level cold chain points. A vaccine depot is a place where vaccines are stored in freezers. The state government has collaborated with UNICEF for construction of these vaccine depots and evaluation of the existing cold storage chain points, the officials said. The DM said that the target Covid-19 population in the district has been calculated in proportion to the state’s Covid-infected population. “It is roughly equal to 20% of the district’s population and seven times the number of beneficiaries for routine immunization. The renovation work of all the cold chain points and vaccine depot have been completed. The vaccines sent from the state headquarters will directly be stored in the refrigerators, with 225-litre capacity, kept at MMG hospital,” he said. Pandey further said that all the cold chain points in the district have been provided ice-lined refrigerators (ILRs). “The vaccines will be sent from the depot to the cold chain points in proper vaccine boxes. From there, the vaccines will be delivered to different immunization points for the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination. At these cold chain points, the temperature is maintained between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius,” he said. The officials said that as many as 82 spots have been identified for the first phase of immunisation in the district. “The targeted number of health workers, who will be immunised in this phase, is 20,456. We expect to provide Covid-19 vaccination to at least 25,000 people in the first week of its commencement. Out of 29 ILRs, we have so far received four ILRs and the rest will also be delivered to MMG hospital very soon,” Pandey said. Meanwhile, a senior official of the state health department said that the government is aiming to create 2.03 lakh litre capacity of storage for Covid-19 vaccination, of which 80,733 litre of space has been created so far. “The first phase of Covid-19 vaccination is expected to immunise over four crore people in the state with the focus on frontline corona warriors, including health workers,” he said, preferring anonymity. In a draft standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Union health ministry to all states and Union territories, as many as 100 people should be vaccinated per day at a site and if sufficient resources are available, then up to 200 people can be vaccinated. “If in any case, more than 200 people are being vaccinated within a session, then a whole team of five people will have to be deployed separately (one vaccine officer and four vaccination officers),” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/in-ghaziabad-25-000-to-get-covid-19-vaccines-under-phase-1/story-KgvBaUNP66kIQYt6fg4aOK.html
16-12-2020||Noida||Face legal action for misuse of Jewar airport logo||GREATER NOIDA: The Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), the nodal agency to monitor the airport project at Jewar, has decided to take legal action against those found misusing monogram of Jewar airport. The move comes after NIAL received complaints that some realty firms are misusing the logo to promote their housing projects located along the Yamuna Expressway. NIAL has also decided to issue a public notice warning the developers, individuals and companies to stop misuse of the logo. Recently, NIAL had received a complaint that realty firm Gaursons was misusing the logo to promote its housing project. NIAL let off Gaursons after the realtor apologized for the “error”, officials said.“We came to know via a complaint that Gaursons is misusing the airport logo. The developer apologized for the mistake. Now, we have decided to issue a public notice to make sure that no other developer, individual and company misuse the logo in their promotional campaign,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, NIAL.The realty firm said that they will remove the airport logo from all of their advertisement boards or banners. “We have apologized for the error. We will make sure the logo is removed from all posters and banners, wherever it is printed unintentionally,” said Manoj Gaur, promoter of Gaursons.NIAL said that if any developer is found misusing the logo even after the warning via public notice, then FIR will be filed and strong legal action will be initiated for the violation.“No developer or company can be allowed to use the logo to influence consumers into their product,” said Singh.Zurich International AG, the Swiss company selected to develop the airport project, will start work on this project by mid-2021. The airport is expected to become operational by 2023-24, said officials of NIAL. Zurich will invest Rs 30,000 crore on the initial development work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/face-legal-action-for-misuse-of-jewar-airport-logo/story-0KvopFkjr56rH9cXX378EL.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||10 Sadhus at Singhu border continue Monday’s hunger strike against farm laws||A group of 10 sadhus (ascetics) from across states have continued to fast at the Singhu border in protest against the Centre’s three new farm laws, even after the planned day-long hunger strike of leaders of all farmer organisations at the four Delhi borders – Singhu, Tikri, UP Gate and Chilla – culminated on Monday evening itself. The men, affiliated with the Bharatiya Sadhu Samaj, said they have given the central government a 10-day-ultimatum to decide on the protesting farmers’ demands to roll back the three new laws, after which they will begin a “fast until death.”“If the government fails to fulfil the demands of the farmers in these 10 days, we will begin our indefinite fast until death. This is our fourth day of the hunger strike. We are only surviving on water and lemon juice. After the 10-day deadline, we will quit that as well,” said Mahant Jasveer Das, general secretary of Bharatiya Sadhu Samaj, from Punjab.Claiming that their hunger strike is to stop cases of farmers’ suicides, Das said, “More farmers, mainly the younger generations, will die by suicide if the three new farm laws are not scrapped.”Wearing a green headscarf and sitting next to Das in the tent, Mahant Arjun Arya from Madhya Pradesh said none of the members of the organisation knew each other when they had first arrived at Singhu border for the protest around a fortnight ago.“Our meeting was a coincidence but our objective behind coming here was the same. Although we call ourselves sadhu, all of us are first the children of farmers. If our parents (farmers) are fighting a battle for their existence, how could we remain silent?” said Arya.According to Yogender Singh Panwar from Uttarakhand, initially, only five people began the hunger strike in the tent on Sunday (December 13) but the number has been increasing every passing day.“Apart from the 10 people who are present here, there at least 15 others who are farmers and are on the hunger strike with us. They visit us once or twice in a day and return to their respective tents or tractor trolleys,” said Panwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/10-sadhus-at-singhu-border-continue-monday-s-hunger-strike-against-farm-laws/story-4mxGi3iInmL5YJJusYT3LJ.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||Illegal call centre busted, 54 people who cheated over 4,500 US citizens of ₹90-100cr arrested||In one of its biggest crackdowns on illegal call centres in Delhi, police on Wednesday arrested 54 people, nine of them women, operating a call centre from west Delhi’s Moti Nagar Industrial Area and said the gang had cheated about 4,500 foreign nationals of nearly ₹90-100 crore. The arrested employees used to pose as the social security officials of the United States and dupe Americans of money after accusing them of being involved in criminal cases, police said. “They would ask their intended victim to transfer all his/her money to an e-wallet or be arrested and have their accounts frozen. The money, in the form of bitcoins, would then be siphoned off by the gang,” said a senior police officer involved in the investigation.Police said the total amount defrauded thus from over 4,500 foreign nationals, mostly from the USA, is estimated to be around ₹90-100 crore, . Deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell) Anyesh Roy said police have also found that the man who ran the call centre is an Indian based in Dubai. He has been identified only by his first name, Ashwani , and was known among his employees as Munshi.Police have also found that Ashwani has a criminal history of betting in Delhi and had long ago fled to UAE. “Efforts are on to extradite him with the help of the ministry of external affairs,” Roy said.With the arrest of the 54 employees of the call centre, Roy said they have also seized 89 desktops along with a server and more than 50 mobile phones. An elaborate written script that was used to dupe the foreigners has also been recovered,” the DCP said.“Among the arrested employees, four are team leaders, identified as Gurmil Singh, Raunak, Jyotika and Yashpal. They disclosed that they would contact Americans in the US and other countries impersonating as officials from government agencies such as the social security administration, the drug enforcement administration (DEA), and the US Marshal Service. They would inform the targeted persons that their bank accounts and other assets are being frozen as their details have been found at a crime scene,” Roy said.“Some of the targets were also told that there were bank accounts being used in their names through which illegal transactions have been made to drug cartels in Mexico and Colombia. They then threatened the targets that they could either get arrested and face legal action or go for an alternate dispute resolution (ADR) which would be faster and simpler,” he said.“In the second option, which all the targets fell for, they were asked to share details of their assets, including bank accounts and the amount of money in those accounts. They were told that the only way to safeguard their assets is to buy bitcoins or gift cards and transfer the same to e-wallets in India. The bitcoins and gift cards once received were encashed here in India,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/illegal-call-centre-busted-54-people-who-cheated-over-4-500-us-citizens-of-90-100cr-arrested/story-yPrAw26PxWtl3KNm2P3jEK.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||HC asks Centre, Delhi for response on plea seeking recovery of wages for rescued bonded labourers||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought the response of the Centre and the Delhi government on a plea seeking recovery of wages due to rescued child and bonded labourers. A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan issued notices to the ministry of labour and employment, the Delhi government and the police over the plea filed by the father of a now-rescued child labourer. In his plea, the petitioner has sought an expeditious recovery of the wages due to his child as well as to 115 other victims of bonded labour in whose cases the recovery process has been initiated after they were rescued. The petition also seeks directions to the authorities to “initiate the recovery proceedings in 77 cases where recovery, till date, has not been initiated”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-asks-centre-delhi-for-response-on-plea-seeking-recovery-of-wages-for-rescued-bonded-labourers/story-Yi7C9g9p1xDif17W5xqimK.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||HC asks Centre to respond on plea challenging appointments to green impact assessment panel||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought a response from the Centre on a plea challenging appointments made to the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) to assess the environmental impact of thermal power and coal-mining projects.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan issued notices to the Union environment ministry and four members of the EAC whose appointments have been opposed in the petition filed by environment activist and retired Indian Forest Services (IFS) officer Manoj Mishra.In the plea, filed through advocates Ritwick Dutta and Shristi Agnihotri, Mishra has challenged the ministry’s July 10 notification constituting the EAC for environmental appraisal of thermal power and coal mining projects, claiming that no expert has been appointed to the 15-member committee.According to his petition, the notification shows that nine ‘non-officials’ and six officials have been appointed to the EAC, but no expert as is mandatory under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification of 2006.The petition has contended that the EIA notification does not make any reference to ‘officials’ and ‘non-officials’.It has also claimed that the four members of the EAC, whose appointments have been specifically challenged in the plea, do not meet the criteria laid down in the 2006 EIA notification, and two of them also have conflict of interests as they are serving on the board of public sector companies who are into coal mining and coal-fired power plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-asks-centre-to-respond-on-plea-challenging-appointments-to-green-impact-assessment-panel/story-M0XgQqwiI9D1mMkans3agJ.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||Centre’s response sought on plea against its order notifying medical devices as ‘drugs’||The Delhi high court on Wednesday asked the Centre for a response on a plea challenging its decision to notify devices like blood monitors and digital thermometers “as drugs”. A bench of chief justice D N Patel and justice Prateek Jalan issued a notice to the Union health ministry on a petition by the Surgical Manufacturers and Traders Association (SMTA). The association has argued that notifying the devices as drugs will result in a substantial hike in their prices, which would make them unaffordable for a large section of society. SMTA has also contended that representations made by it and other stakeholders were not considered at the time the decision was taken. The court listed the matter for hearing with a petition moved last year by SMTA challenging a notification which declared blood monitoring devices, digital thermometers, nebulizers and glucometers as “drugs” under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. Both the matters would be now listed on January 29, 2021. The association has submitted that the notification is unreasonable, arbitrary, and would cause undue hardship to stakeholders on the supply and demand side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/centre-s-response-sought-on-plea-against-its-order-notifying-medical-devices-as-drugs/story-kiE8L6vyvUnGKoLhZk76RP.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||Ensure Khalid gets treatment for toothache, court tell Tihar jail officials||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, who was arrested in a north-east Delhi riots case, alleged before a Delhi court on Wednesday that he was not given medical treatment by the Tihar jail authorities for the toothache he has been suffering for the past three days.Chief metropolitan magistrate Dinesh Kumar, while extending the judicial custody of Khalid by another 14 days, in connection to a riots case in Khajuri Khas area, directed the jail superintendent to provide proper medical attention to Khalid, as per the prison rules. The court directed the jail authorities to file a compliance report before it within two days.“Jail superintendent concerned is directed to provide proper medical treatment to the accused (Khalid) as per rules of the jail manual. If the dentist is not available in the jail, the accused may be taken to a dentist outside the prison for a check-up and treatment, if required. A report of compliance must be filed before the court within two days,” the Kumar said.The court also extended the judicial custody of Khalid by another 14 days in the case related to rioting in Khajuri Khas area.Khalid was arrested on October 1 in the case. He was also arrested in September in a separate case related to a larger conspiracy in the riots.Communal violence had broken out in north-east Delhi on February 24 after clashes between the new citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ensure-khalid-gets-treatment-for-toothache-court-tell-tihar-jail-officials/story-0w13FCFVM69R92qVOX0VHP.html
16-12-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 660 Covid positive cases, 7 deaths on Tuesday||Pune: Pune district reported 660 positive cases and seven deaths on Tuesday due to Covid-19 as per the state health department which took the progressive positive count to 364,376. Of these total cases 339,739 have recovered, 7,648 were declared dead and 16,953 are active cases. While the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 307 fresh positives taking the total Covid cases to 186,951 and three deaths in the last 24 hours till Tuesday evening which took the death toll to 4,366. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 133 fresh positives taking the total Covid cases to 91,779 and two deaths in the last 24 hours till Tuesday evening which took the death toll to 1,259. Pune rural reported 220 fresh positives taking the total Covid cases to 85,646 and two deaths in the last 24 hours till Tuesday evening which took the death toll to 2,024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-660-covid-positive-cases-7-deaths-on-tuesday/story-uTb7lbZ8ha4NunN2E7AicP.html
16-12-2020||City||Over 57% voting recorded in phase 7 of J&K DDC polls||The seventh phase of district development council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir recorded a voting percentage of 57.22% on Wednesday, state election commissioner (SEC) KK Sharma said.While addressing a press conference here, Sharma said the voting was by and large peaceful in the 31 DDC constituencies, including 13 in Kashmir and 18 in Jammu division.The last phase of elections will be held on December 19 and counting of votes will take place on December 22. The SEC said the voting took place in 1,852 polling stations, including 1,068 in Kashmir and 784 in Jammu division. He said Jammu division recorded an average voter turnout of 71.93% with Poonch district recording the highest percentage of 80.12% followed by 76.75% in Reasi district and 75.63% in Udhampur district. The lowest turnout in Jammu division was in Doda district at 58.82%. The Kashmir division recorded 39.52% average voter turnout with Bandipora district recording the highest polling at 70.47% followed by Baramulla at 59.53% and Kupwara district recorded 59.23% polling, he added. Giving district wise details, the SEC informed that in Kashmir division, the polling percentage recorded in Budgam was 45.11%, Ganderbal 53.69%, Anantnag 22.46, Kulgam 17.98%, Pulwama 11.06% and Shopian 6.55%. Similarly, in Jammu division, poll percentage of 74.38% was recorded in Samba, 72.85% in Kathua, 67.75% in Ramban, 73.10% in Rajouri, 69.89% in Kishtwar and 68.66% in Jammu district. He said 3,93,200 (2,10,479 men and 1,82,721 women) people exercised their right to franchise in the seventh phase across the UT. He said the counting of votes for sarpanch and panch constituencies is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-57-voting-recorded-in-phase-7-of-j-k-ddc-polls/story-mBR1s0SYWVympjkko7HUnO.html
16-12-2020||City||J&K DDC polls: Parties keeping doors open for return of defiants, say analysts||As polling for the penultimate round of the eight-phase district development council elections was held in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, all the major political parties, especially in the valley, seem to be keeping their doors open for the members who broke away to contest as independent candidates.The last phase of voting will be held on Saturday, while the counting is scheduled on December 22.Though dozens of political workers and office-bearers of various parties contested the elections as independent candidates, no disciplinary action has been initiated against them by the respective leaderships.Political analysts believe that the big parties may be planning to pull the winning independent candidates back to the fold.“If the candidates emerge victorious, the parties will own them and use their crucial votes to bargain for the post of chairman in the DDCs. Not initiating action against such candidates by now indicates that the party leaders have kept doors open for their return,” said Asim Bhat, journalist and political analyst.PDP patron Muzuffar Beigh, who claimed to have resigned from the party, and his wife Safeena Beigh contested from the Wagoora seat in Sangrama in Baramulla as independent candidates. Safeena is still the president of the PDP’s women wing as the party has officially not taken any action against her.Beigh even deferred his press conference which could be an indication that they could be owned by the party after polls. Moreover, half a dozen PDP workers contested from different places as independent candidates. Similarly, several Congress, National Conference and the People’s Conference workers and leaders also contested as independents from various DDC constituencies. Even the BJP had to face rebellion from half a dozen workers and leaders in Kashmir, but it too didn’t act against them.However, the parties have denied these projections.When asked, the spokesperson of PDP said the party president had already made it clear that those candidates who defied PAGD were no more its part. “Beigh has left the party and his wife also contested against the PAGD candidate, so they are automatically out.” He added that the same rule applied to all other workers and leaders who went against the main fold.People’s Conference spokesman Adnan Ashraf said the party leadership would wait until the elections are over to deliberate on this issue.NC spokesman Imran Nabi Dar claimed that none of their prominent leaders or workers had defied the party. “There may have been an odd case, but overall, our party workers remained loyal to the leadership,” said Dar.BJP state spokesman Altaf Thakur said that action has been already taken against the leaders or workers who defied party directions...“We have taken action. Even if some of them win they won’t be taken back in the party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-ddc-polls-parties-keeping-doors-open-for-return-of-defiants-say-analysts/story-kQBhAwTqjWGl6RIWLVq0VL.html
16-12-2020||City||Roshni land scam: J&K HC adjourns review petitions for December 22||A division bench of the Jammu and Kashmir high court comprising acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal and justice Sanjay Dhar on Wednesday postponed the hearing of review petitions in the multi-crore Roshni land scam to December 22. At the very outset, advocate general of J&K DC Raina assisted by additional advocate general Aseem Sawhney submitted that about 21 review petitions have been filed so far but the registry has listed only 11 of them including the one by the administration. Senior advocates ZA Shah, Jehangir Ganai, Sunil Sethi, Gagan Basotra, Rohit Kohli senior advocate and a battery of lawyers appeared for the review petitioners. Advocate Monica Kohli appeared for the CBI. Additional advocate general Aseem Sawhney, who appeared for the UT administration, assured that copies of review petitions will be provided to the CBI counsel. These cases have now been listed for December 22 and the registry has been directed to list all the review petitions which are in order on the next date. The division bench directed that all matters which were filed up to December 21 be listed on the next day for final hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/roshni-land-scam-j-k-hc-adjourns-review-petitions-for-december-22/story-CFq88qzlBHklpPmpViXavL.html
16-12-2020||City||Twin capital cities contribute over 40% of J&K’s Covid-19 infections, deaths||The twin capital cities of Jammu and Srinagar have contributed over 40% of the total Covid-19 infections and deaths in the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Summer capital Srinagar tops the list with 24,391 cases till date. Of the overall 1, 16,600 coronavirus cases in the 20 districts of J&K till December 15, as many as 46,765 persons have been infected in Jammu and Srinagar districts, contributing 40.1% of the total cases. The government’s health data compiled since the beginning of the pandemic in March till December 15 revealed that there have been 24,391 cases in Srinagar and 22,374 cases in Jammu till date. The rest of the 18 districts in J&K—nine each in the two divisions of Jammu and Kashmir –have registered 69,835 cases. “The Srinagar and Jammu districts have populations of around 14 and 14.5 lakh respectively while the population of other districts except a few is below 5 lakh each. More people mean more infections,” said Dr Qazi Haroon, officer on special duty with health department to assist government with corona mitigation efforts. Similarly, Jammu and Srinagar cities have contributed 42.43% of fatalities (769 deaths) of the total 1,812 deaths in the UT. While 436 persons have died in Srinagar, 333 have lost their lives in Jammu. Haroon said there is more migration to and from the cities. “A lot of people move into and out of the cities every day. There is a lot of intermingling and from every district people come to the cities for purchases,” he said. Baramulla and Budgam are the only two districts, other than Srinagar and Jammu, to have recorded more than 100 deaths due to Covid-19. Besides Srinagar, the other nine districts in Kashmir have recorded between a minimum of 2,432 cases in south Kashmir’s Shopian to 7,754 cases in north Kashmir’s Baramulla. Similarly in Jammu division, apart from the capital city, infections in other nine districts have hovered between the lowest 1,570 cases in Reasi to the highest 3,968 in Udhampur. The overall active cases till December 15 in the UT are 4,434 out of which 1,899 cases are together in Jammu (808) and Srinagar (1,091) comprising 42.82%. The virus cases are dropping from the past couple of months. In December, there have been 6,376 cases so far while there were 15,434 infections in November as compared to 19,619 cases in October. Haroon said, “We are far better and are having below 300 cases and a few deaths every day. We have controlled the pandemic to a large extent,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/twin-capital-cities-contribute-over-40-of-j-k-s-covid-19-infections-deaths/story-oOxIHg5Uaupy16bDtdNdiL.html
16-12-2020||City||Man raises questions on medical facilities after wife’s death at IGMC||A resident of Shimla on Wednesday accused the Himachal Pradesh government and health department of negligence and mismanagement after his wife died at the Indira Gandhi Medical college and Hospital (IGMC) here on October 31. Sanjog Bhushan, who is former secretary of Himachal Pradesh Lecturer Association, highlighted the poor conditions of healthcare services during the pandemic and demanded stern action against the hospital authorities and government officials for their mismanagement and insensitivity. While addressing a press conference here, Bhushan alleged that his wife Sunita died due to negligence and poor treatment of the hospital authorities. He has also warned the state government of sitting on a hunger strike outside chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s residence Oak Over if they fail to take appropriate action. Bhushan said his wife was receiving treatment for eye disease and complained of breathing problems after which she was rushed to IGMC on October 30. “She died on October 31 due to negligence of the hospital staff as during the 12 hours she did not get any treatment and no senior doctor came to check her. “Also, while she was rushed to the hospital we were forced to share the ambulance with two other patients,” he added. He said, “The oxygen cylinder was out of order in the ward where his wife was admitted and power plugs to provide steam to the patient was also not working. Toilets were in poor condition. Her X-ray, ultrasound, ECG were also not taken by the hospital staff,” “Even though her Covid-19 report was negative, she was declared positive six hours after her death. Such incidents are being reported almost every day. Therefore, stern action should be taken against the hospital authorities,” he said. Medical superintendent at IGMC Dr Janak Raj said they are looking into the matter and stern action will be taken if anyone is found guilty. “However, the victim’s family has not lodged any complaint or FIR for any negligence by the hospital staff,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-raises-questions-on-medical-facilities-after-wife-s-death-at-igmc/story-oSf4OhXg3KOBo7zvSTOxcJ.html
16-12-2020||City||60-year-old Jagraon farmer sets journey to Delhi on foot to join agitation against three contentious laws||On a cold Wednesday morning, Joginder Singh (60) stepped out of his house at Chakar village in Ludhiana district’s Jagraon sub-division after offering prayers and starts his journey on foot to join the farmers’ agitation at the Singhu border near Delhi. “Punjabis will not step back and will fight till the black farm laws are repealed,” the sexagenarian farmer asserted. It was around 4am when he started travelling from home and reaches Barnala town by noon. “I want to remind (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi that despite the barricades put up on the roads, we can reach Delhi even by foot through fields. Our Gurus will bless us in tough times,” said Singh. The elderly man claimed that he was never associated with any farmer organisation.“A farmer likes the winter because it is a blessing for crops. For me, reaching Delhi on foot is like going to my fields. We work in our fields even during winter nights. I will spend the nights wherever I get a chance,” added Singh.“I have no idea when I will return. But I appeal to all youths and others to join this struggle. We cannot just sit back at a time when the government is eyeing our mother (land). It is not a battle of Punjab farmers only, but also those from other states,” he said.He also advised the youngsters not to panic and hold the protests peacefully.“The central government tried to portray the Punjabi youth as drug addicts. But the Punjabis proved that they are not that. The Modi government will have to pay price for these black laws,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-year-old-jagraon-farmer-sets-journey-to-national-capital-on-foot-to-join-agitation-against-contentious-laws/story-gQPGsYjaTWSHA0vf71OkZN.html
16-12-2020||City||Deaths down by 22%, but road crashes still biggest killer in Himachal||Deaths caused in roads accidents in Himachal Pradesh has witnessed a significant drop of 22% in 2020 as about 788 persons have died so far this year (January 1 to November 30) as compared to 1,020 fatalities reported in 2019.Similarly, the state has witnessed 2,014 accidents in 2020 as compared to 2,629 accidents in 2019 resulting in a reduction of road accidents by 23% while as many as 2,855 persons have been injured in road accidents in 2020 as compared to 4,541 in 2019,thus reducing the total number of accident injuries by 37% in 2020 than last year.Director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu said that every year about 3,000 road accidents and 1,200 deaths due to the same take place in Himachal Pradesh. “If we compare this with the 100-odd murders that take place in the state every year, it would astonishingly reveal that road accidents pose the biggest threat to human lives in Himachal Pradesh,” said Kundu.He said that as per a Union road transport and highways ministry report released in 2019, Himachal Pradesh is nationally ranked 20 in terms of deaths caused by road accidents and holds the 22nd spot as far as the number of road mishaps are concerned, despite the state’s lower population.“It may be due to the fact that each accident taking place in the state results in more than one death and sometimes in case of large vehicles, causalities may even be in double digits in one road accident,” he added.In order to continue mutual cooperation in reducing the number of road accidents and the deaths caused by them, the Himachal Pradesh Police has urged the people of the state to avoid drinking and driving, overspeeding, negligent driving, venturing out during thick fog with exception to emergencies, avoiding black ice and being careful of vehicular traffic during morning and evening walks, as data has revealed that dawns and twilights have higher incidents of accidents involving pedestrians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/deaths-down-by-22-but-road-crashes-still-biggest-killer-in-himachal/story-ibBcJ3bpPX9TQot0fHkeeM.html
16-12-2020||Pune||Social welfare department has set up 1,000-bed student hostel at Yerawada||Pune: The Pune social welfare department had erected a 1,000-bed capacity hostel at Yerawada, at the cost of Rs53 crore. The hostel is located on survey numbers 104 and 105 and the Maharashtra government approved the finance for the project. Two phases of the hostel are complete, and two more are in progress.Social welfare commissioner Prashant Nanaware visited the hostel on Tuesday evening. Nanaware said, “This hostel facility is needed for students. Administration must ensure that students from the backward classes get the benefit of this facility. While carrying out the work, quality must ensure.”This hostel is erected on 12 acres belonging to the social welfare department in Yerawada. The hostel, when complete, will house both male and female students. Each room in the hostel has a cupboard, bed, and attached toilet and bathroom. The building is five storeys tall with four lifts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/social-welfare-department-has-set-up-1-000-bed-student-hostel-at-yerawada/story-EA2m0Vtq9RAlCbqLPUanBM.html
16-12-2020||Pune||SPPU signs MOU with Deccan Gymkhana for new course||Pune: In a bid to encourage sportsmen and sports management startups, the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has now started a new sports management course. SPPU signed an MOU with Deccan Gymkhana on Monday for the course. Students enrolling for this course will be given training by sports experts from Deccan Gymkhana. Through this MOU various seminars, webinars and workshops will be organised by SPPU. “It is necessary to get quality and professional education to students in field for sports. Keeping in this mind we have signed this MOU with Deccan Gymkhana one of the prominent sports organisation in the state and we look forward to best quality sportsmen coming out of it,” said SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-signs-mou-with-deccan-gymkhana-for-new-course/story-SpJvwxAM2SmF1tyMrb8OfO.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||With positivity rate on decline in Delhi, Covid-19 testing unlikely to be scaled up||With the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positivity rate – the proportion of samples that return positive among total tested – dipping below 2 per cent, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain indicated on Wednesday that the city is unlikely to scale up testing.“The World Health Organisation says that the tests should be scaled up till the positivity rate of less than 8 per cent is achieved. The positivity rate of 5 per cent is considered to be optimum, which means that a sufficient number of tests is being performed. Delhi has had a positivity rate of less than 3 per cent for five days in a row and less than 5 per cent for 15 days in a row. Right now, the positivity rate is about 2 per cent in Delhi. Let us wait and watch how long the positivity rate of 2 per cent is maintained,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, implying that the Delhi government is unlikely to increase the number of tests further.After a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah in mid-November, when Delhi was going through the third and the worst surge in Covid-19 cases, the government had decided to scale up the number of tests to between 100,000 and 120,000 a day.On Tuesday, Delhi reported the highest number of tests conducted in a day – 85,105. Of these, almost half the tests were conducted using the more accurate RT PCR method. The daily number of tests has gone up from an average of 52,617 tests a day in the first week of November to 71,803 on average a day in the last seven days, as per the data shared by the Delhi government.Also read: WHO’s team to go to China in January for Covid-19 origin probeThe proportion of RT PCR tests has also gone up from 27.6 per cent in the first week of November to 47.9 per cent on an average during the last seven days.As for hospitalisations with the viral infection, the minister said that around 50 per cent of the ICU beds were available in Delhi. However, in some of the big private hospitals, the occupancy of ICU beds remained at 80 per cent.As per the Delhi government’s Corona app, on average only 34.8 per cent of the ICU beds – with or without ventilators – were occupied across hospitals as on Wednesday evening. The Delhi high court had asked the government to review its order reserving 80 per cent of the total ICU beds in 75 private hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19.The HC had initially imposed a stay on the September 12 order reserving 80 per cent of ICU beds in 33 big private hospitals but later withdrew the stay with the surge in cases in November. Subsequently, the government ordered another 42 hospitals to reserve 80 per cent ICU beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-positivity-rate-on-decline-in-delhi-covid-19-testing-unlikely-to-be-scaled-up/story-sqYv2ne7NFUoVOHwByBAcL.html
16-12-2020||Kolkata||Personally feel Suvendu Adhikari will lose: TMC leader Madan Mitra||Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader and former state minister Madan Mitra on Wednesday said that he was ready to take charge of West Bengal’s Midnapore district after Suvendu Adhikari’s resignation ahead of the crucial 2021 West Bengal Assembly Elections. Mitra was adamant that the state’s ruling party had not lost ground despite the departure of one of its stalwart leaders. “I personally feel ultimately Suvendu Adhikari will lose. I am ready to take charge of Midnapore district and if party wants I will stay there for three months at a stretch.TMC hasn’t lost its ground,” he said as quoted by ANI. Suvendu Adhikari resigned from TMC on Wednesday after several days of discontentment with the party. He spearheaded the Nandigram movement that helped chief minister Mamata Banerjee win power from the CPI(M) in 2011. He represented the Nandigram constituency from the Purba Medinipur district. Adhikari is still a largely influential figure in the areas of West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia, Jhargram, parts of Birbhum and Murshidabad, all of which constitute about 40-45 assembly seats The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders are optimistic of Adhikari joining their party, which would bolster their chances of coming to power in West Bengal. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said, “It was bound to happen. Many MLAs left TMC earlier too and joined our party. There is no democracy or respect for people in TMC. Those who want to join in the change in Bengal and contribute to its development are leaving TMC and joining us.”BJP vice-president Mukul Roy welcomed the news of Adhikari’s resignation. “The day Suvendu Adhikari had resigned from the ministerial post, I had said that I will be happy if he leaves TMC and we will welcome him. Today he has resigned from the membership of the West Bengal legislative assembly and I welcome his decision.”Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, on the other hand, pulled no punches. “Some dacoits of Chambal and goons from outside have entered Bengal. At times they threaten police and sometimes they threaten TMC. Today TMC is as deep-rooted as a Banyan tree. Two-three people who know they won’t get a ticket from the party are going away,” she said. The West Bengal Assembly Election is scheduled to be held during April-May in 2021 with the BJP and the ruling TMC as the two main rivals to fight for power. The BJP had bagged only three out of the 294 seats in the previous assembly election but won 18 out of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/personally-feel-suvendu-adhikari-will-lose-tmc-leader-madan-mitra/story-uK1Efhvpmy0EdsACKpO8jL.html
16-12-2020||City||HP youth at forefront in making sacrifices for nation: Jai Ram||Himachal Pradesh is a small hilly state in terms of population but the youth here have always been at the forefront in making sacrifices for the country, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said here on Wednesday during a function organised to mark the golden jubilee celebration of the 1971 Indo-Pak war. “It was on this day in 1971 that India won after a 13-day long battle with Pakistan,” Thakur said. He said the brave soldiers of Himachal Pradesh have shown indomitable courage in every war and have not even shied away from making supreme sacrifice while protecting the nation. He said Himachal Pradesh has the honour of being called ‘Devbhoomi’ but it was also known as ‘Veer Bhoomi’ as lakhs of soldiers are serving in the Indian Army. The CM said in the Kargil war, of the total 527 martyrs, 52 were from Himachal and two ‘Paramveer Chakra’ were won by Himachali soldiers. “It is a matter of pride for us that the brave soldiers of the state have received 1,096 gallantry awards so far,” he added. Thakur said the state government is committed for the welfare of its brave soldiers and many schemes are being implemented for ex-servicemen. He said all dependents of 52 martyrs were given an amount of Rs 5 lakh and employment was provided to dependents of 48 families. “An ex-gratia grant amount of Rs 20 lakh was being provided to the next of kin of the soldiers and paramilitary forces who laid down their lives during the war and Rs 5 lakh to the soldiers belonging to defence and paramilitary forces who have over 50% physical disabilities during war and military operations,” the CM said. Not only this, a provision has also been made by the ministry of petroleum and natural gas to provide petrol pumps and gas agencies for the dependents of the soldiers killed in various military operations, he added. Thakur said the state government has also released an amount of Rs 45.63 lakh to ARTRAC Shimla for opening CSD Extension Centre at Sundernagar in Mandi and Jhanduta in Bilaspur. The CM inaugurated two extension counters for ESM of region at Jhandutta and Sundernagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-youth-at-forefront-in-making-sacrifices-for-nation-jai-ram/story-02GyHkKVW06H0EnKXwvcOL.html
16-12-2020||City||MeT warns of dense fog in six districts of Himachal tomorrow||The state meteorological department has issued a yellow warning for dense fog and cold wave in isolated places of Bilaspur, Una, Hamirpur, Kangra, Solan and Sirmaur districts of Himachal Pradesh for Thursday.The MeT said it can result in damage to crops due to frost and disruption in traffic movements.State MeT director Manmohan Singh said the visibility will be less than 500m and people are advised to stay updated. He said the weather will remain dry throughout the state till December 22.Weather was dry throughout the state during the last 24 hours. Maximum and minimum temperatures were two to three degrees below normal.Minimum temperature in Shimla was 2.6°C while Manali, Dharamshala, Dalhousie and Kufri recorded minus 1°C, 1.2°C, minus 1°C and 2°C respectively. Minimum temperature in Una was 2°C, Solan minus 0.8°C, Palampur 1°C, Bilaspur 6.2°C, Hamirpur 6°C, Nahan 6.1°C, Mandi 3°C and Kalpa shivered at minus 4.1°C. Keylong was the coldest at minus 5.6°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/met-warns-of-dense-fog-in-six-districts-of-himachal-tomorrow/story-0WWuRoz9ZXyn2P8YhASeWI.html
16-12-2020||Pune||Southern Command battle-hardened and battle ready: Lt Gen CP Mohanty on Vijay Diwas||Southern Command is ready and prepared to take any task to protect the country, said Lt General CP Mohanty, GOC-in-C, Southern Command, on Vijay Diwas which is celebrated to mark India’s victory over Pakistan 49 years ago.Mohanty said, “Southern Command is a battle-hardened and a battle-ready Command, well poised and operationally prepared for undertaking any task in protecting the sovereignty of the nation.” Lt Gen Mohanty was particularly remembering the veterans who fought in the 1971 war and said that “they have written an epic saga of valour, grit, determination and bravery in the history of Southern Command and this is a matter of pride and inspiration for generations ahead”. He said that the Command salutes all those bravehearts who had made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty. The General Officer said that the famous battles of Longewala and Parbat Ali stand testimony of the raw courage and resoluteness shown by the Indian Army which completely destroyed the adversary’s will to fight. The victory was achieved in just 13 days of war which resulted in a complete surrender of Pakistan forces and creation of a new nation, Bangladesh. He also said that the raid on Pakistani town of Chachro carried out by the soldiers of 10 Para Commando Battalion led by Lt Col (Later Brigadier) Bhawani Singh was another famous military action successfully executed then in the Southern Command area of responsibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/southern-command-battle-hardened-and-battle-ready-lt-gen-cp-mohanty-on-vijay-diwas/story-IcZ100rRRnbSfFkN5sWt2J.html
16-12-2020||City||19-year-old man arrested in UP’s Bijnor under anti-conversion law||The police registered a case under the new UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance 2020 at Dhampur police station in Bijnor district of western Uttar Pradesh and arrested a 19-year-old man on Wednesday on charges of enticing a minor girl, allegedly by concealing his identity, and attempting to convert her to Islam.Arun Kumar Tyagi, the station house officer of Dhampur police station, said the 14-year-old girl belonged to a Scheduled Caste. A case has been registered against the 19-year-old Muslim man under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, provisions of the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, and the new ordinance against forced religious conversions by way of marriage.Tyagi said the young man lured the girl -- both are from Bijnor district -- and said his name was Sonu. The police officer added that they were in a relationship for over a year and that they eloped on December 14. They reached a nearby town even as their neighbours informed the police. They were held and the Dhampur police were informed about them.Tyagi approached the girl’s family at her village in Dhampur. The family admitted that the girl eloped but they did not report the matter to the police to avoid social embarrassment.During interrogation, the girl alleged that man concealed that he was Muslim, the police said. The girl said that he later mounted pressure on her for marriage and conversion, Tyagi added. The girl was sent for medical examination and the accused was sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-year-old-man-arrested-in-up-s-bijnor-under-anti-conversion-law/story-4ybmfUz2onI8vwJPYSp5oM.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Fog chills Punjab, Haryana with Amritsar coldest at 2 degrees Celsius||Fog engulfed most parts of Punjab and Haryana on Wednesday morning with the meteorological department forecasting colder days ahead. “Fog started forming in the region due to the humidity caused by the recent rains. Visibility was between 50 and 200 metres in most stations of the two states and Chandigarh,” a weather department official said. Amritsar was the coldest in the plains with a minimum of 2 degrees Celsius, which was 2.3 degrees below normal and a 6.8-degree fall from Tuesday’s minimum. Ludhiana and Patiala recorded lows of 6.2 and 6.5 degrees, respectively. In Haryana, Narnaul was the coldest at 3.4 degrees, which was 3.3 degrees below normal and a 2-degree fall from Monday’s temperature. It was followed by Hisar at 4 degrees and Ambala at 5.5 degrees. The minimum temperature of Chandigarh fell to 6.2 degrees on Wednesday, a 3.4-degree fall as compared to Tuesday, and 0.4 degrees below normal. This is the lowest that the temperature has fallen this season in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fog-chills-punjab-haryana-with-amritsar-coldest-at-2-degrees-celsius/story-MNBXmSptvonqN2sMlTJfzJ.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||Tikri, Dhansa borders closed for traffic as farmers continue agitation against reforms||The Delhi Traffic Police on Wednesday said that Tikri and Dhansa borders were closed for any traffic movement as the farmers’ protests against the Union government’s three new farm laws had entered Day 21. Multiple border points connecting the national capital have been sealed for vehicular movement since many weeks as the agitation is intensifying day by day.“Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement.Jhatikara Borders is open only for two wheelers and pedestrian movement,” the Delhi Traffic Police updated commuters on Twitter.Only single carriageway was open at the Jharoda border with Haryana, the police said adding that Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera were other border points which were open for traffic with the neighbouring state of Delhi. Traffic: Available Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders *Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders @dtptraffic @DelhiPoliceSince November 26, thousands of farmers majorly from Haryana and Punjab have been protesting at Singhu, Tikri and other border points in Delhi with a hope of the removal of the new farm laws. The Supreme Court on Wednesday had indicated that it may form a committee having representatives from the Centre and farmer groups to resolve the deadlock over farmers protesting at several roads near the borders of Delhi.Also Read| Farmers’ protest: Now, a library-cultural centre comes up at Singhu border“Your negotiations have not worked apparently. It is bound to fail. You are saying you are willing to negotiate,” a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. Mehta, who is representing the Centre said the government was willing to talk to the farmers. On being asked by the apex court to provide the names of farmer groups, Mehta said he can give the names of those with whom the Centre was holding talks.“There are members of Bharatiya Kisan Union and other organisations who are talking to the government”, he said.Also Read| Farmers’ protest: Tomar thanks Madhya Pradesh farmers for supporting farm lawsThe farmers have been protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. These laws were passed by the Parliament in September. While the central government on many occasions has assured that these laws would eliminate middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce in commercial markets, farmers fear the laws will allow big corporates to enter the agricultural sector and further end the system of minimum support price (MSP).(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tikri-dhansa-borders-closed-for-traffic-as-farmers-continue-agitation-against-reforms/story-E2B2642sdYVNs4GUA8XB4N.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Kashmir to get more snow next week as harsh winter period starts||Kashmir will get the next spell of snow with the onset of Chillai Kalan, the harsh 40-day winter period starting on December 21. Srinagar-based meteorological department director Sonam Lotus said on Wednesday that precipitation will be of moderate intensity next week. “There is a possibility of light to moderate snowfall on December 21 and 22 at isolated places of Kashmir and Kargil district of Ladakh. No major snowfall is expected till the month-end in both the union territories,” he said. Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages, starting with the 40-day intense period from December 21(Chillai Kalan) followed by 20 more days that are less intense (Chillai Khurd) and lastly 10 days of mild cold (Chille Bache). Meanwhile, the night temperatures continued to drop in most places of Kashmir on Tuesday night with fog engulfing the plains of Jammu division. Meteorologist Mohammad Hussain Mir said that Gulmarg was the coldest in Kashmir with a minimum temperature of minus 11 degrees Celsius, going further down from minus 10.2 degrees on Monday night. “There is fog in North West India up to the plains of Jammu division,” he said. The tourist resort of Pahalgam in South Kashmir recorded a low of minus 7.4 degrees, while it was minus 5.2 in Kokernag. The minimum in Srinagar dipped to settle at minus 4.8 degrees from the earlier night’s minus 3.2 degrees. Jammu was also cold at 5 degrees, while Banihal saw a low of minus 3 degrees. Leh recorded a low of minus 10.8 degrees, while Kargil recorded a low of minus 14.4 degrees and Drass was the coldest at minus 18.6 degrees. The night temperatures started dipping in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday after snowfall over the weekend. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kashmir-to-get-more-snow-next-week-as-harsh-winter-period-starts/story-oAaI5TD3FUWxtCGVnmLPuL.html
16-12-2020||Dehradun||‘Uttarakhand faced loss of around Rs 4,000 cr during lockdown’: Govt committee||A committee formed by the Uttarakhand government to ascertain losses faced by the state government during the Covid-19 lockdown period has revealed that the state had to bear losses around Rs 4,000 crores. The committee, headed by cabinet minister Subodh Uniyal, is preparing a report about the different types of losses borne by the state and will soon be submitting it to the higher authorities. “We have learnt from the finance department that the state government has faced direct losses of approximately Rs 4,000 crores during the lockdown period (March-end till June), but maximum part of this amount is being covered by the compensation being given by the Centre for Goods and Services Tax. The collection from GST amounts to over Rs 2,000 crores,” said Uniyal. Uttarakhand has six major sources of revenue generation which includes earnings through GST which amounts to around 60 per cent of monthly revenue. The other sources are excise (around Rs 250-300 crores per month), vehicle registration (Rs 100-150 crores per month), vehicle tax (Rs 80-90 crores per month), mining activities (Rs 50-60 crores per month), revenue from forests (Rs 40-50 crores per month). Also read: India may blacklist some telecom equipment vendors for securityHe added that the state also faced many indirect losses, the amount for which is being calculated. “Due to the lockdown, the state government gave many relief measures to the tourism sector, registered labourers, started various employment schemes; these can be considered as indirect losses, which would not have happened otherwise. These would also amount to something between Rs 500-Rs 1000 crores,” added Uniyal. Based on the findings of the report, the committee is now working to give suggestions to the state government on how to turn crisis into opportunity in the state, the method followed by the state during the Unlock process. The minister further said that the agriculture sector in the state did not face much loss during the lockdown as alternative methods of livelihood like honey rearing, cash crop cultivation were adopted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-faced-loss-of-around-rs-4-000-cr-during-lockdown-govt-committee/story-Ozeg8LuOLtBkdHyjyx3lUO.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||22 students of Classes 10, 12 test positive for Covid before schools reopen in Haryana||Twenty-two students tested positive for Covid-19 in Hisar, Rohtak and Jhajjar districts of Haryana when they underwent the mandatory health check-up before schools reopened for Classes 10 and 12 on December 14, officials said. Last week, the state government decided to reopen schools for students taking the board exams this Monday and for students of Classes 9 and 11 on December 21. The Haryana school education department asked students to submit a medical certificate before joining school. Eighteen students of the Government Senior Secondary School at Kheri Barki village in Barwala sub division of Hisar were found infected with coronavirus on December 12. Vinay Sethia, a health inspector at Barwala, said the matter came to light after school principal Gajanand Sharma requested the department to collect samples of students of the two classes at Kheri Barki village itself on December 12. “We collected the samples of 66 students. Of them, 18 tested positive. We have started sanitisation and infected students are in home isolation,” he said. When contacted over phone, Sharma said: “Only those students who furnish the medical certificate will be allowed in school. No student came on Wednesday.” It is learnt that two students each tested positive in Rohtak and Jhajjar districts. Dadri deputy civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Gupta said: “We have collected the samples of 800 students and the report will be out by Thursday morning.” A health official, requesting anonymity, said more than 30 students from Dadri and six from Jhajjar were in home quarantine after their body temperature was found higher than normal during thermal scanning at hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/22-students-of-classes-10-12-test-positive-for-covid-before-schools-reopen-in-haryana/story-yAtPZJcLRRIerPpFBQkZpJ.html
16-12-2020||Kolkata||Situation in Bengal worse than Kashmir, says BJP’s Dilip Ghosh||West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Wednesday alleged that with surging political violence, the law and order situation of the state has become “worse than Kashmir” and is “similar to that of Iran and Iraq”.He also accused the TMC government of delaying the local bodies’ elections. “If municipal elections can take place in Hyderabad and Assam, why not here. The situation is worse than Kashmir and is similar to that of Iran and Iraq. Didi (Mamata Banerjee) has proved that West Bengal’s law and order is not conducive to go for polls,” he said while addressing a party meeting in the city.He also challenged the Mamata Banerjee dispensation to hold polls to all the local bodies simultaneously, not just the Kolkata Municipal Corporation elections.Ghosh said the BJP was not allowed to campaign during the last panchayat elections, and its workers were beaten up and driven out of booths.He asserted that the TMC will lose the elections to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation and other civic bodies.Ghosh’s comments came after a senior state election commission (SEC) official had on Tuesday said the West Bengal government was keen on holding the KMC polls during the first half of March.The opposition BJP had met SEC officials in October and demanded that the KMC elections be held before assembly polls.Civic polls were slated to be held in April 2020, but the state government deferred the process owing to the Covid- 19 pandemic.Elections to 107 municipalities of the state and the KMC are being viewed as a litmus test for the TMC and the BJP, ahead of the 2021 assembly polls, likely to be held in April- May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/situation-in-bengal-worse-than-kashmir-says-bjp-s-dilip-ghosh/story-WKzopAt13ac9DqNvPwywIO.html
16-12-2020||Kolkata||BJP calling up my leaders, coercing them to join saffron camp, says Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday accused the BJP of trying to coerce Trinamool Congress leaders to join the saffron party.Addressing a rally here, Banerjee termed detractors in her party as “opportunists” and blamed the BJP for trying to break the TMC by using “moneybags”.“Imagine the audacity of the BJP leaders, they are calling up my state president Subrata Bakshi and asking him to join the party. The BJP doesn’t have any political courtesy or ideology. And, there are one or two opportunists who only work for their benefit.“The old-timers of the party are our real assets. The BJP is trying to coerce TMC leaders to join. It is using moneybags to break opposition parties... But, we will fight and defeat them in the assembly polls,” she asserted.Her comments come in the backdrop of growing resentment in the TMC with several senior leaders, ministers and MLAs openly speaking up against the party leadership and the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-calling-up-my-leaders-coercing-them-to-join-saffron-camp-says-mamata-banerjee/story-glwtRr7Xt7BOEUGGbvzPFO.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||Man arrested at Delhi airport with 30 lakh Japanese yen||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) recently apprehended a man at the Indira Gandhi International airport in New Delhi with 30 lakh Japanese yen (approximately Rs 21 lakh in Indian currency).The man was later handed over to the airport customs officers for further investigation.A senior CISF official said that he noticed bundles of currency notes on December 14 when the man named Ansar Ali passed his hand bag through an X-ray machine in the security hold area after he had checked in. After searching, 30 lakh yen was recovered.Ali had a ticket to the Japanese capital Tokyo via Air India flight AI-1306.Ali could not produce any relevant documents related foreign exchange nor could he provide correct information about having the notes in his possession during inquiries, after which he was then handed over to the customs officers for further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-arrested-at-delhi-airport-with-30-lakh-japanese-yen/story-AcKcRjkaLlKyUbdKL7FgnK.html
16-12-2020||Jaipur||Cold wave grips Rajasthan, Ganganagar records minimum temperature||Cold wave conditions and fog prevailed in most parts of Rajasthan where Ganganagar recorded a minimum temperature of 2.5 degrees Celsius, a MeT department official said on Wednesday.  The department has issued a cold wave warning for the next two days in the state.According to the department, the minimum temperature in the state has dropped by up to four degrees in the last 24 hours. Pilani recorded 4.4 degrees, Churu 5.1 degrees, Jaisalmer 5.2 degrees, Bikaner 6.1 degrees, Phalodi 6.2 degrees, Sikar 7.5 degrees and Alwar 7.6 degrees.At the same time, the day temperature has also dropped. Ganganagar recorded a maximum of 15.1 degrees.According to the weather department, the minimum temperature might drop by two to three degrees in the next two days.  Cold wave conditions will prevail in the districts of Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Bikaner, Churu, Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Alwar and Bharatpur districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/cold-wave-grips-rajasthan-ganganagar-records-minimum-temperature/story-4TlnlrHhLqEuS3twfEpnXI.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Bollywood drugs case: Arjun Rampal seeks time till December 22 to appear before NCB||Actor Arjun Rampal has sought time till December 22 to appear before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). The Central agency had summoned him again to question him in connection with the Bollywood drugs case. NCB had already questioned Rampal and his partner Gabriella Demetriades in the past and had also arrested Gabriella’s brother in the case.An NCB officer confirmed the development on Wednesday. A senior NCB officer said, “The facts revealed by the actor previously in his statement contradict the information revealed by the other accused. Also, there are new facts that have emerged during the ongoing investigation, hence he needed to be questioned again.”Last month, the Central anti-narcotics agency had conducted a search at Rampal’s residence in Bandra and had seized electronics gadgets and some medicine which are restricted under the NDPS Act. He was then questioned for nearly seven hours on November 13.Also read | Bollywood drugs case: NCB arrests two key drug suppliers, seizes drugs, cash worth Rs2.63 croreHis partner Demetriades was questioned twice after she was held responsible for the narcotics. NCB involved Rampal and Demetriades in the investigation after they discovered the involvement of Demetriades’ brother Agisilaos Demetriades in drug cases and found that he was in touch with many Bollywood celebrities, said an NCB officer.Agisilaos was arrested on October 17 from a resort at Lonawala. NCB officials recovered 0.8 grams of a black-coloured sticky substance purported to be hashish (charas). Alprazolam tablets were also found in a search at his Khar residence.Officials said Agisilaos was in constant touch with several drug peddlers who allegedly supplied drugs to Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik and others persons arrested for their alleged involvement in the drug case related to death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, said NCB officials.Electronic evidence showed that he was in touch with Dipesh Sawant and Samuel Miranda, who are linked with Rhea and Showik Chakraborty.NCB, which has been investigating the drug angle into late actor Rajput’s death, has till now arrested 28 people, including Bollywood celebrities like comedienne Bharti Singh and her husband Haarsh Limbachiyaa.Previously, top actors like Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor and Rakul Preet Singh have also been questioned by the NCB officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bollywood-drugs-case-arjun-rampal-seeks-time-till-december-22-to-appear-before-ncb/story-U2Ut1VgYgFSK9SrSnjNNrK.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Setback for MVA in shifting carshed out of Aarey Colony as HC stays Kanjurmarg shed work||In a setback to the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s plan to shift controversial Metro 3 car shed out of Aarey Milk Colony, the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday ordered an interim stay on the Mumbai collector’s order to transfer 102 acres of land to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for constructing the carshed. Metro 3 is proposed to be an underground line linking Colaba-Bandra-Seepz. Thackeray government had scrapped Devendra Fadnavis government’s decision to build carshed at Aarey Colony despite opposition from environment activists and citizen groups who had insisted that Aarey wad one of the last green spots in Mumbai. State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Wednesday tweeted, “Hon’ble HC has granted a stay to Kanjurmarg work. We await the detailed written order to decide the future course of action.” He added, “This land is crucial for Metro Line 6, 4 and 14, apart from 3, as it will save almost Rs5,500 crore of Govt and be a nodal point for 1 crore citizens.”In a major decision, the MVA government had announced shifting the carshed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg in order to save the green lung. It was further decided that the land at Kanjurmarg will be utilised for Metro 6 (Swami Samath Nagar-Vikhroli), 4 (Wadala-Kasarwadavali) and 14 (Kanjurmarg-Badlapur). However, in a letter dated October 15 to the Maharashtra chief secretary, the Central government’s department for the promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) stated that the 102-acre plot for the carshed in Kanjurmarg was handed over by the state to MMRDA “without following extant procedure”.According to DPIIT, the Centre had filed a writ petition against several salt department lands — including the Kanjurmarg plot — and the decision was pending before the HC. The letter, signed by DPIIT secretary Dr Guruprasad Mohapatra, went on to say, “Improper and unilateral action of the collector and MMRDA has caused severe loss to DPIIT. I would request you to take necessary steps and restrain MMRDA from taking any further steps and to direct [the] collector to withdraw the orders passed in this regard in order to protect the interests of the Government of India.”The state, however, continued to maintain that the land belongs to Maharashtra and the work continued on site. It pointed out that the revenue authority had ruled that the land belonged to the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/setback-for-mva-in-shifting-carshed-out-of-aarey-colony-as-hc-stays-kanjurmarg-shed-work/story-yRgOEhDRrUZL7dZ8lBuOCN.html
16-12-2020||Jaipur||Post-Covid centre to be opened at Ayurveda District Hospitals in Rajasthan||Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma said that a post-Covid centre will be opened at all the district Ayurveda Hospitals in the state. Experts will treat the patients who have turned negative after being treated for corona in these centres through Homeopathic, Ayurvedic and Unani medical systems.Addressing the department advisory committee of Ayurveda, Homeopathy, Unani, Yoga and Naturopathy departments at Swasthya Bhawan on Tuesday, Sharma said: “Looking to the huge potential of medico tourism in the State, 20 such places have been identified in Rajasthan where there is maximum movement of tourists. A yoga centre with state-of-the-art-facilities will be opened at these places in public private partnership mode.”He directed to draw a framework to develop Botanical Gardens at 17 places across the state. It was instructed to develop these Botanical Gardens with the help of farmers and by deploying Dravyaguna science experts at these places. He suggested developing these gardens in public private partnership (PPP) mode and instructed to plant 10 types of medicinal plants at each Ayush hospital with emphasis on planting guggal, tulsi, giloy, ashwagandha, arjun and other plants.Sharma also directed to publish a booklet of major Ayurveda medicines with explanation in detail. National Institute of Ayurveda former director Professor Mahesh Chandra Sharma has taken the responsibility to prepare this booklet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/post-covid-centre-to-be-opened-at-ayurveda-district-hospitals-in-rajasthan/story-0oPEgcJUcamr2uQFnFEPYK.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Now, a library-cultural centre comes up at Singhu border||A group of young, working professionals, students, and farmers from Punjab and Haryana has set up a cultural space-cum-library at Singhu border to serve as a platform for artists as well as engage with the street children around the area amid the farmers’ protest.On Tuesday afternoon, a day after they set up the Sahitya Chaupal near the Kessel Grand Mall at the protest site, several children were huddled around a volunteer in the 30 x 30 feet enclosure, sketching. Few others were busy reading. At another enclosure, set up by the same group, children were doing basic arithmetic.“We saw these children moving around from one langar to another, collecting food, playing among themselves. So we thought we could engage them in drawing or just conduct regular activities for them,” said Sonu Chahal, who has pursued his postgraduate degree in music and hails from Manochahal village in the Tarn Taran district of Punjab.Also read | Farm unions slam Centre, say govt lacks sympathyChahal is among nearly a dozen organisers and around 40 volunteers who have set up the initiative. The larger enclosure, near the Kessel Grand Mall, was set up on Monday by Navdeep Singh -- the young farmer who became an internet sensation after turning off a water cannon during the agitation in Haryana last month.“There are a lot of young farmers who have gathered around the area and they speak their minds. So, we wanted to create a space for reading, discussion and engage the younger generation here in a constructive manner,” he said. When asked if he knew the organisers from earlier, Singh said, “No. Most of us came together on this protest site and only had one or two acquaintances here. Since we share the same idea, we’re all working on this project.”His friend and fellow organiser Gurinder Singh said, “We wanted to create literary chaupals (community space) where people could come, read, and have a dialogue on issues.” Singh, who hails from Patiala and has a postgraduate degree in business administration (MBA), said, “The titles present at the library include a biography on Fidel Castro in Punjabi, Paash’s poetry, books by writers like Arundhati Roy and Khushwant Singh as well as journalist Ravish Kumar.”The team has also created a WhatsApp group and has asked people to donate whatever books they want to so that those can also be added to the library. “We want our elderly protesters to have a space to read and rest and discuss, like we do back home,” said Singh, pointing towards a farmer who slept in the enclosure with a book by his side on Tuesday afternoon. The group will also be holding regular poetry and song sessions inviting artists, musicians, poets, and filmmakers to share their work.“From the looks of it, the protest will continue for a long time. The chaupal is an attempt to maintain discipline here and hold meaningful conversations among the young people,” said Dinesh Chaddha, a lawyer from Barwa village in Ropat.Several other makeshift libraries have been set up at the spot since the earlier days of the agitation. However, this is the first time a group of young professionals is bringing in diverse forms of art like music and poetry into the mix.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-now-a-library-cultural-centre-comes-up-at-singhu-border/story-KFOFpfF1CUcM4cfUDnpokO.html
16-12-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Govt keen on holding KMC elections in March, says SEC||The West Bengal government is keen on holding Kolkata Municipal Corporation elections during the first half of March, a senior state election commission (SEC) official said on Tuesday. Civic polls were slated to be held in April 2020, but the state government deferred the process owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.“The state government informed us that it is ready to hold KMC polls once the Election Commission of India publishes the final electoral roll and the state election commission adopts it.After that, the state will be able to hold the polls in four to six weeks, provided the Covid situation doesn’t worsen,” the SEC official said.The ECI is likely to publish its electoral roll on January 15, he said “So if you calculate four to six weeks, it would be during the first or second week of March, he explained.Asked about elections to other municipalities, the official said, Only information about KMC was communicated.” The opposition BJP had met SEC officials in October and demanded that KMC elections be held before assembly polls.Elections to 107 municipalities of the state and the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) are being viewed as a litmus test for the TMC and the BJP, ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls, likely to be held in April-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-govt-keen-on-holding-kmc-elections-in-march-says-sec/story-qdksysBxsJoc3QBHMYR3GI.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Maha: Opposition leader attacks govt on Covid-19, farm distress, quota||BJP leader Pravin Darekar on Tuesday sought to put the Maharashtra government on the mat over its Rs 10,000 crore relief package for flood-hit farmers by claiming provision of only Rs 2,181 crore had been made so far.Speaking during the debate on supplementary demands in the Legislative Council, Darekar, who is Leader of Opposition, also sought to know what steps the Uddhav Thackeray government was taking to the ensure the Maratha quota decision, currently being heard in the Supreme Court, remains intact.He said the state government, at the same time, will also have to “assure the OBCs that their quota will not be touched”.“Of the Rs 10,000 crore package announced by the state government, farmers will get only Rs 5,500 crore. The rest is allocated for rural development, road and bridge construction, and repair works. This is going to benefit only contractors,” he said.Darekar said the MVA government announced the package on October 23, while a formal decision on it was made only on November 7, which “rubbed salt into the wounds of farmers” as only help of Rs 2,181 crore was earmarked.“Only 20% farmers are going to benefit from this. The government should immediately give Rs 7,820 crore as relief to farmers,” he said.Taking a swipe at Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who took out protest marches in 2019 to ensure farmers get crop insurance claims, Darekar sought to know “how many claims from farmers have been settled till now”.Darekar listed several steps taken by Karnataka, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, all ruled by the BJP, to give relief to farmers, adding that the Maharashtra government was lacking on this front.Speaking on the Covid-19 situation, Darekar said the Maharashtra government had mishandled the outbreak and the number of tests per million population was less when compared to several other states.He said private laboratories had “looted” patients in the name of tests when a Central government firm, HLL Lifecare Limited, was offering coronavirus tests at lower rates.Darekar said the state health department, on September 2,informed him only 72 ventilators had been purchased, while the Centre had given 4,434 ventilators amid the outbreak.“It is observed that some 5 per cent Covid-19 patients need ventilator support. This means, at the time (early September), 14,560 ventilators were required. But the state government bought only 72 ventilators. Even face masks were priced higher in the state,” he alleged.The BJP leader said the Uddhav Thackeray government shifted the metro rail car shed work from Aarey to Kanjurmarg “out of arrogance and ego”.He said the current dispensation had slowed down the progress of metro works as well as the Dharavi redevelopment plan in the metropolis.He took a swipe at the state government on the issues connected to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and actor Kangana Ranaut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-opposition-leader-attacks-govt-on-covid-19-farm-distress-quota/story-a5KaQurHaM474zEaVfvGHK.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana health minister Anil Vij in ICU after lung infection due to Covid||Haryana health minister Anil Vij, who was admitted to Medanta hospital in Gurugram on Tuesday night after developing lung infection due to Covid-19, is likely stay in the intensive care unit (ICU) for a few more days. According to the bulletin issued by the state health department and Medanta on Wednesday morning, Vij, 67, has been maintaining vital parameters on high flow oxygen support. “Relevant investigations, including a CT scan, have been done and the results are satisfactory. His condition is stable and he is maintaining vital parameters on high flow nasal cannula on oxygen support,” the bulletin read. A senior doctor of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, who is privy to the matter, said, “The next 48-72 hours are crucial in treating Vij as his lungs have been impacted by the infection. The health minister has multiple co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, thyroid and heart disease.” Vij, who is also the Haryana home minister, was admitted in the ICU of Medanta hospital at 9pm on Tuesday with Covid-19 pneumonia. He had tested positive on December 5 and was admitted to the Civil Hospital in Ambala. Vij is the BJP MLA from Ambala Cantt. On December 12, he was shifted to PGIMS, Rohtak, where he had undergone convalescent plasma therapy. The minister had received one shot of a Covid-19 vaccine candidate, which was part of a two-dose trial, a fortnight before he tested positive for the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-health-minister-anil-vij-in-icu-after-lung-infection-due-to-covid-19/story-ua1WoUpRaJK5kaxS3o2j9J.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Three shot dead in group clash over land dispute at Karnal village||Three people were killed and one sustained bullet injuries when two groups exchanged fire following a clash over the installation of electricity poles on a disputed land at Gagsina village in Karnal district on Wednesday, police said. The dead were identified as Parveen Kumar, Dilbag Singh and Veenu, all residents of Gagsina village. Their family members refused to take the bodies and named 30 people of the rival group as accused. Villagers said that the members of one group were going to the power station when the members of the rival group allegedly opened fire on them. Two villagers died on the spot and one was declared dead at the hospital in Karnal. Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said that the situation was tense but under control and police had been deployed in the village. Statements are being recorded. No arrest has been made so far as the accused are absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-shot-dead-in-group-clash-over-land-dispute-at-karnal-village/story-w5GVpzH6QNlroSw1OK6gyL.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||It’s back on track for Kufri’s pony owners as snow draws tourists to Himachal||Nine months after the Covid-19 outbreak, the tourist destination of Kufri, 15km from Shimla, is finally seeing signs of revival thanks to the recent spells of snowfall. It’s back to business for scores of pony owners, who were rendered jobless with the decline in tourism this year. Kufri has been seeing a steady rush of tourists over the past five days since the latest spell of snow. The local economy is largely dependent on the tourist influx. Kufri was a sleepy hamlet till Bollywood films shot here in the’60s and ’70s made its snow-covered slopes a popular tourist destination. At present, there are an estimated 1,200 ponies engaged in giving joy rides to tourists. They make their way to Kufri from adjoining villages daily. WORKED IN FIELDS FOR A LIVING During the lockdown, most of the pony owners worked in fields and grew vegetables. “The last nine months have been tough in Kufri. There was no work and it had become difficult to even buy fodder for the ponies,” says Kedar Kanwar, who heads the Ashwa Palak Pratyatak Sangh, a local group of 20 horse owners. The summer months of May and June are the peak tourist season in Kufri followed by the winter months of November, December and January amid snowfall. “The peak summer months went for a toss due to the lockdown. We hope to see better days now,” says Om Parkash, who hails from Jahu, a nearby village. The owners who bought horses last year are the worst affected as they have not been able to repay loans raised for buying the ponies. “I bought a pony for Rs 50,000 last year and I’ve not been able to pay the loan instalments as our source of income dried up. We hope business picks up now,” says Sohan Singh Thakur, the president of the Paryatan Ashv Malik Sudhar Sabha. Photographers in Kufri too hope that the tourist influx will help revive their business. NIGHT CURFEW A STUMBLING BLOCK The pony owners say that the Himachal Pradesh government’s decision to impose night curfew to check the spread of Covid-19 has hit business. “Not many tourists come to Kufri and those who do are in a rush to leave due to the night curfew. The government should lift the restrictions,” says Sanjay Sharma, who owns two horses and belongs to Munda Ghat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/it-s-back-on-track-for-kufri-s-pony-owners-as-snow-draws-tourists-to-himachal/story-CElO0kq0atolBWFEY6R9wO.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||In ‘ground-level feedback’ to high command, BJP’s Punjab unit stresses need to resolve farm stir soon||The BJP’s Punjab unit has conveyed to the party high command to make efforts to end the farmer agitation as soon as possible citing its repercussions on the state’s communal harmony. A delegation of leaders led by state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma and party affairs in-charge Dushyant Gautam met Union ministers Amit Shah (home), Rajnath Singh (defence), Narendra Singh Tomar (agriculture) and Piyush Goyal (industry and commerce) and provided them “ground-level feedback” about the protest in Punjab and its possible aftermaths, it was learnt.“We categorically told the home minister that communal atmosphere is getting vicious on the ground. Our topmost concern is the campaign run by pro-Khalistan elements who are hellbent on ruining the peaceful atmosphere of the state,” said a party general secretary.The delegation apprised Shah that the BJP has lost in perception among the Sikhs who now see the saffron outfit as their enemy. Discussions were also held on the role of some Punjabi singers in instigating the people against one community through their songs.The state leaders also accused the farmer leaders from Punjab of shifting their stands after reaching Delhi, it is learnt.“Discussions started between the farmers and the Union government only after the Punjab unit gave feedback that unions had reservations on certain provisions of the laws. The state unit was in a constant touch with the farmer leaders. But suddenly after reaching Delhi, these leaders started demanding complete repeal of the laws,” said Ashwani Sharma.A range of issues, including the attempts to disrupt the communal harmony in Punjab by certain elements in the garb of the agitation, was also discussed, he said. “We sat with each of the Union minister. They know who is doing what. We have requested them to find out solution to the issue as soon as possible,” said Sharma.All the state unit leaders are learnt to have blamed the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in Punjab for providing logistics to the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-ground-level-feedback-to-centre-punjab-bjp-stresses-need-to-resolve-stir-soon/story-OVY9nwch2VoGly2V9YAYEL.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: It’s a dog-love-cat world||More than 70 years after gaining their freedom, India and Pakistan are still hostile towards each other. But they aren’t the only countries with such a tradition. Turkey and Greece, too, continue to be mutually suspicious. As do Azerbaijan and Armenia. Some would argue the same about China and Japan, Russia and the US, Israel and Iran. And if, God forbid, you are on Twitter, you know that in this world everyone is against everyone.But away from all these conflicts, there is a lane beside Delhi’s Golcha Cinema (the single-screen closed long ago) where a stray dog and a stray cat are being best friends.This afternoon, the dog ambles towards the cat, who is lying on the pavement. Anticipating the dog’s approach, the cat doesn’t slink away, as cats are meant to do in such situations. Instead, the cat lies on the ground and looks at the dog, who starts pressing his nose playfully on the cat’s tummy. The cat gets up after a while, and gazes towards the dog. The dog returns the gaze, looking calm. Now the cat walks about in a circle and the dog follows the cat, as if they were playing a game.At no point does the dog bark, nor the cat mew.Nearby, a few diners enjoying lunch at Suvidha Shakahari, a pavement eatery, watch the marvellous sight in silent wonder. The eatery attendant confirms that the dog and the cat always hang out together, and that they surfaced in the area about a month ago.The dog has his tail missing, however. Can it be that these two creatures experienced cruelty or trauma in the past, and are finally finding affection in each other despite the fact that cats and dogs traditionally don’t co-exist harmoniously? The eatery attendant has no answer.Now the dog looks a little tired, and he crosses the lane to drink water from a pitcher kept just outside Clove :) Dental clinic by the local shopkeepers. Once his thirst quenched, the dog sits by a bowl filled with bones — again the doing of the kind shopkeepers. The cat sits in front of the dog and patiently watches his friend eat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-it-s-a-dog-love-cat-world/story-upYmaLyvtMkAIWYcAkGrMM.html
16-12-2020||City||At Kundli border, farmers protesting against agri laws start makeshift school for underprivileged children||The protesting farmers have started a makeshift school at the Kundli border near Delhi to impart education to underprivileged children, amid the continuing deadlock between the Centre and the farm organisations over the contentious agriculture laws. Classes are also being offered to the children who have come to the protest site along with their parents. The initiative was helmed by screenwriter Surmeet Maavi with the help of some young farmers. Maavi, who wrote the screenplay of the movie ‘Punjab 1984’ that won the 62nd National Film Award, has been at the site since the beginning of the agitation. The team has roped in volunteers to teach the kids. The classes are running for the last four days with nearly 90 students in attendance, they said. Kanwaljeet Kaur, who works with an Amritsar-based NGO, is leading the five-member team of volunteer tutors comprising professional teachers, activists, dentists and young farmers.The farmers are planning to extend the facility to more sites along the Kundli and Tikri borders. “We are focusing mainly on basic and activity-based education like painting and storytelling besides teaching as per the kids’ needs. Most students are from slums. We urge others to join us as the number of children is growing each day,” said Jassi Sangha, one of the volunteers.“Now we have got white boards, markers, sheets and other material needed for teaching and learning,” she added. Maavi said, “We are ready for a long haul against the government. These children are the future of this country. So, we want to invest in the country’s future by imparting education to them. We will continue to provide education to these children as long as the agitation is on.”Kanwaljeet Kaur, a teacher trainer, said, “In view of an increase in the number of students, we have divided classes into morning and evening batches. Presently, the classes are being conducted near ‘Jangi library’, but we are planning to shift the school near ‘Sahitak centre’ at the border.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protesting-farmers-start-makeshift-school-for-underprivileged-children-at-kundli-border/story-ajo1s8nw2Gvns204sH8WdL.html
16-12-2020||City||Gallery displaying portraits of militancy victims, Punjab’s legendary figures to come up at Durgiana Temple||The Durgiana Temple managing committee is setting up a gallery in the shrine complex to display portraits of the militancy victims and legendary figures of the united Punjab. Sri Durgiana Tirath Committee president Ramesh Sharma said the construction of the gallery on the first floor of the Bala Ji complex is in its final stages. Committee general secretary Arun Khanna said, “The gallery will be titled ‘Punjab Da Gaurav’ (pride of Punjab) to depict legendry figures of the united Punjab. We are displaying portraits of all those Punjabis who have done something for the people of the state so that the coming generations would know about their life and work. They include martyrs, freedom fighters and religious leaders etc.” The portraits of Hindu activists besides leaders of the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), who were killed by militants in the 1990s, are also being put up in the gallery, it is learnt. Nearly 100 portraits with a brief description have been installed. The gallery is in the vicinity of the Harbans Lal Khanna Samarak, the BJP’s district-level office. The memorial was built in the memory of Harbans Lal Khanna,the Amritsar BJP chief and former MLA, who was killed by suspected militants before the Operation Bluestar in 1984. Khanna’s portrait has also been put up in the gallery, it is learnt. The surroundings of the temple complex are being revamped and beatified by the Punjab government on the lines of the Golden Temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gallery-displaying-portraits-of-militancy-victims-to-come-up-at-durgiana-temple/story-Ot6EFerdpVVEguXzmHihaP.html
16-12-2020||City||Anil Vij shifted to Gurugram hospital with lung infection||Covid-infected Haryana health minister Anil Vij was on Tuesday evening shifted to Medanta hospital in Gurugram from Rohtak’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) owing to the infection in his lungs, an official said. “The health minister reached Gurugram around 9pm, where he was directly admitted to ICU unit of Medanta. He has been put on high flow oxygen to maintain the oxygen saturation level,” said a senior health official, who accompanied Vij from Rohtak to Gurugram. Another senior doctor from PGIMS, said, “The health minister has been diagnosed with Covid-19 pneumonia, leading to infection in lungs. Due to his deteriorating health condition, it was decided by the PGIMS medical board to shift him to Gurugram.” A senior doctor, who is a part of an expert team monitoring the minister’s health, said Vij did not show any improvement on Tuesday. “The minister, who has comorbidities, initially refused to be moved to Medanta hospital. We then called his brother, who convinced him that the decision was made keeping his health in consideration. We had put him on supplemental oxygen via nasal cannula and also given him plasma therapy. He was administered Remdesivir at the Ambala civil hospital as well. The minister asked us to send him to Gurugram in an ambulance from PGIMS,” the doctor added.His younger brother Rajender Vij and other members of their family also visited PGIMS. Haryana’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Dhruva Chaudhry, along with other doctors from PGIMS and Medanta, also accompanied the minister. In the morning, Haryana BJP president OP Dhankar had visited Vij and said, “The doctors have given him medicines and he is stable. He will join us very soon.”Vij had tested positive for Covid-19 on December 5. Last month, Vij had received one shot of a Covid-19 vaccine candidate — Covaxin — which was a part of a two-dose trial. He got the Covid-19 vaccine dose a fortnight before he tested positive for the infection.Meanwhile, Haryana on Tuesday reported 18 more coronavirus deaths, taking the death toll to 2,751, while 822 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection tally to 2,54,207, according to the health department’s daily bulletin. The fresh fatalities included three each from Hisar, Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri districts, it said. Among the districts which reported a big spike in cases included Gurgaon (195) and Faridabad (173), according to the bulletin.The number of active cases in the state currently stands at 8,232 while the recovery rate is 95.68%, it said.(With inputs from HTC Gurugram and PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anil-vij-shifted-to-gurugram-hospital-with-lung-infection/story-09zVCbyoJkYeKq0uJIXXFM.html
16-12-2020||City||Interstate gender test racket busted, 1 held||Officials of Karnal health department claimed to have busted an interstate sex determination racket and arrested a person.As per the information provided by Karnal chief medical officer Yogesh Sharma, a team of officials was formed following a tip-off about a racket being operated by a private practitioner in Chhutmalpur village of Saharanpur district in Uttar Pradesh. He said that officials with help of a decoy conducted a raid at the Jeevan Jyoti Hospital and Ultrasound Centre in Chhutmalpur. Sharma said that during the raid, the health department officials nabbed one person from the ultrasound centre and recovered ₹14,500 from him. However, the owner of the centre managed to escape. He added that the accused has been identified as Rao Sher Khan of Saharanpur, who was handed over to the local police. A case has been registered against him under provisions of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act in Saharanpur. A complaint has also been lodged against the doctor and the hospital, Sharma said. This is the second such racket busted by the Karnal health department officials within two weeks. Earlier this month, the district health department had unearthed a sex determination racket at Gangoh village in Uttar Pradesh and two people were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/interstate-gender-test-racket-busted-1-held/story-wTTjeY4jQkWrRBfX2GAOjK.html
16-12-2020||City||Two Mansa docs, volunteers to set up medical camp at Tikri||Bathinda With the cold wave intensifying, a team of volunteers from Mansa, including two government doctors, have decided to hold a regular voluntary medical camp to assist farmers at the Tikri border in Delhi.Dr Vishavjeet Singh Khanda and Dr Arshdeep Singh, both posted at the Mansa civil hospital, said colleagues and friends had offered to donate to buy medicines and other logistics.They plan to check the health of protesting farmers, especially those with diabetes and hypertension. Volunteers have decided to take turns to visit the protest site from this week. They have opted for Tikri for its accessibility from Bathinda via Rohtak in Haryana.Khanda, an ayurvedic medical officer in Mansa, said he conducted a recce of the Tikri border with four others two weeks ago. Now, a group of 25-odd persons, including colleagues of Mansa civil hospital, will provide medical assistance to elderly villagers protesting against the contentious farm laws, he added.Khanda, who also has the charge of district covid surveillance officer, expressed concern that the gathering at Tikri needed to be monitored for those who were suspected to be infected with the coronavirus. “In August, Arshdeep and I was infected with coronavirus and were admitted at a super-speciality hospital in Gurugram. After recovering fully, we thought we must be socially resposible. We are procuring multivitamins, zinc tablets and facemasks for free distribution among farmers to boost their immunity,” said Kanda.“We spent three nights there, and attended to nearly 300 persons who had suffered minor injuries, during their journey to Delhi from villages in Punjab. With some protesters unable to get alcohol, something that they might be habituated to, complaints of indigestion were very frequent from a section of elderly persons,” he added.Arshdeep, who is a district epidemiologist in Mansa, said glucometer and thermal forehead thermometers were a must to monitor health of so many people.“Temperature has started hovering below 10°C and farmers are staying under temporary arrangements. They need constant medical support and back-up. Volunteers have held a meeting to chalk out their presence at the dharna site. Farmers are determined to ensure their demand is met, so we think it is our duty to be with them at such a critical time,” added Arshdeep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-mansa-docs-volunteers-to-set-up-medical-camp-at-tikri/story-ac5vHTsQMn4GMBcNagS70I.html
16-12-2020||City||Police bust drone module engaged in drug, gun smuggling; two held||Chandigarh The Punjab Police have arrested two members of a module using drones for cross-border smuggling of narcotics and weapons through an international network, including Pakistan-based smugglers with links to Khalistani operatives. The accused, identified as Lakhbir Singh @ Lakha and Bachittar Singh, were arrested by Amritsar (Rural) police and further investigations are required to track their associates, including four drug smugglers currently lodged in Amrtisar Jail, said director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta on Tuesday. He said that one quadcopter drone with a full supporter stand and one SkyDroid T10 2.4GHz 10CH FHSS transmitter, along with mini receiver and camera support, have been seized, along with one .32 bore revolver and a Mahindra Scorpio SUV (HR-35M-3709), as well as some cartridges and drugs. The DGP said main suspect Lakhbir Singh of Chak Mishri Khan village was nabbed from near Gurdwara Tahla Sahib, Chattiwind, on Monday. During investigations, Lakhbir said he had procured the quadcopter drone from Delhi about four months ago and the drone was currently at the house of his associate Bachittar Singh at Guru Amardas Avenue, Amritsar. He said further investigations revealed that Lakhbir Singh was in close and frequent contact with four drug smugglers of Ajnala, who are currently lodged in Amritsar jail. A search in the prison led to the recovery of a touch smartphone from the possession of Lakhbir’s associate Surjit Masih, a drug smuggler. Lakhbir’s father is a sub-inspector (SI) in the Punjab Police. Assistant superintendent of police (ASP), Majitha, Abhimanyu Rana confirmed this and said he is posted in Chandigarh. Gupta said investigations show that Lakhbir had established an extensive communication network with foreign smugglers and entities, and was in close and frequent contact with a notorious Pakistan-based smuggler namely Chishti. “Chisthi is also in touch with Pakistan-based Khalistani operatives, and has been responsible for pushing consignments into India,” he added. He said Simranjit Singh, currently lodged in Amritsar jail, who persuaded Lakhbir to purchase a drone for cross-border smuggling of narcotics and weapons, had also been nominated as an accused in the case, said Gupta. An FIR has been registered against Lakhbir Singh and Bachittar Singh, Gurpinder Singh Khapar Kheri and some unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-bust-drone-module-engaged-in-drug-gun-smuggling-two-held/story-OsmeG5LQhvFAMYNKSWWKaJ.html
16-12-2020||City||Farmers disrupt Kurukshetra MP’s event in Yamunanagar||Farmers and activists belonging to Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU, Charuni) on Tuesday disrupted and ‘vandalised’ the sites where Kurukshetra MP Naib Singh Saini was supposed to hold public event in Yamunanagar. The lawmaker was scheduled to arrive at Damla and Khurdi villages to inaugurate community halls. However, the protesters reached before him and allegedly vandalised the site. “We protested against Saini’s presence in the village and inaugurated the halls before his arrival amid the presence of police force,” BKU district president Sanju Gudiana said. Saini, however, inaugurated the projects and reached several other villages in Radaur block. Later, the MP, along with former state minister Karndev Kamboj, addressed the locals. Saini claimed that the protests were instigated by the Congress. “I can’t call them farmers who disrupted the events in these two villages. This shows that the Congress has misguided the peasants about the farm laws. I addressed the farmers at another event and there is no doubt amongst them about these laws that are made to change the farming sector,” Saini said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-disrupt-kurukshetra-mp-s-event-in-yamunanagar/story-e82W7bdyyHDaEFWXNejjDL.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: How smartphones help Covid patients in hospital||The smartphones distributed by the civic body have helped at least 10,000 Covid-19 patients at jumbo centres and major hospitals as they could speak to their families daily, leading to faster recovery, according to the doctors. Fears of re-infection and feeling disconnected from their children are prime reasons for anxiety among patients, claim doctors. Till December 15, the civic body has distributed 200 smartphones to Covid-19 jumbo centres and all the four major hospitals. The civic body provides free calling services to patients. Also, these patients are given counselling through the smartphones. NESCO jumbo centre has tied up with an organisation called Prafulta that offer voluntary service. Sudhir Mehra, 44-year-old resident of Borivli, was diagnosed with Covid-19 on November 14. Soon, his 67-year-old diabetic mother, wife and son, too, tested positive. Considering his mother was above 50 years of age, she was hospitalised at the NESCO jumbo centre as a precautionary measure. But she would keep pleading with the doctors to discharge her as she was experiencing anxiety because of staying alone. When she started talking to her son on a daily basis on the phone, she became less aggressive and began to take the medicines. “I would talk to her twice daily. The doctors would call us and connect with my mother. She was too scared as she was staying alone. We used to counsel her on the phone which helped improve her health both mentally and physically,” said Mehra. “We have seen that patients who talk regularly with their family members show faster recovery. Along with physical health, we also have to look at the mental health of the patients,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. Mona Barbhaya, one of the counsellors, said patients often felt disconnected from their children. “We always try to understand the cause of anxiety among patients. For younger mothers, they worry about their children, so we suggest they get engaged with their children online including games. This helps elevate their mood,” said she. However, a section of the psychiatrists believes counselling through telecommunication is ineffective. Dr Vani Kulhalli, psychiatrist at Bandra-Kurla Complex jumbo centre, which has provided face-to-face counselling to over 4,000 patients, stated in an email response to HT that outsourcing mental health care to teleconsultation is not adequate. “We provide a complete range of treatments from acute delirium, stress management, psychiatric care, personal counselling and family support…(sic). This is the ideal method of providing mental health services at Covid-19 hospital. I would bring your attention to the case in Kerala where patient’s suicide couldn’t be prevented through teleconsultation,” she wrote in her email.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-how-smartphones-help-covid-patients-in-hospital/story-kgBRWgUcOnITWJwit6umVO.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Virus claims 5 lives, 70 fresh cases surface in Ludhiana||Five persons died while 70 fresh coronavirus cases were reported on Tuesday, taking the district’s cumulative cases to 24,077 and the death toll to 939.  Active cases in the district stand at 640. A total 157 infected persons were sent for home quarantine on Tuesday. The five deceased include three men and two women. The youngest among the five to succumb to the virus was a 40-year-old man from Khanna while the oldest to die was a 76-year-old resident of Sidhwan Bet. Besides, a 63-year-old man from Rajguru Nagar, 60-year-old resident of Cheema Chowk and a 49-year-old woman from Dugri were also claimed by the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-claims-5-lives-70-fresh-cases-surface-in-ludhiana/story-2C9lmA0XPUUAMVAXmQ7prN.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body plans to preserve Gilbert Hill, a 61-meter monolith column at Andheri||After historians suggested the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to turn Gilbert Hill at Andheri into a tourist spot, while reiterating the potential the Grade 2 structure has, the civic body is now planning to ensure the preservation of the hill, cleaning of the area and putting up boards detailing its history. A heritage walk was organised by a group of historians inviting BMC officials of the K West ward (Andheri) to inform them about the historic significance of the 61-metre monolith column.Historians shared some factual insights and the historic significance Gilbert Hill has which is known to be more than 66 million years old. The hill is said to be the one among three such monuments in the world and is a rare formation of thousands of hexagonal basalt columns, born of ancient volcanic lava.“The idea to invite BMC officials and politicians was to make them understand the rich history of this place. There are tons of places in the corners of this city that have historic significance. These places can be turned into tourist spots that could also generate employment and business for the locals there,” said Bharat Gothoskar, a city historian and founder of Khaki tours. The visit was organised under BMC’s ‘Know Your Neighbourhood’ initiative.Civic officials said that the trust of the famous Gaondevi Temple, located on the top of Gilbert Hill, will be involved in the upkeep of the hill.Vishwas Mote, assistant municipal commissioner of K West ward, said, “We will ensure public participation and upkeep by involving locals.”“I discussed with BMC officials to identify similar places that have a historic significance, located in and around Andheri-Juhu area that we could bring up as a model project. I requested the ward officers to prioritise cleaning. We can also focus on putting up boards and signages,” said Shiv Sena’s member of Parliament Priyanka Chaturvedi who also participated in the visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-plans-to-preserve-gilbert-hill-a-61-meter-monolith-column-at-andheri/story-aved8YhxlGzUep337pngRM.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Addict enrolment jumped from 2.8L to 6L after virus outbreak: Punjab minister||The coronavirus pandemic, which has redefined the new normal across the world, is serendipitously responsible for bolstering drug addicts’ enrolment at outpatient opioid assisted treatment (OOAT) clinics so much so that the Punjab government has formulated a policy to open more psychiatric nursing homes and de-addiction centres across the state to tackle the patient influx. Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, who was attending a World AIDS Day on the outskirts of the city in Dakha, said, “Before the Covid outbreak, enrolment at different centres across the state was 2.87 lakh, which has increased to 6 lakh.”Sidhu said, “In the wake of the increased patient enrolment, psychiatrists have been allowed to run pharmacies from clinics to facilitate counselling and treatment. A small set-up is enough to run a centre. It could be a small clinic with an attached room with beds.”To ensure detoxification drugs are not misused, private doctors have been asked to maintain a daily record of stock, bills and invoices. Nearly, 5.43 lakh drug abuse prevention officers (DAPOs) have already been registered, of which 88,710 are officials and 4,54,332 are private citizens, the minister added.Special secretary health and family welfare-cum-project director Punjab State AIDS Control Society (PSACS) Amit Kumar said that increasing incidence of drug abuse and drug-related HIV in Punjab was a matter of great concern. “The problem is grave as a large number of people are getting into the habit of drug use, particularly injectable pharmaceutical drugs,” he said. “It has been observed that the drug intake pattern has changed over the last four to five years. Drug users are shifting from oral to injecting mode that has resulted in increasing incidences drug-related HIV in the state,” he said.He said, “At present 35 opioid-substitution therapy (OST) centres are functional in 18 districts of the state. It has helped injecting drug users overcome their habit.” Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said parent-to-child transmission was preventable through prompt HIV testing and anti-retroviral treatment.On why there was increased enrolment after the outbreak, Bagga said, “ Enrolment surged at opioid substitution therapy (OST) centres amid the pandemic as the lockdown had led to serious paucity of drugs.” “Drug substitute medicines were only available at the government institutions. The number of patients seeking help with private psychiatrists and government institutions kept increasing after lockdown was lifted, which is a healthy trend,” said Dr Bagga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/addict-enrolment-jumped-from-2-8l-to-6l-after-virus-outbreak-punjab-minister/story-C41FElsF5El1lVpk1YljQN.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: AC local service between CSMT and Kalyan soon||The passengers travelling on the Central Railway (CR) mainline will soon be able to travel by air-conditioned (AC) local trains. The services are likely to be operated on the slow railway line corridor.According to the Central Railway, the approval from the railway ministry to operate AC local train services between CSMT and Kalyan was received on Tuesday afternoon. Ten AC local train services will be introduced on a trial basis and the CR will issue a detailed time table on the same.“We are planning to start the AC train services by the end of the week. They will be operated on a trial basis and if a good response is received from passengers then the train services will be increased,” said a senior CR official on conditions of anonymity.The train services will be introduced after the replacement of normal local train services.CR operated its first local train service on January 30, 2020. The train operates on the trans-harbour railway line between Thane-Vashi and Panvel railway station.City’s first local train service was introduced on the Western Railway on December 25, 2017. The train operates between Churchgate and Virar railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-ac-local-service-between-csmt-and-kalyan-soon/story-S3cJW5bu3WrNECFs70ZMYN.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra records fewer than 5,000 cases for 11 days now||Maharashtra recorded 3,442 cases on Tuesday, pushing the case count to 18,86,807. Toll reached 48,339 as 70 casualties were reported. Of them, 47 occurred in the last 48 hours, 23 in the last week, the health officials said. Active cases have further reduced to 71,356. The percentage against the total number of patients have also reduced to — 3.78% till date. The state is reporting fewer than 5,000 Covid-19 cases for the last eleven days now. Even as mid-December has arrived, there is no sign of a potential second wave against the prediction made by the health experts. It has clocked 65,161 cases in this month till date whereas 66,500 cases in November and 1,81,323 cases in October month in the corresponding period, shows a comparison of data for the last two months. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state, said that the situation needs to be monitored till January end to reach on to a conclusion. “Despite having a large number of vulnerable populations, Maharashtra is getting less cases of Covid-19, which means some sort of immunity is working for us. Still, we cannot say that the situation is improving as there is no decline in the number of cases, but at the same time cases are not going up as well. In my view, we will have to wait for another one and half months (till January end) to come on to a conclusion,” said Dr Salunkhe, who is also a public health expert. To be on a safer side, the people should treat the situation as the lull before the storm, and act accordingly, he cautioned. Showing a decline, Mumbai has clocked 521 cases, highest in the state, on Tuesday, taking the case count to 2,91,634. Of them, active cases are 14,096. There were 7 deaths reported and the toll in the city has reached 10,991. Nashik city recorded 311 cases, second highest number of cases. Its case count stood at 72,811. Nagpur city contributed the third highest number of infections in the daily caseload and it has recorded 263 cases. Their tally reached 91,859. The state has completed a total 1,18,06,808 Covid tests with 58,446 tests conducted on Tuesday. The positivity rate for the day declined at 5.88% against the overall positivity rate of the state that stood at 15.98%. The number of recovered patients reached 17,66,010 with 4,395 recorded in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate remains at 93.60%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-fewer-than-5-000-cases-for-11-days-now/story-kXO4pl3JSt5ixqh8W1CknK.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Sanjay Gandhi National Park reopens for visitors after 9 months with strict Covid-19 guidelines||The Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Borivli was reopened on Tuesday after a gap of nine months with strict guidelines in place and several activities still restricted.While tourists can enter the park from 8.30am to 6.30pm, attractions of the park such as the lion and tiger safari, mini train, boat rides over Dahisar River, and access to Vihar and Tulsi Lake areas will remain shut for tourists, according to SGNP guidelines. Also, Kanheri caves will not be accessible to visitors, as tourists are only allowed to go as far as the Trimurti Road Tumnipada gate. On Tuesday, around 300 people visited the park after its reopening. “There were around 28 two-wheelers, seven four-wheelers, and 70 cycles apart from morning walkers. There are approximately 3,000 morning walkers visiting the park daily. Thus, we have opened up additional routes in the tourism zone for morning walkers,” said G Mallikarjuna, director and conservator of forest, SGNP, adding that by next week they will take a call on opening up all areas of the park. “In light of the Covid-19 pandemic, we do not want to rush and take any risks and ensure citizens maintain a safe distance while coming to the park. We will be reviewing the situation carefully, and accordingly ease further restrictions in the future,” said G Mallikarjuna. The park had been shut since March 18 but was opened up for morning walkers from October 14 onwards.The guidelines further stated that private vehicles will not be allowed inside SGNP, and will need to be parked at a dedicated paid parking space near the main entrance at Borivali. “The facility of Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses have been provided at the entrance, which will ferry passengers to and for the park,” said Mallikarjuna.Meanwhile, the use of face masks and sanitisers is a must, and persons entering the park without masks will be denied entry, the guidelines said. “Those feeling unwell should avoid coming,” said Mallikarjuna adding that any person having symptoms associated with Covid-19 are requested to avoid entering the park and if they do, their details will be shared with the nearest Covid-19 centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-sanjay-gandhi-national-park-reopens-for-visitors-after-9-months-with-strict-covid-19-guidelines/story-GtYCTvSrovgHKD8riohjWP.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Property tax default: 5 properties sealed on Day 2 of MC’s drive||The municipal corporation is tightening the noose around property tax defaulters who have either not paid their dues or attempted to evade tax by filing inaccurate tax returns. The properties of five such defaulters and evaders were sealed on the second day of the civic body’s drive on Tuesday. The Zone C team fined two property owners on GT Road ₹8 lakh. The officials said sealing notices had been served to the owners of around six properties to recover ₹31 lakh dues. In the meantime, the Zone B team sealed five commercial and industrial properties. Three of the properties were unsealed after they submitted ₹1.9 lakh with the civic body. Officials said a door-to-door survey was being conducted to identify defaulters. As part of the drive, officials are verifying the tax due and actual payments made. Superintendent, property tax, Vivek Verma, said, “As a lot of people submit incorrect information on their tax returns, a door-to-door survey has been initiated. Apart from their dues, evaders will have to pay 100% penalty on the same.” ₹59 crore recovered against ₹130 crore target So far, only ₹59 crore has been recovered against the annual recovery target of ₹130 crore. Over 80,000 property owners failed to pay the tax between 2014-15 to 2019-20. Last week, Zone B officials had served notices to 83 property owners and on December 14, six properties were sealed, following which owners of five properties submitted ₹2.7 lakh in dues. Zonal commissioner Swati Tiwana said action will also be taken against those who have failed to pay water and sewer charges.Verma said the MC teams were also cross checking payment of water and sewer charges during the door-to-door survey . The teams have so far caught three factories on GT road, whose owners had not applied for water-sewer connections, though the factories had been running for decades. Notices are being served to the owners. Civic body to use UID number The MC’s Zone D officials have decided to use unique identification (UID) numbers issued against the properties to identify defaulters. Officials will compare the number of properties with the UID number in an area with the actual number of properties against which tax is being paid. Superintendent Rajeev Bhardwaj said,”There are around 1.18 lakh properties in areas falling under Zone D, while tax is only being submitted against around 75,000 properties.”Bhardwaj said it is suspected that many of the properties may be exempted but the residents must pay ‘nil’ property tax returns in the case. Civic body to catch defaulters using UID numbers The MC’s Zone D officials have decided to commence a drive to catch defaulters using unique identification (UID) numbers issued against the properties. Officials will compare the number of properties with the UID number in an area with the actual number of properties against which pax is being paid. Superintendent Rajeev Bhardwaj said,”There are around 1.18 lakh properties in areas falling under Zone D, while tax is only being submitted against around 75,000 properties.”Bhardwaj said it is suspected that many of the properties may be exempted but the residents must pay ‘nil’ property tax returns against the property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/property-tax-default-5-properties-sealed-on-day-2-of-mc-s-drive/story-OM4DCUa3UsvNMsihrAQcBK.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 5 days on, 2-year-old found dead in water tank in Airoli building||A two-and-a-half-year-old girl who went missing from Airoli on December 10 was found dead in an underground water tank of the adjacent building on Tuesday. The CCTV footage of the adjacent society showed the girl falling into the water tank.According to the police, Nikita Rajesh Sigh was playing inside the compound of an apartment at Sector 9 at around 8.30pm. All of a sudden, she went missing. Her father works as a security guard in that society and they stay in a room in the society compound.“Her parents looked for her in the entire neighbourhood but to no avail. Finally they approached us at night. We registered a kidnapping case following the guidelines of the government and had been looking for her since then,” said an officer from Rabale police station.“On Tuesday morning, a foul smell was emanating from the underground water tank of an adjacent apartment. Some residents of that building checked the tank and found the girl’s body in it,” he said.The girl’s body was handed over to her family after post-mortem was conducted at the NMMC hospital at Vashi.Yogesh Gawde, senior inspector of Rabale police station, said, “We are now investigating why the tank was open. If we find negligence on their part, they will face legal action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-5-days-on-2-year-old-found-dead-in-water-tank-in-airoli-building/story-WVSjfknakUYkuBekfb6mfL.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Act that provides for capping private hospital rates will be adopted soon in Maharashtra, says health minister||Almost a decade after the Central government enacted the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, the Maharashtra government has now said that it is serious on implementing the Act, which is aimed at streamlining healthcare services in the state. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the government will begin implementation of the Act, which provides for capping treatment rates in private hospitals, at the earliest.After the Central government enacted the Act in 2010 and notified it in 2012, 11 states and almost all union territories have adopted the law. States needs to have their own legislation as public health is a state subject. Tope said on Tuesday, “I have asked my department to convene the meeting immediately after the winter session. There were three committees appointed so far to deliberate on the adoption of the Act. We will study the reports of all these committees and take a decision for immediate implementation of the Act. It is true that had the Act been in place, the government would not have been compelled to invoke provisions in the Epidemic Diseases Act or the Disaster Management Act to cap the rates of treatment and procedures in the private hospitals.”According to state health officials , the adoption of the Act has been delayed because of resistance from the private sector. “Private sector practitioners and hospitals have been opposing the Act on two issues. They do not want rates for the treatment and surgeries to be fixed under the Act and have also opposed the compulsory condition of treating patients in emergency,” said an official.The Act has provision of registration and regulation of all clinical organisations — including therapeutic and diagnostic — with the view to prescribe minimum standards of facilities and services. The Act has guidelines specified for 227 diseases and hospitals are supposed to abide by minimum standards in terms of infrastructure, services, staff, equipment, among others. Technical committees appointed by the state at various levels decide charges for treatment of diseases and procedures. Health facilities are mandated to display charges for each procedure and facility to ensure that patients are well-informed before admissions.Meanwhile, private doctors have welcomed the move, but also warned that if the law is enforced without taking associations into confidence, they will protest against it.“The initiative will be beneficial to streamline health infrastructure. But it shouldn’t be used with the aim just to punish doctors. It shouldn’t turn into a draconian law, which will further discourage people from taking up medicine as a profession. In West Bengal, doctors are imprisoned directly based on this law. The law should focus on regulations without threatening doctors,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president, Association Medical Consultants (AMC). Activists have welcomed the move. Jeetendra Tandel, a health activist, said that at present hospitals aren’t covered under the Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC). So, the apex regulating body can’t take any action against any hospital. “However, with this act, not only private hospitals but diagnostic centres, clinics, nursing homes will come under its umbrella. This will make them responsible for their patients,” he said.Despite repeated attempts, Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra branch, couldn’t be reached for a comment. (with inputs from Rupsa Chakraborty)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/act-that-provides-for-capping-private-hospital-rates-will-be-adopted-soon-in-maharashtra-says-health-minister/story-yri9z9rMbgpCVGc9dzIoOI.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai local trains for all: Railways, state prepare for services from early 2021||Railways have begun preparations to resume suburban train services for all from early 2021, officials said, attributing it to the recent decline in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and neighbouring areas. However, officials said a decision will only be taken after completing discussions with the government.Mumbai’s suburban train services were suspended in March this year, under the coronavirus-enforced lockdown. From July 15, local trains resumed for those working in essential services, the specially abled and cancer patients. Women commuters and lawyers are also currently allowed to commute during stipulated time slots.Currently, Central Railway (CR) operates 1,580 local train services daily on its main, harbour and trans-harbour lines. The Western Railway (WR) operates 1,201 local trains. During normal operations, CR ran 1,774 services, while WR operated 1,367. “We are already operating local train services up to 90%. Discussions regarding operations of trains are on internally,” said a senior WR official.“There has not yet been any finalisation on resumption of train services for the general public. Discussions regarding this are going on. Only after complete discussion with the state government and following coronavirus protocols, local train services will be resumed.” said a senior CR official, who did not want to be named. Significantly, state’s minister for relief and rehabilitation Vijay Vadettiwar told the media that the state government was considering allowing suburban trains after December 31. Passenger associations have welcomed the move and have asked railway and state authorities to resume local train services in January with implementation of change in office timings.“Citizens are now fed up. They have to put in extra money from their pocket to travel to their workplace. Local train services should resume from January, but only after changing office timings. The earlier crowding during morning and evening rush hours cannot be repeated. Both the state and railways should work together and implement changes in office timings to avoid crowding.” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.The Railways has also started resuming phase-wise Automatic Ticket Vending Machines (ATVM) on its suburban railway stations to prevent crowding at ticket booking counters. Meanwhile, passengers who are travelling on outstation trains will soon be able to travel by local trains to commute in the city, on both CR and WR. The Maharashtra government on Tuesday asked both zonal railways to permit outstation train passengers that arrive in the city to travel by local trains and reach their final destination.Similarly, those passengers who will be travelling by outstation trains from the city will be allowed to travel by local trains and reach the train’s originating station.The railways have sent the request for approval to the railway board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-trains-for-all-railways-state-prepare-for-services-from-early-2021/story-gsXRt1nm4egTOG67pVkZJL.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cut-offs stay high in third list for FYJC||The cut-off percentages at prominent colleges in the city remained high even in the third merit list for admissions to first-year junior colleges (FYJC) which was declared on Tuesday. While cut-offs for the science stream saw a marginal dip, those for commerce and arts mostly remained the same or increased marginally. Of the 1.16 lakh applications, 45,402 students were allotted seats, with 6,179 students getting their first preference. Students who have been allotted seats in the round can secure their admissions online by December 18. Colleges can surrender the remaining seats under various quotas such as minority and management after completing the third round of admissions. In prominent science colleges, cut-offs for the stream saw a dip of up to two percentage points from the second list. Commerce and arts however, did not see a significant dip, with some colleges recording up to one percentage point rise. “There is hardly any difference in the cut-offs compared to the previous lists. It could be because more students scored well this year and the competition is tough. Also, some students who might have sought admissions in their respective boards like ICSE, CBSE for Class 11 or for diploma courses might not have withdrawn their seats in the portal,” said Ashok Wadia, principal of Jai Hind college, Churchgate. Several colleges did not release the third list on Tuesday as their seats were filled in the first two rounds. While RA Podar college in Matunga did not release a third list for commerce, same was the case with St Xavier’s at Dhobi Talao which had no list for arts. Vidyadhar Joshi, vice-principal of VG Vaze college, Mulund, said, “With students changing their college preferences, cut-offs might have remained the same or increased in some cases.” Colleges said they are now planning to start online classes soon. “We have already completed orientation for two batches of students and we will do one more round for the students who are admitted in the third and fourth rounds,” said Joshi. As per guidelines of the education department, colleges can start their academic year after completing 75% admissions. After the third admission round, over 2.04 lakh seats in the MMR are vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-cut-offs-stay-high-in-third-list-for-fyjc/story-kw7q6kd8nW7DzW1HMYvFEK.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Telugu poet P Varavara Rao’s stay at Nanavati Hospital extended till December 21 by Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday extended the interim order allowing 82-year-old Telugu poet P Varavara Rao, an accused in the Bhima Koregaon case, to be kept at Nanavati Hospital till the three petitions and appeals filed by Rao and his wife are heard on December 21. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik, while hearing the appeal of Rao against the rejection of his bail application on health grounds by the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court and the applications seeking permanent bail on health grounds and as per the guidelines issued by the high-power committee (HPC), was informed by additional solicitor-general Anil Singh on behalf of NIA that the investigating agency had a preliminary objection to the three petitions.Singh submitted that while the appeal against the special sessions court order has been served, and Rao was healthy again keeping the appeal pending would not serve any purpose, hence Rao should be sent back to Taloja jail. He further submitted that the application of Rao’s wife for shifting Rao to Nanavati Hospital and given proper bail was not following proper procedure, as she had directly approached the HC without first applying before the lower court. Responding to the objections, advocate Anand Grover and senior counsel Indira Jaising submitted that Rao was suffering from inherent ailments before his arrest and being kept at Yerwada jail and then at Taloja jail. The rejected application before the special NIA court was based on the apprehension that he could contract the Covid-19 and should be granted interim bail. However, after his application was rejected and he approached the HC, he was found to have contracted the virus. Though he was moved to Sir JJ Hospital, St George’s Hospital and then Nanavati Hospital, as per the HC order and received treatment, his condition was such that he needed constant medical care. This constant medical care was not available in the hospital attached to Taloja jail, nor did it have personnel or facilities to treat or oversee Rao’s condition, hence the applications and appeal for permanent bail should be allowed.Grover further submitted that Rao was not averse to standing trial and would not abscond, hence there was no harm in allowing bail, so that he may go home and be taken care of. “Rao has been tried in 24 cases in his lifetime and had been acquitted in all of them. He knows he had no role in the current case, hence he is willing to stand trial,” said Grover.Further referring to the HPC guidelines, he submitted that Rao was eligible for bail even though he was booked under the UAPA (Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act). After hearing the submissions, the court observed that the objections of Singh about Rao appearing directly before HC and seeking bail were valid as a Supreme Court judgement had permitted HCs to hear interim and bail applications when article 226 or 482 were invoked. The court, however, added that it would want to hear the arguments of NIA and the state against the application by Rao and his wife P Hemlatha before passing orders, hence posted hearing for Monday. When the court sought to know the current health status, it was informed that there was no new report submitted by Nanavati Hospital, hence it would have to go by the report submitted in the earlier hearing. The court accepted the same and said that the earlier interim order of letting Rao be in Nanavati Hospital and the state or NIA would not discharge him without informing the court would continue till Monday, December 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/telugu-poet-p-varavara-rao-s-stay-at-nanavati-hospital-extended-till-december-21-by-bombay-hc/story-yvqmsQxXpOKCcLn2zLvpcI.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to conduct reappear exams online in January||Panjab University has decided to conduct the reappear examinations in online mode for all the pending cases of BSc (honours) choice-based credit system and the old system.The exams that were delayed due to the pandemic will now be held from January 15 to January 31, 2021, and the last date for filling the forms is December 24, 2020. The schedule has been approved by dean university instructions (DUI) RK Singla.A university official said, “There was a demand from the students to hold the reappear exams.”The data of the students who have to reappear will be collected from the departments by December 30 and the dates for the exam will be announced on January 5. The results are likely to be declared by February 21.Students of odd and even semesters can apply to reappear. Also, those not getting promoted to the next class due to insufficient credits can apply. Besides, those unable to apply for higher courses, studies or jobs can also apply.The duly filled examination forms along with the requisite fee receipt have be submitted (to the parent/core departments) through online mode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-conduct-reappear-exams-online-in-january/story-YGZwp8BqSZMIWO30EcnlXN.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 24-year-old rape accused who escaped from custody in 2019 arrested from West Bengal||A 24-year-old rape accused, who had escaped from police custody in 2019, was arrested by Colaba police from a village in West Bengal, on Monday. Colaba police officers who got an intelligence input stating the accused was planning to escape to Bangladesh, stayed in the village disguised as locals for four days before arresting the accused. Shivaji Fadtare, a senior police inspector, said that the accused Mohammed Badshah Salim Shaikh was arrested by the Antop Hill police for raping a minor girl and was charged under sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children against Sexual Offenses Act (Pocso). Shaikh, however, had escaped from the court premises in February 2019, as he was being produced before it, following which a case was registered at Colaba police station. After the high court order of arresting all absconding accused, the Colaba police initiated contact with police officers of Pandua town of Hooghly district in West Bengal, but could not find Shaikh in his village. In November 2020, police officers received information that Shaikh had gone to his village to meet his relatives. “A team of officers left from West Bengal immediately, but before they could reach his house, Shaikh’s relatives helped him escape,” said a police officer. The team of officers then stayed in Shaikh’s neighbourhood disguised as locals, waiting for Shaikh to show up. On Sunday, the police officers learnt that Shaikh was returning to his house to take some money to cross the border and to get to Bangladesh. “Our officers laid a trap near Shaikh’s house and arrested him when he went to his house,” said Fadtare. Shaikh will be produced before a court tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-24-year-old-rape-accused-who-escaped-from-custody-in-2019-arrested-from-west-bengal/story-EkihJu2sSmIBR7pk70iDmI.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Narcotics case: Mumbai’s NDPS court grants Agisialos Demetriades and Kshitij Prasad bail||The special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court on Tuesday granted bail to Agisialos Demetriades – brother of actor Arjun Rampal’s girlfriend Gabriella Demetriades, and former Dharma Productions employee Kshitij Prasad.Demetriades and Prasad were first arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with the case linked to late actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Subsequently, the two were arrested for obtaining narcotic substances from a Nigerian national.Prasad was arrested on September 26 by NCB in the Rajput case. During the investigation, NCB discovered a connection between Prasad and the Nigerian national for the supply of cocaine. NCB took his custody in the said case in November. After taking custody of Prasad, the next day the bureau took custody of Demetriades in the same case.Demetriades’s lawyer Kushal Mor argued that the only evidence available against him were statements of the co-accused, which, given the recent landmark ruling of the Supreme Court (SC), decided that statements made to NCB officers were not admissible. Prasad’s lawyer used the same argument while seeking bail.The two had already been granted bail in the case linked to Rajput. However, after obtaining bail in the second case, they will be released from prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/narcotics-case-mumbai-s-ndps-court-grants-agisialos-demetriades-and-kshitij-prasad-bail/story-ubnDxm4m51oBvJq2E0kbQK.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Date for admission of EWS candidates in Chandigarh schools extended to January 31||Due to holdup in getting income certificates and the last date of admissions for entrance classes being December 16, the education department has taken a call to extend the last date for students of the economically weaker sections (EWS) upto January 31.Director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “The last date for EWS admissions has been extended to January 31. The last date for general admissions, however, will remain December 16.” Brar had earlier said that EWS students could be adjusted later when the admission schedule for private recognised schools was announced.For EWS admissions, an income certificate issued by the office of the deputy commissioner and attested by the concerned SDM of the area needs to be supplied. The annual income of the family of an EWS candidate needs to be less than ₹1.5 lakh as per the Right to Education Act.The admission of anyone who supplies fake information is terminated and a case can also be registered against the parents.DC Mandip Singh Brar confirmed that the administration had started issuing income certificates. “On receipt of the letter regarding EWS admissions from the education department, we started issuing income certificates from Monday this week and will finish it in a time-bound manner.”Some schools have already given students some room when it comes to income certificates. Director of Strawberry Fields High School in Sector 26, Atul Khanna, said, “In cases where EWS students weren’t able to procure income certificates, we asked them to give an undertaking that they will supply the same at the time of admission when we hold a special draw of lots.”Meeting of private schools, education authorities inconclusiveMeanwhile, the Independent Schools Association (ISA) held a meeting with the UT education department officials regarding EWS admissions, but the meeting remained inconclusive. President of ISA, HS Mamik, said, “Before we provide seats to EWS students, the government schools must first try to adjust them within their own schools. They need to reimburse us for EWS admissions going back nine years. Mapping of the children needs to be done and proper documents need to be supplied to make sure that the student applying really qualifies for the EWS quota.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/date-for-admission-of-ews-candidates-in-chandigarh-schools-extended-to-january-31/story-G9tCR4JCmoBYCEzNKMG3yJ.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC frees man convicted for raping six-year-old||Bombay high court (HC) on Monday set free a 29-year-old Dahisar resident who had been sentenced to life imprisonment for kidnapping and raping a six-year-old girl in August 2014, at Kandivli.The bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik found it unsafe to convict the accused solely based on the survivor’s testimony, after noticing contradictions in her evidence.“We find that the evidence of PW-5 (survivor) creates a doubt regarding the identity of the accused,” said the bench. “In these circumstances, it would be highly unsafe to convict the appellant solely based on the testimony of the victim,” it added.The 29-year-old was accused of raping the minor and then brutally thrusting a broom in her private parts. The incident, according to police, took place in wee hours of August 20, 2014, when the girl was sleeping with her mother, a destitute, outside a temple in Kandivli, (West).In the morning, when the mother woke up, she found her daughter missing. Later, she was shocked to find her daughter crying in a neighbouring lane, with a broom thrust in her private parts, resulting in bleeding injuries.The girl was taken to a civic hospital where medical examination revealed that she was raped and sodomised by the culprit, before inserting the broom in her private parts.The accused was arrested in connection with the crime, primarily on the suspicion of the survivor’s mother, who claimed he was following them for a few days before the incident and had also tried to initiate a dialogue with her.He was tried for the heinous crime. The prosecution examined 11 witnesses and relied on 30 documents to bring home his guilt. A special court under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, accepted the prosecution evidence and convicted the man for the crime, primarily based on the survivor’s testimony, and had sentenced him to life imprisonment.He had moved in appeal before HC where advocate Tanveer Khan argued on his behalf that it was unsafe to convict the Dahisar resident based on available evidence, especially, as DNA fingerprinting had ruled out his complicity in the crime.Additional public prosecutor Dr FR Shaikh, on the other hand, supported the conviction. He asserted that the findings recorded by the trial court were based on correct appreciation of evidence on record and did not call for any interference by HC.HC, however, refused to accept the prosecutor’s argument, noticing that the survivor’s testimony was inconsistent with regards to the identity of the accused.The bench noted that when the accused was shown to the survivor in the trial court, she identified him as a friend of her father. She said he used to come to meet her father and, therefore she knew him well. However, in cross-examination, she claimed that she had not seen him before the incident. Besides, her mother had also revealed his name to police as “Anand” and this, the court said, adds to serious doubt about his identity.Besides, the bench noted that there was no corroboration in the form of medical or forensic evidence. On the contrary, the DNA of the swabs found on the clothes of the survivor did not match with that of the accused, and thus had ruled out his complicity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-frees-man-convicted-for-raping-six-year-old/story-ggdTxuAvGxZfpkUUWJM2uI.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Hema Upadhyay-Haresh Bhambani murder case: Father of accused given last chance to bring tempo before court||The sessions court on Tuesday granted Ramadhar Sukhai Rajbhar, father of Vijay Rajbhar, one of the accused in Hema Upadhyay-Haresh Bhambani murder case, a final chance to produce before the court either the tempo used in the crime or photos of it. Artist Upadhyay and her lawyer Bhambani were allegedly smothered with a chloroform-laced cloth at absconding co-accused Vidhyadhar Rajbhar’s warehouse on December 11, 2015. The killers packed their bodies in cardboard boxes and dumped them in a Kandivli sewer. The prosecution has alleged that Vijay’s tempo was used to transport the dead bodies. During the investigation, police seized the tempo in front of independent witnesses. On October 21, 2016, Vijay’s father Ramadhar was allowed to take custody of the tempo. However, when the court asked Ramadhar to produce the tempo, he could not and said that it had been sold by Vijay’s wife. After the submission, Ramadhar also failed to appear before the court for subsequent hearings. The court had issued a bailable warrant against him. Earlier this month, Ramadhar appeared before the court, and the warrant against him was cancelled. He had assured the court that he would bring the tempo or its pictures before the court. On Tuesday, when the case came up for hearing, Ramadhar could not bring tempo or get its pictures. Hence, the court has now given him a final chance to provide the same. Meanwhile, special public prosecutor Vaibhav Baghade examined a close aide of Vidhyadhar who had accompanied him to Bengaluru in August 2016 to buy chloroform. “The witness has identified Vijay as the person working with Vidhyadhar,” Baghade said. As per the prosecution’s case, the accused had conspired to first sedate the victims with chloroform before killing them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hema-upadhyay-haresh-bhambani-murder-case-father-of-accused-given-last-chance-to-bring-tempo-before-court/story-u9CCK8A3PbmbWgp5hPsNMO.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||No coercive action against Republic TV editor, employees till Wednesday: Maharashtra government to Bombay HC||Following an assurance by the state and Mumbai Police that they would not take any coercive action against the editor-in-chief of Republic TV Arnab Goswami and other employees of the channel till Wednesday, the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday said it would hear applications seeking quashing of the first information report (FIR) and charge-sheet filed against Goswami and the applications filed by the Hansa group on Wednesday.While hearing the applications and petitions filed in the TRP (television rating points) manipulation case by Republic TV, Arnab Goswami and others, the division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik was informed by senior counsel Aabad Ponda that they were apprehensive of Mumbai Police arresting Goswami and other employees of Republic TV, and hence sought an interim order restraining the Mumbai Police from doing so.Ponda further said that as per clause 12 of the charge-sheet, the form 5(c) filed by the police seeking to arrest any employee of Republic TV was not valid as the Supreme Court had deemed the said form illegal.However, chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare opposed the submissions and said that the channel could not seek a blanket order to restrain the police from arresting any of their employees. He further said that the demand of the channel was not valid as the persons from the channel who Mumbai Police intended to arrest were not parties in the petitions, hence the court could not grant them any relief.However, Ponda drew the attention of the court to the charge-sheet filed by the police wherein apart from the name of the channel and editor-in-chief, it also mentioned ‘sambhandit vyakti’ (other employees). As the application sought quashing of the charge-sheet and FIR, all employees of the channel were a party in the application. Ponda further added that it was informed that Mumbai Police had reached Delhi to arrest Goswami and hence, there was an urgent need for the court to issue a restraining order till both sides had argued.Thakare, however, sought time and said that as senior counsel Kapil Sibal was not available till January, Ponda’s contentions could not be allowed as they would hamper investigations.After hearing both sides, the bench observed that it would hear the matter through a virtual hearing on Wednesday and Sibal could also appear. The court then asked Thakare to take instructions as to whether the police would restrain from taking any coercive steps against the employees of Republic TV till Wednesday. After Thakare confirmed the same, the court posted the applications for Wednesday to be heard through virtual hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-coercive-action-against-republic-tv-editor-employees-till-wednesday-maharashtra-government-to-bombay-hc/story-oOGxPapFdEsKSyD6qKT25H.html
16-12-2020||City||MC elections: Congress inaugurates poll campaign office in Panchkula||The poll campaign of Congress mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia kicked off with the inauguration of the party’s poll campaign office in Sector 14 here on Tuesday.Chander Mohan, the former Haryana deputy chief minister, along with other senior party leaders inaugurated the office.A postgraduate from Panjab University, Ahluwalia was the first mayor of the Panchkula municipal corporation (MC) and served from 2013 to 2018.“We will start from where we left in June 2018. All development works and projects started during our tenure are lying incomplete. After getting elected, all those projects will be given consideration on priority basis,” she said.Talking about her agenda for the polls, Ahluwalia said that keeping in mind the pandemic, health and sanitation would be her priority: “The dumping site and landfill will be relocated away from the residential areas. We will set up a legalised housing of stray cattle besides checking stray dog menace in the city.”Ahluwalia said that the upliftment of slum areas, increased police patrolling and installation of CCTV cameras, maintenance and beautification of public parks, establishment of old age homes in villages and shelter homes for the underprivileged, and installation of public libraries in community centres and in villages will be some of her other priority agendas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-elections-congress-inaugurates-poll-campaign-office-in-panchkula/story-Oph8moBzWcYXtMqOjMDzEP.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray hits back at BJP, says central agencies are being used as ‘servants’||In response to the attack by the Opposition over various issues and political cornering, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), saying that central investigating agencies like the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) are being used like “domestic servants” out of political perversion. Thackeray also appealed to the BJP not to play politics over development projects like the Metro car shed and act “in the interest of people of the state”.The second and concluding day of the two-day winter session of the state legislature saw verbal exchanges between treasury and opposition benches over various matters including farmers’ issues, Maratha reservation, action against Kangana Ranaut and Arnab Goswami, Metro car shed at Kanjurmarg and handling of the Covid-19 pandemic among others. Besides the allegations of corruptions in various schemes including Covid-19 related projects, BJP leaders Devendra Fadnavis, Sudhir Mungantiwar, Ashish Shelar and Chandrakant Patil also cornered the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government with political potshots.CM Thackeray tried to turn the tables on the BJP, and said that the central investigating agencies were being used like “domestic servants”, and their “self-respect” is being crushed. “Opposition has been talking about the undeclared emergency in the state, citing examples of the actions against their loved ones [Kangana Ranaut and Arnab Goswami], but what about the verbal attack on the protesting farmers? The farmers protesting at the borders of Delhi against farm laws have been termed as anti-nationals, terrorists and alleged to be getting assistance from China and Pakistan. Is it our culture and is it not a declared emergency? Action against our legislator Pratak Sarnaik by ED for moving breach of privilege against your loved ones [Ranaut and Goswami] is a misuse of power. Why are the central agencies being used as the servants in the houses of the ruling party,” he questioned.The CM said that the state government would not tolerate such attempts to suppress them. Thackeray also appealed to the Opposition to treat the state’s interest over politics while dealing with key projects like the Metro car shed. “The issue of the car shed is in the court, where its fate will be decided, but you [Opposition] should not play spoilsports by raising non-issues. You [Fadnavis] have been talking about the court remarks, but the same high court has stated that ‘the ownership of the land is not important, but ownership of the project is key’. The project belongs to the people of Maharashtra and nobody should stand against it. We are not opposing central projects like the bullet train or Wadhwan port despite the fact that they are not in the interest of the people of Maharashtra and being pushed through by the Centre. Ultimately, development is important, but we will not let it happen at the cost of the environment,” he said.Before Thackeray, his other cabinet colleagues replied to the allegations levelled by the Opposition over schemes being implemented by the state government. Opposition had accused the MVA government of mishandling the reservation issue. Public works department minister Ashok Chavan, who also heads the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation, questioned why the previous Fadnavis-led government failed to make the law full-proof, which would have stood legal scrutiny in the Supreme Court (SC). He also questioned why the Fadnavis government had not tried to put the Maratha reservation in schedule 9 of the Indian Constitution on the lines of the reservation given in Tamil Nadu to safeguard it. Chavan said that the SC, while staying the Maratha reservation, has pointed at the state backward commission’s report which was prepared during the Fadnavis government.“The issue is very close to the hearts of the people in Maharashtra. Instead of indulging in politics over the issue, ruling and opposition parties need to put in efforts to ensure that the Marathas get their reservation back. The Apex court has asked the Central government to clarify its stand on reservations in various states. We should all approach the Centre with the request to take a positive approach regarding Maratha reservation,” Chavan said while replying to the debate on supplementary demands.Thackeray added that some anti-social elements were purposely spreading confusion over the reservation issue through lies that the quota to Marathas will affect the reservation to other backward classes (OBCs). “It is my word as a chief minister, that not a single percent of the reservation to the OBCs will be affected,” he said.Addressing allegations of corruption in the Covid-19 schemes, deputy CM Ajit Pawar said that there was no substance in the allegations of corruption in the erection of Covid care centres and procurement of medicines. “The allegations about the expenditure of ₹90 crore on the repair and renovation of the ministers’ bungalows too is baseless. We have spent only ₹17.88 crore, and the outstanding of ₹20 crore is against repairs and renovations done during the Fadnavis government,” he said.State health minister Rajesh Tope, while replying to allegations by the Opposition that the Covid-19 pandemic was mishandled by the MVA government, said that the state’s growth, mortality and positivity rates have dropped significantly. “In terms of these key parameters, Maharashtra is not even among the top 14 states identified by the Centre. Our weekly growth rate has dropped to 0.21%, while the doubling rate has improved to 323 days. Maharashtra is the only state to reduce the cost of the RT-PCR test five times and cap prices of masks. We have brought the minimum RT-PCR test cost to ₹780 from ₹890,” he said.Thackeray said that the Opposition was targeting the MVA government for political reasons. “We have been handling the pandemic very carefully. Our Dharavi model and transparency were appreciated by the World Health Organization (WHO) and newspapers like the Washington Post. Our death rate is high, perhaps because we did not hide anything. It was our stand to maintain transparency as we wanted to handle the pandemic honestly. I do not know if this transparency is being maintained by other states,” he said.Thackeray also announced a scheme for the preservation of ancient temples in the state. He said that adequate budgetary allocation will be done for the development, restoration, upkeep of these temples. Thackeray said that the development plan would include facilities for pilgrims, renovation of structures and cleanliness around the premises. “This proves that we have not given up our Hindutva,” Thackeray said after the announcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-hits-back-at-bjp-says-central-agencies-are-being-used-as-servants/story-g2kdX6eYud8muHiWuRUfWN.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Council passes proposal to not respond to court notice, summons over Arnab Goswami breach of privilege proceedings||Maharashtra Legislative Council unanimously passed a proposal on Tuesday to not take cognisance of any notice or summons issued by high court or Supreme Court if Republic TV’s managing director and editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami challenges the breach of privilege proceedings initiated against him by the Upper House of the state Legislature. The pre-emptive move came after Goswami moved SC in September, urging it to issue a notice to Maharashtra Assembly speaker to clarify stand on the claim of a House official who said he sent a letter to the journalist in a matter of alleged breach of privilege motion at the Speaker’s direction. Breach of privilege motions have been moved against Goswami separately in both Houses of Maharashtra Legislature. Shiv Sena legislator Manisha Kayande had moved a breach of privilege motion against Goswami on September 8 in the legislative Council.On Tuesday, Council chairman Ramraje Naik Nimbalkar said no response should be given to the notices, summons and any other correspondence by Goswami through his lawyers. Nimbalkar said Goswami challenged the privilege motion moved by the Assembly in SC. “In this background, the possibility of Goswami challenging the breach of privilege motion of Legislative Council in SC cannot be ruled out. If Goswami challenges the breach of privilege motion raised in Council in high court or Supreme Court, then, with all due respect to the HC and SC, no response should be given to the notices, summons and any other correspondence by Goswami through his lawyers as per the provisions of the Article 194 and 212 of the Constitution to maintain the sovereign position of the Legislature,” the chairman said.Moving a proposal to this effect, Nimbalkar said responding to the notices would mean the judiciary can keep a check on the legislature and that would be inconsistent with the “basic structure of the Constitution”. The chairman said earlier the Council had passed a similar proposal to not respond to HC or SC in a particular case in 2010. “So, if Goswami challenges motion in HC and SC through a writ petition, then the Council Chairman, chief of privilege committee, members of the House, secretaries and other officials should not give any response to correspondence by the court and also should not appear in HC and SC,” he said.According to Nimbalkar, if Goswami challenges the proceeding in courts, then the legislature secretariat must communicate the “legislature’s functioning and well-established customs and traditions to the minister for Parliamentary affairs and Advocate General to bring it to the notice of SC.”The SC on November 6 had issued a show-cause notice to an assistant secretary of Maharashtra legislative Assembly, asking him to explain why contempt proceedings should be not initiated against him for his letter to Goswami which seems to “intimidate” him for approaching the Apex Court on the issue of alleged breach of privilege motion.HT made several attempts to contact leader of Opposition in the Council Pravin Darekar, but he was unavailable for a comment. Darekar had not responded to messages till the time of going to print.Pune-based constitutional expert Ulhas Bapat said that move by the Chairman is in line with the powers that rest with him. “The position is very clear, if a notice is issued to an individual, he or she has to respond. Under the separation of powers, members of the legislature are only responsible to the Chairman [of legislative Council] or the Speaker [of legislative Assembly]. They, anyway, cannot respond to notices issued unless permitted [by them]... We are a Parliamentary democracy in the state as well. Legislature is supreme as far as the administration is concerned. Entire power rests with the Speaker or the Chairman. The staff is under the Chairman and Speakers. Whatever position Nimbalkar has taken is correct,” Bapat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-council-passes-proposal-to-not-respond-to-court-notice-summons-over-arnab-goswami-breach-of-privilege-proceedings/story-4Tj4absJmn7izeqEu8ih7M.html
16-12-2020||City||Panchkula MC elections: BJP’s Kulbhushan Goyal files nomination papers for mayoral seat||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s mayoral candidate, Kulbhushan Goyal, filed his nomination papers at the DC office here on Tuesday for the Panchkula municipal corporation (MC) elections scheduled for December 27.On Day 4 of nominations, 32 candidates filed their papers. Goyal’s wife Anju filed her papers as a covering candidate.Before filing his papers, Goyal along with Gian Chand Gupta and other party leaders held a havan at their party office in Panchkula.Congress mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia will file her nomination papers on Wednesday.30 candidates file papers for councillorFrom ward 3, Benu Rav filed the papers; from ward 6 Parveen Pohal and Manish filed their papers.Parveen Kumari from ward 7, two candidates—Ravikant Swami of Congress and Mamta Swami—filed papers from ward 8, Congress candidate Gurmail Kaur filed the papers from ward 10 and Omwati Punia from ward 11.From ward 13, Rajkumar Dohri, Balkar Saini, and Naveen Bansal (Congress) filed nominations and two persons named Vivek Sharma and Sushil Garg (JJP) filed nominations from ward 14; Gautam Parsad (Congress) and Jitender Parsad filed nominations from ward 15.While Salgi Ram from ward 16 filed papers, Amrinder Singh (JJP) and Kanhaiya Gupta filed papers for ward 18. Three candidates–Paramjit Kaur, Harpreet Kaur and Ritu Rani (Congress)—filed papers for ward 19, and Rakesh Kumar gave his name from ward 20.No Covid for political leadersWhile Kulbhushan Goyal and senior BJP leaders marched towards the DC office for filing of nominations, no one was seen following Covid-19 norms. Masks of Goyal, Gupta and others were covering their chins only.Social distancing was neither followed on the way nor inside the DC office. Even traffic rules were violated. BJP supporters could be seen tripling on bikes and that too without helmets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-mc-elections-bjp-s-kulbhushan-goyal-files-nomination-papers-for-mayoral-seat/story-CFcR2kXkLM66VZHLAAZ6QM.html
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government refers Shakti bill to panel of legislators after Opposition, women’s rights activists raise objections||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday sent the Shakti bill that aimed to increase the penalty for crimes against women and children to a joint select committee for review, after members of the opposition and several women’s rights activists opposed sections of it.Members of the opposition Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) demanded a thorough discussion on the provisions of the bill, which they said would have far-reaching ramifications. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis moved the motion demanding the bill be sent to a joint select committee. “This is an important bill and it needs to be deliberated upon at length. It will lose its effectiveness if passed in haste. Since the detailed discussion was not possible in this session due to curtailment of the duration, we demanded the bill to be sent to joint select committee, or else table it in the next session. The state government has not taken us into confidence on such key bills,” said Fadnavis.More than 90 women’s rights groups, activists, lawyers and academics wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last week stating that the newly introduced law would “completely deny women any hope of justice” and sought “a larger consultation with activists, lawyers and academicians who are working on these issues”.Accepting the demand, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said, “The joint select commitee will have 15 members from the Assembly and six from the council and will conduct meetings to review the bills over next two months. We will try to accommodate maximum women members in the committee. The bill will be reintroduced in budget session in February-March after the review by the committee.” The Maharashtra Legislative Council also gave its approval to refer the draft bill to committee on Tuesday. The committee comprising 21 legislators of both houses is expected to submit a report on it.In its current version, the bill provides for the death penalty for rape and gang rape and penetrative sexual assault against women and children, and introduces an amendment to Section 375 to allow for the presumption of consent, which goes against the clarity provided by the central law.On Monday, the state home minister Anil Deshmukh tabled the Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 2020, and the Maharashtra Exclusive Special Courts (for certain offences against women and children under Shakti law) Act, 2020, which propose amendments to criminal laws in the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC), the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (CrPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act), and seek the establishment of special trial courts to fast track such cases.The bills hike the punishment for certain crimes to death penalty and fines to up to Rs 10 lakh. They also make it mandatory to complete the investigation and file a charge sheet within 15 days as well as complete the trial within 30 days of filing the charge sheet.Once passed, the bills will also require the Centre’s nod. The bills were drafted by the home department after forming a committee of police officials, studying the Andhra Pradesh Disha Act passed in February. A team of the government and police officials led by Dehsmukh visited Andhra Pradesh last year, and a cabinet sub-committee of senior ministers deliberated upon the draft prepared by the home department before both bills were tabled in the legislature earlier this week.Veena Gowda, a women’s rights lawyer said, “We really appreciate the fact that the government has referred it to the joint committee. We believe this bill needs a lot more deliberation and debate. We are opposed to bringing in the presumption of consent, providing punishment for false complaints, and introducing the death penalty… [These] do not stand the test of constitutionality.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-refers-shakti-bill-to-panel-of-legislators-after-opposition-women-s-rights-activists-raise-objections/story-wPfS4JlGwFiVgpk4hW7ryJ.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||₹8cr to light up tracks, ₹50 lakh to repair them to promote cycling in Chandigarh||Laying out new cycle tracks, repairing damaged ones and lighting up dark areas: The UT engineering department is gearing up to complete pending projects to motivate more people to take to bicycling even as the public bicycle sharing project was rolled out here on December 10.Unlit tracks will be lit up at a cost of more than Rs 8 crore and the entire track network across the city overhauled at a cost of more than Rs 50 lakh. New tracks will be laid out at a cost of around Rs 37 lakh. “While nearly 200 km of cycle tracks have been created in the city, there are some patches where the distinctive tracks are yet to be created. We are now planning to fill in these gaps. We have invited tenders for the construction of cycle tracks of paver blocks from junction 63 to junction 53 (from the direction of Sector 47C); and metalled road from junction 53 to junction 38 (from the direction of sector 31 B and C) along Purv Marg,” said a senior department official. 6,000 streetlight polesActing on people’s complaints that some areas are not well lit at night, installation work of nearly 6,500 street light poles has started along some tracks. “The work will be completed in another month and a half. The stretch leading to the Sector 42 lake has already been covered and speeded up elsewhere. Poles are being erected alongside a cycle track near Sector 19,”said the official. Lights of low intensity will cover the tracks but not disturb people in the neighbourhood, he added.Repair and design fixesAs complaints have come in from cyclists about poor design of tracks, and damages, the department will overhaul these too, and complete the work in a month’s time. “For this, work has been divided in zones. In zone 1, repair of Rs 22 lakh will be taken up, while in the zone 2, the department will spend another Rs 28 lakh to repair the track and correct the designing elements. This will also make the tracks much safer,” the official said. About 140 stands for 250 bicycles will be built from sectors 6 to 36 and in different parts of the city including Rock Garden, prominent markets, etc. “We have already installed a cycle stand at Sukhna Lake which can accommodate around 250 cycles at a time,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/8cr-to-light-up-tracks-50-lakh-to-repair-them-to-promote-cycling-in-chandigarh/story-Yl72RyGZnlE4PhfOhwMFXO.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi airport’s cargo terminal puts in place a cold chain network to handle Covid-19 vaccine||Cargo terminals equipped with special temperature controlled areas, sufficient availability of cool dollies on the airside (where an aircraft lands), and dedicated loading areas along with entry and exit gates for smooth flow of vehicles -- the authorities at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) said they are all set to receive, store and transport the Covid-19 vaccines as soon as they become available in India.Officials aware of the development told Hindustan Times that the Delhi airport’s two integrated cargo terminals, which have an annual cargo handling capacity of 1.8 million metric tonnes, have been equipped with temperature-controlled chambers that can maintain temperatures from 25°C to -20°C. This will help in storing the vaccines at the optimum temperature at the airport, for further transport to other parts of the country, said one of the officials, on condition of anonymity.Also Read| India bucking global trend but must keep its guard up in Covid fight: OfficialsFurther, both cargo terminals have been provided with an adequate number of charging points to handle these temperature-controlled containers.The official quoted above said that they have cooled dollies -- specifically designed containers with a closed temperature controlled system -- for the movement of the temperature sensitive vaccines to the special chambers at the terminals for storage as soon as they arrive on the airside. The same dollies will be used to load the vaccines onto an aircraft for further transport to other parts of the country. “This will ensure an unbroken cold chain, which will be maintained at all times,” the official said.Delhi airport has also set up a dedicated “transshipment excellence centre”, spread over an area of 6,500 square metres on the airside, for convenient and efficient movement of transshipment cargo. “This facility will help in fast movement of vaccines through transshipment,” a second official said.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage In order to ensure the seamless transportation of the vaccine out of the airport by road, separate dedicated gates have been set up at the cargo terminals for fast movement of vehicles carrying the Covid-19 vaccines. “There is a truck slot management system at the cargo terminals, where a pre-booking facility will be available for trucks to make the process smooth. The newly launched “QR code-based e-gate pass facility” for delivery of vaccines will also be in use, thereby making the documentation process automated, and reducing human interface,” the second official added.Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL), which runs IGIA, said because the airport has the best air connectivity to other parts of the country, it will play a critical role as a transshipment hub. “We are also working with other stakeholders in the supply chain, including pharma companies, airlines, temperature controlled facility suppliers and with the temperature controlled transport service providers, to ensure an efficient, reliable and uninterrupted service to the people of India,” a DIAL spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-airport-s-cargo-terminal-puts-in-place-a-cold-chain-network-to-handle-covid-19-vaccine/story-wFSkjritQwO7bvHpOfxBDM.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||On bone-chilling night, farmers huddle under tarpaulins and plastic sheets to stay warm||With traditional braziers lit using wood, copious amounts of tea and fistful of almonds, farmers protesting at Delhi’s Singhu border huddled among the mattresses stacked against the wheels of trolley, and layers of tarpaulin and plastic sheets spread out over the 6km-long protest site to brave the coldest night of the season so far.On Tuesday, the minimum temperature in Delhi dipped to 4.1 degrees Celsius, 4 notches below normal. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that the minimum temperature is expected to remain below normal throughout week, with the minimum temperature ranging between 4 and 7 degrees Celsius. The effect of the biting cold was quite visible at the protest site in Singhu on Tuesday. Out came blankets, plastic sheets, and empty fertilizer bags, stitched together to form makeshift curtains that covered the tractor-trolleys, which have been converted into temporary farmer homes. Usually, these “curtains” are lifted in the morning. Those who were unable to catch some shut-eye at night due to the cold were seen dozing inside the trolleys during the day. Several non-government organisations (NGOs) workers and even langars (community kitchens) also distributed almonds among farmers on Tuesday.Gurtej Singh, 26, a young farmer from Jatana Kalan village in Mansa district of Punjab, said youngsters mostly slept under the tractor-trolleys while the elderly slept inside. “We tied multiple layers of plastic and tarpaulin sheets around the trolleys to keep the cold away. While one end of the trolley is lined with mattresses, the open end was covered with plastic sheets that acted like a thick curtain to keep the draught out,” he said.But sleeping on the road when the temperature is just 4 degrees Celsius, he says, was by no means easy. “We had stacked mattresses on both sides of the trolley and used two blankets. Since the langars are open till 2am, we kept sipping on hot tea and warm water,” Singh said.Amninder Singh, 26, another young farmer from Raikot in Ludhiana district, said, “Tea is the Indian antidote to the chilly weather. We also made bonfires at various places and set up chairs around them so that those feeling too cold could warm themselves. Many also slept in cars or night shelters set up by the NGOs.”Several farmers, a few of them elderly, slept in temporary makeshift structures erected using bamboo and tarpaulin sheets beside their trucks. Jaspal Singh, 70, a resident of Kalour village in Fatehgarh Sahib district of Punjab, was among those who sheltered thus. He slept on the road with at least five others of his family with nothing but a tarpaulin covering them from all sides.“Farmers are used to harsh weather. While waiting for our turn at sugarcane factories, we spend our nights out in the cold. Here, we at least have mattresses, foam, blankets, and a space to lie down. I don’t sleep inside the tractor because a lot of men from our village sleep more comfortably inside. We have been eating things like almonds and jaggery to keep our bodies warm,” he said.Security personnel stationed at the barricades also had to brave the cold night with just braziers for company. Two enclosures have also been created for personnel as a protection against the chill.“We only have our jackets and the iron braziers to fight the cold. We stayed up all night having tea made by either our own people or farmers,” said a police personnel, requesting anonymity.Additional deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Jitendra Kumar Meena said two waterproof tents have been pitched at Singhu border for security personnel. “Another tent is being placed towards the rear of the protest venue. Apart from the tents, we have arranged braziers for the personnel to use at night. We have also installed a public address system that has a reach of nearly two kilometres to address personnel deployed at the protest venue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/on-bone-chilling-night-farmers-huddle-under-tarpaulins-and-plastic-sheets-to-stay-warm/story-2XuKNu2oLuPyip4B2CYa9H.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||Days after reopening, Chilla border to be blocked today||Two days after protesting farmers cleared the blockade at Chilla (Delhi-Noida link road) border, another faction of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) called BKU(A) on Tuesday announced that they will “completely block the Chilla border” on Wednesday to press their demands for repealing the three farm laws.BKU(A) national president Rishipal Ambawata said that they would block the road at 11am on Wednesday. “We will block the Chilla border again at 11am tomorrow [Wednesday] and press for our demands,” Ambawata said on Tuesday while addressing a press conference at the Singhu border.The announcement has prompted the police to revise their security arrangements at the border and plan the deployment of security and traffic personnel on alternate routes through which traffic between Delhi and Noida will be diverted if the blockade takes place.Also Read: Farm unions slam Centre, say govt lacks sympathy“We are coordinating with our counterparts in Uttar Pradesh (Noida) Police and discussing the matter. Our deployment at the border is still in place. If required, security arrangements will be beefed up and the traffic may be diverted onto alternative routes,” said joint commissioner of police (eastern range) Alok Kumar.The call for a complete blockade of the Chilla border came on a day when nearly 100 farmers in cars arrived from Noida and tried to march towards Delhi through the carriageway that had been cleared on Sunday morning.Security personnel from Delhi and Noida police immediately responded to the situation and blocked the road using iron barricades and deployment of personnel, leading to a traffic jam. However, senior police officers had a quick discussion with the farmers and convinced them not to block the traffic. After nearly 10 minutes, the barricades were removed and traffic was restored. The protesters parked their vehicles and sat on one portion of the road, which has been barricaded and dedicated to the protesting farmers.On Saturday night, farmers had cleared the Chilla border, citing inconvenience to commuters, but vehicular movement was restored on Sunday. Satish Tomar, in-charge of the IT cell of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Bhanu), said “Police and senior officers requested us to clear the road... Our leaders took a decision, and keeping in mind the problems caused to the commuters and locals, we have cleared both the roads. We, along with police personnel, together removed the barricades and reopened the road.”On Tuesday, various farmers groups said they would intensify their agitation and would submit a written rejection of the government’s proposal. Jagjit Singh Dallewal, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur), said that the farmers will negotiate with the government only when they talk about the repealing the laws instead of making amendments. “We are also making adequate arrangements for women protesters. As soon as that is done, they too will join the protest in huge numbers in the coming days,” he said.The number of farmers at Ghazipur border also saw an increase on Tuesday. The tractor-trolleys, trucks and four-wheelers have occupied 400-500 metres of the carriageway between Indirapuram and the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border. As many as 15 tents to serve free meals throughout the day have also been set up at the protest site.Hundreds of farmers were seen sitting on the blocked Delhi-Meerut carriageway (going towards Delhi from Ghaziabad) and listening to speeches by various farmer leaders criticising the central government for not scrapping the three farm laws and asserting that their protest will not end until the government accepted their demands.“The Uttar Pradesh government has been stopping farmers from proceeding to Delhi. Many representatives of farmers are under house arrest. We will not tolerate this. If the government continues harassing farmers, we will have no choice but to escalate our agitation to Lucknow and at local levels in Uttar Pradesh. If required, we may block the entire Delhi-Meerut Expressway again,” said Rajveer Singh Jadhon, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (UP unit).At the Singhu border, the death of four farmers in two separate road accidents in dominated the speeches from the stage. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said his government would provide assistance to the families of the deceased farmers.Farmers also objected to the allegations of being misled by Opposition leaders or the protests being hijacked by other groups. Teja Singh, 70, a farmer from Nabha in Patiala district, said, “The government thinks of us as fools. The talks will just serve as an excuse for them to trick us into believing that the new farm laws are for our own good. But that is not the case. We know that these laws will cost us our land eventually, and that is why we are protesting here. Nobody is guiding us. The farmers know the impact these laws can have on us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-announce-complete-blockade-of-chilla-border-on-wednesday/story-0JZxK8cI2gwmrhbAJm3FjP.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||Group detained, released for protesting attack at Jamia Millia||A group of protesters — who had assembled for a candlelight march at Batla House — were briefly detained by police and released on Tuesday evening. Police said the protesters had assembled to mark the first-year anniversary of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CCA, protests held in Jamia Nagar last year. On December 15, 2019, a protest led to clashes between police and students. Later in the evening, police entered the Jamia university campus, alleging that some rioters had entered the varsity.Delhi Police were heavily criticised for entering the university and using disproportionate force against students. The HC is hearing a bunch of pleas seeking action in the matter. Former JNU student Umar Khalid’s father, Sayed Qasim Rasool Ilyas, said that his wife and daughter were detained. “They were participating in a peaceful march organised to condemn the attack on Jamia Millia Islamia. They were detained by the police and taken to an unknown location. SHO Lajpat Nagar later told us that they will reach home within half an hour. We are still waiting for them,” he told HT around 9.30pm on Tuesday. Khalid has been arrested for his alleged role in planning and orchestrating the 2020 Delhi riots. He has denied the all allegations. Deputy commissioner of police (south east) RP Meena, said, “The police team removed the agitators from the spot, counselled them regarding Covid-appropriate behaviour and asked them to return home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/group-detained-released-for-protesting-attack-at-jamia-millia/story-kgawwucRt0HZSlluJOuyGP.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||AAP calls for one-day special assembly session to debate ‘Rs 2,400 crore MCD scam’||The Delhi government has called a one-day special session of the legislative assembly on Thursday to discuss the alleged misappropriation of Rs 2,400 crore by the north and south Delhi municipal corporations (MCDs) that are ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced about the one-day Delhi assembly session on Twitter.“A special session of the Delhi Assembly on misappropriation of Rs 2400 crore in MCD will be held on Thursday,” he said in a tweet in Hindi. Leaders of the ruling AAP have sharpened their attack on the BJP-ruled municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) over the alleged misappropriation of funds ahead of civic polls due in 2022.AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj held a press conference on Tuesday and said the BJP has become so desperate that now the MCD officials are pulling down the hoardings put by the AAP across the city on the scam done by the MCDs. The AAP also attempted to protest outside the L-G’s and Union home minister Amit Shah’s residence on Sunday demanding a CBI probe into the alleged scam but were stopped by the police.“On one hand, the BJP-led north MCD constantly claims they do not have money and are incapable of paying salaries to the doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, and other staff. On the other hand, they are ready to waive Rs. 2,400 crore, which was payable to them by south Delhi civic body,” Bhardwaj said. AAP leader Atishi said the accounts of south MCD of the last many years, clearly state that Rs. 2,400 crore was the payable rent for the SDMC office at Civic Center, which is owned by the North MCD. “But in this year’s budget, the rent payable is shown as 0. The question that now arises is where did the Rs. 2400 crore go? Where has this money been appropriated? Which North MCD BJP leader and South MCD BJP leader received money to turn these Rs. 2500 crores into 0,” she said.The BJP has all the allegation and said there was no corruption or manipulation in settling of dues between two government bodies as reportedly done by North and South Delhi municipal corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-calls-for-one-day-special-assembly-session-to-debate-rs2-400-scam/story-WmDDquTvk4oPbQvfmsJjLO.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||Prove North MCD scam claim or resign: BJP hits out at AAP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday challenged the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government to prove the allegations levelled by them of a Rs 2,400 crore scam in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the opposition in the Delhi assembly, said that he will resign if the allegations are found correct. Else chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy, Manish Sisodia, should resign for levelling baseless allegations.On Tuesday, Sisodia took to Twitter to announce a day-long special session of the Delhi assembly on Thursday on the alleged Rs 2,400 crore scam by the municipal corporations.BJP leaders said that the ruling party in Delhi doesn’t understand the difference between “dispute” and “scam”. Bidhuri said, “There is a dispute between the north and south corporation over the payment of rent of the Civic Centre. The two corporations are working on resolving the dispute; there is no scam in it. I challenge the CM and his deputy to prove it. If a CBI inquiry finds a scam, then I’ll resign from the post of Leader of Opposition, else the CM and his deputy should resign.”Bidhuri said that the AAP is politicising the issue at a time when the city is battling the coronavirus pandemic. He said that the special session should have been called for more serious concerns. “Instead of calling a special session to just politicise meaningless issues, the government should have called the session to discuss issues such as pollution, lack of public transport, Covid management, condition of Delhi government hospitals, non-payment of salaries to Covid warriors. The government has got its priorities wrong.”Responding to the allegations, senior Aam Aadmi Party leader and chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said the the BJP has become so desperate after its failed sit-in protest outside the CM’s residence that it is now violating orders of the Delhi high court by allegedly threatening to not pay salaries to its sanitation workers if they do not join the mayors’ protest. “In the name of a sit-in protest outside the CM’s residence, the mayors of the three corrupt BJP-ruled MCDs are enjoying themselves with shahi paneer and butter naan from Taj Hotel. The citizens of Delhi do not care about their drama because the BJP ruled MCD has never worked for them and is incompetent. Hence, people have no expectations from them,” he said, Bhardwaj said since nobody is paying any heed to their fake protest, the BJP is now becoming “restless and desperate”. “To seek attention, yesterday a top leader of the BJP met representatives of the Safai Karamchari union of Delhi and threatened them. The BJP has threatened the safai Karamcharis that if they do not join the protest of the mayors and sit outside the residence of Kejriwal, then the BJP ruled MCD will not clear their due salary. There are high court orders dated 27.05.2016 and 11.07.2016 which clearly direct the MCD to pay the regular salaries to sanitation workers,” he said. On Tuesday, mayors of the three corporations also conducted public dealings from outside the CM’s residence. “We met people who had come to us with their problems related to non-payment of salaries and pension or lack of sanitation in their area. While we have directed the officials to address a majority of concerns, the issue of salaries is still unresolved as we have got no assurance from the Delhi government regarding payment of our dues even after nine days,” said Jai Prakash, mayor of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.On the issue of the scam alleged by the AAP, mayors of south and north corporations said that the municipal officials are looking into the matter. “This issue pertains to the time when the corporation was trifurcated. We have to see what were the terms and conditions for revenue sharing of the Civic Centre. Our officials are examining the matter. But the allegations of corruption or scam are all baseless,” said Anamika Singh, mayor of south Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/prove-north-mcd-scam-claim-or-resign-bjp-hits-out-at-aap/story-g3jqveYLm84fUkpe7EbbRN.html
16-12-2020||Delhi||High court order, 5-hour meeting broke AIIMS deadlock||It took the Delhi high court’s intervention and a marathon five hour meeting with the AIIMS administration and representatives of the Union health ministry to get around 3,000 nurses of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to call off their strike — which was threatening to derail health care services at one of the country’s premier health institutes — late on Tuesday night.On Tuesday, the Delhi high court restrained the nurses from continuing their strike and asked them to resume work. Justice Navin Chawla, while issuing notice to the nurses’ union on the plea of the hospital, said the stay is being granted after the AIIMS gave an assurance to the court that it is looking into the grievances of the nurses. The nurses claimed that they had given a one-month strike notice to the administration, which was to start from Wednesday but was advanced to Monday, when the hospital started the process to hire contractual nurses — newspaper advertisement was released on Tuesday for walk-in interviews for the three-month nurse’s position. “AIIMS administration is callous towards the demands of nurses which are longstanding and genuine. They had planned to secretly recruit nurses on a contract basis who are unskilled, inexperienced, and who are not able to give quality care which is the standard of our premiere institute,” said a letter, written in response by the nurses’ union appealing to citizens. “When the nurses planned on going on an indefinite strike, we hired contractual nurses. We cannot let patients suffer. These hiring will not be done if nurses do not go on strike,” said a senior official from the hospital administration, on condition of anonymity. As per the contingency plan prepared for the strike, the emergency services were curtailed with focus on taking care of patients already admitted to the department. Patients in need of emergency surgeries were taken up, whereas routine surgeries or even the semi-urgent ones were delayed. The contingency plan said that semi-emergency or planned surgeries could be taken up only if resident doctors filled in as scrub nurses and floor nurses in operation theatres. The senior doctors were also asked to curtail their clinics depending on the number of resident doctors available. Resident doctors from every department were posted to the wards to take care of admitted patients. “No matter how many resident doctors you post in a ward, when a huge proportion of the staff of any hospital goes on a strike, there is an impact on the services,” said a senior doctor from the hospital, also on condition of anonymity. Another doctor said, one of their relatives — who was scheduled to undergo a thyroid surgery — was asked to go back home. “They got the date for the surgery after running around a lot and now they have to return because the surgery was cancelled. In fact, most planned surgeries for the day were cancelled,” said the doctor. The hospital usually performs about 100 to 150 surgeries a day, before the Covid pandemic. After the high court restrained the nurses from continuing with the strike, the nurses union were called for a meeting by the hospital administration around 5.30pm. “We had given a list of 23 demands and no concrete action has been taken on any of them. As for our main demand, the anomaly in the sixth pay commission’s recommendations, we have been given the same assurance as before -- that the demand will be looked into. After the court order, however, we have no option but to call off the strike. We will present our problems to the court in response to the petition,” said Fameer CK, general secretary of the nurses union. Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS, said, “Whatever can be resolved at the level of the institute, we will try to do. Whatever needs to be done at the level of the health ministry will also be looked into within the next few days. However, there are certain matters involving other ministries, which will also be looked into. We are one family so we must resolve our own issues.”As per officials present in the meeting, no promises were made on the demand for increase in salary as per the alleged anomaly in the implementation of the sixth pay commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/high-court-order-5-hour-meeting-broke-aiims-deadlock/story-0qhxbmJITGPGFGy8i4V6UK.html
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Man selling camera parts on OLX cheated of ₹80,000 in Chandigarh||A Sector 34 resident selling camera accessories on a classifieds website was defrauded of Rs 80,000 by a caller.Ramnik Singh said in his police complaint that he had posted an advertisement for the accessories on OLX in May this year and on May 21 he got a call from a person identifying himself as Rakesh from Dhanas, saying he wanted to buy the items.After a deal was fixed for Rs16,000 with Rs 8,000 to be paid in advance and the rest during delivery, Rakesh allegedly sent Singh a screenshot of Rs16,000 that he claimed had been transferred to his (Singh’s) account, and wanted half of the amount refunded.Singh alleged that Rakesh, after swearing at him, sent a QR code asking him to click on it to reverse the amount. However, as son as he did Singh said Rs 80,000 were deducted from his account.A case was registered under section 420 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 34 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-selling-camera-parts-on-olx-cheated-of-80-000-in-chandigarh/story-meZaOif6WKUUzc6UrVi3BK.html
16-12-2020||Pune||PMC to purchase two cardiac ambulances||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday agreed to purchase two cardiac ambulances.PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “The standing committee had approved the tender to buy two cardiac ambulances at a lost cost of Rs 64.82 lakh.”As few hospitals in Pune have cardiac ambulance, the authorities faced its shortage during the Covid-19 pandemic for transportation of critical patients.The need for cardiac ambulance facility rose when journalist Pandurang Raikar, who was in critical condition, could not be shifted from jumbo hospital to another hospital in a cardiac ambulance. The journalist later passed away.An officer from health department on condition of anonymity said, “Cardiac failure is one of the reasons for Covid deaths. For shifting of critical patients, cardiac ambulance is needed otherwise medical fraternity do not take a risk to shift patients in normal ambulance.”Rasne said, “The purchase of ambulances would be a lifesaver for critical patients. The administration would make the necessary operation procedure for running these ambulances.”After Raikar’s death, PMC had announced to purchase its own ambulances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-to-purchase-two-cardiac-ambulances/story-G38xUC0SPnL5gPK7oyuiDO.html
16-12-2020||Pune||Third round of FYJC admissions complete; 50,411 seats still vacant||The third round of the first year junior college (FYJC) admissions ended on Monday, and a total of 12,461 students have completed their admission process. Still, a large number of students have not confirmed their admissions and as of December 15, 50,411 seats are still vacant across all streams in Pune and Pimpri- Chinchwad.Earlier, in the first and second round of the admissions, 40,013 seats in first round and 23,120 seats in the second round were allotted by the education department. From December 20, special rounds for admission will start.Due to the interim stay given by the Supreme Court (SC) on the implementation of quota for the Maratha community in jobs and education, the state education department had stopped the admission process for Class 11 (FYJC) since September 9. The process resumed from November 26.For this year’s Class 11, a total of 68,072 students were eligible for the first round; 46,794 for the second round; and 33,661 in the third round of admission; this for 304 colleges in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. The total intake of seats this year is 1,07,030 in Pune region, and so far, 75,594 students have completed the admission process.Speaking about the on-going admission process, Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune, said, “The third round of admissions have been completed and still a large number of students have not yet confirmed their admissions. Students and parents wait to get admission in a few prominent colleges which is not possible from now as the entire process is centralised. Students needs to understand this as they need to take admission as per their marks and in the college where the cut-off is close to their marks”“Till December 18 we have given time to colleges to complete their admission process of management and other quotas. Then from December 20 special rounds of admission will start and as per the directives till each student gets the admission the special rounds will continue to happen. Most importantly in the first special round only those students who have given their consent for the special round waiting will be taken for admission process,” added Shendkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/third-round-of-fyjc-admissions-complete-50-411-seats-still-vacant/story-auUuM4OORpIlJJnEDqia2H.html
16-12-2020||Pune||C-section operations high at Pune district government facilities in five years: NFH Survey||According to the National Family Health Survey 5 (NFHS) carried out by the ministry of health and family welfare, the data for Pune district shows that the overall number of Caesarean section or C-Section operations in the district has gone up in the last five years. While the number of such operations in public health facilities has gone up, those in private health facilities have dipped in the last five years. In addition, the overall out-of-pocket cost for C-Section operations have increased by about Rs 1,550 from 2015-16 to 2019-20. The institutional births in the district have also gone up from 93% in 2015-16 to 98% in 2019-20 and the number of institutional births in public facility also went up by 5% in these four years with improved health facilities and the number of births attended by skilled health personnel also increased by 3% in the same time period. The survey showed that more mothers now have access to skilled health professionals during childbirth and also more have opted for institutional births. The overall increase in the number of births delivered by caesarean section has also gone up in the district from 31.9% in 2015-16 to 34.6% in 2019-20. Increased caesarean section operations are discouraged by medical experts across the globe. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), since 1985, the international healthcare community has considered the ideal rate for caesarean sections to be between 10-15%. However, caesarean sections have become increasingly common in both developed and developing countries. The average out-of-pocket cost for institutional birth in public facilities has also gone up, found the survey. The cost went from Rs 2,231 in 2015-16 to Rs 3,677 in 2019-20 in the district. In Pune, the number of such operations has gone up especially in public health facilities where such operations are discouraged. The survey said although the number of such operations went down in private health facilities in 2019-20 as compared to 2015-2016 by about 6%. However, the number of C-section operations in public health facilities has gone up a whopping 13.2%. Dr Madhuri Rokade, a resident medical officer at PMC’s maternity hospital, Sonawane hospital said, “Usually we get mothers who have had their first delivery through C-section operation in a private hospital and then for the second delivery we have to opt for a C-section again. The reason to avoid C-section operations is as it is a surgery and so the surgical risks and risks due to anaesthesia are involved which are not involved in a natural birth process. In addition, the scar which is caused due to Caesarean operation is a permanent scar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/c-section-operations-high-at-pune-district-government-facilities-in-five-years-nfh-survey/story-A25zCGssvxYC6C6kdqOk7L.html
16-12-2020||Pune||Parents fume as Pune schools stop online classes to protest non-payment of fees||Some private schools in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad have shut down online education for three days, starting Tuesday. As per the Federation of Schools Association in Maharashtra, the response of English-medium schools to the call to shutdown, because of a problem with fees, has been satisfactory.However, parent associations in the city have responded by calling the move an act of “blackmail by schools”. Rajendra Singh, state president, Federation of Schools Association in Maharashtra, said, “A lot of schools have joined the protest and even parents have called us to show their support.”“Parents should understand that the school cannot function on only 30 per cent fees paid by parents. We do not want children to suffer. There are a lot of parents who are misinformed about payment of fees. We have tried to clear that confusion too,” said Singh.Anubha Sahai, president, India Wide Parents Association, said that this three-day shut-down is “blackmail and extortion by schools”.“Many schools are charging 100 per cent fees. Some schools have clubbed all the fees under the tuition fee. Our demands are simple, there should be transparency and schools should be audited. By protesting like this, schools are blackmailing parents. It is important to ask why other states are not protesting. Fees should be charged only for tuition. And the fees should be capped,” said Sahai.P Suresh, a parent with two school-going children, said, “The school is charging full fees under the tuition fee. This includes transport and other fees. By definition, what they are doing is right, but the fees they are charging is huge and unjust in this pandemic.” The education of his younger child is hampered as he has not yet paid the full fee. “Online content that the school publishes on their website cannot be accessed by the child as they keep asking us to pay the fees,” said Suresh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-fume-as-schools-stop-online-classes-to-protest-non-payment-of-fees/story-U7G3QH4XnYPEW7yPnJPRcM.html
16-12-2020||Pune||Vintage photographs of veteran cine star Gajanan Jagirdar donated to NFAI||A vintage collection of photographs of veteran actor, director and producer Gajanan Jagirdar is now part of the collection at the National Film Archive of India (NFAI). Ashok Jagirdar, son of Gajanan Jagirdar, handed over 130 photographs and other memorabilia from his personal collection to Prakash Magdum, director, NFAI in Pune. A major highlight of the collection is the original sketch of Gajanan Jagirdar as the protagonist of the 1953 film “Mahatma”, drawn by late Shiv Sena chief and veteran cartoonist Bal Thackeray. Jagirdar had played the lead in the movie written by PL Deshpande, and directed by Datta Dharmadhikari.There are several images of Jagirdar from this film, along with veteran artist David Abraham and actress Rekha, in the collection. Jagirdar was to play the role of Lokmanya Tilak in a Prabhat Studio production that did not take off. His black and white photograph in costume and make-up as Tilak is part of the collection. This iconic image of Jagirdar as Tilak has passed off for an original Tilak image on many occasions. “We are really delighted to receive this rare collection of photographs of a major artist of Indian cinema. Having started his career in the iconic Prabhat Studio, Gajanan Jagirdar also served as the first principal of the Film Institute of India in 1961-62,” said Magdum. One of the oldest photographs from the collection is from a 1935 film “Asire Havis”, apart from an image of a 1938 film “Meetha Jahar”, where Jagirdar is seen appearing with Naseem Banu. “I was in touch with Ashok Jagirdar for the past few days and I am really grateful to him for this wonderful gesture of donating these photographs. We will now digitise these photographs so that it can be accessed by researchers of Indian cinema,” said Prakash Magdum. As part of NFAI’s research programme this year, a monograph on the life and works of Jagirdar is being written by Prof Milind Damle, head of TV Direction at FTII.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vintage-photographs-of-veteran-cine-star-gajanan-jagirdar-donated-to-nfai/story-2Yi62QVqtVaMvSjxxVtFiM.html
16-12-2020||Pune||Pune civic commissioner assures Vetal tekdi-area residents of no road on hill slope||Days after the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) asked the Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT) to clear debris gathered on Vetal tekdi (hill), which exists because of a road being built on the hill slope, area residents met municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Tuesday.The delegation of residents from Erandwane, Deccan and Kothrud, met the civic chief and urged him to deny permission to MIT to build the said road, citing DC Rules 2017, that disallowed any construction on hill slopes. “The meeting with the PMC chief was quite positive and we were given reassurances that the road will be scrapped. We were reassured to know that the PMC will not be giving any permission to MIT to carry out construction activity on the hill and that the PMC’s demolition work of the built-up portion will resume as soon as the court lifts the status quo,” said Sushma Date, one of the members of the Deccan Gymkhana Parisar Samiti. The residents are also confident that MIT will remove the debris soon. “We trust that the debris removal work will be carried out quickly and all the rubble cleared soon. Currently the rubble piled up there is hazardous to residents of the societies of Rambaug Colony at the foothills,” said Date. Yuvraj Deshmukh, superintending engineer, Building department, PMC, said, “The copies of the notice by PMC denying permission to MIT to construct on a hill slope will be shared with the residents tomorrow.” On December 8, 2020, the Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT), was issued instructions by PMC officials to excavate the “internal road”, on the Vetal tedki hillslope, survey no 123, Kothrud, and clear the debris collected.A stop-work notice was issued to MIT citing unauthorised work on the hill slope at survey number 123 in Kothrud, and on December 4, 2020, the PMC had dug up the road being constructed and ordered the institute to clear the debris within two days.Meanwhile, Deshmukh said that they cannot comment on the court hearing as the matter is subjudice and MIT officials were unavailable for comment despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civic-commissioner-assures-vetal-tekdi-area-residents-of-no-road-on-hill-slope/story-ABg0GxIWP7Vgm10kWQZPkJ.html
16-12-2020||Pune||Pune’s Covid CFR stays above 2% for more than five months||The city’s case fatality rate (CFR) due to Covid-19 infection has remained above 2% for over five months since August now. CFR is the proportion of people who die from a specified disease among all individuals diagnosed with the disease over a certain period of time. While the number of new cases has been going down since October, except for a slight spike post Diwali, the number of deaths has remained constant for the city. While the positivity rate of the city which was close to 30% in August, with reducing newer cases, the positivity rate, the number of positives reported for every 100 people who are tested, has dipped to below 10% as reported earlier by HT on Monday. However, the CFR which was close to 4.62% in May, the highest for the city, had dipped to its lowest in July to 1.81%. Since August, the CFR has been above 2% consistently and in December for the first ten days the CFR for Covid has gone up to 2.61%. In the past one week alone, from December 4 to December 10, a total of 2,103 positives were reported and over 2,300 were discharged. For the same period, over 44 deaths due to Covid were reported. Currently, there are about 373 in Pune city as of Tuesday’s Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) report. Of these, 224 are on ventilators, while 149 are in ICU without ventilators. Also, 810 Covid patients are undergoing oxygen treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-covid-cfr-stays-above-2-for-more-than-five-months/story-23u0oD82bNWwLA8bc75NyN.html
16-12-2020||World||14 people convicted of terrorism charges for Charlie Hebdo, kosher market attacks in France||The fugitive widow of an Islamic State gunman and a man described as his logistician on Wednesday were convicted of terrorism charges and sentenced to 30 years in prison in the trial of 14 people linked to the January 2015 attacks in Paris against the satirical Charlie Hebdo newspaper and a kosher supermarket.The verdict ends the three-month trial linked to the three days of killings across Paris claimed jointly by the Islamic State group and al-Qaida. During the proceedings, France was struck by new attacks, a wave of coronavirus infections among the defendants, and devastating testimony bearing witness to bloodshed that continues to shake France.All three attackers died in police raids. The widow, Hayat Boumeddiene, fled to Syria and is believed to still be alive. The two men who spirited her out of France, who were also tried in absentia, are thought to be dead, although one received a sentence of life in prison just in case.Eleven others were present and all were convicted of the crime, with sentences ranging from 30 years for Ali Riza Polat, described as the lieutenant of the virulently anti-Semitic market attacker, Amédy Coulibaly, to four years with a simple criminal conviction.The Jan. 7-9, 2015 attacks in Paris left 17 dead along with the three gunmen. The 11 on trial in a specially formed terrorism court, all men, formed a loose circle of friends and criminal acquaintances who claimed any facilitating they may have done was unwitting or for more run-of-the mill crime like armed robbery.One gambled day and night during the three-day period, learning what had happened only after emerging blearily from the casino. Another was a pot-smoking ambulance driver. A third was a childhood friend of the market attacker, who got beaten to a pulp by the latter over a debt.It was the coronavirus infection of Polat, who arranged the weapons and vehicle purchases, that forced the suspension of the trial for a month. Polat’s profane outbursts and insults drew rebukes from the chief judge. A handwriting expert testified it was Polat who scrawled a price list of arms and munitions.In all, investigators sifted through 37 million bits of phone data, according to video testimony by judicial police. Among the men cuffed behind the courtroom’s enclosed stands, flanked by masked and armed officers, were several who had exchanged dozens of texts or calls with Coulibaly in the days leading up to the attack.Also testifying were the widows of Chérif and Saïd Kouachi, the brothers who stormed Charlie Hebdo’s offices on Jan. 7, 2015, decimating the newspaper’s editorial staff in what they said was an act of vengeance for its publication of caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad years before. The offices had been firebombed before and were unmarked, and editors had round-the-clock protection. But it wasn’t enough.In all, 12 people died that day. The first was Frédéric Boisseau, who worked in maintenance. Then the Kouachis seized Corinne Rey, a cartoonist who had gone down to smoke, and forced her upstairs to punch in the door code. She watched in horror as they opened fire on the editorial meeting.“I was not killed, but what happened to me was absolutely chilling and I will live with it until my life is over,” she testified.The next day, Coulibaly shot and killed a young policewoman after failing to attack a Jewish community center in the suburb of Montrouge. By then, the Kouachis were on the run and France was paralyzed with fear.Authorities didn’t link the shooting to the massacre at Charlie Hebdo immediately. They were closing in on the fugitive brothers when the first alerts came of a gunman inside a kosher supermarket. It was a wintry Friday afternoon, and customers were rushing to finish their shopping before the Sabbath when Coulibaly entered, carrying an assault rifle, pistols and explosives. With a GoPro camera fixed to his torso, he methodically fired on an employee and a customer, then killed a second customer before ordering a cashier to close the store’s metal blinds, images shown to a hushed courtroom.The first victim, Yohan Cohen, lay dying on the ground and Coulibaly turned to some 20 hostages and asked if he should “finish him off.” Despite their pleas, Coulibaly fired a killing shot, according to testimony from cashier Zarie Sibony.“You are Jews and French, the two things I hate the most,” Coulibaly told them.Some 40 kilometers (25 miles) away, the Kouachi brothers were cornered in a printing shop with their own hostages. Ultimately, all three attackers died in near-simultaneous police raids. It was the first attack in Europe claimed by the Islamic State group, which struck Paris again later that year to even deadlier effect.Prosecutors said the Kouachis essentially self-financed their attack, while Coulibaly and his wife, Hayat Boumeddiene, took out fraudulent loans. Boumeddiene, the only woman on trial, fled to Syria days before the attack and appeared in Islamic State propaganda.One witness, the French widow of an Islamic State emir, testified from prison that she’d run across Boumeddiene late last year at a camp in Syria and Boumeddiene’s foster sisters said they believed she was still alive. Testifying as a free man after a brief prison term, for reasons both defense attorneys and victims described as baffling, was the far-right sympathizer turned police informant who actually sold the weapons to Coulibaly.Three weeks into the trial, on Sept. 25, a Pakistani man steeped in radical Islam and armed with a butcher’s knife attacked two people outside the former Charlie Hebdo offices on Nicolas-Appert street long since vacated by the publication.Six weeks into the trial, on Oct. 16, a French schoolteacher who opened a debate on free speech by showing students the Muhammad caricatures was beheaded by an 18-year-old Chechen refugee.Eight weeks into the trial, on Oct. 30, a young Tunisian armed with a knife and carrying a copy of the Quran attacked worshippers in a church in the southern city of Nice, killing three. He had a photo of the Chechen on his phone and an audio message describing France as a “country of unbelievers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/14-people-convicted-of-terrorism-charges-for-charlie-hebdo-kosher-market-attacks-in-france/story-cHYiOL17PSmqQFvowTbafJ.html
16-12-2020||World||Clock may run out on interim deal with India, says top US trade negotiator||The top US trade negotiator on Wednesday indicated that though a smaller trade deal with India was within reach, the clock may run out on it because of a “political change” taking place. The reference was to President-elect Joe Biden taking over from President Donald Trump in the days to come.“We’re not that far away from a deal like that,” said Robert Lighthizer, the US trade representative of the outgoing Trump administration. “We have a political change going on over here and that’s going to be a bit of a setback, certainly to the extent that I can facilitate that I’d be happy to do it, but there’s going to be some change and my guess is that’s going to slow things up.”That, in other words, was the possible end of the Trump administration’s efforts to get a smaller, interim trade deal with India to set up a larger and more ambitious Free Trade Agreement (FTA) at a later stage. Lighthizer put the prospects of that larger deal in perspective with characteristic bluntness, saying, “In terms of a major deal, the kind of deal that I know that your minister and our bosses would like, at least in concept - my guess is that’s going to take a while, my guess is, that’s not going to be happen anytime soon.”Lighthizer was participating in a Confederation of Indian Industry’s (CII) annual summit, held virtually this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic.India and the US have long-running trade differences, persisting across administrations in both countries. The Trump administration forced the pace of ongoing talks by ending special trade benefits for India in the summer of 2019. Talks had since then been under way to find a resolution - a smaller, interim deal addressing immediate concerns to be followed up by a larger trade deal at a later stage.The interim trade deal - that was referred to by Lighthizer on Wednesday as the small deal - was to reinstate India’s terminated trade benefits of duty-free exports to the US under the Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) in return for greater access for American companies to certain Indian markets and some concessions.The two sides had wanted to have a deal ready to be signed and announced during Trump’s visit to India in February, but outstanding differences stayed in the way. Lighthizer, known to be a tough negotiator, had cancelled a visit to India ahead of the president’s trip in a clear sign that the talks were stalemated.Still publicly optimistic of a deal - which was described as “just a few phone-calls away” at one stage - the two sides had then said they will sign an interim agreement at a later time, either before or immediately after the November 3 election. But, as Lighthizer indicated, it’s over to the Biden administration now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-trade-negotiator-gives-up-on-trade-deal-with-india/story-S4Rp69tDbvoYmDraAKUQyM.html
16-12-2020||World||Florida man bitten by shark, walks home bleeding||A Florida man was bitten by a shark and walked home bleeding where a woman called 911 and had him taken to a hospital.News outlets reported the man was swimming in the waters off Siesta Key, Florida, when the attack happened.WTVT reported a woman called 911 and said the 39-year-old man had been bitten on his hand and arm and was bleeding profusely. She was heard reassuring him “everything’s going to be OK.”Sarasota Memorial Hospital spokesman Kim Savage said a man had been admitted Tuesday and the wound was confirmed to have been a shark bite, but she said she could not provide any more details on his condition or personal information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/florida-man-bitten-by-shark-walks-home-bleeding/story-SWGG3zkODF619YiI2CXAGJ.html
16-12-2020||World||US President Donald Trump asking about special prosecutor for Hunter Biden case||President Donald Trump is considering pushing to have a special counsel appointed to advance a federal tax investigation into the son of President-elect Joe Biden, setting up a potential showdown with incoming acting attorney general Jeffrey Rosen.Trump — angry that out-going Attorney General William Barr didn’t publicly announce the ongoing, two-year investigation into Hunter Biden — has consulted on the matter with White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, White House counsel Pat Cipollone and outside allies.That’s according to several Trump administration officials and Republicans close to the White House who spoke to The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity to discuss private matters.Beyond appointing a special prosecutor to investigate the younger Biden, the sources said Trump is interested in having another special counsel appointed to look into his own baseless claims of election fraud. But if he’s expecting his newly named acting attorney general to go further than Barr on either matter, he could end up quickly disappointed.Trump announced on Monday that Barr will resign effective next week, revealing the plans about a week after Hunter Biden publicly disclosed that he was under investigation related to his finances. It is generally Justice Department policy not to disclose investigations that are in progress, though the subjects of those investigations can.Rosen, the deputy attorney general, will step into the Justice Department’s top job in an acting role. A longtime litigator, he has served as Barr’s top deputy since May 2019 but largely shies away from the spotlight. He said in a statement Tuesday he was “honored” to serve and “will continue to focus on the implementation of the Department’s key priorities.”Details of the special counsel were first reported by The Wall Street Journal. Trump is still weighing his options, considering whether to pressure Rosen to make the special counsel appointment or, if needed, to replace the acting attorney general with someone more likely to carry out his wishes. He has even asked his team of lawyers, including personal attorney Rudy Giuliani, to look into whether the president has the power to appoint a special counsel himself.A key question will be whether Rosen can stand up to presidential pressure — and potentially withering attacks — in the waning weeks of the Trump administration. If not, Rosen could be cast aside in favor of others more willing to do Trump’s bidding.Believing that a special counsel probe could wound a Biden administration before it even begins, Trump aides have urged the president to push for one, which would make it so the investigation can’t be easily stopped by the incoming president. No firm decision has been made.Trump announced that Barr would be stepping down from his position on Dec. 23, amid lingering tension between the president and the attorney general over the Hunter Biden investigation. Trump was angry for days after learning that Barr knew of the Hunter Biden tax investigation before the election but did not disclose it.He also was unhappy that Barr said in a widely reported interview with the AP that the Justice Department had not uncovered widespread election fraud that would have affected the results of the election.For much of his tenure, Barr was perceived as one of the president’s most loyal Cabinet members, especially after he framed the results of Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation in a manner favorable to Trump even though the special counsel did not exonerate the president of obstruction of justice. It was Barr who first appointed a US attorney to review the case against former national security adviser Michael Flynn and then sought to dismiss the criminal charges against Flynn, who twice pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI.As Barr exits, the biggest thing by far hanging over the Trump Justice Department is its investigation into Hunter Biden, which involves multiple US attorney offices and FBI field offices. Appointing a special counsel could prove to be complicated, requiring consolidating different investigatory angles and bringing in someone new to run the probe and get up to speed.Under federal regulations, a special counsel can be fired only by the attorney general and for specific reasons such as misconduct, dereliction of duty or conflict of interest -- reasons that must be spelled out in writing. Appointing a special counsel for the Hunter Biden probe would also signal a more prolonged and complicated investigation than the current inquiry, so far largely centered on his taxes. A subpoena seeking documents from the younger Biden asked for information related to more than two dozen entities, including Ukraine gas company Burisma.Either way, the probe is complicating Joe Biden’s pick for attorney general, upon whose shoulders this probe would land. Any nominee for attorney general is likely to face a mountain of questions at a confirmation hearing about how they would oversee the probe.It could be that Rosen is left in the position for a few weeks after Biden is sworn in on Jan. 20. If Trump doesn’t fire him, that is.Rosen has been the public face of some of the Justice Department’s biggest actions, including its antitrust case against Google and the criminal case against opioid maker Purdue Pharma. Before joining the Justice Department, he worked at the Department of Transportation as general counsel and then deputy secretary.At Rosen’s confirmation hearing in 2019, he suggested that he was willing to rebuff political pressure from the White House, if necessary. He told legislators that criminal investigations should “proceed on the facts and the law” and that prosecutions should be “free of improper political influences.”“If the appropriate answer is to say no to somebody, then I will say no,” he said at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-donald-trump-asking-about-special-prosecutor-for-hunter-biden-case/story-OIc2MZi95VzaSTfRnoIEVJ.html
16-12-2020||World||Covid in UK: Ethnic minorities less likely to take vaccine, shows report||People from ethnic minority backgrounds or with lower incomes are less likely to take the coronavirus vaccine being rolled out in Britain, research suggested Wednesday, raising concerns about whether the jab would reach the communities that have been hit disproportionately hard by the pandemic.A survey by Britain’s Royal Society for Public Health said that while three-quarters of those polled would take a Covid-19 vaccine if advised to do so by a doctor, that figure fell to 57% among Black people and those from Asian and ethnic minority backgrounds.The body also said the survey “revealed significantly more hesitancy among lower income groups” — with 70% of lowest earners likely to agree to the jab, compared to 84% of highest earners.Public health experts and doctors say the findings are concerning, but unsurprising. They align with consistently lower uptake rates of other vaccines, like the measles and flu jabs, among ethnic minority communities and in poorer neighborhoods, they say.That reluctance — a result of factors like public health messaging not reaching the communities and mistrust of authority based on past experiences — has been exacerbated by misinformation and anti-vaccination campaigns on social media.“We have known for years that different communities have different levels of satisfaction in the National Health Service,” said Christina Marriott, chief executive of the Royal Society for Public Health. “More recently we have seen anti-vaccination messages have been specifically targeted at different groups, including different ethnic or religious communities.”Britain on Dec. 8 became the first country in the world to roll out the coronavirus vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech, which has an efficacy rate of around 95%. The government is first targeting people over 80 and nursing home workers. About 138,000 people have received the first of two required jabs to date.Studies in the UK and elsewhere have shown that Black people and ethnic minorities are more at risk of contracting and dying from Covid-19, as a result of genetic conditions such as diabetes as well as socio-economic circumstances such as living conditions and occupation. A report by Public Health England also said that structural racism and poor experiences of public healthcare made it less likely for some groups to seek care when needed.Officials have not said they would prioritize Black or ethnic minority communities during the coronavirus vaccine rollout. Dr. Salman Waqar, general secretary of the British Islamic Medical Association, said it has been left up to individual health trusts to decide whether or not to vaccinate Black or minority health workers first.“Effort should be put in to make sure these communities are vaccinated,” he said. “(Officials) have left it for providers to make the decision on the ground, but it doesn’t appear to show strong leadership from the authorities if they’ve left it open to interpretation.”Dr. Kiran Rahim, a pediatrician based in a poorer area of London with a high rate of vaccine refusal, said health officials need to do much more to engage and reach out to marginalized and minority communities.She said that in the case of the children’s nasal flu vaccine — which many Muslims refuse because it contains porcine gelatine — uptake significantly improved once authorities made an alternative option available.“Many of us have lobbied for many years for a vegetarian version to be available, we were constantly met with resistance,” she said. “When it comes down to public health, with a mass vaccination campaign going, you do have to engage with all parties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-in-uk-ethnic-minorities-less-likely-to-take-vaccine-shows-report/story-KAlujetjT9ITTy1dYL3HTM.html
16-12-2020||World||UK: Air pollution listed as cause of 9-year-old’s death||A British coroner ruled Wednesday that excessive air pollution from traffic fumes contributed to the death of a 9-year-old girl who died of a fatal asthma attack. The girl is believed to be the first person in the UK to have air pollution listed as the cause of death on their death certificate.Ella Kissi-Debrah, who lived close to one of London’s busiest thoroughfares, died in February 2013 after making almost 30 hospital visits over the previous three years. Her mother has long fought to have the role of air pollution in her daughter’s death recognized.Coroner Philip Barlow said Wednesday after a two-week hearing that he concluded Ella “died of asthma, contributed to by exposure to excessive air pollution.”“Air pollution was a significant contributory factor to both the induction and exacerbations of her asthma,” he said, adding that in the three years before her death, the girl was exposed to levels of nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter that exceeded World Health Organization guidelines.“The principal source of her exposure was traffic emissions,” Barlow said, adding there was a failure to reduce the pollutants to within the limits set by European Union and UK law.London Mayor Sadiq Khan said that the coroner’s conclusion was a “landmark moment.” The inquest highlighted the importance of implementing policies such as expanding a low emission zone to inner London, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-air-pollution-listed-as-cause-of-9-year-old-s-death/story-OFmElwqqUU701tCba2oCTK.html
16-12-2020||World||AstraZeneca, Sinovac vaccines could be used in Brazil by mid-Feb||Two coronavirus vaccines, from AstraZeneca and China’s Sinovac, may be ready for use in Brazil by mid-February, the country’s health minister said on Wednesday, although the timing of the national rollout will depend on regulatory approvals.The lack of a fixed date for vaccinations to start in Brazil has become a thorn in the side of President Jair Bolsonaro, as other nations begin immunizing their populations.Speaking on Wednesday, after a ceremony to discuss the national coronavirus vaccination plan, health minister Eduardo Pazuello said data from the vaccines, which are being tested in Brazil, could be analyzed by health regulator Anvisa in January.“Possibly in the middle of February onwards, we can have these vaccines received and registered to start the plan,” said Pazuello.Brazil’s federal government has a deal to buy the vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, and Sao Paulo state has partnered with Chinese vaccine maker Sinovac Biotech. Bolsonaro has repeatedly cast doubt on the Chinese vaccine, leading to questions about whether it will get a fair hearing at health regulator Anvisa.Sao Paulo Governor Joao Doria, widely tipped as a rival to Bolsonaro’s 2022 re-election campaign, has said his state will start inoculating residents with the Sinovac vaccine on Jan. 25, leading to tensions with the federal government.Although Brazil has a strong record on vaccinations and a public health system well set up for such campaigns, Bolsonaro has denied the gravity of the virus and said he will not take a Covid-19 shot, stoking vaccine skepticism in the country.At Wednesday’s event, however, Bolsonaro said his government would this week sign a 20 billion reais ($3.93 billion) measure to buy any vaccine that wins regulatory approval. He heaped praise on the head of regulator Anvisa, which critics accuse of becoming increasingly politicized around vaccines.Pazuello said Anvisa’s credibility should not be questioned, as it was doing technical work in the public service. He added that logistics would not be a problem, saying airlines and trucking firms had offered to distribute vaccines for free.More than 180,000 people have died from Covid-19 in Brazil, which has the world’s second-deadliest outbreak behind the United States. After a months on the decline, the virus has been raging again in recent days, with new cases and deaths rising sharply.The government laid out its vaccination plans in writing over the weekend, with an initial goal of vaccinating 51 million people, or about one-fourth of the population, in the first half of 2021. The Health Ministry said 108 million doses will be available for priority vaccination of vulnerable groups, including health workers, the elderly and indigenous groups.The plan says 70% of the population - or about 148 million of Brazil’s 212 million people - need to be immunized to stop the virus spreading. The current plan covers just about one-third of that goal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-sinovac-vaccines-could-be-used-in-brazil-by-mid-feb/story-AnBR3SZo3wi6t1UNjUCBcK.html
16-12-2020||World||Iran nuclear deal members urge Tehran return to compliance||World powers that are part of a landmark 2015 nuclear deal with Iran urged Tehran on Wednesday to roll back violations of the accord and return to full compliance during a virtual meeting in Vienna, a German official said.The meeting came as the signatories to the agreement — Germany, France, Britain, China and Russia — continue to try and keep it from collapsing after the unilateral withdrawal of the United States in 2018.The three European powers have expressed hope that with the change of administrations in Washington, the US could be brought back into the deal, whose goal is to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear bomb — something Tehran insists it doesn’t want to do.President-elect Joe Biden has said he hopes to return the US to the deal, which was negotiated while he was vice president.But complicating that, Iran is now in violation of most major restrictions set out in the agreement, including the amount of enriched uranium it is allowed to stockpile and the purity to which it is allowed to enrich uranium.German Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Adebahr said Wednesday’s meeting of political directors and deputy foreign ministers would assess implementation of the nuclear accord, and that the European countries would demand Iran return to full compliance.Iran has said it is no longer obliged to follow the restrictions, arguing that the US first violated the agreement, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan or Action, or JCPOA, when President Donald Trump pulled out of the deal and imposed crippling economic sanctions on Iran.The Russian delegate to the JCPOA, Mikhail Ulyanov, tweeted after the meeting that “the participants confirmed their firm commitment to the nuclear deal, as well as readiness to undertake intensive diplomatic efforts to ensure its full implementation.”The deal promises Iran economic incentives in exchange for curbs on its nuclear program, but with the reinstatement of American sanctions, the other nations have been struggling to provide Iran the assistance it seeks.Despite Iran’s violations, the International Atomic Energy Agency has reported that Tehran continues to give inspectors full access to its nuclear sites — a key reason the JCPOA member nations say it is worth preserving.Delegates to Wednesday’s meeting agreed to hold further “informal” ministerial-level talks on Dec. 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-nuclear-deal-members-urge-tehran-return-to-compliance/story-wzHPH0FijzDujxJvx6xwUI.html
16-12-2020||World||US brands Vietnam, Switzerland as currency manipulators||The US Treasury Department has branded Vietnam and Switzerland as currency manipulators while putting China and nine other countries on a watch list in an annual report designed to halt countries from manipulating their currencies to gain unfair trade advantages.It marked the first time that the United States has labeled another country as a currency manipulator since August 2019 when it called out China at a time when the world’s two largest economies were locked in tense trade negotiations.“The Treasury Department has taken a strong step today to safeguard economic growth and opportunity for American workers and businesses” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in a statement. “Treasury will follow up on its findings with respect to Vietnam and Switzerland to work toward eliminating practices tat create unfair advantages for foreign countries.”The Trump administration removed its currency designation from China in January after the two nations had achieved trade agreements which the Trump administration hoped would lower China’s huge trade surplus with the United States.The Treasury report said that Vietnam and Switzerland were the only two countries that met all three criteria for being named a currency manipulator.Those criteria include the number and size of the interventions a country has made in foreign exchange markets to influence the value of its currency. A country intent on gaining trade advantages will sell its currency in an effort to depress its value against other currencies, such as the US dollar.A weaker currency makes a country’s exports cheaper and thus more competitive on foreign markets and makes imports more expensive.The Treasury report said that in addition to extensive currency interventions, Vietnam and Switzerland also met the other two criteria which are running large trade surpluses with the United States and also large surpluses in its current account with the world, the broadest measure of trade which includes not only goods and services but also investment flows.The designation of a currency manipulator will trigger special negotiations with Vietnam and Switzerland over the next year. If those negotiations don’t alter the two countries’ currency practices, the United States can move forward to impose economic sanctions on Vietnam and Switzerland including penalty tariffs.In addition to China, the other countries put on a monitoring list were Japan, South Korea, Germany, Italy, Singapore, Malaysia, Taiwan, Thailand and India. Taiwan, Thailand and India were put on the watch list this year while the other countries were already on the watch list issued with the last report in January.With regard to Switzerland, the country’s central bank has been selling Swiss francs to limit the currency’s rise and the currency has also benefited for its reputation as a safe haven for investors during times of economic stress. Independent analysts say that is mainly an attempt to keep consumer prices from falling - which can hurt the economy - rather than to boost exports to the US.But the Treasury report labeled Switzerland a currency manipulator contending that the interventions in currency markets were excessive given the large size of the Swiss trade surpluses.The United States has only named three countries as currency manipulators. In addition to branding China as a manipulator last year, the US imposed that label on China from 1992 to 1994. Treasury also imposed that label on Japan and Taiwan in the 1980s.A hallmark of President Donald Trump’s presidency has been pursuit of aggressive trade policies and a number of other countries in such areas as steel and aluminum. While the policies have not done much to lower America’s overall trade deficit, the deficit with China has shrunk. The gap between what the United States sells to China and what it buys in goods and services fell by 19% last year to $308 billion, the lowest level since 2013 but still the largest trade deficit with any single country.America’s overall deficit in goods and services fell less than 1% last year to $577 billion but was still higher than in any year of the Obama administration. The trade gap has gone back up this year, rising by more than 9% from January through March as the pandemic has crushed US exports of services such as tourism and education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-brands-vietnam-switzerland-as-currency-manipulators/story-UVftUBuZdWB55jCD889MnN.html
16-12-2020||World||US State Secretary Mike Pompeo quarantines after coronavirus exposure||The State Department said Wednesday that Secretary of State Mike Pompeo had come into contact with a person who tested positive for Covid-19 and was quarantining.The department said Pompeo had tested negative for the virus but was being monitored by medical professionals. It said it would not identify the infected person with whom Pompeo came into contact for privacy reasons.The announcement comes as Pompeo and the department have been criticized for hosting holiday parties amid the coronavirus pandemic.“Secretary Pompeo has been identified as having come into contact with someone who tested positive for Covid,” the department said. “The Secretary has been tested and is negative. In accordance with CDC guidelines, he will be in quarantine. He is being closely monitored by the Department’s medical team.”Pompeo had been expected to attend President Donald Trump’s Cabinet meeting later Wednesday although the appointment was not listed on his public schedule. He had also tentatively planned to meet with President-elect Joe Biden’s nominee to succeed him, Antony Blinken, on Thursday. The status of that meeting was not immediately clear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-state-secretary-mike-pompeo-quarantines-after-coronavirus-exposure/story-qET2wfMfytQjVTrH52ZTXM.html
16-12-2020||World||Buttigieg may finally give the US its infrastructure day||Former mayor and one-time presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg has been tapped to be President-elect Joe Biden’s transportation secretary. He’ll bring a much-needed dose of managerial competence to an oft-neglected area of government policymaking. By focusing on identifying and remedying sources of excess cost in our infrastructure system, and by helping speed the transition to electric vehicles, he can have a major impact even in an era of political deadlock.The biggest transportation issue on everyone’s mind is infrastructure. Not only are US roads and bridges perpetually falling apart, but big construction spending is needed as a stimulus to boost the country out of its post-pandemic doldrums. Buttigieg, during his primary presidential run, was one of a number of Democratic candidates to propose a construction spending bonanza.Unfortunately, this is how the US does infrastructure. We delay repairing it, arguing over how much to spend and who foots the bill, until there’s an economic crisis. Then, as in the 2009 stimulus bill, we splurge on road repair and patch things up for another decade. Depending on how much cooperation they get in Congress, Biden and Buttigieg might be able to pull off this trick again.But a bigger issue looms behind the scenes: how much it all costs. The reason America spends only reluctantly and fitfully on infrastructure goes beyond mere partisan bickering. The US is unusual among advanced nations in having ruinously high construction costs for both roads and public transit. By some measures, productivity in the industry is actually falling. There are many different theories explaining why the price for construction has risen so dramatically, including land-use policies that allow landowners to block construction, and inefficiency and corruption in the contracting process. In actuality, it’s probably a combination of factors, encouraged by decades of complacency. Because no one can identify a specific cause, it’s not the kind of thing that the president can wave his hands and fix, even with the help of Congress.That’s where Buttigieg comes in. He spent several years working as a McKinsey & Co. consultant. During that time, he consulted for various federal government agencies. Now, you may have a problem with McKinsey’s ethics, but you have to admit they know their stuff when it comes to cost-cutting. Buttigieg is therefore uniquely qualified to get to the bottom of US infrastructure costs.The key would be to assemble a panel of experts, tasked with identifying, quantifying and proposing solutions to the various cost problems in the US system over the next four years. This is a long-term effort, and probably wouldn’t pay off during Biden’s first term in office. But if successful, a McKinsey-like cost-cutting push would make it easier for both states and the federal government to spend on fixing roads and building new trains in the future, because they’d be getting much more bang for the buck. And that in turn would help the US go from a transit laughing stock back to a respectable advanced country.A second big thing Transportation Secretary Buttigieg can do, even without Congress, is to help speed the US toward its zero-carbon future. One important piece of the energy transition lies firmly within the purview of the Department of Transportation:  the shift to electric vehicles.EVs are finally becoming competitive with internal combustion engines in terms of both cost and range . That alone will increase adoption, but things will go much faster if the government acts to boost the number of charging stations. There’s a chicken-and-egg problem here — the more places there are available for charging, the easier it is to drive your electric car around, and the more electric cars are being driven around, the more profitable it is to run a charging station.So instead of waiting for the free market to build this network up slowly, the government needs to act to speed the process along. Also, the government can set standards to make sure all electric-vehicle companies use compatible chargers, just as gas pumps currently work with any make and model.Biden understands this, and pledged to build 500,000 new public charging outlets by 2030. That’s actually a non-trivial task, since it involves deciding where to build first, working with states and private companies, keeping abreast of the latest technology and building new electrical lines to the charging stations. With his experience consulting for the Energy Department, the Environmental Protection Agency and the US Postal Service while at McKinsey, Buttigieg has the chops to tackle this complex task.So Buttigieg will have plenty of chances to leverage his consulting skills in the service of upgrading US infrastructure. Beyond just lobbing a big pot of money at the problem, bringing down infrastructure costs and transitioning to electric vehicles will require smarts and a hard-headed, problem-solving approach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/buttigieg-may-finally-give-the-us-its-infrastructure-day/story-YVMuN9poo06Xfd5OKWDscJ.html
16-12-2020||World||China indicts 10 Hong Kong residents over attempt to flee||Chinese prosecutors on Wednesday announced the indictment of 10 people from Hong Kong over an attempt to flee the city amid a crackdown on opposition political activity.The Yantian district prosecutor’s office in the city of Shenzhen just across the border from Hong Kong said on its microblog that 10 of the suspects were charged with illegally crossing the border while two were also charged with organizing the attempted journey.Two others are minors and a decision on how to handle their cases will be made at a later time, the office said. Relatives of the 12 say they have been prevented from hiring their own lawyers and that the accusations against them are politically motivated.The 12 were arrested at sea in August while they were apparently attempting to flee to Taiwan after a tough national security law took effect in Hong Kong.They were picked up after entering mainland Chinese waters for crossing the maritime border without permission. At least some took part in anti-government protests in 2019 and were facing charges in Hong Kong.While Hong Kong is part of China, travellers must still pass through immigration when going to and from the mainland. Since the imposition of the national security law in June, a number of government critics have sought refuge abroad, many in Taiwan, a self-governing democracy that has no formal ties with China’s authoritarian Communist government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-indicts-10-hong-kong-residents-over-attempt-to-flee/story-aB5m2Vl9rnXXVydzIRiU8N.html
16-12-2020||World||Erdogan slams US over Russian missile purchase sanctions||Turkey’s purchase of a Russian missile-defense system was “just a pretext” for the US to impose sanctions, designed to squelch Ankara’s efforts to lessen its dependence on the American defense industry, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said.“This decision is a blatant assault on our nation’s sovereign rights,” Erdogan said in Ankara on Wednesday. “This has been imposed for the first time against us, a NATO member. What kind of an alliance is this?”Turkey bought the Russian S-400 missiles in 2017, saying the US was unwilling to sell equivalent systems on acceptable terms. The first batteries were delivered last year, prompting bipartisan demands in the US Congress for restrictive measures long resisted by US President Donald Trump.Ankara may have stretched the rope too tight in October by testing the missiles in defiance of American warnings, and on Monday, the Trump-approved sanctions were announced.“The allegation that the S-400 systems constitute a threat to the F-35 fighter jet is just a pretext,” Erdogan said. “The real aim is to block the leaps we started in defense industry and make us once again dependent on them.”The Turkish leader made a point of noting that his country started to develop its own defense industry after the 1975-1978 US arms embargo over Cyprus significantly hampered arms acquisitions.“We’ll double efforts to make our defense industry an independent one in every sense,” he said, broadcasting a video showing tests of the Hisar missile-defense system developed by state-run contractors.The sanctions cut off Turkey’s top defense procurement agency from US financial institutions, military hardware and technology. New export licenses to transfer American goods or technology to the agency have been banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/erdogan-slams-us-over-russian-missile-purchase-sanctions/story-eqNqPm2fB4M3QHujJusppN.html
16-12-2020||World||China pays homage to Beethoven, who has a fan base in country||German composer Ludwig van Beethoven’s “Symphony No.5 in C Minor” was among the compositions chosen to be played at the prestigious National Centre for the Performing Arts (NCPA) in Beijing to mark China’s national day on October 1.Performed by the Beijing Symphony Orchestra, Beethoven’s work was chosen among Chinese compositions as well as “commissioned works on battling the Covid-19 epidemic,” official media reported.It’s not surprising that Beethoven’s work was chosen to be played at a national day function – he is possibly the best-loved western composer in China.Possibly not known outside, but the German composer is a huge musical icon in China, seen as an unlikely hero in the country because of his life’s struggles and music.It was Beethoven’s composition which was played when then secretary of state Henry Kissinger visited Beijing in 1973 even though the visit took place during the Cultural Revolution when western influences were all but banned in China.As it turns out, many musicians and institutes across China are celebrating the composer’s 250th birth anniversary, which falls on December 16, with concerts, both offline and online.“Over 100 years after Ludwig van Beethoven’s Symphony No.3 first hit the stage in China, the musical talent’s tour de force was played at the Beijing Zhongshan Park to mark the anniversary of his 250th birthday,” official news agency, Xinhua reported, adding that the performance lasted for 12 hours.“…there is no parallel to the depth and breadth of Beethoven’s integration into the culture, politics and private passions of China,” wrote Cai Jindong, associate professor in Stanford University’s Centre for East Asian Studies in his book – “Beethoven in China: How the Great Composer Became an Icon in the People’s Republic”. The book was co-authored by an expert on Chinese culture, and Cai’s wife, Sheila Melvin. Hardly surprising then that a Beijing-based art initiative, Bukaopu planned a celebration of Beethoven’s music on Wednesday evening called “Concert in the Clouds: A Tribute to Beethoven”.“A Mandarin poem rapped to a remixed R&B beat of Moonlight Sonata. A magician playing card tricks to the rhythm of Minuet in C Major. A Rubik’s Cube Guinness record holder playing the hardest level on the game Rhythm Master…to the electric guitar remix of the third movement of the Pathetique Sonata,” a China-focussed website, SupChina wrote in a report Monday.The SupChina report pointed out that Beethoven reemerged in China at the end of the Cultural Revolution.“Even during the 1989 (Tiananmen) protests, students blasted recordings of Ode to Joy in Tiananmen Square. Now, students in China study Beethoven’s story at school,” the article said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-pays-homage-to-beethoven-its-most-beloved-composer/story-KSYPRKdeMqDzlE7PXXsdFK.html
16-12-2020||World||Biden arrival won’t guarantee better relations, say Iranian leaders||Iran’s supreme leader and the country’s president both warned America on Wednesday that the departure of President Donald Trump does not immediately mean better relations between the two nations.The remarks come as Iran approaches the first anniversary of the US drone strike that killed Revolutionary Guard Gen. Qassem Soleimani in Baghdad, an attack that nearly plunged Washington and Tehran into an open war after months of tensions.Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei spoke in Tehran at the Imam Khomeini Hosseinieh, or congregation hall, where he attended a meeting with Soleimani’s family and top military leaders. They all sat some 5 meters (16 feet) away from the 81-year-old Khamenei, who wore a face mask due to the coronavirus pandemic that is still raging in Iran.“You saw that what Trump’s America and (former President Barack) Obama’s America did to you,” Khamenei said. “The hostilities are not just for Trump’s America, which ends when he leaves. Obama’s America also did bad things to you and the Iranian nation.”Earlier in the day, Rouhani, speaking during a Cabinet meeting, made a similar point to criticize Trump — at one point even saying the US president “has committed so many crimes, he was an assassin and a terrorist.”“Some people say, ‘You are excited for Mr. Biden’,” Rouhani said. “No, we are not excited Mr. Biden is taking office, but we are very happy Mr. Trump is gone.”“The upcoming American administration can choose what to do,” Rouhani said. “The path is open. It’s up to them if they are grateful or ungrateful. If they want the right path, it’s ready. If they want the wrong path, that one is ready for them as well.”Biden has suggested the US could rejoin Tehran’s 2015 nuclear deal with world powers, from which Trump unilaterally pulled America out of in 2018 and imposed harsher sanctions on Iran. That decision marked the start of increased tensions between the two countries as Iran abandoned uranium enrichment limits and the Mideast saw a series of escalating incidents and attacks.In response to Soleimani’s death, Tehran launched a ballistic missile attack that injured dozens of US troops in Iraq. That same night, it also mistakenly shot down a Ukrainian airliner taking off from Tehran, killing all 176 people on board.Hoping to pressure Europe, Iran’s parliament recently passed a bill calling on Tehran to increase its uranium enrichment to 20%, a short technical step from weapons-grade levels, and to throw out international inspectors. Rouhani’s government has opposed the bill, exposing a rift inside Iran’s civilian government that the supreme leader appeared to touch on in his speech Wednesday.“Resolve your disputes by negotiating with each other,” Khamenei said. “Are you not saying that we should negotiate with the world, is it not possible to negotiate and resolve disputes with the internal element?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-arrival-won-t-guarantee-better-relations-say-iranian-leaders/story-SgxV1vM0hU1GbxtDGkWYjL.html
16-12-2020||World||Air pollution caused London girl’s death, says coroner in historic ruling||For the first time in British legal history, air pollution was confirmed on Wednesday as the cause of the death of a London girl in 2013 in a widely followed case, whose outcome is now expected to lead to new measures to curb pollution in the capital.Ella Kissi-Debrah, 9, and her family lived near the South Circular Road in Lewisham, where levels of nitrogen dioxide air pollution from traffic constantly exceeded the annual legal limit of 40µg/m3 between 2006 and 2010. She would walk along the road to and from school.Philip Barlow, inner south London coroner, said Kissi-Debrah’s death was caused by acute respiratory failure, severe asthma and air pollution exposure: “Ella died of asthma contributed to by exposure to excessive air pollution.” “There was a recognised failure to reduce the levels of nitrogen dioxide, which possibly contributed to her death. There was also a lack of information given to Ella’s mother that possibly contributed to her death,” he added.Rosamund Kissi-Debrah, mother of the deceased, mounted a legal challenge, arguing that there was sufficient evidence to conclude that there were failures by the state to take steps to protect the public from dangerous levels of air pollution, which amounted to a violation of Article 2 of the Human Rights Act, the right to life.The family’s lawyers told the court that air pollution was a public health emergency and there was a pressing need for it to be recorded as a cause of death to ensure public health programmes to tackle toxic air are prioritised.Stephen Holgate, an immunopharmacologist at the University of Southampton and Southampton general hospital, told the court that a biological cause of her disease getting worse in the winter months was the seasonal worsening of air pollution.He said it was the cumulative effects of the toxic air Ella was breathing in living within 30 metres of the South Circular road that caused her final acute asthma attack. In the three years before her death, she had multiple seizures and was admitted to hospital 27 times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/air-pollution-caused-london-girl-s-death-says-coroner-in-historic-ruling/story-KyUXSSjwdYJjVGwJHzJnDL.html
16-12-2020||World||Boris Johnson urges ‘extreme caution’ in UK over Christmas||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson urged people to exercise “extreme caution” over Christmas, despite pressing ahead with plans to ease coronavirus restrictions over the holidays.“We can celebrate it sensibly, but we have to be extremely cautious in the way we behave,” Johnson told lawmakers in the House of Commons on Wednesday.As many as three households will be able to gather together for five days between Dec. 23 and 27 in England. Ministers have faced growing demands to rethink the approach after a surge in Covid-19 infections in recent days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-urges-extreme-caution-in-uk-over-christmas/story-AdYrRq2umnREAD3M7KGbBJ.html
16-12-2020||World||‘Will certainly happen’: Iran’s Khamenei vows to avenge Soleimani’s death||Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei renewed his call to avenge the death of top Iranian commander Qassem Soleimani, who was killed by US military in a drone strike at Baghdad’s international airport in January. Ahead of the death anniversary of Soleimani and Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis, the deputy commander of Iraqi Popular Mobilization Forces (PMU), Khamenei said that Iran will take the revenge “on those who ordered it.”“Those who ordered the murder of General Soleimani, as well as those who carried this out, should be punished. This revenge will certainly happen at the right time,” said the 81-year-old religious leader, according to Khamenei’s website.Khamenei said millions of people attending the funeral of Soleimani and al-Muhandis “was the first slap” to the US, adding that the “worse one is overcoming the hegemony of arrogance and expelling the US from the region.” He claimed that the United States has failed to achieve its goals in Iran and Syria despite spending billions of dollars in the region.“Martyr Soleimani defeated the Front of Arrogance both during his life and with his martyrdom. The US President said they spent $7 billion in the region without achieving anything. The US failed to achieve its goals in Syria and Iraq,” he said.Also Read | Iran says nuclear scientist was killed using satellite-controlled gunAfter Soleimani’s death, US President Donald Trump had said that the US troops killed the Iranian commander because he was plotting “imminent and sinister attacks on American diplomats and military personnel”. In a televised briefing, Trump had stated that Soleimani made the death of innocent people his “sick passion”, contributing to terrorist plots as far away as New Delhi and London. Soleimani’s killing triggered an escalation as Tehran retaliated by targeting US troops stationed in Iraq. According to the Pentagon, 64 American troops were injured in an Iranian missile strike on Iraqi military base in January 2020. The US president underplayed the traumatic brain injuries suffered by the security personnel by calling it ‘headaches’.“I heard they had headaches. No, I don’t consider them very serious injuries, relative to other injuries that I’ve seen,” Trump had said during the World Economic Forum (WEF) summit in Davos, drawing flak from the Veterans of Foreign War (VFW).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-certainly-happen-iran-s-khamenei-vows-to-avenge-soleimani-s-death/story-6Qpud6kha6O93gB905EXdL.html
16-12-2020||World||WHO’s team to go to China in January for Covid-19 origin probe||The international team of World Health Organisation seeking investigation into the origin of Covid-19 virus will go to China in January, the global health body announced on Wednesday. “I can confirm that this will take place in January,” WHO spokesman Hedinn Halldorsson told AFP when asked about reports that the expert team, which includes epidemiologists and animal health specialists, would finally go to China next month, reported news agency AFP. The global call to investigate the origin of the virus, suspected to be in China’s Wuhan, has been echoed by scientists and medical experts as the scourage by coronavirus disease has claimed millions of lives and upended economies across the world. The coronavirus first emerged in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in December, 2019, before spreading across China, and triggering a global pandemic.Also read | ‘Pure propaganda’: German scientist rebuts Chinese media on Covid originChina has rejected the claims for almost a year now on the reports of virus originating from its central city. Recently, a top German biochemist quoted by Chinese state media as saying that the coronavirus did not originate in Wuhan has called it “pure propaganda” and said there is no evidence to suggest that the virus did not come from the central Chinese city.China has denied that it deliberately hid information about the spreading virus in January or earlier.A year into the Coronavirus pandemic, China has effectively controlled the spread of Covid-19 within its borders, putting in place efficient lockdown and contract tracing measures and conducting mass testing for the virus for every small outbreak.At the same time, Beijing, in the face of global criticism, has been trying to change the virus-origin theory and shift the blame outside. Several theories are in circulation – the origin could be the Indian subcontinent including India and Bangladesh or Saudi Arabia, Italy, the US and the US military, or imported frozen packaged food.Also read | Coronavirus Outbreak: WHO advance team concludes China visit to probe Covid-19 origin In August this year, the agency’s chief and WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus had said the “international team” will deploy to Wuhan, the city where the pandemic is believed to have erupted late last year. Tedros said “terms of reference” have been drawn up by the WHO and China, but he did not specify.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-s-team-to-go-to-china-for-covid-19-origin-in-january/story-i2In6D8gGiRKodyYjB3z2L.html
16-12-2020||World||Thomas Kirsch to replace Barrett on federal appeals court||The Senate has confirmed an Indiana prosecutor to replace Supreme Court Justice Amy Coney Barrett on a federal appeals court based in Chicago.Thomas Kirsch, who currently serves as US Attorney for the Northern District of Indiana, will replace Barrett as a judge on the US Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit. Kirsch was confirmed Tuesday on a 51-44 vote.Three Democrats — Arizona Sens. Kyrsten Sinema and Mark Kelly and West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin — voted for him in what was otherwise a party-line vote. Four Republican senators and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris did not vote.President Donald Trump named Kirsch as Barrett’s replacement before she was confirmed to the high court in October, and the Senate Judiciary Committee advanced his nomination last week. Kirsch graduated from Indiana University and earned his law degree from Harvard.Illinois Sen. Dick Durbin, who is expected to become the top Democrat on Judiciary in the next Congress, said Kirsch’s quick nomination and confirmation showed that Trump and Senate Republicans were intent on forcing through as many conservative judges as possible.“They have kept the nominations assembly line going,’‘ Durbin said.Sen. Todd Young, R-Ind., said Kirsch “is a man of character, he’s a man of integrity, and he believes in the rule of law.”Sen. Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii, said Kirsch’s nomination is “further entrenching the lack of diversity that is characteristic of President Trump’s judicial nominees,” noting that the appeals court he will join is the only all-white federal appeals court in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thomas-kirsch-to-replace-barrett-on-federal-appeals-court/story-a5y8vIObxtOfuWeHfHGiJM.html
16-12-2020||World||Suspected Chinese hackers stole camera footage from African Union: Report||As diplomats gathered at the African Union’s headquarters earlier this year to prepare for its annual leaders’ summit, employees of the international organization made a disturbing discovery.Someone was stealing footage from their own security cameras.Acting on a tip from Japanese cyber researchers, the African Union’s (AU) technology staffers discovered that a group of suspected Chinese hackers had rigged a cluster of servers in the basement of an administrative annex to quietly siphon surveillance videos from across the AU’s sprawling campus in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia’s capital.The security breach was carried out by a Chinese hacking group nicknamed “Bronze President,” according to a five-page internal memo reviewed by Reuters. It said the affected cameras covered “AU offices, parking areas, corridors, and meeting rooms.”“We cannot estimate the quantity and value of the data which have been stolen,” the memo continued, adding that while AU technicians had managed to interrupt the flow of data, the hackers could easily regain the upper hand.“We are still weak to prevent another attack,” the memo said.The alert, drafted in late January and circulated to senior officials, provides a glimpse of how world powers are jockeying for influence and visibility at the continent’s paramount pan-African organization. Some American and European officials have voiced concern as Beijing has stepped in to meet the AU’s needs - part of an Africa-wide shift that has seen China become the continent’s top creditor. Chinese workers built the AU’s showpiece new conference center in 2012 and Chinese technicians still help maintain the organization’s digital infrastructure.The Chinese mission to the AU said in an email that “the AU side has not mentioned being hacked on any occasion” and that Africa and China are “good friends, partners and brothers.”“We never interfere in Africa’s internal affairs and wouldn’t do anything that harms the interests of the African side,” the email said.Repeated messages sent to AU spokesperson Ebba Kalondo asking about the January breach were marked as “read” but went unanswered.Longstanding doubts over Beijing’s role at the AU spilled into the open in 2018, when French newspaper Le Monde reported https://www.lemonde.fr/afrique/article/2018/01/26/a-addis-abeba-le-siege-de-l-union-africaine-espionne-par-les-chinois_5247521_3212.html that AU employees had found that the servers at the new conference center were sending copies of their contents to Shanghai every night and that the building itself had been honeycombed with listening devices.Both the AU and the Chinese government vehemently denied the report at the time, but a former AU official told Reuters the article in Le Monde was accurate and had put officials there on high alert over cyberespionage.The former official said the latest breach was discovered following a tip from Japan’s Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT), which in a Jan. 17 email alerted AU officials to unusual traffic between the international organization’s network and a domain associated with Bronze President.Koichiro Komiyama, who directs the global coordination division of Japan’s CERT, confirmed to Reuters that he sent the warning after a fellow researcher discovered the malicious traffic while picking through the hacking group’s old infrastructure.The AU memo said that, within days of Komiyama’s email, the AU’s information technology team had traced the suspicious traffic to a set of servers in the basement of the organization’s Building C - part of an older complex across the road from the new conference center.The memo said the hackers were able to siphon off “a huge volume of traffic” from the servers by hiding it in the regular flow of data leaving the AU’s network during business hours, even pausing their data theft during lunch.Secureworks, an arm of Dell Technologies Inc which has been tracking Bronze President since 2018, confirmed that the malicious domain identified by Japan’s CERT was linked to the hackers.Secureworks researcher Mark Osborn said his company had seen strong evidence that Bronze President operated from China, adding that it had been detected in several espionage campaigns targeting China’s neighbors, including Mongolia and India.Any official protest over the spying is unlikely, according to the former AU official. He said China plays a critical role in keeping the organization running, including during an incident in June when part of the AU’s network was knocked out by a power failure and Chinese technicians swiftly repaired the damage.For that reason, the former official expects that the surveillance camera incident - like the listening devices reported in 2018 - would be swept under the rug.“Attacking the Chinese, for us, it’s a very bad idea,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/suspected-chinese-hackers-stole-camera-footage-from-african-union-report/story-QFKgXCbW8dUb9jKaWSrf4M.html
16-12-2020||World||WHO warns of ‘high risk’ of Covid resurgence in Europe in early 2021||The World Health Organization in Europe warned Wednesday of a “further resurgence” of Covid-19 in early 2021, as it urged families to wear face masks during this year’s Christmas gatherings.“There is a high risk of further resurgence in the first weeks and months of 2021, and we will need to work together if we are to succeed in preventing it,” the organisation said in a statement, adding that while it may feel awkward to wear masks around family members, “doing so contributes significantly to ensuring that everyone remains safe and healthy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-warns-of-high-risk-of-covid-resurgence-in-europe-in-early-2021/story-smhhBjCHmQvuHroQW3Y68O.html
16-12-2020||World||Pakistan approves chemical castration of sex offenders||Pakistan has approved the chemical castration of rapists as part of sweeping new legislation sparked by outcry over the gang rape of a mother on a motorway.New laws approved by President Arif Alvi on Tuesday will see rape cases expedited through the courts and create the country’s first national sex offenders register.“The provision of the chemical castration of repeat as well as first-time sex offenders... was added in the Anti-Rape Ordinance 2020”, the president’s office confirmed Wednesday.Pakistan is a deeply conservative and patriarchal nation where victims of sexual abuse often are too afraid to speak out, or where criminal complaints are frequently not investigated seriously. In September, protests erupted after a mother was raped on the side of the road in front of her children when her car broke down near Lahore. Prime Minister Imran Khan responded by calling for the chemical castration of rapists, which involves using drugs to reduce a person’s libido. Khan had said the worst sex crimes should be punishable by public hangings but added this could impact trade with partners that oppose the death penalty, such as the European Union.Rights activists have warned the provision of chemical castration could affect Pakistan’s international human rights obligations.“Chemical castrations are cruel, inhuman and degrading and will leave the flawed criminal justice in place”, said Rimmel Mohydin, Pakistan campaigner at Amnesty International.Nighat Dad, a women’s rights activist, praised the content of the new legislation, but said it was unclear how chemical castration would be either a “deterrent or rehabilitative”.Under the new laws, special courts will be established to try cases of rape and sexual abuse against women and children, which must be completed within four months.They also establish anti-rape cells across the country for conducting initial investigations, and medical examinations within six hours of filing a police complaint -- while abolishing an invasive medical examination known as the two-finger virginity test for rape victims. The test involves a medical officer inserting two fingers into a rape victim’s vagina, to assess her sexual history.The laws come into effect immediately but must be ratified by parliament within three months.It would come down to the discretion of a trial judge to order chemical castration, the president’s office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-approves-chemical-castration-of-sex-offenders/story-Oku2vXiAPDNBpowgVoCARL.html
16-12-2020||World||Germany enters harder lockdown as Covid-19 deaths hit new high||Germany hit a new record level of coronavirus deaths as it entered a harder lockdown Wednesday, closing shops and schools to try to bring down stubbornly high new cases.The country recorded 179.8 deaths of new infections per 100,000 residents over the last seven days, a new high and significantly more than the 149 per 100,000 reported a week ago by the Robert Koch Institute, the country’s disease control center.It also blew past its previous daily total, with Germany’s 16 states reporting 952 people had died of the virus, the agency said. That was far greater than the previous daily record set Friday of 598 deaths, although included two days of figures from the hard-hit eastern state of Saxony, which did not report Tuesday. It brought the country’s overall pandemic death toll to 23,427.Faced with exponentially increasing cases in October, Germany implemented a “lockdown light” at the start of November, which closed bars and restaurants but left shops open. The measures succeeded in levelling off the numbers of new daily infections, but didn’t bring them down, prompting the new stricter restrictions.In addition to closing shops and moving children to remote learning for the few days before the Christmas holidays, private gatherings are being limited to two households with a maximum of five people, among other things.The measures are expected to be in place until at least Jan. 10 and enjoy wide support, with the latest polls showing more than 80% of Germans approve of the lockdown restrictions or think they should be stricter.Germany was widely praised for slowing the spread of its outbreak in the spring, but as people grew lax with distancing and mask rules over the summer the numbers of cases started to climb again.While daily new cases peaked at about 6,000 in March, they are now more than four times that level, with 27,728 new cases reported Wednesday by the Robert Koch Institute.The number of new infections per 100,000 residents over the last seven days hit a record high of 179.8, the agency reported.German officials have pressed the European Union’s regulatory agency hard to speed up its approval of a coronavirus vaccine, and the European Medicines Agency has scheduled a meeting on that for Monday. With vaccinations expected to start before year’s end, German officials have urged people to stay patient and respect the regulations over the holidays.Health Minister Jens Spahn said Germany was ready to start rolling out the vaccine and could begin vaccinations within two to four days of European approval.“By summer we’ll be able to return to normal, step by step,” he said on RTL television Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-enters-harder-lockdown-as-covid-19-deaths-hit-new-high/story-0RVRwa2UKPRq48rjYoaPTJ.html
16-12-2020||World||UK to set out tougher holiday guidance as Covid-19 cases soar||Boris Johnson’s government will set out stronger guidance for families gathering over Christmas as soon as Wednesday after a rise in Covid-19 cases highlighted the risk of allowing households to mix for five days next week, according to a person familiar with the matter.Doctors called on Tuesday for Johnson to cancel the planned relaxation of rules, which would see families crossing between nations and regions. The British Medical Association said allowing people to mix is a “recipe for catastrophe.” Opposition Labour Party leader Keir Starmer asked the government to rethink the rules.The number of people testing positive for the virus rose by 30% in the last seven days across the UK and talks between ministers in London and the devolved administrations in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland to find a common approach to Christmas were due to continue on Wednesday.Ministers are unlikely to change the rules but are expected to set out stronger guidance, according to the person, who asked not to be named because the discussions are private. Cabinet minister Robert Jenrick used a series of TV and radio interviews on Wednesday morning to urge people to use common sense when making Christmas plans.He told BBC TV he had changed his mind about visiting his own parents, both in their eighties, and would wait for them to be vaccinated. “Easter can be the new Christmas for some people” Jenrick told Sky News.“We all need to use our own personal judgment thinking about our own families whether we have particularly elderly or clinically vulnerable relatives who might be round the Christmas table,” Jenrick said. “Thinking of some of the examples we can see internationally like Thanksgiving, for example, where lots of people coming together did have consequences after the event.”Cabinet Office Minister Michael Gove will meet with his counterparts in Edinburgh, Cardiff and Belfast on Wednesday to try to agree a U.K.-wide approach after talks failed to reach a united position on Tuesday.Johnson has faced growing demands to rethink his approach over Christmas after the surge in cases, particularly in London and southeast England.Ministers are also set to review tier allocations across England by the end of Wednesday, with an announcement expected Thursday. London and surrounding parts of southeast England moved into the strictest tier 3 on Wednesday, earlier than planned, after a spike in infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-set-out-tougher-holiday-guidance-as-covid-19-cases-soar/story-ycXHAs1dDMNCjHtDP9tOqM.html
16-12-2020||World||Britain’s biggest airport Heathrow to get a third runway, rules Supreme Court||Britain’s top court gave the go-ahead to the expansion of Heathrow Airport on Wednesday, allowing the 14 billion pound ($19 billion) plan to proceed after decades of legal battles and political wrangling.The Supreme Court ruling overturned a previous court decision that had blocked the plan on environmental grounds.Heathrow, Britain’s biggest airport, is keen to proceed despite the plunge in air traffic during the Covid-19 pandemic that has seen it lose its crown as the busiest hub in Europe.In February, a court had declared the expansion unlawful, ruling in favour of climate change campaigners. The judge had said that a failure to take into account the British government’s commitments on climate change was “legally fatal” to the plans.But a Supreme Court judge told a virtual session on Wednesday that the government had taken climate change commitments into account when designing its airport policy.“For these reasons, the Court unanimously concludes that the appeal should be allowed. The airports national policy statement is lawful,” Judge Philip Sales said.Since February, the aviation sector has been hit by its worst ever downturn, meaning Heathrow now has plenty of spare capacity, but the airport said another runway was still vital for the future.“Demand for aviation will recover from Covid-19, and the additional capacity at an expanded Heathrow will allow Britain as a sovereign nation to compete for trade and win against our rivals in France and Germany,” a Heathrow spokesman said in a statement.The airport is owned by Spain’s Ferrovial, the Qatar Investment Authority and China Investment Corp, among others.BREXITHeathrow is Britain’s biggest port by value. The airport has two runways, compared with Paris’s and Frankfurt’s four and Amsterdam’s six. Before the pandemic, it had no space to add new flights.Heathrow and its supporters argue that Britain’s departure from the European Union makes expansion critical to ensuring the country can increase trade with the rest of the world.The project has been hotly debated in Britain for almost half a century. The new runway was previously approved in 2009 before being scrapped the following year, and then approved again in 2018.Prime Minister Boris Johnson has been a long-term opponent of it. As mayor of London, he vowed in 2015 that he would lie down in front of bulldozers if necessary to stop construction of the third runway.The latest decision represents a setback to wider hopes among climate campaigners of using Heathrow as a test case to develop similar legal challenges to heavily polluting transport, energy or other projects in other countries.Heathrow said that its expansion plan must now go through a planning process that will require it to prove expansion is compliant with Britain’s climate change obligations before construction can begin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-s-biggest-airport-heathrow-to-get-a-third-runway-rules-supreme-court/story-a6eqJUuhbU7sW3SRDGgxuO.html
16-12-2020||World||Nearly half of Singapore’s migrant workers infected with Covid-19||Singapore’s health ministry on Wednesday reported no new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from the local transmission, days after the government approved Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine. However, coronavirus infection among migrant workers has been a matter of concern as the latest data showed nearly half of them have been infected with Covid-19 in the past nine months. The data published by the health ministry revealed that more than 152,000 migrant workers, out of 320,000, who live in dormitories, have been infected. As of December 13, more than 54,000 dormitory dwelling migrant workers tested positive for Covid-19 via a Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test, while 98,289 migrant workers were found infected in serology tests. The normal PCR coronavirus tests detect whether a person currently has the virus and the serology tests find out whether a person has had it in the past.Also Read | Singapore approves Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine, expects first shots by year-endThe health ministry said in a statement that by August, all foreign workers living in dormitories have been tested for the virus at least once. The vast majority of the Covid-19 cases occurred in dormitories of migrant workers, where the coronavirus spread quickly due to their communal living arrangements. The ministry added that the health and social distancing measures turned out to be inadequate, given the highly infectious nature of the virus.“We acted swiftly and decisively to stabilise the situation in the dormitories. Working closely with dormitory operators, employers, the medical community, NGOs and other community groups, we contained the outbreak and cleared the dormitories of the virus,” the ministry stated.According to the latest data, there were 25 Intensive Care Unit (ICU) admissions amongst migrant workers living in dormitories and two deaths due to the contagious disease. The ministry said that the morbidity and mortality rate “among our migrant workers has been very low”, despite the scale of the pandemic. It also added that almost all of them have since also been cleared to resume work safely. But the migrant labourers from South Asia still face restrictions on their movement which will only be gradually lifted next year, according to a BBC report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nearly-half-of-singapore-s-migrant-workers-infected-with-covid-19/story-y8BwKsipwJ9suswPIRsU3J.html
16-12-2020||World||Taliban team in Pakistan as calls grow for Afghan cease-fire||A Taliban team, led by the co-founder of the insurgent movement, arrived Wednesday in Islamabad for talks with Pakistani government leaders amid growing calls for a reduction in violence in Afghanistan.Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar and his delegation were summoned to Islamabad from Qatar, where they have been negotiating since September with Afghan government representatives, officials close to the talks said. The visit comes a day after US peace envoy Zalmay Khalilzad made a quick trip to Pakistan’s powerful military in the garrison city of Rawalpindi.The Pakistani military has wielded significant influence over the Taliban and has had links with some of the leaders — then part of the US-backed mujahedeen — dating back to the 1980s war and the former Soviet Union’s invasion of Afghanistan. The Taliban emerged in 1994 in response to runaway corruption and violence of mujahedeen warlords who took power from the former communist regime in 1992.Pakistan was key in getting the Taliban to the negotiation table with the United States in 2018. Those talks eventually led to the US-Taliban deal that was signed in February, providing for the withdrawal of US and NATO troops from Afghanistan.The deal also paved way for the start of talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government, which began in September in efforts to hammer out a roadmap for post-war Afghanistan. The talks, after some recent procedural progress, have been suspended till early January though there is speculation the resumption could be further delayed.Kabul has called for the talks to resume inside Afghanistan while the Taliban insist they continue in Doha, Qatar, where they maintain a political office.Meanwhile, Washington has been increasingly frustrated by a spike in violence in Afghanistan and calls for a cease-fire have been reaching crescendo in both Kabul and in Washington.Taliban spokesman Mohammad Naeem tweeted late Tuesday that “a high level delegation” led by Baradar “left for Islamabad at the official invitation” of Pakistan. The delegation was to meet Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan and Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, as well as military officials.However, it is unclear if the Taliban visit to Pakistan would yield any progress toward even a temporary cease-fire in Afghanistan.President Donald Trump accelerated the withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan earlier this month, with another 2,000 troops returning home by early January and leaving just 2,500 American soldiers behind.The final withdrawal hinges on Taliban fulfilling their commitment to cut off al-Qaida and other militant groups and ensure that Afghan territory is not used for attacks on the United States. The Islamic State group — a rival of the Taliban — is seen as America’s greatest security threat in Afghanistan.Khalilzad has called on both sides in the Qatar talks to press toward a political solution, but the stepped-up violence by the Taliban is undermining progress, according to officials familiar with the talks. They spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the negotiations.The Taliban have so far rejected that a cease-fire be on the agenda of the Qatar talks.In Afghanistan, the Taliban attacked military outposts in northern Baghlan and southern Uruzgan province late on Tuesday and early Wednesday. At least 19 Afghan security forces and 11 Taliban were killed in the fighting.In Kabul, roadside bomb struck a vehicle early on Wednesday, wounding two people, according to the Kabul police spokesman, Ferdaws Faramarz. On Tuesday, a lawyer was shot and killed in the latest target killings sweeping the country. Afghan police have arrested two suspects in connection with the shooting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-team-in-pakistan-as-calls-grow-for-afghan-cease-fire/story-IvZyqgGY6sks9HFmdLtAWI.html
16-12-2020||World||Biden’s challenge: Creating a Covid-19-free White House||Three blocks from the White House, office space for more than 500 Biden transition staffers sits mostly idle. The government is shipping out laptops so staffers can work from home. President-elect Joe Biden, surrounded by just a handful of aides in Delaware, is using Zoom to oversee his plans to assume power.But Biden soon will be entering a no-Zoom zone at the White House — just one sign of the challenges his new administration will face when it moves to Washington in the midst of a pandemic.After months of making a virtue of the cautious approach his campaign and transition team have taken toward Covid-19, Biden’s prudence will be tested by technology and tradition when he arrives on January 20.White House computers don’t allow the popular video conference software Zoom or rival systems like Google Meet and Slack. Government-issue cellphones only gained texting capabilities a few years ago. And many employees will need to be present at the White House to access classified information.Biden’s team has limited experience with staffing a physical office during the pandemic. His campaign went all-virtual in mid-March, clearing out its Philadelphia headquarters and sending staff back to their families in Washington, New York and beyond. His transition team plotted out his path to power entirely online.The closest Biden’s team has come to experimenting with in-person work was election night, when a small selection of masked and socially distanced aides in Wilmington, Delaware, monitored returns in hotel conference rooms, a far cry from running a White House 24/7.Even now, the most prominent use of the 100,000-plus square feet (9,290 square meters) of office space reserved for the transition is for Vice President-elect Kamala Harris to receive the highly classified President’s Daily Brief.Telework is possible for some White House staff, and improvements in both secure and unclassified videoconferencing have been made over the last two decades. But the lack of in-person coordination could pose an additional challenge to the new government facing a multitude of crises.Further complicating matters, the Biden team must devise health and safety protocols from scratch. The Trump administration was, at best, a cautionary tale in how not to run a workplace during a pandemic.Despite relying on an aggressive testing regimen that is not available in other workplaces, the West Wing under President Donald Trump has been the locus of at least two significant outbreaks of Covid-19 since Trump himself came down with the virus five weeks before Election Day.In addition to the first family, the dozens in Trump world who have tested positive include the White House chief of staff, the vice president’s chief of staff, the White House press secretary and the president’s campaign manager. Still more aides have had to isolate after potential exposure. The full scale of the infections is not publicly known.The problems stemmed in large part from the Trump White House flouting its own guidelines for Covid-19 safety, including holding large events, allowing frequent travel and above all not requiring face masks. iden team believes that some of the greatest risk can be mitigated simply by adhering to scientific advice: holding safer events, requiring face coverings and continuing regular testing.White House veterans say the task of making the West Wing a safe workspace is attainable but will require intense discipline, among both White House staff and the hundreds of government employees from other federal agencies who support it.Detailed planning is still underway, but some early considerations are to curtail the number of staffers who have unfettered access to the West Wing, encourage remote work where possible and even have staffers use secure teleconferencing between individual offices to minimize use of shared spaces.Biden’s team may get a blueprint of sorts for its use of Covid-19 vaccines from the Trump White House, which is beginning to roll out inoculations for some critical government staffers, including military aides to the president, Secret Service agents and Situation Room watch officers.Biden himself appears likely to receive at least a first dose of the vaccine before taking office, relying on the advice of the nation’s top U.S. infectious-disease expert. Dr. Anthony Fauci called for Biden and Harris to swiftly receive the vaccine.“For security reasons, I really feel strongly that we should get them vaccinated as soon as we possibly can,” Fauci said on ABC News on Tuesday. “You want him fully protected as he enters into the presidency in January.” Moving the Bidens into the White House — a stressful process even in normal times — will be more complicated this year.There will be a top-to-bottom cleaning of the West Wing in the hours after Trump vacates the premises and before Biden’s team moves in. Public health experts say it’s crucial that extra steps be taken to mitigate the spread of the disease during that changeover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-s-challenge-creating-a-covid-19-free-white-house/story-KuQE5gQdbBAcwUn6qQ5iwN.html
16-12-2020||World||Facebook attacks Apple’s iOS changes in full-page newspaper ads||Facebook Inc. attacked Apple Inc. in a series of full-page newspaper ads Wednesday, claiming the iPhone maker’s anticipated mobile software changes around data gathering and targeted advertising are bad for small businesses.The ads, slated to run in the New York Times, Wall Street Journal and Washington Post, carry the headline “We’re standing up to Apple for small businesses everywhere.” They home in on upcoming changes to Apple’s iOS 14 operating system that will curb the ability of companies like Facebook to gather data about mobile users and ply them with advertising.Facebook previously told investors that Apple’s changes, scheduled to go live early next year, will lead to significant headwinds because most of its advertisers are small businesses. Apple has pushed back, accusing Facebook in November of showing a “disregard for user privacy.”“While limiting how personalized ads can be used does impact larger companies like us, these changes will be devastating to small businesses,” Facebook claims. The social giant, citing its own data, says ads that disregard personalized targeting generate 60% fewer sales than ads that do target consumers.Read more: Apple Defends Delay of Privacy Feature, Slams FacebookThe newspaper ads are the latest in what has become a vicious and public battle between two of the world’s most valuable companies. Facebook has argued repeatedly that Apple’s App Store fees and the upcoming iOS changes hurt small businesses trying to recover from the pandemic. It’s used those attacks to paint itself as a champion for such users, many of which rely on Facebook’s advertising services to drive sales. (That reliance can also put small businesses in a bind.)Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg has also criticized Apple’s expensive smartphones. After his company joined a chorus attacking Apple’s 30% fee for in-app purchases for certain services that moved online because of the pandemic, Apple said it wouldn’t take such a cut through the end of 2020. Last month, it extended that waiver through June 2021.While not applicable to Facebook apps, Apple will reduce its App Store revenue cut from 30% to 15% starting next year for developers that generate up to $1 million per year. The company said it’s implementing the change to support small businesses.For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-attacks-apple-s-ios-changes-in-full-page-newspaper-ads/story-uKFstC8dCY2ymFtkfrbBgO.html
16-12-2020||World||Asian countries, Switzerland at risk in US Treasury’s currency report||The US Treasury could label several countries currency manipulators before President Donald Trump leaves office, analysts say, as the coronavirus pandemic skews trade flows and widens US deficits with trading partners.Currency experts say Vietnam, Thailand, Taiwan and Switzerland all risk being found in violation of the three US criteria for currency manipulation in the Treasury Department’s long-delayed report on the foreign exchange practices of major trading partners. They expect the report within days.While President-elect Joe Biden is expected to be less confrontational with US allies on matters of trade, a new White House could find it politically difficult to immediately walk back designations of currency manipulation by the current administration.To be labeled a manipulator, countries must at least have a $20 billion-plus bilateral trade surplus with the United States, foreign currency intervention exceeding 2% of GDP and a global current account surplus exceeding 2% of GDP.Brad Setser, a former US Treasury economist and senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, has replicated data used by Treasury to analyze these criteria, constructing a quarterly tracker that shows Vietnam, Switzerland and Thailand exceeded the department’s thresholds during the first and second quarters of 2020.Taiwan met all three thresholds in the second quarter, but barely missed on the foreign exchange intervention in the first quarter in the data compiled by Setser, who now serves on Biden’s transition team for trade issues.However, Treasury’s actual data may differ and it has some discretion in applying the label, and mitigating circumstances such as the coronavirus pandemic may factor into its decisions.Trade surpluses for Asian economies exporting personal protective equipment and other supplies needed to fight the pandemic have jumped, while capital has surged into safe haven currencies such as the Swiss franc, driving them higher.The Swiss National Bank has spent 90 billion francs ($101 billion) to tame the franc’s rise in the first half of 2020, putting it squarely in the Treasury’s focus.The Treasury has often treated Switzerland differently because it views Switzerland’s intervention as not trade-driven, but that could change this time, said Mark Sobel, another former Treasury and International Monetary Fund official.“If the Treasury is going to go after a few Asian countries and Switzerland trips all three criteria, how do you not go after them?” said Sobel, now with the Official Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum think-tank.VIETNAM TARGETEDVietnam’s currency practices have been in the Trump administration’s crosshairs for months, as the US Trade Representative’s office investigates the undervaluation of the dong.Business groups are concerned the administration could make moves, such as punitive tariffs, on these soon. The Treasury already declared Vietnam’s currency undervalued by 4.7% in 2019 in a Commerce Department anti-subsidy case, which led to punitive duties on Vietnamese light vehicle tire imports.Taiwan, like Vietnam, has seen its trade surplus with the United States grow as companies moved supply chains from China to these countries in response to U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods. Taiwan spent $3.9 billion buy US dollars in the first half of 2020, to tame a 5% rise in the Taiwan dollar against the greenback, exceeding its 2019 purchases. China, declared a manipulator in August 2019 at the height of US-China trade tensions, has been a fixture on Treasury’s monitoring list for years due to its massive trade surplus with the United States. Treasury removed the label in January as the two countries signed a “Phase 1” trade deal and China’s foreign exchange interventions and global current account surplus remain below the thresholds.Win Thin, global head of currency strategy at BBH in New York downplayed the report as “totally politicized” under Trump.“Any sort of move this current Treasury secretary makes can be easily reversed when the new Treasury secretary comes in,” Thin said.There is no automatic punishment with a currency manipulator label, though US law requires Washington to demand negotiations with designated countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/asian-countries-switzerland-at-risk-in-us-treasury-s-currency-report/story-4HjNXvH23VTvedj4S77olM.html
16-12-2020||World||Jeff Bezos’ ex-wife MacKenzie Scott gives $4.2 bn to help the vulnerable amid Covid crisis||MacKenzie Scott, the ex-wife of Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, said Tuesday she has given $4.2 billion to groups helping the vulnerable as the pandemic hits lives like “a wrecking ball.”Scott, who formerly went by the name MacKenzie Bezos, last year signed a “giving pledge” to donate the bulk of her wealth to charity.In a round of donations early this year, Scott gave nearly $1.7 billion to groups devoted to race, gender and economic equality, as well as other social causes.“This pandemic has been a wrecking ball in the lives of Americans already struggling,” Scott said in a post detailing her second round of giving this year.“Economic losses and health outcomes alike have been worse for women, for people of color, and for people living in poverty.”Also Read: Amazon offers ‘special recognition bonus’ to employeesMeanwhile, she noted, the wealth of billionaires has substantially increased.Such billionaires include her ex-husband, although Scott did not mention his name. Bezos’s wealth has reportedly grown almost 80 percent during the pandemic.Scott said she enlisted a team of advisors that helped identify 384 organizations across the US that support people suffering from the economic toll of the pandemic.Special attention was given to organizations working to combat hunger, poverty and racial inequity in communities, according to Scott.Targets for support included food banks, employment training services, legal defense funds, debt relief programs and civil rights advocacy groups.The groups that received donations “have dedicated their lives to helping others, working and volunteering and serving real people face-to-face at bedsides and tables, in prisons and courtrooms and classrooms, on streets and hospital wards and hotlines and frontlines of all types and sizes, day after day after day,” Scott said.Scott was left a multi-billionaire after her divorce last year from Bezos.She ranked 20th on a Forbes real-time list of the world’s richest people index on Tuesday, with a net worth of $56 billion -- after taking her latest donations into account.Bezos was at the top of that list with a net worth of $185 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jeff-bezos-ex-wife-mackenzie-scott-gives-4-2-bn-to-help-the-vulnerable-amid-covid-crisis/story-4DJZbxuSj9GiEoZJSAGMPN.html
16-12-2020||World||Over 250,000 abused in New Zealand’s state and faith-based care: Report||Up to a quarter of a million children, young people and vulnerable adults were physically and sexually abused in New Zealand’s faith-based and state care institutions from the 1960s to early 2000s, a public inquiry revealed on Wednesday. An interim report by the Royal Commission of Inquiry found children, some from as young as nine months old, suffered years of abuse, which included rape and electric shock treatment, by staff at psychiatric and state care facilities, clergy and foster guardians.The report estimated that up to 256,000 people were abused, accounting for almost 40% of the 655,000 people in care during the period, with most abuse occurring in the 1970s and 1980s. “The hurt and anguish that has been caused in New Zealand’s history is inexcusable,” said Minister for the Public Service Chris Hipkins, who described the report as a “difficult read”.“All children in the care of the state should be safe from harm, but as the testimony sets out all too often the opposite was true.”The report said most abuse survivors were aged between 5 and 17. Most were abused over a five to 10 year period.The abuse included physical assault and sexual abuse, with staff in some psychiatric institutions forcing male patients to rape female patients. It also included the improper use of medical procedures including electric shocks on genitals and legs, improper strip searches and vaginal examinations, and verbal abuse and racial slurs.“Sometimes I’d have shock treatment twice a day,” said Anne, who at 17 was placed in a psychiatric institution in 1979.“The records (said) I went blind, then they gave me shock treatment again that night,” she told the inquiry.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced the Royal Commission in 2018 saying the country needed to confront “a dark chapter” in its history, and later expanded it to include churches and other faith-based institutions.The report said the likelihood of children and young people abused in faith-based or religious homes ranges from 21% to 42%.It found the number of people passing through care institutions was six times higher than previously estimated.“On any assessment this is a serious and long-standing social problem that needs to be addressed,” the report said, adding there was evidence that abuse continued today.MAORI DISADVANTAGEDThe Royal Commission will make recommendations to the government in its final report. It is one of longest and most complex commissions of inquiry undertaken in New Zealand.The interim report on Wednesday comes after private and public redress hearings where survivors bravely narrated harrowing accounts of physical and sexual abuse.One indigenous Maori survivor, Peter, told the inquiry he drove a car off a cliff in an attempt to suicide to escape the abuse.“I didn’t wanna live anymore. I went over a cliff and smashed head-on into a bank. Again, if anybody just stopped and looked at why, they would have figured something out, but they didn’t,” he said.Abuse survivors said a “culture of silence and secrecy” kept the abuse hidden to the outside world. The report said many survivors now suffer mental health issues, like post traumatic stress disorder and depression, and battle substance abuse.The Catholic Church in Aotearoa New Zealand said it would study the report to learn how to deal with complaints and prevent abuse.“We are deeply sorry for the harm caused to so many by the abuse they suffered, and we continue to express our profound sorrow,” said the Archbishop of Wellington Cardinal John Dew.The report acknowledged that Maori children probably suffered the most, as 81% of children abused in care are Māori, while 69% of the children in care are Māori.It said some faith-based institutions sought to “cleanse”, through sexual and physical abuse, the cultural identity from Maori people in care.Thousands of Maori people protested across New Zealand last year calling for an end to the practice of taking at-risk children away from families and placing them in state care. Critics of the practice have said the process is racially skewed against the Maori, and is a legacy of colonisation.Neighbouring Australia delivered a national apology in 2017, after a five-year inquiry into child sexual abuse revealed thousands of cases of sexual misconduct largely committed at religious and state-run institutions.Hipkins said the New Zealand government would make a decision on an apology once the Commission hands over its final report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-250-000-abused-in-new-zealand-s-state-and-faith-based-care-report/story-whgqOrmYV7xiySPJYFPp2N.html
16-12-2020||World||England keeps looser holiday Covid rules even as cases rise||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson will go ahead with plans to ease coronavirus restrictions over Christmas despite mounting pressure to stop people mixing indoors over the holiday.As many as three households will still be able to gather together for five days between Dec. 23 and 27 in England, a person familiar with the matter said.But the government is expected to set out stronger guidance on how to keep elderly relatives safe. This could include asking people to self-isolate before joining with other households, according to the Daily Telegraph.Cabinet Office Minister Michael Gove will meet with his counterparts from the devolved administrations in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland on Wednesday to try to agree a common approach across the UK, after talks failed to reach a united position on Tuesday.Johnson has faced growing demands to rethink his approach over Christmas after a surge in Covid-19 infections in recent days, particularly in London and southeast England. The UK capital was placed in the highest tier of restrictions on Wednesday, with pubs and restaurants forced to close.‘Grave Risk’In a rare joint editorial Tuesday, the British Medical Journal and the Health Service Journal said the government’s relaxation of social distancing rules over the holiday period will increase infections and risk putting further strain on hospitals.Keir Starmer, leader of the main opposition Labour Party, called on ministers to hold an emergency review of the plans. He told Johnson in a letter the government has “lost control of infections,” putting the economy and National Health Service at “grave risk” in the new year.“We all need to use our own personal judgment thinking about our own families whether we have particularly elderly or clinically vulnerable relatives who might be round the Christmas table, and also looking at the fact that the rates of the virus are rising in many parts of the country,” Housing Secretary Robert Jenrick told Sky News.“Thinking of some of the examples we can see internationally like Thanksgiving, for example, where lots of people coming together did have consequences after the event,” he said.The British Medical Association, the doctors’ union, said allowing people to mix at Christmas was a “recipe for catastrophe.”Chaand Nagpaul, the BMA’s chair of council, said: “We agree that the impact on the NHS of the almost inevitable third wave of the infection in the new year will be disastrous.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/england-keeps-looser-holiday-covid-rules-even-as-cases-rise/story-mGNQ5MerXhYrG1OarWuGfM.html
16-12-2020||World||‘Lock down,’ says Italy adviser, as deaths head for wartime levels||An adviser to Italy’s health ministry has called for coronavirus restrictions to be drastically tightened to avoid a “national tragedy” after the national statistics bureau ISTAT said deaths this year would be the highest since World War Two.“We are in a war situation, people don’t realise it but the last time we had this many deaths, bombs were dropping on our cities during the war,” public health professor Walter Ricciardi told the television channel la7 on Tuesday evening.Ricciardi, the adviser to Health Minister Roberto Speranza, said the government, which is considering tightening restrictions over the Christmas and New Year holidays, should lock down the main cities completely.In an interview with Wednesday’s daily La Stampa, he said Rome had been “constantly late” in responding to the second, autumn wave of the virus.Italy reported 846 Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday, taking the official total to 65,857, the fifth highest in the world.As in many other countries, that total is widely considered to be an underestimate because many people who died of Covid-19 during the first wave were never tested for the virus.ISTAT head Gian Carlo Blangiardo said on Tuesday that the overall number of deaths in Italy this year would exceed 700,000, against 647,000 in 2019.“The last time something like this happened was in 1944 when we were at the height of the Second World War,” he told RAI state television.Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte on Tuesday urged Italians to avoid “irresponsible” gatherings over the holidays and said the government might make some “small adjustments” to its current restrictions.But Ricciardi told La Stampa this was not enough:“The Netherlands has locked down with half our deaths, Germany has locked down with a third of them - I don’t understand this hesitation. If we don’t take adequate measures, we are heading for a national tragedy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lock-down-says-italy-adviser-as-deaths-head-for-wartime-levels/story-cTOGe41Rn9EFJRJQUan0UN.html
16-12-2020||World||Australia sues Facebook over user data, echoing US antitrust case||An Australian regulator sued Facebook Inc on Wednesday accusing it of collecting user data without permission, building on government efforts around the world to rein in the social network.The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) said it was seeking an unspecified fine from Facebook for promoting a virtual private network as a way for people to protect their data, while secretly using the information to pick targets for commercial acquisitions.The lawsuit echoes a landmark US Federal Trade Commission action accusing the social media giant of inappropriately maintaining market dominance by using customer data to decide on takeover targets including messaging app Whatsapp and image-sharing app Instagram.“There is a link to what the FTC is saying, but they’re looking at a competition issue,” ACCC Chairman Rod Sims said at a televised news conference. “We’re looking at the consumer.” A Facebook spokeswoman said the company was “always clear about the information we collect and how it is used”. “We will review the recent filing by the ACCC and will continue to defend our position in response to this recent filing,” she added.Facebook shut down the VPN product in 2019.Earlier this month, Australia went ahead with plans to make Facebook and internet giant Google pay domestic media outlets for content that appeared on their websites, at Sims’s recommendation.The Australian privacy regulator has a separate lawsuit against Facebook accusing it of breaching user privacy with a personality test run by political marketing consultant Cambridge Analytica. Facebook is defending that action. The ACCC is also suing Google alleging it misled users about data collection.Unlike the US lawsuit, which may force Facebook to sell assets, the Australian lawsuit may force the company to change the way it discloses its activities to users, said Rob Nicholls, a University of New South Wales associate professor who specialises in competition law.“Rather than take the antitrust approach of ‘the only way to solve this is to break it up’, it’s more ‘we’re going to take the actions that we can under the existing law to change the conduct so that it is acceptable to Australian consumers and Australian businesses,” Nicholls said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-sues-facebook-over-user-data-echoing-us-antitrust-case/story-SIZ3rezmK50UDpYovKtWVL.html
16-12-2020||World||Quarter of world may not have access to Covid-19 vaccine until 2022: Study||Nearly a quarter of the world’s population may not have access to a Covid-19 vaccine until at least 2022, according to a study published in The BMJ on Wednesday which warns that vaccines will be as challenging to deliver as they were to develop.Another study in the same journal estimates that 3.7 billion adults worldwide are willing to have a Covid-19 vaccine, highlighting the importance of designing fair and equitable strategies to ensure that supply can meet demand, especially in low and middle income countries.These findings together suggest that the operational challenges of the global Covid-19 vaccination programme will be at least as difficult as the scientific challenges associated with their development.In the first study, researchers from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in the US analysed pre-orders for Covid-19 vaccines ahead of their regulatory approval that had been publicly announced by countries around the world.“This study provides an overview of how high income countries have secured future supplies of Covid-19 vaccines, but that access for the rest of the world is uncertain,” the researchers said.“Governments and manufacturers might provide much needed assurances for equitable allocation of Covid-19 vaccines through greater transparency and accountability over these arrangements,” they said.The researchers noted that by November 15, 2020, several countries had reserved a total of 7.48 billion doses, or 3.76 billion courses from 13 manufacturers, out of 48 Covid-19 vaccine candidates in clinical trials.They said over half (51 per cent) of these doses will go to high income countries, which represent 14% of the world’s population, while low and middle income countries will potentially have the remainder, despite these comprising more than 85% of the world’s population.If all of these vaccine candidates were successfully scaled, the total projected manufacturing capacity would be 5.96 billion courses by the end of 2021, with prices ranging from $6 per course to as high as $74 per course.Up to 40% of the vaccine courses from these manufacturers might potentially remain for low- and middle-income countries, the researchers said.However, this will depend, in part, on how high-income countries share what they procure and whether the US and Russia participate in globally coordinated efforts, they said.The researchers noted that even if all of these vaccine manufacturers were to succeed in reaching their maximum production capacity, at least a fifth of the world’s population would not have access to vaccines until 2022.In the second study, researchers in China and the US estimated target populations for whom vaccines would be required, to help guide development of fair and equitable allocation strategies across the globe.They found that target population sizes for Covid-19 vaccination vary widely by geographical region, vaccine objectives, such as maintaining essential core services, reducing severe Covid-19, and stopping virus transmission, and the impact of vaccine hesitancy in reducing demand.The researchers point to evidence suggesting that around 68% of the global population (3.7 billion adults) is willing to receive a Covid-19 vaccine, and say their findings “provide an evidence base for global, regional, and national vaccine prioritisation and allocation.” “Variations in the size of the target populations within and between regions emphasise the tenuous balance between vaccine demand and supply, especially in low and middle income countries without sufficient capacity to meet domestic demand for Covid-19 vaccine” they said.Both studies are observational, and the researchers acknowledge the implications of uncertainty and incomplete information for their analyses.The findings illustrate the considerable scale and complexity of manufacturing, purchasing, distributing, and administering Covid-19 vaccines in a way that meets global needs, and does so equitably among nations and populations, the researchers said.Jason Schwartz at Yale School of Public Health noted in a linked editorial that many countries have already shown a commitment to equitable global access to Covid-19 vaccines by purchasing through the COVAX Facility -- an initiative that invests part of the payment in vaccines for poorer countries.However, he said vigilance is required “to ensure that such aspirations are realised in the months and years ahead.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/quarter-of-world-may-not-have-access-to-covid-19-vaccine-until-2022-study/story-EMffTPGV3qQthmJeFgGZGK.html
16-12-2020||World||US Congress passes defence policy bill that calls out Chinese aggression against India||The US Congress has officially passed the USD 740 billion defence policy bill, which among other things include calling out Chinese aggression against India along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The US House of Representatives and the Senate on Tuesday passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which included key components of Indian-American Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi’s resolution language urging the Chinese government to end its military aggression against India along the LAC.China and India have been locked in a military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh since May this year. Several rounds of talks between the two countries to resolve the standoff have not yielded any concrete outcome.The House and Senate versions of the bill were reconciled by a bipartisan Congressional conference committee earlier this month.The inclusion of this provision, which Krishnamoorthi led as an amendment when the bill passed the House, reflects the US government’s strong support for its allies and partners like India in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond.Krishnamoorthi’s measure, which passed each chamber with overwhelming bipartisan support, will become law if President Donald Trump signs it.Trump has threatened to veto the bill as it lacks a repeal of legal protections for social media companies. However, the NDAA has been passed by Congress for the last 59 years.“Violent aggression is seldom the answer, and this is especially true for the Line of Actual Control, which is the disputed border region that separates the People’s Republic of China from India,” Krishnamoorthi said.“By including my resolution language in the NDAA and signing that legislation into law, the United States government will send a clear message that China’s military provocations of India will not be tolerated,” he said.“The United States is committed to standing with our allies and partners like India in resolving the border standoff using diplomatic means,’ Krishnamoorthi said.As approved by the conference report, the powerful NDAA says that it is the sense of the Congress on the aggression of China along the border with India and its growing territorial claims.The Senate agreed to include the provisions of the bill that was passed by the House in its version of the bill.The House bill contained provisions that would express the sense of Congress on cross-border violence between China and India and the growing territorial claims of Beijing.Expressing “significant concern” over the continued military aggression by China along the border with India, the NDAA says that China “should work with” India toward de-escalating the situation along the Line of Actual Control through existing diplomatic mechanisms and refrain from attempting to settle disputes through coercion or force.Attempts by China to advance baseless territorial claims, including those in the South China Sea, the East China Sea, and with respect to Bhutan, are destabilising and inconsistent with international law, says the bill.China is also engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in both the South China Sea and the East China Sea. China claims sovereignty over all of the South China Sea. Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Brunei and Taiwan have counter claims.Beijing has built up and militarised many of the islands and reefs it controls in the region. Both areas are stated to be rich in minerals, oil and other natural resources and are also vital to global trade. PTI LKJ RS AKJ RS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-congress-passes-defence-policy-bill-that-calls-out-chinese-aggression-against-india/story-oVyX5aL0ehM69J6xOI8XVJ.html
16-12-2020||World||Panama government approves Pfizer, BioNTech coronavirus vaccine||Panama’s government has approved the emergency use of the vaccine produced by US company Pfizer and German company BioNTech, the delivery of the first batch is expected in the first quarter of 2021, the country’s Health Ministry said.“The national government has approved the emergency use of Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine,” the ministry said in a statement on Twitter.Panama expects to receive the first shipment of vaccines in the first quarter of next year and to begin immunizing the population, starting with healthcare workers, the elderly, and security personnel.According to the ministry, the country with a population of 4.2 million people has registered 194,619 cases of Covid-19 since the beginning of the epidemic, including 3,382 deaths. (ANI/Sputnik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/panama-government-approves-pfizer-biontech-coronavirus-vaccine/story-yABT6fMwT4pfOoOWc2bfBM.html
16-12-2020||World||Brexit vote on Christmas? Dash to ratify any agreement||The UK and the European Union will have only days to ratify any post-Brexit trade agreement -- if they manage to reach one this week.After their negotiating teams strike a deal, both sides will begin a race to approve the accord formally before the post-Brexit transition period expires at 11 pm London time on Dec. 31.In Britain, Prime Minister Boris Johnson has promised lawmakers a vote, and hasn’t ruled out holding one on Christmas Day. In Brussels, the process is more complex, involving the bloc’s 27 national governments as well as the European Parliament.There’s a remote chance the process could be delayed by a last-minute intervention by an EU leader like French President Emmanuel Macron, or by opposition in the European or British parliaments. If a deal isn’t approved in time, it could be applied provisionally, pending parliamentary approval -- or Britain could be left facing a spell outside the EU without a trade deal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brexit-vote-on-christmas-dash-to-ratify-any-agreement/story-Op2ffy2nhHkKARq3pzFhAM.html
16-12-2020||World||Imran Khan government pushes for early Senate polls to weaken Opposition||Amid political chaos in Pakistan, the federal government has decided to hold Senate elections in February instead of March 2021. The polls are expected to result in the loss of seats for Opposition Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), which currently controls the Upper House.The decision was taken on Tuesday during a meeting of the federal Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Imran Khan, reported Dawn.In a 104-member Senate, elections will be held for 52 seats as many members of the Upper House will be retiring on March 11. The federal government invoked the idea of early elections in order to change the power structure in the Senate.Currently, the Senate is decisively controlled by the constituent parties of the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM). Early elections will result in the loss of seats for PDM.The PDM had unanimously decided that its lawmakers will handover resignations to their party chiefs by December 31 and Pakistan People’s Party (PPP) chairperson Bilawal Bhutto Zardari termed that resignations of opposition lawmakers are an ‘atom bomb’ for the incumbent government.The move to resign en masse by PDM will stall the Senate election. The resignations may render the electoral college for Senate elections incomplete which in turn may make the Senate election constitutionally untenable.This, in turn, will ease a lot of the (Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf) PTI’s current problems such as the passage of legislation considered important by the government but stuck in the Senate.A source disclosed to Dawn that the proposal for the early Senate election was put forth by the Minister of Science and Technology Fawad Chaudhary. The government also invoked advisory jurisdiction of the Supreme Court on open voting for the polls.Generally, Senate elections are done through secret balloting, but PM Imran Khan desired to hold the election by open ballot or show of hands.The information minister said that the government mulled over getting the bill ratified through several means -- either through a constitutional amendment, executive order, or the election commission.After pondering over the matter, the government decided to move to the apex court regarding the matter, reported Dawn.Meanwhile, PDM has demanded PM Imran Khan-led government quit by January 31 or face intensified movements by opposition parties such as the long march to Islamabad. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-government-pushes-for-early-senate-polls-to-weaken-opposition/story-yumS8IH10oT3GKTd64UjvM.html
16-12-2020||World||Biden names Buttigieg to cabinet in a first for an openly gay person||US President-elect Joe Biden has nominated Pete Buttigieg, the openly gay former mayor, as his transportation secretary. If confirmed, he will be the first LGBTQ person to hold a cabinet post in the country.Biden has also decided to name Jennifer Granholm, the former governor of Michigan, to head the department of energy, which is entrusted with the upkeep of the country’s nuclear arsenal. And Gina McCarthy, former head of the Environment Protection Agency under President Barack Obama, will be Biden’s domestic climate policy chief.Buttigieg and Granholm, who had not been officially announced yet, will have to be confirmed by the US Senate.Biden said in a statement he was appointing Buttigieg transportation secretary because “this position stands at the nexus of so many of the interlocking challenges and opportunities ahead of us. Jobs, infrastructure, equity, and climate all come together at the DOT, the site of some of our most ambitious plans to build back better”. “This is a moment of tremendous opportunity—to create jobs, meet the climate challenge, and enhance equity for all,” Buttigieg said in a tweet. “I’m honored that the President-elect has asked me to serve our nation as secretary of transportation.”Buttigieg’s selection is in line with Biden’s promise to name a cabinet that reflects the diversity of the country. He will be joining Neera Tanden, the first Indian American named cabinet secretary to head the budget department; Janet Yellen, the first woman treasury secretary; Lloyd Austin, the first African American nominated for defence secretary; Katherine Tai, the first Taiwanese American named US Trade Representative; and Xavier Becerra and Alejandro Mayorkas, the first Latinos to head the departments of health and homeland security respectively. And, of course, Kamala Harris, the first black, woman, Asian American and Indian American vice-president.“When confirmed, Pete will soon make history as the first Senate-confirmed, openly LGBTQ member of the cabinet -- a milestone worth celebrating,” said Alphonso David, president of Human Rights Campaign, the largest LGBTQ advocacy in the United States, in a tweet.The former mayor of South Bend in Indiana state, who is married to Chasten Buttigieg, shot into national prominence as a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination, going up against stalwarts Biden, a former vice-president then, and Senators Harris, Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders. He became the first openly gay person to win a presidential primary/caucus, picking up Iowa.Buttigieg was among the first bunch of candidates who left the race and endorsed Biden after the former vice-president won the South Carolina primary, which put him on the path to the nomination and, eventually, the White House.Buttigieg is a former military intelligence officer who served in Afghanistan in 2014. He graduated from Harvard and was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-names-buttigieg-to-cabinet-in-a-first-for-an-openly-gay-person/story-oDr4TPFIKROqUIivvVP09K.html
16-12-2020||World||Trump supporters accept Joe Biden’s victory ‘with reservations’||Robert Reed says he will always believe the 2020 election was stolen from President Donald Trump. The retired police officer-turned-construction worker believes fraud marred the vote, no matter how many courts rejected that claim. Still, a day after the Electoral College made Joe Biden’s win official, the ardent Trump supporter from the suburbs of Lancaster, Pennsylvania, was ready to move on.“I think it’s pretty much over,” Reed said of Trump’s ongoing quest to overturn the results of the election. ”I trust the Electoral College.”For weeks, Trump has been on a mission to convince his loyal base that his victory was stolen and the contest rigged. With help from conservative media, polls show he’s had considerable success. But now that the Electoral College has formalized Biden’s win and Republican officials, including Senate Leader Mitch McConnell, are finally acknowledging him as president-elect, many Trump voters across the country seem to be doing the same.Interviews with voters, along with fresh surveys of Republicans, suggest their unfounded doubts about the integrity of the vote remain. But there is far less consensus on what should be done about it and whether to carry that resentment forward.For some, like Reed, the Electoral College vote was the clear end of a process. Others have vowed to continue to protest with demonstrations like the one that turned violent in Washington, D.C., over the weekend. And some said they hoped GOP leaders would press for more investigations to put the doubts Trump sowed to rest.They are people like Scott Adams, a retiree and Trump voter living in Rehoboth Beach, Delaware, who said he accepts Biden’s victory — but “with reservations.”Adams said he’s heard too much discussion about irregularities in the vote count on Fox News and conservative talk radio to trust the election’s outcome and doesn’t feel he’ll ever knows the true margin of victory. (Biden won the Election College by a vote of 306 to 232.)But Adams doesn’t think the election was rigged enough to change the outcome, even if he believes it was “rigged enough that it should be questioned more.” He’d like to see more investigations.Republicans across the country — from local officials to governors to Attorney General William Barr — have said repeatedly there is no evidence mass voter fraud affected the outcome. Trump and his allies brought a flurry of lawsuits, but nearly all have been dismissed by judges. The Supreme Court, which includes three Trump-nominated justices, denied requests to hear a pair of cases aimed at invalidating the outcome of the election in key battleground states.Still, coming to terms with this pile of evidence has been difficult for many Trump voters. They expressed disbelief that Trump could have lost, given the huge crowds he drew to his rallies. Some said their suspicions were heightened by the mainstream media’s reluctance to air Trump’s baseless claims. And they repeatedly pointed to the slower-than-usual vote count as evidence something had gone awry.“Something’s not right here,” said Reed, who lives in East Lampeter Township.The explanation is well known — in many states, an influx of mail-in ballots, overwhelmingly cast by Democrats, were tallied later than ballots cast in person. Still, Reed said he thought the courts should have spent more time investigating.“I’ll always believe that it was stolen from him. I’ll really never be able to have peace of mind that it wasn’t,” he said.Others were less willing to go along.“I don’t trust that result. I think that the election was a fraud. I think the election was stolen. I don’t know how anybody could not think that. All you have to do is look at the results,” said Katherine Negrete, 55, a teacher living in Peoria, Arizona.Negrete is among those who holds out hope that Trump can win if the Supreme Court intervenes (there is no indication that will happen) or Congress chooses to accept an “alternative slate” of Trump electors from several states. Election experts have said that scheme has no legal pathway and Republican Senate leaders have discouraged it.Still, Negrete said, “hopefully Congress will do the right thing” and she expressed frustration with dwindling options.“I don’t know what we can do about that. If we don’t have the courts that stand up for us,” she said. “If we don’t have an attorney general that will stand up and say, ‘This was wrong and we need to investigate it.’ What are we supposed to do? Do we need to fight brother against brother? It’s crazy.”Biden has vowed to bring Americans together and work across the aisle. His success on both fronts may depend on how many Republicans hold on to their election grievances. A Quinnipiac University poll from earlier this month found that 38% of registered voters, including 77% of Republicans, said they believe there was widespread fraud in the presidential election.And a recent Fox News poll found 36% of voters, including 77% of Trump voters, believe the election was stolen from Trump. However, the same poll also found that about 8 in 10 voters overall, and about half of Trump voters, said they will at least give Biden a chance as president.Matt Vereline, 52, a member of the pro-Trump group “Long Island Loud Majority” is not in the mood for reconciliation.Vereline, who lives in Bohemia, New York, is convinced “there was a lot more voter fraud than we know about,” though he’s not sure whether it changed the outcome. But that won’t keep him from rallying around what he thinks was an injustice. After all, that’s what Democrats did to Trump, he says.“Did they not cry for four years about Russian collusion, which wasn’t proven? So now I’m going to to cry about voter fraud for four years,” he said. “They didn’t accept it. Why should I accept Biden? I know I can’t do nothing about it. I know a rally is not going to change the course of who gets elected president. It’s whatever will be will be. But if my friends want to get together and complain about it in a peaceful way and voice our opinions, I’m going.”Others believe Biden won fair and square. Steve Volkman, a Republican who works in construction in Mesa, Arizona, said he made peace with Trump’s loss weeks ago.“I voted for Trump, but people gotta get over it,” Volkman said, while leaning against his pickup truck. “For sure, he (Biden) won the majority vote — landslide. To me, it’s already over.”Catherine Templeton, a South Carolina Republican who served in former Gov. Nikki Haley’s administration, said that, despite the level of support for Trump in red states like her own, she felt sure voters would be willing to accept Biden as president.“Obviously, South Carolina supports President Trump, but I think you’ll see when Republicans don’t get their way, they move on,” said Templeton, who lives in Charleston. “It’s time to move on.”It remains to be seen, for now, how lingering concerns over the integrity of the vote will affect turnout in future elections. Both parties have been focused on Georgia, where a pair of runoff elections will determine which party controls the US Senate.Denise Adams, 50, said she has her doubts about “questionable activity” in the general election. But she turned out to vote early on Monday in Kennesaw, a suburb northwest of Atlanta.“I don’t want to lose our freedoms,” she said, repeating misleading GOP claims that the Democrats would usher in “socialism.” “We’re losing our rights and freedoms in our country.”“I’ve never had a problem before now trusting it, but now I feel like there may be something going on that I don’t trust,” echoed Melissa McJunkin, 40, who remains concerned about the integrity of her vote after hearing stories of voter fraud in the general election, but turned out anyway.“I think it’s important for what’s going to happen next,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-supporters-accept-joe-biden-s-victory-with-reservations/story-efVzjEoXNxpxN9sOpSR6ZJ.html
16-12-2020||World||Congressional ‘gangs’ show Biden what’s possible, and not||It was about more than providing virus aid.Day after day, night after night, the gang of a dozen or so senators met over pizza and Zoom calls, hammering out a framework for a $900 billion-plus COVID-19 virus aid and economic relief package. Their goal was not only to break a stubborn impasse on the pandemic aid, but to show that the old ways of doing business in Washington — in good faith, across party lines, with give-and-take — could still succeed.Their work interjected fresh momentum toward a year-end deal. The White House jumped in with a new proposal. Congressional leaders showed interest. The gridlock seemed to be breaking.But problems quickly flared. Details proved vexing. And by week’s end, the lawmakers involved in the bipartisan talks were admitting that the thorniest problem of all — whether companies, schools and others should be protected from virus-related lawsuits — was something they simply couldn’t solve, at least not yet.For President-elect Joe Biden, it’s a clear indication that there are willing partners in Congress for the kind of consensus building he campaigned on. Yet it’s also a cautionary tale just weeks before his inauguration, showing how difficult it will be to govern from the center at a time when members of Congress, and the country at large, find it hard to bridge the gulf between them.It also showed just how broken Congress, particularly the Senate, has become.“Everyone’s frustrated,” said Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore., in an interview. “There are senators on both sides that are very frustrated that essentially the Senate has stopped functioning.”Biden has a track record of cutting deals in Congress, both as a former senator and as vice president to Barack Obama, and the new White House will be closely watched for its expected overtures to the moderates.Democrats like Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., who is known to buck his party, and newly liberated Republicans freed of Trump and eager to deliver for constituents back home will have great sway in the new year.Because the House and Senate will both have slimmer majorities, that creates opportunities for individual lawmakers to gain power by crossing party lines to tip the vote tally. It also means Biden’s administration will likely be forced to rely on Republicans in the House, if the majority Democrats splinter, and in the Senate, regardless of party control after the Jan. 5 runoff elections in Georgia.The current COVID “gang” leaders, GOP Sen. Susan Collins of Maine and Democratic Sen. Mark Warner of Virginia, all but extended an invitation to the Biden administration.“We felt the stakes were simply too high to allow partisan warfare to prevent us from delivering relief,” the two senators wrote in an op-ed announcing the bipartisan framework. “The process, too, can serve as a template for progress on other difficult but vital issues in our closely divided Senate.”Yet, as the last week’s negotiations unfolded, it became clear that party leaders still drive the decision making, the final signatories to any deal.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell signaled it was “unlikely” any compromise on the liability issue would be acceptable to Republicans, who hold the majority in the Senate.Aligning with conservative Republicans, McConnell scoffed at “bailouts” for the states — even though some GOP senators would welcome the infusion of cash to pay police, firefighters, public health workers and others back home.Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer, backed by progressives, rejected the liability shield as unfair to workers who would have little recourse to sue their employers over working conditions during COVID.“It’s an unconscionable position — no relief for the American people unless corporations receive blanket immunity from lawsuits,” Schumer said.Washington cleared out for the weekend, hopes dimmed for a sweeping deal before Christmas.Gangs often emerge in Congress, particularly the Senate, when there’s a vacuum of leadership and lawmakers have pent-up energy to break through the standoffs and find a resolution.During moments of crisis, the gangs usually succeed in focusing attention, building suspense as lawmakers huddle secretly, to develop that most elusive of Washington achievements, a bipartisan compromise.But they don’t always deliver solutions.In 2005, the Gang of 14 bipartisan senators engineered an end to a standoff over Democratic efforts to block then-President George W. Bush’s judicial nominees when all sides agreed to lower the temperature.But the agreement fell apart by 2013 as tensions boiled over with the Republican blockade of Barack Obama’s nominees. Fed up, the Senate majority leader at the time, Democrat Harry Reid, invoked the so-called “nuclear option” — a rules change that reduced the threshold for confirming many judicial and executive branch nominations to a 51-vote majority.McConnell went further in 2017, deploying the “nuclear option” to allow Trump’s Supreme Court picks to be confirmed the same way — what many of today’s senators view as a breaking point for the Senate.Congressional gangs were robust in 2013 as lawmakers tried to strike compromises with Obama.The bipartisan Gang of Eight senators delivered a sweeping immigration overhaul, a hard-fought compromise that passed by a wide margin in the Senate — only to land with a thud in the House. It never became law.Collins and other women led a gang that helped Congress ease out of the 2013 federal shutdown. And Collins helmed another gang during the 2018 shutdown that famously employed a “talking stick” so participants could take turns sharing ideas to end the standoff.Former Senate aide Ryan Nickel sees gangs as the currency of the new Congress, as centrist Democrats and Republicans assert their desire to deliver achievements during in the Biden era.“2021 can be the year of the talking stick caucus,” said Nickel, now a Democratic strategist.Others though, see the gangs as a symptom of a greater problem.Rather than vigorously debate legislation on the Senate floor, leaders shield senators from taking tough votes — or votes on bills that would actually have wide bipartisan support.It’s become a procedural arms race, each side deploying the rules of the chamber to block action, resulting in the stalemates.Merkley is working with senators to envision a functioning Senate: What if the senators took votes on the COVID bill? On amendments to provide money to the states? On the liability protection for businesses and organizations? More unemployment benefits, money for hospitals and vaccines?“At least in voting, our citizens would know where we stood,” he said. “We wouldn’t need a gang right now. We would have had a gang of 100.”___EDITOR’S NOTE — AP Congressional Correspondent Lisa Mascaro has covered Congress since 2010. Follow her at https://twitter.com/LisaMascaro||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/congressional-gangs-show-biden-what-s-possible-and-not/story-a5Ne09NXAqjEUuct3Df8DJ.html
16-12-2020||World||Over 100,000 people signed up for Covid vaccination in Saudi Arabia on Day 1||Over 100,000 people in Saudi Arabia have signed up for the coronavirus vaccination on the opening day of vaccination registration, the Saudi Health Ministry said.“Up until now, 100,546 people have signed up through the application on... smartphones to receive the coronavirus vaccine,” the ministry said in a statement.On Tuesday, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced the beginning of registration for the coronavirus vaccination. The vaccine will primarily be available to people over 65, those at risk of becoming infected as a result of their professional activities, or those with chronic diseases.At the end of last week, the Saudi Food and Drug Authority approved the registration and use of a vaccine against the new coronavirus produced by the American company Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech. The first batches of the vaccine have already been received by the kingdom.In recent months, Saudi Arabia has managed to significantly reduce the increase in the number of coronavirus cases, bringing them to just over 200 per day. Since the beginning of the pandemic, more than 360,000 people have gone through Covid-19 in the kingdom, with nearly 351,000 recoveries and over 6,000 deaths. (ANI/Sputnik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-100-000-people-signed-up-for-covid-vaccination-in-saudi-arabia-on-day-1/story-4R0XRPbUCV4Uex4lIGvzMJ.html
16-12-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine update: Gennova Pharmaceuticals gets permission for trials, US deems Moderna candidate safe for use||Global search for a vaccine to treat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has entered a crucial phase with at least three countries - the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada - beginning to administer shots for emergency cases. These are shots of the Pfizer Inc-BioNTech SE vaccine candidate, which has been approved for emergency case use by several other countries as well.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe global tally of Covid-19 cases, meanwhile, is at more than 73 million with over 1.6 million lives lost due to the virus, as per worldometers. Nearly 52 million people, too, have defeated the disease, the tally shows.Here are the latest developments on the Covid-19 vaccine development front:1. Dr VK Paul, NITI Aayog member, on Tuesday said the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had recently granted nod for phase 1 and 2 trials of the vaccine candidate of Pune-based Gennova Pharmaceuticals Limited. The firm’s vaccine candidate, called HGCO19, is based on the same technology - mRNA - as that used by the Pfizer vaccine candidate.2. The United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) on Tuesday said its preliminary analysis confirmed the safety and efficacy of Moderna’s vaccine candidate. A panel comprising outside experts is likely to approve the vaccine on Thursday, with FDA’s approval to follow soon. The agency’s announcement came a day after the vaccination drive of the Pfizer candidate started across the country.3. Oman joined the list of countries to allow the use of Pfizer’s vaccine candidate, its state-run agency reported on Tuesday. The vaccine, local media, has been approved for use on people above the age of 16. Oman joins neighbours Bahrain, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia in allowing the Pfizer candidate’s shot.4. In an unusual move, Indonesia plans to vaccinate its young people before senior citizens. The country will focus on vaccinating people between 18 to 59 years of age, starting with those working on the front lines such as health workers, the police, and the military.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-gennova-pharmaceuticals-gets-permission-for-trials-us-deems-moderna-candidate-safe-for-use/story-C4Hqi1K0ct00eu5HL6rLZP.html
16-12-2020||World||Joe Biden picks former EPA chief McCarthy as climate policy czar: Reports||President-elect Joe Biden has selected Gina McCarthy, Barack Obama’s former EPA chief, to run a special White House office on climate change that will coordinate policy and elevate global warming to a top place in the executive office, three people familiar with the matter said Tuesday.McCarthy, who led the Environmental Protection Agency for nearly four years during Obama’s second term, was the driving force behind combating climate change through regulation, including his signature Clean Power Plan, which took a novel approach to limit greenhouse gas emissions but the Supreme Court blocked from going into force while legal challenges played out. Ultimately, President Donald Trump’s EPA repealed the regulation before it got underway.As the White House climate czar, she would work across agencies to ensure a coordinated, approach to confronting climate change. McCarthy would work closely with former Secretary of State John Kerry, who Biden announced in November as special presidential climate envoy focusing on re-entry of the U.S. to the Paris climate accord and related diplomacy.The job doesn’t require Senate confirmation.A McCarthy spokeswoman didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.McCarthy’s appointment comes as Biden seeks to fulfill a campaign promise to make fighting climate change a top priority. Biden has proposed a sweeping $2 trillion climate plan that calls for an emissions-free electric grid in 15 years and net-zero emissions across the entire economy by 2050.McCarthy, 66, who has been president of the Natural Resources Defense Council since January, also took action to cap methane leaks from oil and gas wells and related equipment while head of the EPA. The limits McCarthy’s EPA imposed in 2016 were the first to explicitly regulate the potent greenhouse gas, going beyond existing mandates that focused on other, conventional air pollution at the sites.McCarthy’s previous roles have included serving as commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection, where she was instrumental in developing the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a multi-state effort to reduce emissions contributing to global warming, according to her NRDC biography.McCarthy, a Boston native, previously advised five Massachusetts governors, including now Senator Mitt Romney. She served as deputy secretary of the Massachusetts Office of Commonwealth Development, and undersecretary of policy for the Massachusetts Executive Office of Environmental Affairs.“McCarthy knows the regulatory landscape better than anyone, but also has sharp political instincts to enable parts of their legislative agenda,” Paul Bledsoe, a former Clinton White House climate aide, said before her apppointment became public. “It’s hard to find both.”For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-picks-former-epa-chief-mccarthy-as-climate-policy-czar-reports/story-uUy0Lev5bQARVCK3ESxokK.html
16-12-2020||World||Melania Trump flouts children’s hospital policy by taking her mask off||US First Lady Melania Trump on Tuesday violated the stated mask policy at Children’s National Hospital as she removed her mask to read a holiday book to children.According to a CNN report, the first lady arrived in the hospital’s main atrium wearing a mask but when she took her seat in front of a tree, she removed the mask.According to the hospital policy, “Everyone must wear a mask at all times while in any Children’s National facility to prevent the spread of COVID-19, including wearing a mask when entering any Children’s National building, as mandated by area officials. This includes all public places, such as the hallway and cafeteria and wearing a mask at all times when you are around other individuals.”According to CNN, the First Lady did not comment on why she removed her mask and if she had received special permission to do so.Diana Troese, Children’s National spokeswoman, citing the Washington, DC, health regulators, said, “Our number one priority at Children’s National Hospital is the safety of our patients, families and employees. Under DC Health regulations, wearing a mask is not required when a person is giving a speech for broadcast or an audience, provided no one is within six feet of the speaker.”“In the case of today’s visit which was broadcast to our 325 patients, while the First Lady did remove her mask while she read a story, she was more than 12 feet away from others in our large atrium. All other people in that space were wearing masks. The remainder of her visit, she wore a mask,” she added. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/melania-trump-flouts-children-s-hospital-policy-by-taking-her-mask-off/story-IjNF1smfh3iLbZN4hQVsbI.html
16-12-2020||World||4 out of every 5 Pak citizens believe country headed in wrong direction: Report||Four out of every five persons in Pakistan view that the country is headed in the wrong direction, according to the latest survey by research company IPSOS.Citing the report that was released on Tuesday, The News International reported that only 23 per cent people believe that the country is moving towards the right direction and 77 per cent believe otherwise.More than 1,000 people from all over the country participated in the survey which was conducted between December 1 and December 6, 2020.Last year, in the fourth quarter, 21 per cent people believed that the country was headed on the right track, while 79 per cent had a contrasting opinion.This year, 36 per cent people said that their current personal financial situation is weak, 13 per cent characterised it as strong and 51 per cent said it is neither strong nor weak, The News International said.Meanwhile, the last year’s data show that 38 per cent believed that their financial situation is weak, 5 per cent viewed it as strong and 57 per cent put it in between.Meanwhile, on province-wise assessment, the report found that a “poor financial situation” featured in almost all the provinces and inflation ranked number 1 among the list of top 4 contributors to the desperate situation.“In Sindh, the second-highest contributor was viewed to be unemployment (20 per cent), followed by Covid-19 (17 per cent) and poverty (16 per cent). In Punjab, 23 per cent people felt the province’s poor financial situation stems from unemployment, 8 per cent thought it was due to Covid-19 and 14 per cent believed poverty has a role,” The News International said.Meanwhile, in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa about 18 per cent believed unemployment, 12 per cent viewed coronavirus and 8 per cent called poverty as the reason behind the province’s financial situation.Similarly, in Balochistan about 25 per cent responded by blaming unemployment, a mere 2 per cent felt Covid-19 played a role, and 25 per cent felt it was poverty that has led to the province’s dismal state of financial affairs, said Pakistani media outlet citing the research report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/4-out-of-every-5-pak-citizens-believe-country-headed-in-wrong-direction-report/story-ebFwpaCd0myR1xq5Oq4tHM.html
16-12-2020||World||Desecration of Gandhi’s statue appalling: Kayleigh McEnany||White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany has described as “appalling” the desecration of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue outside the Indian embassy here and said his reputation should be respected, especially in the US capital.A violent group of Khalistani separatists on Saturday desecrated Mahatma Gandhi’s statue outside the Indian embassy in Washington during a demonstration by Sikh-American youths in support of farmers protesting against the recently enacted agriculture laws in India.Responding to a question about the incident during a press conference, McEnany said, “It’s terrible. No statue or memorial should be desecrated and certainly not one like that of Gandhi who really fought for the values that America represents of peace, justice, and freedom.” “It is appalling that it has happened more than once and we believe the reputation of Mahatma Gandhi should be respected, especially here in America’s capital,” she said.A State Department spokesperson said on Tuesday that they were aware of recent protests in front of the Indian Embassy in Washington DC.“We take our responsibility to provide for the safety and security of foreign missions in the US very seriously and are discussing the recent incident with the Indian Embassy,” the spokesperson said.Hundreds of Sikhs from in and around Greater Washington DC area, Maryland and Virginia, along with many from other states like New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Indiana, Ohio and North Carolina, on Saturday undertook a car rally to the Indian embassy in downtown Washington DC, where they gathered to express solidarity with the protesting Indian farmers.However, the peaceful protest was soon hijacked by the separatist Sikhs who were carrying Khalistani flags with anti-India posters and banners.During the protest, many of the pro-Khalistan Sikh youths flashing kirpans jumped on the statue of Mahatma Gandhi and pasted a poster over it. The group raised anti-India and pro-Khalistan slogans. The Indian embassy condemned the “mischievous act” by hooligans masquerading as protesters.“The statue of Mahatma Gandhi at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Plaza in front of the embassy was defaced by Khalistani elements on 12 December 2020. The Embassy strongly condemns this mischievous act by hooligans masquerading as protesters against the universally respected icon of peace and justice,” it said in a statement.The embassy said it has lodged a strong protest with the US law enforcement agencies and also taken up the matter with the Department of State for an early investigation and action against the culprits under the applicable law. The statue of Mahatma Gandhi was unveiled by then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in the presence of then US president Bill Clinton on September 16, 2000, after the US Congress passed a law in 1998.This is for the second time that Gandhi’s statue has been desecrated by miscreants this year.The first such incident was reported on the intervening night of June 2 and 3 when unknown miscreants vandalised his statue outside the Indian embassy in the US with graffiti and spray painting, prompting the mission to register a complaint with the local law enforcement agencies.Vandalism of the statue of the apostle of peace happened during the week of nationwide protests against the custodial killing of African-American George Floyd in Minneapolis on May 25. PTI LKJ NSD NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/desecration-of-gandhi-s-statue-appalling-kayleigh-mcenany/story-MyBeZamfNgubT8kN3R3i5J.html
16-12-2020||World||Paris city hall faces 90k euros fine for naming too many women to top jobs||Paris city hall has been fined 90,000 euros for having appointed too many women to top positions in 2018, in breach of a law aimed at ensuring gender balance.Paris mayor Anne Hidalgo denounced the fine as “unfair” and “absurd” on Tuesday during a meeting of the city council.In 2018, 11 women and five men -- who represent just over 30 per cent -- were appointed to top positions in the Paris city hall, leading the Civil Service Ministry to impose the fine.A 2013 law, meant to ensure that women get better access to senior jobs in the civil service, requires a minimum of 40 per cent of appointments for each gender.Since then, the law has been changed to provide for exceptions to nominations when the gender balance is respected overall.In Paris city hall, 47 per cent of all civil servants in senior positions are women.“Yes, we need to promote women with determination and vigour because everywhere, France is still lagging behind (on that issue),” Hidalgo said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/paris-city-hall-faces-90k-euros-fine-for-naming-too-many-women-to-top-jobs/story-oU5BjYUvx0ZHyJL5YMRkCP.html
16-12-2020||World||Regulators in EU bring forward vaccine ruling||The European Union’s medicines agency said on Tuesday it has moved up a meeting to assess the Pfizer-BioNTech coronavirus vaccine for provisional approval in the 27-nation bloc to December 21. The agency said it made the decision after receiving additional data from the vaccine makers.The announcement came after Germany’s health ministry publicly demanded that the agency move quicker than its previously planned December 29 meeting at which it was to discuss approving the vaccine.Meanwhile, British authorities are set to hold talks on Christmas coronavirus rules after a surge in infections fuelled demands from medical experts to stop households mixing over the holiday. Cabinet office minister Michael Gove was expected discuss the issue with his counterparts from the devolved administrations in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland later on Tuesday. Unemployment in the UK surged in the three months through October, exposing the brutal impact of the pandemic on the economy. The number of people looking for work surged by 241,000 in the period, taking the jobless rate to 4.9%, the highest since 2016, the Office for National Statistics has said.Also, the 1.5 million-strong Indian community in the UK has been the group most affected by the pandemic among non-whites in the UK, according to new figures released on Tuesday. The data shows that their mental health was particularly affected, and in England alone, 1,105 people of Indian origin have died.An 89-year-old resident of a care home in Quebec became the first Canadian to receive a Covid-19 vaccine shot as the country is among the first to roll out its vaccination programme. Gisèle Lévesque received the Pfizer-BioNTech jab in Quebec City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/regulators-in-eu-bring-forward-vaccine-ruling/story-ODJQs1yfFAy3sEDdNzZwaK.html
16-12-2020||World||‘Congrats’: Vladimir Putin accepts Joe Biden’s triumph, at last||Russian President Vladimir Putin sent Joe Biden a congratulatory telegram after the electoral college formalised his victory in the November 3 election, making him among the last world leaders to recognise the US president-elect.Putin wished Biden luck and said Russia and the US can contribute to solving global problems, according to a Kremlin statement on Tuesday. “For my part, I am ready for cooperation and contacts with you,” Putin said in the statement.The Russian president had previously said he wouldn’t recognise the election results until they were accepted by Biden’s opponent or confirmed in a “legitimate” way.The Democrat’s electoral college win over President Donald Trump was finalised after electors in each state voted on Monday. Trump and his allies are still protesting the result, but with more than 50 post-election lawsuits rejected, they have no viable path to overturn it.Putin’s telegram came a day after hackers tied to the Russian authorities were suspected of involvement in one of the most audacious attacks on US government agencies in recent memory, as part of a global campaign involving malware inserted into updates by a software maker. Russia has denied involvement. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov dismissed the allegations, saying, “Once again, I can reject these accusations and once again I want to remind you that it was President Putin who proposed that the American side agree and conclude agreements (with Russia) on cyber security.”Top Republican in Senate congratulates BidenMitch McConnell, the top Republican in the US Senate, has congratulated Biden and vice-president-elect Kamala Harris on their election win. McConnell, who is the Senate majority leader, is the first elected Republican official to acknowledge Biden’s win. “The electoral college has spoken... I want to congratulate President-elect Joe Biden,” McConnell said.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/congrats-vladimir-putin-accepts-joe-biden-s-triumph-at-last/story-MU8xEiZgIW2KzRPKlM68cL.html
16-12-2020||World||WHO to sift Chinese samples, data in hunt for coronavirus origins||A German scientist who is part of a small team of experts assembled by the World Health Organisation to investigate the origins of the coronavirus says they plan to sift through samples and medical data from China to help determine where the bug first jumped from animals to humans and which species it came from.The search for the source of the new coronavirus has sparked claims of cover-ups and fuelled political tensions, particularly between the US administration of President Donald Trump and Beijing. Most researchers think that the virus, also known as SARS-CoV-2, originated in animals in China, probably bats, and the WHO has put together a 10-person team to examine the science.Mission member Fabian Leendertz, a biologist at Germany’s Robert Koch Institute who specialised in emerging diseases, said that the goal is to gather data to be better prepared for possible future outbreaks.“It’s really not about finding a guilty country,” Leendertz said. “It’s about trying to understand what happened and then see if based on those data, we can try to reduce the risk in the future.” In an interview Tuesday with The Associated Press, Leendertz said the team has already begun discussions with scientists in China and expects to travel to the country next month. They will likely start in Wuhan, where the outbreak was first reported, though a precise itinerary hasn’t yet been set.Leendertz, who was part of a previous mission to track down the origins of an Ebola outbreak in West Africa, said that while he “would love that to be an Indiana Jones mission” with scientists conducting groundbreaking field work, “it’s more (...) a team effort with Chinese colleagues to help identify the necessary next steps and how to continue,” he said.One of the difficulties is that those who contract Covid-19 can display a wide range of symptoms similar to flu or other diseases, or even no symptoms at all. This makes tracking the chain of infection much harder than with Ebola, which has clear and dramatic symptoms that people remember.Leendertz said scientists would be looking to see whether stored medical samples from before the first known case provide evidence that the virus was circulating earlier than previously thought.“Then to see where that track leads us, if it’s another city or if it stays in Wuhan or where that goes,” he said.Another line of inquiry will be to examine the famous market in Wuhan that was pinpointed early on as a possible location for the leap from animal to human.“It may also be that it was just the first mega spreading event or one of the first,” he said.Tracking down the animal in which the virus emerged will be key, and for this the group will need to take samples of further bat species and other animals that might harbor the microbe.Leendertz said the team has not been informed of any restrictions on their work in China beyond the two-week quarantine all travellers currently face. In total, the mission is expected to last four to five weeks, he said.“There will be a report from that mission, but I’m pretty sure that (it) will not give the full answer,” he said, adding that further research will likely be necessary.Leendertz expressed confidence in China’s “excellent researchers” and said data collected by the country’s extensive disease surveillance system would likely prove valuable.“Also X-rays from the hospitals — we now know quite well what COVID-19 patients look like. ... So that could also be a hint,” he said.“The big scope is to try to find out what happened,” said Leendertz. “How the virus jumped from which animal to perhaps an intermediate host and then to humans. To reconstruct the scenario.” “The more you know about why these spillover events happen, the better you can also check if there are countermeasures you can take to prevent such transmissions in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-to-sift-chinese-samples-data-in-hunt-for-coronavirus-origins/story-SzEoDdX6XrmU6m8ZDFT9pL.html
16-12-2020||World||New figures show British Indians hardest hit by Covid-19 pandemic||Covid-19 has affected the 1.5 million-strong Indian community the most among non-whites in the UK due to a combination of factors: new figures on Tuesday show their mental health was particularly affected, and in England alone, 1,105 from the community have died.Official studies have highlighted the disproportionately adverse impact on Indian and other non-white communities, mainly due to a range of pre-existing conditions such as diabetes and heart ailments; and socio-economic factors such as residential overcrowding and employment in lower-end public facing occupations.A new dimension was added with the Office for National Statistics (ONS) stating that the mental well-being of those in the Indian ethnic group may have been particularly affected by the pandemic as they reported both greater difficulty with sleep over worry between 2019 and the initial period of lockdown (April 2020).The community also had higher scores than other groups on a measure of self-reported mental health difficulties. Loneliness is among the reasons mentioned in the ONS research.Besides, according to latest figures from NHS England, patients categorised as ‘Indian’ in official records topped the list of non-white people who died from the virus: 1,105, accounting for 3 per cent of deaths by ethnicity. The Indian group was followed ‘Pakistani’, with 1,000 deaths.The community’s death figure, however, is expected to be higher, since the NHS England figure relates to only deaths in hospitals and care-homes, excluding those in homes and other settings.On the mental health research, Glenn Everett of ONS said: “What today’s research shows us is how the impact on different ethnic groups varies and how people’s circumstances before the pandemic could affect their experience during the first national lockdown”.“Financial resilience was lower among Black African or Other Black households before the pandemic, for example, which would explain why these groups found it harder to manage financially during lockdown. Perhaps unsurprisingly, mental health deteriorated across most ethnic groups during lockdown but was most marked in the Indian group.”Several Indian-origin doctors, nurses and pharmacists have succumbed to the virus during the year, besides others working in public-facing professions. Funeral agencies catering to the community have been busy during the year.The ONS said that at the start of the UK-wide lockdown earlier in the year, across all ethnic groups, people reported an increased or persistent loss of sleep over worry.After adjusting for age, over one-third (36%) of those from the Indian ethnic group reported this, compared with less than a quarter (23%) of White British respondents and 18% of those in the Other White ethnic groups. When comparing across the groups, respondents from the Indian ethnic group reported a greater average increase than those from the White British ethnic group (0.8).“Taken together with the findings on loss of sleep over worry for the Indian ethnic group, this suggests that their mental well-being may have been particularly challenged by the pandemic, the ONS added.Those of White Irish ethnicity (28%), it said, were more likely to report either continuing to feel lonely often or to experience an increase in feelings of loneliness between 2019 and April 2020 than people from White British (18%) ethnicity. Nearly a quarter of those from the Indian ethnic group (24%) also reported this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-figures-show-british-indians-hardest-hit-by-covid-19-pandemic/story-ME5JAZ1E2CB0guvhWLGEzH.html
16-12-2020||India||Odisha schoolboy charred to death while taking selfie atop train||A 13-year-old schoolboy in Odisha’s Paralakhemundi town was charred to death this evening when he tried to take a selfie by climbing atop a train. The boy lost his life when he came in contact with a high voltage power line.Police officials said the boy had gone to Paralakhemundi railway station in Gajapati district with two of his friends when he wanted to climb the compartment of a Covid special train covered with tarpaulin and take a selfie. Gajapati SP Tapan Patnaik said as soon as the schoolboy climbed atop the bogie, he was electrocuted and then charred to death. His friends also sustained injuries.Also read: Govt sets up ‘trusted source’ bar for phone companies to shield them from attacksThe East Coast Railway authorities have ordered a probe into the incident.The train compartment also caught fire as soon as the boy was charred. The boy studied in Std 9 of Centurion Public School, Paralakhemundi. He boy was rushed to hospital where doctors declared him dead.In September this year, a 22-year-old engineer from Tamil Nadu drowned to death in Boudh district of Odisha as he dived into the reservoir to salvage his mobile phone that had dropped from his hand while taking a selfie. Similarly, in August this year, two youths of Bargarh district died after slipping into the Kapildhar waterfalls while clicking selfies. In December last year, two teenaged girls of Jajpur district had drowned in a river while clicking selfies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-schoolboy-charred-to-death-while-taking-selfie-atop-train/story-c6IF8hypBELQMFXwCfVIaN.html
16-12-2020||India||Farmers, govt standoff continues as talks in limbo on day 21: All you need to know||In a grim standoff with government, thousands of farmers have continued their protest against three contentious farm laws for three weeks now even as northern India stares at a cold wave. On Wednesday, the protesting farmers said constituting a new panel to break the stalemate on the three new agri laws is not a solution as they want a complete withdrawal of the legislations. Government should have formed a committee of farmers and others before the laws were enacted by Parliament, the union said. Here are the key developments from day 21 of the protest:- Unable to bear ‘farmers’ plight’, Sikh cleric shoots himself deadA Sikh preacher supporting the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s agriculture laws allegedly committed suicide near the Singhu border in Delhi on Wednesday, police said. A handwritten note in Punjabi, purportedly left behind by the deceased, says he was unable to bear the “pain of farmers”.The note is being verified by police.- Supreme Court seeks Centre’s reply on pleas seeking removal of protesting farmers from Delhi bordersThe Supreme Court Wednesday issued a notice to the Centre and others on a batch of petitions seeking removal of farmers camping at several roads near Delhi borders in protest against the three new agri laws.A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde, and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian also indicated that the court may form a committee having representatives of the government and the farmer unions across the country to resolve the deadlock over the legislations.- Stop holding parallel talks with other farmer bodies: Protesting farmer unions to govtAn umbrella body of 40 farmer unions protesting against the new agri laws wrote to the Centre on Wednesday, asking it to stop holding “parallel talks” with other farmer bodies over the contentious legislations.In a letter to Union Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal, the Morcha said the Centre should also stop “defaming” the ongoing protests being held at several Delhi border points against the three farm laws.- Centre being “stubborn” in face of farmers’ agitation: Delhi ministerThe Centre should give up its “ego” and “stubbornness” and accept the demands of farmers who are protesting against the new farm laws at Delhi’s borders despite the biting cold, the city’s Development minister Gopal Rai said on Wednesday.Rai, also convener of the Delhi unit of the AAP, said the Arvind Kejriwal-led government and his party stand firmly with the farmers and have been making certain arrangements for them during their protest.- Security beefed up at Chilla borderSecurity arrangements were tightened at the Chilla border between Delhi and Noida on Wednesday as farmer union leaders have threatened to completely block the key border point to press for repeal of the Centre’s new farm laws.A senior police officer said elaborate security measures are already in place at the Chilla border. Multi-layered barricades, jersey barriers and additional security personnel have been deployed to ensure law and order.- Puri appeals to protesting farmers to resume talks with CentreUnion minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday appealed to protesting farmers to resume talks with the central government to discuss their “genuine” demands, saying this is not the time to remain “adamant”.“We are ready to hold talks with them (farmers) to discuss their genuine demands. We are ready to find a solution of this problem, but it is necessary that the farmer brothers join the talks again and put forth their points face to face,” he said.- Farm laws row can be solved in 5 minutes if PM steps in: Sanjay RautThe issues flagged by agitating farmers can be solved in five minutes if Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself steps in, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said on Wednesday. Raut said the BJP-led NDA government should have a dialogue with the farmers who are protesting for the last 21 days outside Delhi demanding scrapping of the Centre’s three new agri-marketing laws.- Farmers’ protest a planned conspiracy by Opposition: Gujarat BJP chiefBJP’s Gujarat unit president C R Paatil on Wednesday alleged that the ongoing agitation by farmers on the Delhi borders was a planned conspiracy by the opposition parties to create anarchy in the country and to destabilise it.Paatil, a BJP MP from Navsari Lok Sabha constituency in Gujarat, said Congress was in favour of these farm sector reforms when it was in power before 2014.- At Tikri boder, widows, sisters, mothers of farmers join protestSeveral family members, including widows, mothers and sisters, of Punjab farmers who committed suicide due to rising debt, joined the protesters at Tikri border on Wednesday.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and elsewhere have been protesting near various border points of Delhi, including Singhu and Tikri, for over a fortnight demanding that the Centre repeal three new farm laws.- Modi govt continuously working for farmers’ benefits: Amit ShahUnion Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government is continuously working for the interests of the country’s farmers. In a tweet in Hindi, he said the Modi government has taken another major decision and approved an assistance of Rs 3,500 crore for sugarcane farmers.Shah expressed his heartfelt gratitude to Prime Minister Modi for this decision, which will benefit five crore sugarcane farmers, their families and five lakh workers associated with the sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-govt-standoff-continues-as-talks-in-limbo-on-day-21-all-you-need-to-know/story-Ua5XaX3TCf1wQhuCFu9xYI.html
16-12-2020||India||‘Does he know anything about farming?’: MP CM slams Rahul Gandhi amid stir||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday lashed out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over the ongoing farmers’ protests against the new farm laws and added that people working against the country’s interest have entered the agitation.Gandhi, who has been a strong critic of the three new laws passed by Parliament in September, has targeted the Narendra Modi-led government on several occasions. On Wednesday, he slammed the Centre over the death of a Sikh priest named Sant Baba Ram Singh who shot himself at the Kundli border- which is a protest site. Gandhi said that the brutality of the Modi government had crossed all limits and demanded immediate withdrawal of the farm laws. Does Rahul Gandhi know anything about farming?...He doesn't know whether jaggery is made from sugarcane or comes out of machine...People working against nation's interests have entered farmers' agitation: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan at a gathering in Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh pic.twitter.com/mmuP7xO9aAMeanwhile, Chouhan while addressing a farmers’ gathering in Jabalpur said, “Does Rahul Gandhi know anything about farming?...He doesn’t know whether jaggery is made from sugarcane or comes out of machine...People working against nation’s interests have entered farmers’ agitation. ” A large number of farmers from various districts of the Jabalpur division had participated in the meet.Chouhan announced that insurance claims worth Rs 1,600 crore arising out of crop loss will be disbursed on December 18 and deposited in bank accounts of 35 lakh farmers in the state. He further targeted Congress leader and former MP chief minister Kamal Nath for not contributing the state government’s share of premium amount of crop loss insurance for farmers on time.Also Read| ‘Hour of grief’: Rahul Gandhi condoles Baba Ram Singh’s death, slams Modi government for farmers’ plight“The state government has decided to give a sum of Rs 4,000 to each farmer - in instalments - in addition to Rs 6,000 from the Centre given under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM Kisan),” he added.Chouhan once again accused Nath of not extending the benefit of the PM Kisan scheme to the farmers of MP by not sending the list of beneficiaries to the central government.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-he-know-anything-about-farming-mp-cm-slams-rahul-gandhi-amid-stir/story-Qigcu0Rc1nHzVduXzyfC9H.html
16-12-2020||India||Bolstering cooperation, connectivity on agenda at India-Bangladesh virtual summit on Thursday||India and Bangladesh are expected to sign nine agreements to boost cooperation in diverse areas and revive a railway link disrupted by the 1965 war with Pakistan during a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his counterpart Sheikh Hasina on Thursday.With Bangladesh focused on celebrations marking its Victory Day on December 16, the upcoming 50th anniversary of independence in March and the birth centenary of its founder Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the two leaders will release a commemorative stamp and open the “Bangabandhu-Bapu Digital Exhibition”.Officials of the two sides are giving final shape to nine memorandums of understanding (MoUs) expected to be signed during the summit, Bangladesh foreign minister AK Abdul Momen has said. He didn’t give details on the MoUs.Also read: Govt sets up ‘trusted source’ bar for phone companies to shield them from attacksThe two premiers, who will be meeting virtually for the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak, will witness the reopening of Chilahati-Haldibari railway route, 55 years after it was snapped during the India-Pakistan war. At that time, Bangladesh was known as East Pakistan.As part of efforts to enhance transport and connectivity, the two sides have already reopened four of six rail links that were suspended in 1965 – Petrapole- Benapole, Gede-Darshana, Singhabad-Rohanpur and Radhikapur-Birol. The Haldibari-Chilahati link was part of the main broad gauge route between Kolkata and Siliguri. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity the Haldibari-Chilahati route will enhance connectivity to Assam and West Bengal from Bangladesh, and support bilateral trade. Initially, the link will be used to transport goods and passenger movement will start after infrastructure is developed. With Dhaka on Tuesday extending the birth centenary celebrations for Sheikh Mujibur Rahman till December 2021, the new stamp will pay tribute to the father of the nation of Bangladesh, whom Modi has hailed as “one of the greatest personalities of the last century”. The “Bangabandhu-Bapu Digital Exhibition”, which will pay tribute to Rahman and Mahatma Gandhi, will initially be on display in New Delhi before travelling to different locations in Bangladesh and the UN and culminating in Kolkata in 2022. The exhibition will focus on the Jallianwala Bagh and the “Genocide Tunnel” to portray the pain and suffering endured by people in the two countries. Bangladesh foreign minister Momen also said Dhaka will raise all major bilateral issues during the summit, including sharing of river waters, Covid-19 cooperation, border killings, trade imbalance and the Rohingya crisis.Also read: Nearly half of China’s investments in India’s neighbourhood went to PakistanHe said Bangladesh wants to bring under a single framework the seven trans-border rivers - Monu, Muhuri, Gomti, Dharla, Dudhkumar, Feni and Teesta - and will seek an early meeting of the ministerial Joint River Commission (JRC) to forge a framework to resolve all outstanding issues.Bangladesh’s Beximco Pharma has signed an MoU with the Serum Institute of India for 30 million doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, and New Delhi has pledged to help Dhaka with vaccines.Bangladesh is also expected to seek India’s assistance in resolving the crisis of Rohingya refugees from Myanmar, especially after New Delhi begins its stint as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bolstering-cooperation-connectivity-on-agenda-at-india-bangladesh-virtual-summit-on-thursday/story-69KfdMjjrRLkoK1kvodCUM.html
16-12-2020||India||Dualist Inquiry: I stay focused on my journey, don’t follow trends||Isolation is the space in which I’m able to process and make sense of all the experiences I have in my life,” says musician Dualist Inquiry. The artiste, known for his tracks like Isoterra and For Joss, says without this situation, it feels like there’s a build-up of “unprocessed material” that has not been turned into creative expression.With the pandemic and clouds of uncertainty looming over the future of live performances, the 33-year-old feels “there will be a gradual increase in the number of live shows” until the pandemic is behind us. Moreover, these challenges have presented themselves at a time when music is constantly changing and evolving.  A post shared by Dualist Inquiry (@dualistinquiry)“There is going to be a huge boom in the number and scale of live events that will take place in 2021 or 2022,” says the artiste, who recently released his latest track Closer in collaboration with Sachin Malhar. The track, he says, “is about heartbreak, and about the feeling of not being able to connect with someone in spite of wanting to do so”. About the changes that may take place in the music industry thanks to the rise of independent artistes, he says, “The music industry has been changing beyond recognition every 5-10 years, and the last decade has been no exception.” He adds, “I’m personally staying focused on my own artistic journey and not really paying too much attention to the trends that come and go every few years. As an artist, you can’t get too attached to the past - you have to keep leaving it behind and moving forward by adapting to the situation at every turn.” A post shared by Dualist Inquiry (@dualistinquiry)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dualist-inquiry-i-stay-focused-on-my-journey-don-t-follow/story-2HOSN9GZ8nZYEgEgteuG1I.html
16-12-2020||India||‘Hour of grief’: Rahul Gandhi condoles Baba Ram Singh’s death, slams Modi government for farmers’ plight||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday condoled the death of 65-year-old Sikh protest Sant Baba Ram Singh, who shot himself at Kundli border and died at the protest site. “Seeing the plights of the farmers, Sant Baba Ram Singh ji of Karnal died by suicide at Kundli border. I offer my condolence and tribute at this hour of grief,” Gandhi tweeted adding that many farmers have sacrificed their lives. करनाल के संत बाबा राम सिंह जी ने कुंडली बॉर्डर पर किसानों की दुर्दशा देखकर आत्महत्या कर ली। इस दुख की घड़ी में मेरी संवेदनाएँ और श्रद्धांजलि।कई किसान अपने जीवन की आहुति दे चुके हैं। मोदी सरकार की क्रूरता हर हद पार कर चुकी है। ज़िद छोड़ो और तुरंत कृषि विरोधी क़ानून वापस लो! pic.twitter.com/rolS2DWNr1“The brutality of the Modi government has crossed all limits,” Rahul tweeted urging the government to shun its stubbornness and immediately withdraw the “anti-farm” laws.The priest used to head a Gurdwara in Karnal. “Farmers are in pain. They are protesting on roads for their rights, which is a cause of extreme pain. The government is not giving justice, which is cruelty. It is a sin to endure persecution and also a sin to oppress. Some have stood for the farmer rights and against the cruelty. People have returned their awards to show protest. I am committing suicide against the cruelty of the government. This is a voice against the cruelty and voice in favour of the farmers,” he wrote in a note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hour-of-grief-rahul-gandhi-condoles-baba-ram-singh-s-death-slams-modi-government-for-farmers-plight/story-AfFDsJLdi5a2b7uPt99CmL.html
16-12-2020||India||Biting cold grips north India; eight killed in UP accident due to fog||Icy winds swept north India on Wednesday, with Amritsar in Punjab reporting the lowest minimum temperature in the plains, while dense fog engulfed several parts of Uttar Pradesh, where eight people died when a bus collided with a gas tanker amid reduced visibility. The mercury dropped below the freezing point in several hilly areas of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. “The lowest minimum temperature of 2.0°C reported at Amritsar (Punjab) over the plains of the country,” the India Meteorological Department’s bulletin said. The maximum temperature in the holy city settled at 8.2 degrees Celsius, which was down by 13 notches against normal limits, making it even colder than Manali, Shimla and Srinagar. Manali, Shimla and Srinagar recorded maximum temperatures of 10.4 degrees Celsius, 11.7 degrees Celsius and 10.4 degrees Celsius, respectively. Delhi registered a minimum temperature of 5.8 degrees Celsius, while the visibility dropped to 100 metres in the Palam area in the morning due to “dense fog”. The India Meteorological Department has predicted both “cold day” and “cold wave” in parts of the national capital on Thursday and Friday. Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, experienced the coldest night of the season as the valley reeled under cold conditions with the mercury plummeting several degrees below the freezing point owing to a clear sky. The mercury in Gulmarg, the famous ski-resort in north Kashmir, settled at a low of minus 11.0 degrees Celsius which is about seven degrees below the normal for this time of the season, the officials said. The resort was the coldest recorded place in the Union Territory. In Himachal Pradesh, the weather remained dry in the last 24 hours, even as Manali, Dalhousie, Keylong and Kalpa in the state shivered at sub-zero temperatures. The minimum temperature decreased by one to two degrees Celsius in the state in the last 24 hours, the MeT Department said. Keylong, the administrative centre of the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti, continued to be the coldest place in the state at minus 5.6 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature in Rajasthan has dropped by up to four degrees in the last 24 hours and the weather office has issued a cold wave warning for the next two days. Ganganagar was recorded as the coldest place in the state at 2.5 degrees Celsius. Parts of Uttar Pradesh received light rains, while dense fog engulfed isolated places over western part of the state. Eight people died, while 21 more sustained injuries on Wednesday morning when an Uttar Pradesh Roadways bus collided with a gas tanker amid reduced visibility due to fog, police said. Bareilly was the coldest place in the state where the minimum temperature was 5.3 degrees Celsius. Weather is most likely to remain dry and shallow to moderate fog is very likely at isolated places over the state on December 18 and 19. PTI TEAM SNE SNE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biting-cold-grips-north-india-eight-killed-in-up-accident-due-to-fog/story-8U22PvTn3LofIsejpS4AQK.html
16-12-2020||India||Indian farm widows join protests against agriculture reforms||Hundreds of Indian women, including many widows of farmers who were believed to have killed themselves over debt, joined a protest on Wednesday against government reforms that farmers say threaten their livelihoods.Farmers have been protesting for nearly a month over the reforms, enacted in September, to deregulate the agriculture sector, allowing farmers to sell to buyers beyond government-regulated wholesale markets.Small farmers fear the changes will mean the end of guaranteed minimum prices for their crops and leave them at the mercy of big retailers.“If these black laws come, more farmers will go deeper into debt,” said 40-year-old Harshdeep Kaur, a widow from Punjab state, at one protest site on the outskirts of the capital, New Delhi.“More mothers and sisters will become widows like me.”Suicide by struggling farmers has been a problem in India for years. Nearly 10,350 farmers and agricultural labourers committed suicide in 2018 - making up almost 8% of all suicides in India, according to the National Crime Records Bureau.Kaur said her husband committed suicide three years ago after running up debts of 500,000 rupees (nearly $7,000). As she spoke, she held a passport sized photo of him.The reforms, contained in three laws, loosen rules around the sale, pricing and storage of farm produce.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has tried to assure farmers the changes will bring them new opportunities but few have been convinced. Several rounds of talks between farm union leaders and the government have failed.“We’ll keep protesting,” said Gurbax Singh, a farmer union leader at a north Delhi protest site.The farmers have gathered at various sites around the capital since late last month, blocking traffic and clashing with police, at least in the early days of their action. Singh said dozens of buses, tractors and cars were being arranged to bring more women from Punjab – the epicentre of the agitation.The protesters occupied several kilometres of a busy main road in western Delhi with their tractors on Wednesday.At a nearby protest site, old farmers lounged in ramshackle shelters beside medical stalls and makeshift kitchens.Kaur said she and other women were prepared to protest until the laws were repealed. “More women will come,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-farm-widows-join-protests-against-agriculture-reforms/story-u9uuz3s4smMAUw0WUlIYGN.html
16-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India slips a spot in UN’s human development index and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India slips a spot in UN’s human development index, ranks at 131 nowDropping a spot further from its previous position, India on Wednesday ranked 131 among 189 countries in the 2020 human development index, according to a report released by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Read more‘Tolerating it is also sin’: Haryana priest dies by suicide amid farmers’ stir, leaves noteBaba Ram Singh, a priest from Haryana, shot himself on Wednesday at a site of the ongoing protests by the farmers. In a hand-written note, he expressed his pain over the ongoing protest of the farmers against the three laws passed by Parliament in September. Read more With positivity rate on decline in Delhi, Covid-19 testing unlikely to be scaled upWith the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positivity rate – the proportion of samples that return positive among total tested – dipping below 2 per cent, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain indicated on Wednesday that the city is unlikely to scale up testing. Read moreDiljit Dosanjh blasts Kangana Ranaut for claiming he disappeared after inciting farmers, says ‘have some shame’Diljit Dosanjh fired back at Kangana Ranaut after she claimed that he disappeared after tweeting in support of the farmers protesting against the new farm bills. He also questioned who made her the authority to decide who is a patriot and who is an anti-national. Read morePUBG Mobile India latest update: Game is not coming back by New YearPUBG Mobile fans who are waiting for the battle royale to make a comeback, we have some bad news for you. According to a report from InsideSport, the PUBG Mobile India game is not coming back even by New Year. Read moreMan climbs onto wing of airplane taxiing for take-off in Las Vegas airport. WatchIn a bizarre incident, a man climbed onto the wing of an airline taxiing for takeoff in a Las Vegas airport on Saturday, December 12. Several clips of the incident have now surfaced on the Internet. Chances are that the incident will leave you surprised. Read more‘PM Modi is a master at political messaging’: Sanjay Jha on Congress’ mistakesSuspended Congress leader spoke about his upcoming book ‘The Great Unravelling: India After 2014’ during an exclusive interview with Hindustan Times’ Aditi Prasad. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-slips-a-spot-in-un-s-human-development-index-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6MNjwXOXDUgGzY2zWEjvtJ.html
16-12-2020||India||Govt sets up ‘trusted source’ bar for phone companies to shield them from attacks||Phone companies in India can only use telecom equipment certified by a top security panel to have come from a “trust source”, the Union Cabinet decided at its meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. The certificate will be issued by a security panel headed by Deputy National Security Advisor Rajender Khanna who reports to NSA Ajit Doval. A former chief of India’s external intelligence agency, Research and Analysis Wing, Khanna heads the technologies section in the National Security Council Secretariat, people familiar with the matter said.“This is a very important decision with respect to national security,” Union telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said as he unveiled the National Security Directive on Telecommunication Sector that had been cleared by the cabinet minutes earlier.The directive does not require phone companies to replace their existing equipment and will not impact ongoing annual maintenance contracts or updates to existing equipment.The move comes against the backdrop of concerns expressed in India and abroad over mobile companies using equipment manufactured by the China-headquartered Huawei that has been accused by the United States of spying for Beijing. One official said the new security directive owed its origin to a presentation made way back in July by India’s lead intelligence agency on the risks posed by Chinese companies across different sectors.Ravi Shankar Prasad did not name any country or company.A government official indicated that the freshly-minted security directive would enable India to address concerns around equipment pitched by Chinese companies but stressed that this policy was designed to secure Indian telecom infrastructure against other risks as well.The government, he said, wants to minimise the risks posed by cyber attacks. The Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) reported 4 lakh cyber incidents in 2019. In August this year, the government reported 7 lakh cyber incidents. During the last one year, the ministry of electronics and information technology told Parliament in August, the government and business entities had lost Rs 124 lakh crore to cyber crime.“The fact is that India is among the top three countries in the world facing cyber-attacks,” the official said.How will it workIndia’s National Cyber Security Coordinator Lt General (retd) Rajesh Pant will issue a list of telecom equipment that will be covered under the new security directive. Gen Pant’s office will notify a list of ‘Trusted Sources/ Trusted Products’ for the benefit of the telecom service providers once they have been cleared by a committee headed by Dy NSA Rajinder Khanna. The committee, called the National Security Committee on Telecom, will have representatives from government departments concerned apart from two industry representatives and an independent expert. The committee has also been empowered blacklist companies that will not be allowed to sell equipment to phone companies. The National Security Committee on Telecom has also been authorised to give incentives under Aatma Nirbhar Bharat exercise to companies identified as a “trusted source” if they meet the criteria in this regard.A portal will be launched for easy upload of applications by telecom service providers and equipment vendors. This will improve the ease of doing business by providing a predictable assessment methodology to phone companies and equipment vendors, a government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-sets-up-trusted-source-bar-for-phone-companies-to-shield-them-from-attacks/story-QoAoo66PTwgXUYJyWBb5nN.html
16-12-2020||India||‘Tolerating is also sin’: Haryana priest dies by suicide amid farmers’ stir, leaves note||Baba Ram Singh, a priest from Haryana, shot himself on Wednesday at a site of the ongoing protests by the farmers. In a hand-written note, the 65-year-old expressed his pain over the protest against the three laws passed by Parliament in September. In his note, he said he felt a lot of pain for the farmers as the government is not giving them justice. It is a sin to oppress and continues to be oppressed, he wrote in his note.The note is being verified by police, reported PTI.“Farmers are in pain. They are protesting on roads for their rights, which is a cause of extreme pain. Government is not giving justice, which is cruelty. It is a sin to endure persecution and also a sin to oppress. Some have stood for the farmer rights and against the cruelty. People have returned their awards to show protest. I am committing suicide against the cruelty of the government. This is voice against the cruelty and voice in favour of the farmers,” he wrote in the note.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal condoled his death. “The news of Sant Baba Ram Singh Ji’s suicide is painful. I offer my condolences to his family in this hour of grief. Our farmers are asking for their rights. The government should listen to the voice of the farmers and all three black laws should be withdrawn,” Kejriwal tweeted.The protest entered its 21st day on Wednesday with the Supreme Court intervening in the deadlock situation. Hearing a public interest litigation, the apex court indicated at forming a panel with representatives of the Centre, agitating farmers and farmers from other states as well to come up with a speedy resolution of the situation. The Centre has welcomed the suggestion of setting up a new panel while farmers have said it won’t offer any way out as they want complete withdrawal of the laws. “Government is continuously speaking with farmers. Yes or no is not the end of any agitation...Govt is willing to give in writing that we’ll continue to buy at MSP. Farmers can sell produce inside as well as outside APMC markets,” agriculture minister of state Kailash Choudhary said.According to reports, several farmers have died during the ongoing protest which began on November 26. The reason has mostly been the cold wave condition. Recently, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi quoted a news report and claimed 11 farmers had died in 17 days. The number has now gone up as two road accidents also claimed the lives of four farmers from Punjab. On Wednesday, hundreds of women, including many widows of farmers who were believed to have killed themselves over debt, joined the protest site at Tikri border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tolerating-it-is-also-sin-haryana-priest-dies-by-suicide-amid-farmers-stir-leaves-note/story-SaseWNO4m86hIygzb9IUsO.html
16-12-2020||India||Covaxin’s phase 1 trial result shows robust immune response, mild adverse events||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech on Wednesday released the results of the Phase 1 trials of its coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine ‘Covaxin’ - which produced a robust immune response against the disease and showed that the majority of the adverse events were mild and got resolved. The vaccine is being stored between 2-8 degrees Celsius and further efficacy trials are underway.The results of the first phase of Covaxin- which Bharat Biotech is developing in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) comes a day after the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) had said that it was examining the application submitted by the company seeking emergency use authorisation of its vaccine. The company has been asked to submit more data.Also Read: India records 26,382 new Covid-19 cases; death toll crosses 144,000Emergency approval for any vaccine or drug can only be granted once the regulatory body carries out an assessment of its safety and effectiveness, based on the data obtained from the efficacy trials.Also Read: WHO’s team to go to China in January for Covid-19 origin probeMeanwhile, India along with the United Kingdom launched a virtual vaccines hub which will share best practice for clinical trials and foster innovation besides helping in the shared fight against Covid-19 pandemic. British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab announced that experts from the two countries would join forces through a new virtual hub to deliver vaccines for coronavirus and other deadly viruses.India on Wednesday had registered 26,382 new Covid-19 cases and 387-related fatalities which pushed the overall tally to over 9.9 million. The active cases stand at 332,002 and are declining steadily while 9.45 million people have recovered from the disease till now. (With inputs from Rhythma Kaul)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-s-phase-1-trial-result-shows-robust-immune-response-mild-adverse-events/story-0swYxDQsyoK5POHjjPO22M.html
16-12-2020||India||Nearly half of China’s investments in India’s neighbourhood went to Pakistan||India provided support for a slew of connectivity and cross-border development projects and extended currency swaps and financial support in the region spanning from Bangladesh to the Maldives, even as China invested more than $4 billion in the neighbourhood this year. China’s investments and contracts remain cloaked in opacity, with virtually no official figures available, though reliable estimates showed $1.93 billion, or almost half of its investments and construction contracts in India’s neighbourhood, had gone to its traditional ally Pakistan.India’s support for connectivity and development projects in the neighbourhood picked up pace soon after the border standoff with China emerged in the open in May, and New Delhi has pumped in hundreds of millions of dollars for key schemes and to extend financial support to the governments of countries such as Sri Lanka and the Maldives that were impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic.The Indian side provided currency swap facilities of $400 million each to Sri Lanka and the Maldives to bolster economic revival. India also provided a soft loan of $250 million to the Maldives as budgetary support.Another $500 million, including a grant of $100 million, was provided for the Greater Male Connectivity Project, which is set to be largest infrastructure project in the Maldives with 6.7 kilometre-long bridge and causeway links between the national capital and three islands.New Delhi also handed over 10 broad gauge locomotives to Dhaka, launched the first cross-border container train service and began shipping goods from Kolkata to Tripura in the northeast via Bangladesh’s Chattogram port. Also read: India slips a spot in UN’s human development index, ranks at 131 nowSome eight railway projects are being implemented for Bangladesh under lines of credit, including the $78-million Kulaura-Shahbazpur rail line and the $389 million Khulna-Mongla rail line that are expected to be completed in 2021. During their virtual summit on December 17, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina are set to launch the revived Chilahati-Haldibari railway link, which was snapped during the 1965 war with Pakistan.Last month, work was launched on the third integrated check post on the Nepal border, which is being built at Nepalgunj at a cost of almost $20 million to streamline and boost cross-border trade. In August, India provided $5 million under a border area development programme to Myanmar, where the country’s total development cooperation is worth almost $1.4 billion.According to figures collated by the American Enterprise Institute (AEI), which closely tracks China’s investments and construction projects around the world, Chinese investments in India’s neighbourhood this year included $1.93 billion in Pakistan, $1.25 billion in Bangladesh, $450 million in Sri Lanka and $280 million in Myanmar. The investments in Bangladesh, Myanmar and Sri Lanka were all under China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), according to AEI.Amit Bhandari, a fellow at Gateway House who tracks China’s economic activities in the region, said the figures could be significantly higher, given the lack of transparency regarding such investments, especially by Chinese state-run firms. “Recent estimates showed 60 per cent of the FDI in Pakistan, more than 40 per cent in Myanmar and more than 30 per cent in Sri Lanka came from China, which has a bigger cheque book to throw around. Such large investments in what aren’t vibrant economies are aimed at generating geo-political influence but also lead to badly designed projects that make problems worse. For instance, rates for power generated by China-backed projects in Pakistan are 20 per cent to 50 per cent more than in India,” he said.Also read: WHO’s team to go to China in January for Covid-19 origin probeIndia, Bhandari said, had improved its performance but is yet to match China in implementing big-ticket projects. Experts also have concerns about the pace of work on India-backed projects despite the external affairs ministry streamlining its development partnership administration by creating sections that focus on specific projects and regions.For instance, though the 130-kilometre-long India-Bangladesh Friendship Pipeline was launched in September 2018, the ground-breaking for the construction of the pipeline to supply fuel from Numaligarh Refinery in Assam to Dinajpur in Bangladesh was done only on December 4 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-half-of-china-s-investments-in-india-s-neighbourhood-went-to-pakistan/story-QKTlADkHpFo90D7rQeIyxK.html
16-12-2020||India||India slips a spot in UN’s human development index, ranks at 131 now: 8 points||Dropping a spot further from its previous position, India on Wednesday ranked 131 among 189 countries in the 2020 human development index, according to a report released by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).India has been positioned at 131 out of 189 countries and territories, according to the report. India had ranked 130 in 2018 in the index.Human Development Index is the measure of a nation’s health, education, and standards of living.Here is everything you need to know:- According to the report, life expectancy of Indians at birth in 2019 was 69.7 years. This is a shade worse than India’s neighbouring country Bangladesh which has a life expectancy of 72.6 years. The life expectancy in Pakistan at 67.3 years, the 2020 Human Development Report said.- In the medium human development, countries like India, Bhutan (129), Bangladesh (133), Nepal (142), and Pakistan (154) were ranked, the report said. India’s HDI value for 2019 is 0.645 which put it in the medium human development category.- Excelling in Human Development yardstick, Norway topped the index, followed by Ireland, Switzerland, Hong Kong and Iceland. - The UNDP report states that indigenous children in Cambodia, India and Thailand show more malnutrition-related issues such as stunting and wasting. ““In India different responses in parent behaviour as well as some disinvestment in girls’ health and education have led to higher malnutrition among girls than among boys as a consequence of shocks likely linked to climate change,” the report said.- Decoding India’s rank, UNDP Resident Representative Shoko Noda said the drop in India’s ranking doesn’t mean “India didn’t do well but other countries did better”. India can help other countries too and lauded its commitment to reduce carbon emissions, Noda said. - According to the report published by the United Nations Development Programme on Tuesday, India’s gross national income per capita fell to USD 6,681 in 2019 from USD 6,829 in 2018 on purchasing power parity (PPP) basis.- The report said evidence from Colombia to India indicates that financial security and ownership of land improve women’s security and reduce the risk of gender-based violence, clearly indicating that owning land can empower women.- Under the Paris Agreement, India pledged to reduce the emission intensity of its GDP from the 2005 level by 33–35 percent by 2030 and to obtain 40 percent of electric power capacity from non–fossil fuel sources by 2030, the report underlined. “As part of the plan, the National Solar Mission aims to promote solar energy for power generation and other uses to make solar energy competitive with fossil fuel–based options. Solar capacity in India increased from 2.6 gigawatts in March 2014 to 30 gigawatts in July 2019, achieving its target of 20 gigawatts four years ahead of schedule. In 2019, India ranked fifth for installed solar capacity,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-slips-a-spot-in-un-s-human-development-index-ranks-at-131-now-8-points/story-YALVnkmJtX5lJWuZGXkvCI.html
16-12-2020||India||In a first, Parliament committee to examine functioning of RTI, information commissions||In a first, a Parliamentary standing committee will scrutinise the working of the transparency watchdogs, the Central Information Commission (CIC) and the state information commissions (SICs). The move has irked the right to information activists saying it “usurps” the powers of the state legislatives.As the information commissions are statutory bodies, the CIC is required to submit annual reports to the Parliament and the SICs to state legislatives through its administrative wings, the Ministry of Personnel and Training in Centre and Services Department in the states. However, these annual reports are rarely discussed in Parliament or state legislatures even though members have raised questions over the efficacy of the information law through short duration discussion and zero hour, where a member can raise an issue approved by the Chair.Rajya Sabha secretary general Utpal Kumar Singh has listed 12 issues for examination by the Parliamentary standing committee in the current financial year (2020-21), which includes a review of the working of the Central Information Commission and State Information Commissions. Others issued listed in agenda include reviews of working of virtual courts, Guardianship and Adoption laws and functioning of Alternate Dispute Resolution Mechanisms.Committee chairperson and BJP leader Bhupendra Yadav was not available for comments. A Rajya Sabha official privy to the development said the committee decides on the agenda after taking inputs from all members, which include 10 MPs from Rajya Sabha and 20 from Lok Sabha. Also read: WHO’s team to go to China in January for Covid-19 origin probe“The committee has decided to review the information commission as there were lots of media reports about their functioning,” he said.The committee has powers to summon any official and seek suggestions from the non-government organisations to review the performance of any organization including the information commissions,” officials said.A report by Satark Nagarik Sangathan (SNS), released on eve of 15 years of RTI on October 9, 2020, said that around one-third of information commissions in India were headless, one-fourth of information commissioner posts were lying vacant and Jharkhand and Tripura information commissions were defunct. The report said nine states, such as Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Rajasthan, does not have a chief information commissioner, whose appointment under the RTI law is a statutory requirement. Since then, Rajasthan has appointed the chief information commissioner. The Centre on November 10, 2020, filled the vacant post of chief information commissioner, since August 2020, with appointment of Yashwardhan Kumar Sinha.Another report filed by Transparency International India on the same day said that around 33 million RTI applications were filed with various government departments across the country in the past 15 years, showing the widespread use of the watershed law that has empowered citizens to raise governance questions with public authorities. Only about 9 per cent of these RTI applications resulted in a second appeal, showing that over 90 per cent of the applicants were satisfied with the government response which, transparency law activists said, is the RTI’s biggest achievement.“We have no problem with the review of the chief information commission by a Parliamentary Standing Committee as the legislature has powers to review,” said Anjali Bhardwaj of SNS. “We want the committee to give terms of reference of the review and the exercise should not be used to weaken the RTI Act. Earlier, the Central government had weakened the RTI law by bringing new service rules for information commissioners”.In October 2019, the Centre had notified rules downgrading information commissioner post from equivalence to election commissioners to a secretary in the government. The new rule also reduced the term of an information commission from five to three years and gave powers to the Centre to remove them, which Bhardwaj said had undermined the spirit of the RTI Act in name of rationalisation.Venkatesh Nayak of the National Campaign for People Right to Information (NCPRI) asked how could Parliament review the functioning of the state information commissions as they come under the purview of the state governments and state legislatures.“This is another attempt to usurp the powers of the state legislature, to which state information commissions submit their annual reports,” Nayak said. Agreeing with him, Bhardwaj said the standing committee should take transparency and federalism into account while reviewing the functioning of the information commissions. The importance of the RTI law for India could be gauged from Supreme Court 2019 judgment which said that the RTI has the potential to bring about good governance which is an integral part of a vibrant democracy. “Attaining good governance is also one of the visions of the Constitution. It also has a vital connection with the development,” the court said.The RTI is a Central law, which was adopted completely by the states without any substantial change. However, through rules, the state governments have brought in certain changes for appointing information commissions and functioning of the state information commissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-parliament-committee-to-examine-functioning-of-rti-information-commissions/story-uZpYOg1zmVVWWlHyqwgYZN.html
16-12-2020||India||‘Those who are leaving the party know...’: Mamata’s dig at turncoats||West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool supremo Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said those who are leaving the party now ahead of the state election in 2021 know that they won’t get a ticket in the upcoming election and that’s why they are leaving. The foundation of the party is as strong as a banyan tree, Banerjee said. Her comments came on a day when Suvendu Adhikari, who represented Nandigram, resigned from the legislative assembly and BJP state vice president Mukul Roy compared the party with a pack of cards.Political tempers in West Bengal have been rising soon after the incident in which BJP chief JP Nadda’s convoy was attacked when he was on a tour in the state. The incident set off virulent attacks between the state and the Centre as the Centre summoned the DGP over the law and order situation of the state and the state refused to send them. Union home minister Amit Shah is also likely to visit the state amid this ongoing tension.While Adhikari’s resignation from the assembly was not a shock as he had already resigned from his ministry a few days ago, the timing of it has set tongues wagging that he might switch to the BJP in the presence of Amit Shah.Shrugging off dissident voices in the party, which might take a form of exodus, Banerjee on Wednesday said, “Trinamool Congress (TMC) government is of ‘Maa, Mati, Manush’, and these three elements can never cheat, betray or lie. We don’t take votes by lying, we do whatever we say, this is TMC’s vow.”Lashing out at the BJP, she said, “Sometimes they say CAA will be done and NRC won’t be done, sometimes they say NRC will be done and NPR won’t be done. But I am saying today they will do all three. I didn’t allow NPR in my state.”“Some dacoits of Chambal and goons from outside have entered Bengal. At times they threaten police and sometimes they threaten TMC. Today TMC is as deep-rooted as a Banyan tree. Two-three people who know they won’t get a ticket from the party are going away,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-who-are-leaving-the-party-know-mamata-banerjee-after-suvendu-adhikari-s-resignation-from-assembly/story-CSKzRdgEgmik7N1odi79oO.html
16-12-2020||India||Umar Khalid says medical treatment denied in Tihar jail for toothache||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested in a north east Delhi riots case, alleged before a court here on Wednesday that he has not been given any medical treatment by the Tihar jail authorities for his toothache for the last three days.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Dinesh Kumar directed the jail Superintendent to provide proper medical treatment to Khalid as per the prison rules.The court directed the jail authorities to file a compliance report before it within two days.It said if the dentist was not available in the jail for check up till next day, Khalid may be taken to a dentist outside the prison also for the check up and for the treatment, if required.“Jail Superintendent concerned is directed to provide proper medical treatment to the accused (Khalid) as per rules ofJail Manual. If the dentist is not available in the Jail for check up till next day, the accused may be taken to a dentist outside the prison also for the check up and for the treatment, if required. A report of compliance be filed in the court within two days,” the court said in its order.Khalid alleged that he was having toothache for the last three days but he has not received any medical treatment yet.He claimed that a dentist was supposed to visit the jail today but he has not visited.Khalid said he was suffering from pain and it would be difficult for him to wait for another one week for the visit to the dentist.The court extended the judicial custody of Khalid for 14 days in the case related to rioting in Khajuri Khas area.Khalid was arrested on October 1 in the case. He was also arrested in September in a separate case related to a larger conspiracy in the riots.Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/umar-khalid-says-medical-treatment-denied-in-tihar-jail-for-toothache/story-uzvNfSYENiET30xWBY2MCK.html
16-12-2020||India||Addressing cyber security, data protection issues important for financial inclusion, says RBI governor||Issues concerning cyber security and data protection must be addressed to gain confidence of the excluded section in use of technology, which is necessary for promoting financial inclusion, Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das said on Wednesday. “Technology, though being a great enabler, can also lead to exclusion of certain segments of society,” Das said in his keynote address at a webinar on ‘Investing in Investor Education in India: Priorities for Action’, organised by the NCAER. The RBI Governor added that it was imperative to build trust in formal financial services among the hitherto excluded population. “Adequate safeguards need to be reinforced to address issues of cyber security, data confidentiality, mis-selling, customer protection and grievance redress through appropriate financial education and awareness. These cast great responsibility on financial education providers,” he emphasised. Financial inclusion in the country, he said, is poised to grow exponentially with digital savvy millennials joining the workforce, social media blurring the urban-rural divide and technology shaping the policy interventions. For harnessing the near universal reach of bank accounts across the length and breadth of the country, there needs to be greater focus on penetration of sustainable credit, investment, insurance and pension products by addressing demand side constraints with enhanced customer protection, Das said. The interventions in financial education would have to be customised in local language and local settings keeping the different target audience in mind, he pointed out. The scaling up of Centre for Financial Literacy (CFL) projects across the country at the block level would be the cornerstone of community-led participatory approaches in the journey towards greater financial literacy, he added. The Governor also stressed that in a large country like India with an aspiring population, financial education cannot remain just the responsibility of financial sector regulators. This aspect has been highlighted in the National Strategy for Financial Education (NSFE 2020-2025) document which recommends a multi-stakeholder led approach to achieve financial wellbeing of all. “Going forward, increasingly, educational institutions, industry bodies and other stakeholders like think tanks, research institutions should come forward to shoulder the responsibility of increasing financial literacy through appropriate awareness campaigns,” Das said. Financial inclusion initiatives in India started in the aftermath of first All India Rural Credit Survey in 1954 with promotion of cooperatives. This was followed later by expansion of branch network after nationalisation of major private sector banks, launch of Lead Bank Scheme, promotion of Self Help Groups (SHGs), Joint Liability Groups (JLGs), implementation of Banking Correspondents (BC) model, expansion of banking outlets, creation of payments banks and small finance banks, among others. The largest impact in recent years came from the opening of Jan Dhan accounts and implementation of the Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana (PMMY). The launch of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) in 2014 has resulted in almost every household having access to formal banking services along with a platform for availing low value credit, insurance and pension schemes, the governor said. “This has been ably supported by initiatives to ensure last-mile delivery of banking services through innovative banking channels like the BC model. Thanks to technology, there has been massive improvement in deepening of digital financial services,” he said. The Jan Dhan, Aadhaar and Mobile (JAM) ecosystem has made a significant difference in the universe of financial inclusion, Das added. NCAER’s Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) Chair K P Krishnan said with the RBI Governor’s address setting the context, the next in NCAER’s series with financial regulators will delve deeper into investor education and protection issues in the securities market, and subsequently with other sectoral regulators in the following weeks. Speaking at the event, NCAER Director General Shekhar Shah said the pandemic has driven digitalisation in a few months that would have otherwise required years. “We need to capitalise on this transformation to now build smarter and more effective investor education and protection platforms so that an ever-growing part of our population is financially savvy,” he said. NCAER said it was the inaugural event for a five-part virtual workshop series with financial regulators on investor education and protection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/addressing-cyber-security-data-protection-issues-important-for-financial-inclusion-says-rbi-governor/story-O5nxpolo6mXlppGxxSUuGO.html
16-12-2020||India||LDF hails victory in Kerala civic body election; people rejected propaganda, says A Vijayaraghavan||The CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) won civic body elections in Kerala as it gained a clear edge in the village, block, district panchayats, municipal and corporation councils. Welcoming the people’s mandate LDF convenor A Vijayaraghavan said the results show that people in the state did not believe the propaganda spread by the opposition. While the CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury lauded party’s performance as saluted to the people of Kerala for “reposing the faith in LDF,” news agency ANI reported.“There was a strong attack on the Left by both the Congress-led UDF and BJP-led NDA. There were attempts made even to disrupt the day-to-day operations of the state government through central agencies. The results show that people have rejected all of it and are with the Left which is implementing development works in the state,” Vijayaraghavan said after the ruling LDF secured a win over Congress-headed United Democratic Front (UPF) and BJP led National Democratic Alliance (NDA).Also Read | ‘Humbled,’ tweets Kerala CM after LDF’s emphatic win in local body pollsAccusing BJP of spreading propaganda against LDF, Yechury said, “It is not the BJP’s gain any ground despite all its misinformation and mispropaganda and despite the using central agencies in order to defame and character assassination of Chief Minister and all our leaders of LDF. They have failed miserably. They claim was to control and capture the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation at least but they were dismal in the third position.” Taking to Twitter to thank voters, state chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote, “Thank you Kerala. Thank you for reposing faith in LDF. We are humbled by the trust and the confidence of the people of Kerala. This is a victory for secularism and inclusive development. My warm greetings to all the elected representatives,” CM’s tweet read.During the last round of counting, the LDF is leading in 516 out of the total 941 gram panchayats, according to the State Election Commission figures. The Congress-led UDF was ahead in 375 gram panchayats while NDA is leading in 22 gram panchayats. Out of the six corporations in the state, the LDF and the UDF were leading in three each.As the result of local body election came in favour of LDF, UDF claimed that it did not lose ground while BJP-led NDA said it was able to make inroads in the state. The BJP also alleged that vote-trading has taken place between UDF and LDF.The Kerala local body polls were held in three phases. The first phase saw a turnout of 73.12 per cent, while the second phase saw 76.78 and the third and final phase 78.64 per cent.A total of 21,893 wards in 1,200 local self-governing bodies, including six corporations, 941 village panchayats, 14 district panchayats and 87 municipalities went to the polls on December 8, 10 and 14.The local civic body elections are generally seen as pointer to the upcoming Assembly election as it gives a peak to the voters’ mood and political inclination.With good cadre and grassroots reach, usually LDF enjoys an edge in local body elections. However, this year there were concerns for LDF as Pinarayi Vijayan was grappled with a high-profile gold smuggling scandal.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ldf-hails-victory-in-kerala-civic-body-election-people-rejected-propaganda-says-a-vijayaraghavan/story-yjpGS40xpamh8UAtyO3dBN.html
16-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: What Supreme Court and Centre said on solution||The 21st day of the farmers’ ongoing protest demanding the repeal of the farm laws saw crucial development as the Supreme Court has now intervened. While the protesters are determined that talks with the Centre will proceed further only when the Centre agrees to withdraw the laws, the Centre too continued its stance that protesting farmers are misled.Here is what happened in the day: The Supreme Court on Wednesday indicated that it may form a committee to resolve the deadlock. > The Supreme Court noted that the issue of road blockade may soon become a national issue.> It also noted that Centre’s negotiations have not worked properly and is bound to fail.Also Read: SC issues notice on pleas to open Delhi’s borders blocked by petitioners, allows farmer organisations to be added; hearing tomorrow> The new committee will have members from farmer organisations and representatives of the government. Members from other farmer organisations — from rest of India — will also be part of it.> When the road blockade by the farmers was compared with that of Shaheen Bagh, the apex court said there can’t be any precedent in a matter of law and order situation.What the Centre said> The Centre on being asked the name of the unions which are blocking roads said it can tell the names of the organisations which are engaged in talks with the Centre.> The government will not do anything which is against the interest of farmers, the law officer said during the hearing.> Union commerce minister of state Som Prakash welcomed the decision of the apex court and said the Centre wants to resolve farmers’ issue quickly. “Farmers and government will express their views in the committee which is good. Whatever final decision SC takes tomorrow on the issue, we will act accordingly,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-what-supreme-court-and-centre-said-on-solution/story-GiNp1pUmQsdwvSebxkMtIN.html
16-12-2020||India||Farmers’ stir a planned conspiracy by Oppn to destabilise nation: Gujarat BJP chief||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Gujarat unit chief CR Patil on Wednesday said that the ongoing protests by the farmers against the Centre’s reforms at Delhi borders was a planned conspiracy by opposition parties to destabilise the country adding that the Centre won’t let this happen.“This agitation is a planned conspiracy by the opposition to destabilise the nation, but the central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi will not let this happen. Since opposition parties have lost their base, they are trying to create anarchy in the country,” Patil told reporters as part of the BJP’s outreach exercise to make people aware of the three laws which were being opposed by some of the farmer groups. Patil alleged that the Congress party was in favour of these reforms when it was in power but it was now spreading falsehood and misguiding farmers.“Congress was also in favour of these agricultural reforms when it was in power. But now, the opposition party is spreading falsehood and misguiding farmers. People need to identify such forces and remain cautious about their motives,” the BJP Gujarat chief added.Also Read: PM Modi says farmers surrounding Delhi have been misguided; blames OppositionPatil’s remarks about the ongoing stir came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said the Centre was addressing the concerns of the farmers regarding the new reforms and accused the opposition of misguiding them.“Farmers gathered near Delhi are being misled as part of a conspiracy. Farmers are told that their land will be grabbed by others if new farm reforms get implemented,” Modi said after laying foundation stones of a desalination plant, a hybrid renewable energy park, and a fully automated milk processing and packing plant in Gujarat.Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Wednesday that the issues raised by the protesting farmers could be solved in five minutes if PM Modi steps in and added that the BJP-led central government should hold talks with the farmers who have been protesting in Delhi and neighbouring areas since November 26. “The government can solve the issue in 30 minutes sitting with the (agitating) farmers, if it wants...I think the issue will be solved in five minutes if PM himself intervenes, he told PTI,”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-a-planned-conspiracy-by-oppn-to-destabilise-nation-gujarat-bjp-chief/story-SXQ9VI3hlQpI9NP3dmJaeO.html
16-12-2020||India||Delhi HC issues Centre notice for environmental appraisal of power, mining projects notification||Delhi High Court on Wednesday issued a notice on a petition challenging Centre’s notification constituting the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) for environmental appraisal of thermal power and coal mining projects.The bench of Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan after hearing the submission of petitioner’s Advocate Ritwick Dutta, issued notice to the respondents and slated the matter for January 22, 2021.According to the petitioner Manoj Mishra, a retired Indian Forest Services officer, Union of India through Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change on July 10, 2020, reconstituted the EAC for the environmental appraisal of thermal power and coal mining projects under the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification, 2006.The notification shows that the government has appointed a total of nine ‘non-officials’ as members of the EAC and the rest six are officials, the plea said.The plea filed through Advocate Srishti Agnihotri stated that as per the notification, no ‘expert’ has been appointed despite the mandatory requirement that the EAC should comprise of ‘experts’. The EIA notification does not make any reference to ‘officials’ and ‘non-officials’, and any such appointment or classification is dehors the statutory scheme. The order states that a total of 15 members have been appointed, of which nine are ‘non-officials’, which is completely alien to the statutory scheme, the plea further added.It also stated that these appointments fly in the face of several precedents laid down by the Supreme Court of India and the Delhi High Court on the appointment of experts to the EACs/other expert environmental bodies. The notification requires members of the said bodies to be experts having certain educational qualifications and relevant experience in specific fields/disciplines including, inter alia, Environment Quality and Project Management in relevant sectors.The plea added that thus the qualifications for a chairperson are something more than mere expertise. The chairperson must be an ‘outstanding and experienced environmental policy expert’.The plea sought the quashing of the notification constituting the EAC and a declaration that the appointments of the respondents are illegal. It also says that the EAC for thermal power and coal mining projects has been improperly constituted vide the notification dated July 10, 2020.The newly appointed chairperson and other members do not meet the prescribed statutory qualifications. Thus, it is imperative that during the pendency of this petition, the EAC does not take any final decision on a thermal power and coal mining project, the plea stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-issues-centre-notice-for-environmental-appraisal-of-power-mining-projects-notification/story-GbseRJUvcw5HBBy1aUFVfN.html
16-12-2020||India||UK’s Indo-Pacific tilt about managing challenges, taking advantage of opportunities in region: Dominic Raab||The UK’s planned “Indo-Pacific tilt” is as much about managing the challenges and pressures arising from China’s assertive actions as it is about taking advantage of opportunities across the region, British foreign secretary Dominic Raab said on Wednesday. Raab, who held talks with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on Tuesday on a 10-year road map for bilateral ties and a free trade deal, also said he raised the farmers’ protest in Delhi in view of the strong connect between the politics of the two countries given the Indian diaspora in Britain. In an interaction with a small group of Indian reporters, Raab said the UK was acting to address “as swiftly as possible” the outstanding legal issues that have held up the extradition of fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya. The UK’s integrated defence and foreign policy review, set to be published in early 2021, is expected to outline the “Indo-Pacific tilt”, and Raab said the rise of China juxtaposed with the growth of economies in Southeast Asia and the Far East present both challenges and opportunities. “Actually, that’s all part of the Indo-Pacific tilt, which is to be more engaged in grasping the opportunities but also more engaged in managing some of the challenges and the pressures,” he said in response to a question on China’s belligerent actions, including the miliary standoff with India along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “Obviously, there is the rise of China and the position of China, and the opportunities but also the risks it presents,” he said. India and the UK, Raab said, can cooperate on issues such as cyber-security and countering disinformation. The UK has also inked free trade deals with Japan, Vietnam and South Korea and applied to join the Association of Southeast Asian Nations as a dialogue partner as part of its wider trade and investment engagement with the Indo-Pacific. Against the backdrop of Indian-origin British MPs asking the UK government to raise the farmers’ protest with New Delhi, Raab said he had discussed the issue with Jaishankar. “Obviously, we respect the fact that the reforms going through your system here are domestic reforms. Of course, they’ve elicited the protests that you refer to, and your politics, in some sense because of the Indian diaspora in Britain, is our politics,” he said. “But I think India, as well as having a market-driven economy, also has a vibrant heritage of peaceful protests and vigorous debate and we watch that with interest and we respect it.” Asked about the delay in the extradition of Mallya, Raab declined to specify whether the matter had figured during his meetings in New Delhi but said the two sides always had discussions on “issues of concern”. He added: “We’ve made it clear that in those cases, there’s still some legal issues outstanding. Obviously, they’re independent from politics or political intervention, but we would like to see those expedited as swiftly as possible.” The UK earlier said a “confidential” legal issue was holding up Mallya’s extradition. Britain’s stance gave rise to speculation tht the 64-year-old businessman, wanted in India to face charges of financial irregularities, could have applied for asylum in the UK. Raab also said Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s visit in January to join the Republic Day celebrations as chief guest will help drive cooperation on the Covid-19 crisis, trade, maritime issues and climate change. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be invited to both the G7 leaders’ summit and the United Nations Climate Change Conference to be hosted by the UK in 2021, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-s-indo-pacific-tilt-about-managing-challenges-taking-advantage-of-opportunities-in-region-dominic-raab/story-Ak2IFRtmosa23xovbcz1gL.html
16-12-2020||India||Govt gives nod to next round of spectrum auction: Key points to know||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the department of telecommunications’ proposal to conduct spectrum auction plan. Through the auction, spectrum will be assigned to the successful bidders for providing commercial mobile services.“The auction will be for spectrum in 700 MHz, 800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1800 MHz, 2100 MHz, 2300 MHz and 2500 MHz frequency bands, “ the government said in a press release. “A total of 2251.25 MHz is being offered with a total valuation of Rs. 3,92,332.70 crores,” it also said.Also Read | India may blacklist some telecom equipment vendors for securityBy winning right to use spectrum through the auction, incumbent telecom service providers will be able to augment their network capacity whereas new players will be able to start their services.According to Jio, spectrum worth Rs 3.92 lakh crore is lying unused with the department of telecommunication for auction. The telecom ministry gets an average revenue share of 5% as spectrum usage charge from telecom operators which is calculated based on their spectrum holding and 8% as licence fee from the revenue earned by them from sale of communication services.Here are key points to know about the auction:1) Spectrum will be offered for assignment for a validity period of 20 years. The last auction was held in 2016.2) In the auction, bidders will have to comply with parameters mandated by the government like block size in which bidders will be able to submit their bids, spectrum cap maximum amount of spectrum that can be held by each bidder after the completion of the auction, roll-out obligations, payment terms etc.3) Successful bidders will have the option to pay the entire id amount in one go or can opt for the option to pay a certain amount upfront and the remaining can be divided into 16 instalments. The instalments will begin after a moratorium of two years. 4) Bidders that won 700 MHz, 800 MHz, 900 MHz bands will be required to 25% upfront in case they opt for EMI option. For 1800 MHz, 2100 MHz, 2300 MHz, 2500 MHz bands, 50% of payment will be needed.5) In addition to the bid amount, successful bidders will also have to pay 3% of the Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) excluding wireline services as spectrum usage charges for the spectrum won through this auction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-gives-nod-to-next-round-of-spectrum-auction-key-points-to-know/story-eyJY0MKboEltGDXSDV4yNO.html
16-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi walks out of parliamentary panel meet on defence, says wastage of time||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and two other Congress members Rajeev Satav and Revanth Reddy on Wednesday walked out of a parliamentary panel meeting on defence, news agency PTI reported. The Congress leader alleged that instead of discussing on how to equip soldiers better, the panel wasted time in discussing the uniform of the armed forces while there was Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat present at the meeting.The panel was discussing the uniform of the armed forces in which Rahul Gandhi intervened and said that this could be decided by senior defence officers of the armed forces, it has been learnt. A BJP parliamentarian present at the meeting was in favour of a same uniform in Army, Navy, Air Force so that there is no confusion. Gandhi mentioned that each of the wings and their uniforms have glorious history and past. Chairman of the panel BJP MP Jual Oram didn’t allow Gandhi to speak as he wanted to raise the issue of the soldiers posted at Line of Actual Control.The political leadership should discuss the issues of national security and how to strengthen the forces who are fighting the Chinese in Ladakh, Gandhi said after which he was not allowed to continue. On several occasions before, Gandhi had raised the issue of the plight of the soldiers guarding the frontier of the country amid biting cold. ““The jawans of the country are fighting PLA soldiers in extreme weather conditions from normal tents. They are unafraid. But the Prime Minister of the country flies around in an aeroplane that costs Rs 8,400 crore and he is scared to even take the name of China. Who got achche din?” Gandhi had tweeted earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-walks-out-of-parliamentary-panel-meet-on-defence-says-wastage-of-time/story-ueRHcpLLufjhQDFlTjvfCP.html
16-12-2020||India||India, UK launch virtual vaccines hub for cooperation on clinical trials, regulatory approvals||India and the UK on Wednesday launched a virtual vaccines hub to facilitate the delivery of vaccines for Covid-19 and other viruses and to foster cooperation between experts on clinical trials and regulatory approvals.Visiting UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab announced the launch of the hub, aimed at protecting people in both countries by enhancing cooperation on the development and distribution of Covid-19 vaccines and better aligning the international regulation of vaccines.The hub will also foster partnerships to develop innovation “moonshots” that can define vaccine delivery over the next decade. It will enable British and Indian experts to share knowledge on clinical trials and regulatory approvals and get vaccines to people who need them most in a safe, secure and energy-efficient manner.The Serum Institute of India plans to roll-out more than a billion doses of the vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca. Unlike other doses, it can be stored at normal fridge temperatures, making it easier and cheaper to produce, store and distribute.Raab said, “This Serum Institute and Oxford University partnership demonstrates the UK-India relationship at its best – a vaccine developed in the UK and made in India, drawing our brightest minds together to save lives as a global force for good.Also read: ‘Uttarakhand faced loss of around Rs 4,000 cr during lockdown’ - Govt committee“A global pandemic requires a global solution. Scientific cooperation has made breakthroughs on coronavirus vaccines at record-breaking pace and the UK-India vaccine hub will now build on these innovations, to bring this crisis to an end and protect us all against future pandemics.”Millions of doses made by the Serum Institute will also be distributed to the world’s poorest people via the COVAX initiative, in partnership with the World Health Organization (WHO) and Gavi, the vaccine alliance. India and the UK also announced a new memorandum of understanding between the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) and the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency on more frequent discussions on bilateral vaccine and pharmaceutical regulations, improving standards and sharing information to control the trade of unlicensed products.Raab, who met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday to discuss a 10-year roadmap for bilateral cooperation and collaboration on the Covid-19 vaccine, praised the Indian government’s commitment to equitable global access to vaccines. He also visited a Delhi health clinic where the AstraZeneca vaccine will be administered.Also read: TMC’s Suvendu Adhikari resigns from assembly; more leaders voice dissent before Shah’s visitThe UK has worked for equitable access to Covid-19 vaccine and has committed up to £619 million to COVAX to secure both the UK’s access to vaccines and to distribute doses across the world.India supplies more than 50 per cent of the world’s vaccines and 25 per cent of the UK National Health Service’s generic drugs. Closer UK-India cooperation on medicines and vaccines approvals will ensure speedy access for the UK to Indian-produced pharmaceuticals and help safeguard supplies to the NHS.Raab also met Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal and agreed to work on mutual recognition of academic qualifications, starting with master’s degrees, over the next year. He welcomed the signing of a new agreement between the University of Edinburgh and Gujarat to open a new biotechnology university in the state in July 2021. This will be the first foreign university collaboration of its kind in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-uk-launch-virtual-vaccines-hub-for-cooperation-on-clinical-trials-regulatory-approvals/story-UEdiNOrHq6wKaNhCuH834L.html
16-12-2020||India||BJP leaders calling veteran TMC members, trying to break party: CM Mamata Banerjee||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is calling up veteran leaders of the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal, including the party’s state president, in a bid to break the party, TMC chief Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday while tagging BJP leader as dacoits from Chambal. “BJP called up Subrata Bakshi, TMC’s state president and a Rajya Sabha MP, and tried to fix a meeting. Anubrata Mondol (another TMC veteran) called me up from Birbhum district and said he received a call from a BJP leader from Delhi who wanted to fix a meeting. Look at the audacity and the extent to which BJP can go. How dangerous? They don’t have the minimum courtesy,” said Banerjee while addressing a rally.Since a section of TMC leaders has expressed their disgruntlement against the party’s top leadership, speculations are rife that some may join the BJP. While an MLA from north Bengal has already switched sides, former Cabinet minister and TMC heavyweight legislator Suvendu Adhikari is also expected to join the BJP during Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the poll-bound state later this week. Some BJP leaders had, in the past, named at least seven TMC leaders who may quit the party anytime to join the BJP. On Wednesday, BJP rubbished the allegations made by the chief minister that their leaders had called up TMC leaders. “What if I say that Mamata Banerjee called me up and tried to fix a meeting? When a CM or a party head is saying something, she should have some evidence. Actually, she knows that the TMC has reached its end and hence, she is making such statements,” said Sayantan Basu, BJP’s state general secretary. The TMC chief also sent a strong message to rebels within the party, saying that those who joined the party in the initial days will stay till the end, while a section of the leaders would come and go with the tidal waters. “There shouldn’t be any difference within the party. Work together because that would help us to win. Ground level and mid-level party workers would have to come forward and take responsibility,” Banerjee said, while addressing a workers’ rally at Cooch Behar (south) assembly constituency in north Bengal. The MLA of Cooch Behar (south) has recently joined the BJP. North Bengal is crucial for both the TMC and the BJP after the latter wrested seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats in the region in 2019 and managed to win 18 of the state’s 42 seats. In terms of the 56 assembly segments in the eight seats in north Bengal, the BJP is ahead of the TMC in 35. The West Bengal assembly has 294 seats. Attacking the BJP and trying to brand it as an outsider, Banerjee compared the central BJP leaders as dacoits from Chambal. “Sometimes, they are trying to scare the TMC and sometimes, the state police. They are all goons from outside. They are dacoits from Chambal who have come to West Bengal,” she added. While ruing that the TMC couldn’t win a single seat from north Bengal and urging people to vote for it in the crucial assembly elections in 2021, Banerjee said it is good that the BJP won some seats in the Lok Sabha polls as it came handy to unmask them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leaders-calling-veteran-tmc-members-trying-to-break-party-cm-mamata-banerjee/story-0YpnP9KtvSYjoJaAeWGHEN.html
16-12-2020||India||PM Modi to attend Aligarh Muslim University’s centenary celebrations via video conference||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be the chief guest at the centenary celebrations of the Aligarh Muslim University via video link on December 22, an official statement said.Modi will attend the online function along with Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, it said.Extending his gratitude to the PM, AMU Vice Chancellor Professor Tariq Mansoor said the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) community is thankful for his acceptance to participate in the celebrations marking 100 years of the university.“The outreach of the university during this historical year will also immensely help in its growth and development, and in the placement of our students in private and public sectors,” he saidProf Mansoor appealed the university community to put in all efforts for the success of the forthcoming events, and the staff members, students, alumni and AMU well-wishers for active participation.He also appealed to all concerned to keep the centenary programme above politics like the Republic Day, Independence Day and Gandhi Jayanti.Earlier this month, the university had announced that President Ram Nath Kovind was expected to be the chief guest at the centenary celebrations.The change of chief guest appears to be a last minute move, according to AMU sources.Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College became Aligarh Muslim University on December 1, 1920 following a gazette notification. AMU was formally inaugurated as a university on December 17 that year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-attend-aligarh-muslim-university-s-centenary-celebrations/story-aLPIoMidF1Z0CGgpL1xMoO.html
16-12-2020||India||Mahakumbh 2021: 24 police stations to be set up||Twenty-four police stations would be set up for security and crowd management in Haridwar for Mahakumbh 2021. With just a fortnight left for the fair to start, these police stations will have the responsibility of maintaining policing, law order, traffic, crowd management and patrolling the mela zone. Kumbh police personnel will be deployed in these police stations which will be functional till April-end when the four-month Kumbh fair concludes. Kumbh Inspector General of Police Sanjay Gunjiyal said, “The first lot of Kumbh force police personnel has arrived in the city and soon, a second batch of additional force will be joining for duty. Training has been given to Kumbh force personnel. Kumbh police station plays a vital role and are in addition to the local district police stations.” Initially, Kumbh police stations are being made at core mela zones of Har-Ki-Pauri, Pantdeep, Bhimgoda, Sapt Rishi , Rodi Belwala, Bairagi Camp and Chandighat. Also read | Mahakumbh 2021 expected to peak with 1st Shahi Snan on March 11The exact number of Kumbh force personnel to be deployed will be decided by Mela administration by early mid-February, keeping in mind the Covid-19 spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahakumbh-2021-24-police-stations-to-be-set-up/story-m7ajgWVfS1pc6USytQSE3L.html
16-12-2020||India||TMC’s Suvendu Adhikari resigns from assembly; more leaders voice dissent before Shah’s visit||More dissident voices appeared in the ranks of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in different districts of south Bengal on Wednesday with several legislators and a Lok Sabha member speaking out against the party organisation and election strategist Prashant Kishor ahead of Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit this weekend. In a major development, former cabinet minister and heavyweight TMC legislator Suvendu Adhikari resigned from the legislative assembly around 4pm on Wednesday. He was the legislator from Nandigram in East Midnapore district. Adhikari went to the assembly and submitted a hand-written letter at the secretariat. The speaker, Biman Banerjee, was not present in his office. Also read: TMC heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari may join BJP during Amit Shah’s Bengal visitAdhikari’s aides had said earlier that he was likely to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) during Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the poll-bound state later this week. He could switch over to the BJP on December 19 at Shah’s rally in East Midnapore. Shah will be in Bengal on December 19 and 20. He will address rallies in at least three districts, including East Midnapore where Adhikari, his father and two brothers represent two Lok Sabha constituencies and an assembly seat. They also run the civic body at Contai, their hometown. Reacting to Adhikari’s resignation from the assembly, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said the rebel leader would be welcomed if he joined the BJP. Saugata Roy, TMC Lok Sabha member, said, “Adhikari is taking once step at a time before joining the BJP. This is not unexpected for us.” The developments took place while chief minister Mamata Banerjee addressed rallies in north Bengal, where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won seven of the region’s eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019. Also read: Situation in Bengal worse than Kashmir, says BJP’s Dilip GhoshMore TMC leaders voiced dissent in south Bengal districts, where the BJP could not perform so well. Sunil Mandal, the two-time Lok Sabha MP from Burdwan East constituency, which was one of the strongest bases of the Marxists till he wrested the seat in 2014, told the local media that the TMC needed reforms. Questioning the necessity to rope in Kishor and his I-Pac, Mandal said, “It is acceptable that those of us who worked on the ground among people and rose from the ranks have to take instructions from paid employees of I-Pac on where and how to hold processions?” “People of Bengal are sensitive and intelligent. Processions cannot ensure votes,” said Mandal. Posters appeared in his support in several parts of East Burdwan amid strong speculations that Adhikari may hold a meeting with him. Statements against the TMC leadership were also made by Dipak Haldar, the legislator from Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district; Biswajit Kundu, the legislator from Kalna in East Burdwan district; and Jitendra Tiwari, Asansol’s outgoing mayor and legislator from Pandabeswar in West Burdwan district. In another development, forest minister Rajib Banerjee’s followers put up more posters in different districts, including East Midnapore. The minister too made significant statements at a public programme on Tuesday. “People cannot change their character every day. You can change clothes every day but not idealism. Do you, the common people, have faith in me? Those who are with the party since its birth are still there. A few of those who joined us later are leaving. It will not make any difference,” Mamata Banerjee said at a rally in Cooch Behar.Incidentally, Mihir Goswami, the local TMC legislator, joined the BJP last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-suvendu-adhikari-resigns-from-assembly-more-leaders-voice-dissent-before-shah-s-visit/story-M2yJoRL61EiGL8NrZs4euM.html
16-12-2020||India||India may blacklist some telecom equipment vendors for security reasons||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved the setting up of a national security directive on telecommunication sector, which will have a significant impact on India’s security, IT and telecommunications minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said announcing the new guidelines for telecom service providers.“Considering the need to ensure India’s national security, the Cabinet has accorded approval for the national security directive on telecommunication sector. Under this, in order to maintain the integrity of the supply chain security, government will declare a list of trusted sources, trusted products for the benefit of telecom service providers,” the minister said adding that similarly there will be a list of designated sources from whom no procurement will be done.The move will also be a push to “self-reliant India” as telecom gears made by domestic players might be considered in the category of trusted sources.Giving out the details of how this listing will be done and how it would impact telecom service in future, the minister said, “Once the lists are prepared, telecom service providers will be required to connect new devices which are designated trusted products. The designated authority will make its determination based on the approval of a committee headed by the deputy NSA. The committee will consist of members from relevant departments, ministries, two members from industries and an independent expert. The committee will be called the national security committee on telecom.”There will be no provision for mandatory replacement of existing equipment already inducted in the network of the service providers and the annual maintenance contracts will not be impacted either. The move comes at a time when India has already blocked several mobile applications — all Chinese — for being a threat to the “sovereignty and integrity of India”.In June this year, the government had blocked access to 59 mobile apps and on September 2, another 118 apps were banned under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act. These apps included popular gaming app PUBG, TikTok, UC Browser, Baidu, Baidu Express Edition, Tencent Watchlist, FaceU, WeChat Reading and Tencent Weiyun. In November, another 43 Chine mobile apps were banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-blacklist-some-telecom-equipment-vendors-for-security/story-IzhVQ7GImJbkjkufJnpqGO.html
16-12-2020||India||Fear of poaching by Opposition BPF leaves ruling members of BTC holed up in Guwahati hotel||Newly elected members of Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) in Assam belonging to the ruling coalition are holed up in a Guwahati hotel for fear of poaching by the Opposition, Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF). The 22 members belonging to United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Gana Surakha Party (GSP) were first brought to the hotel on Saturday night after results of election to the council were announced. The council, which administers four districts -- Kokrajhar, Udalguri, Baksa and Chirang -- has 40 members. While the BPF, which was ruling BTC since its inception in 2003, became the single largest party with 17 members, no party secured majority. UPPL, which got 12 seats, joined hands with BJP (nine) and GSP (one) and staked claim to form the next executive council. But the fear that the BPF might win over some of their legislators forced the newly cobbled coalition to shift their members to Guwahati 225 kms from Kokrajhar, the BTC headquarters. A close watch was being kept on the newly elected members to ensure that they do not get in touch with outsiders. Senior BJP leaders were entrusted with the duty of monitoring the members on a shift basis. Early on Tuesday morning, the members travelled together in a bus from Kokrajhar to take part in the swearing-in ceremony of UPPL president Pramod Boro as the new chief executive member (CEM) of BTC . Four others members --one from UPPL, two from BJP and one from GSP -- also took oath as executive members. But as soon as the ceremony was over, the members from the ruling coalition were again huddled into the bus and taken back to the hotel. “There’s no question of being apprehensive and everything is being done as per a process. Even I have not been to my house or my constituency after the win. We have been elected for five years and there will be time for that,” said UPPL chief and new BTC CEM Pramod Boro. “But our first priority is to start planning and undo the damage done to BTC in the past 17 years by BPF. If we need 5-10 days for that, there’s no harm. People have voted for us to do their work and we are doing that,” he added. Boro had earlier said that contrary to speculations of BPF poaching members of the ruling coalition, several members of from the Opposition are likely to switch sides and join the UPPL. “There are some formalities on allocation of departments and swearing-in of the new members. All these should take a few more days and everything will get settled. Newly elected representatives staying in hotels is normal in politics these days, and the public knows it,” said GSP president Nava Kumar Sarania, the Lok Sabha MP from Kokrajhar. On Monday, the lone Congress member elected to BTC, Sajal Kumar Singha, who won from the Srirampur seat, switched sides and joined the BJP. There are reports that at least one BPF member could join BJP soon. The anti-defection law, which is applicable in Parliament and state assemblies, doesn’t cover local bodies and autonomous/territorial councils.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fear-of-poaching-by-opposition-bpf-leaves-ruling-members-of-btc-holed-up-in-guwahati-hotel/story-WPADWaG7JBGebAMx9DsYuM.html
16-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Tomar thanks Madhya Pradesh farmers for supporting farm laws||As the farmers’ protest in and around Delhi entered 21st day on Wednesday with no end of the stalemate in sight, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar praised the farmers of Madhya Pradesh for supporting the farm laws against which the farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh are agitating fearing corporatisation of farming.“When attempts are being made to mislead and agitate farmers of Punjab in one corner of the nation, you gathered in Rewa, Sagar, Gwalior, Ujjain and other places to support farm laws by Narendra Modi government. I thank all of you,” the minister said.The minister had earlier met farmers from states like Telangana, Maharashtra, Haryana, Tamil Nadu and Bihar who extended their support to the farm laws. Taking objection to Centre talking to other farm bodies over this contentious issue, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions on Wednesday write to the Centre asking it to stop the parallel talks. In a letter to Union Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha said the Centre should also stop “defaming” the ongoing protests being held at several Delhi border points against the three farm laws.Representatives of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kisan) from Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and submitted a memorandum with suggestions on the laws and the Minimum Support Price. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kisan) has also decided to end for now its protest, which it was holding at district levels in Uttar Pradesh.Earlier this week, a delegation of over 100 farmers from Uttarakhand had also met Tomar. However, the main protesters at Delhi’s Singhu border are not ready to budge unless the Centre agrees to repeal the laws.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-tomar-thanks-madhya-pradesh-farmers-for-supporting-farm-laws/story-cubMMqbykqxqdOkByw0MrN.html
16-12-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee should worry about her home, her people are going to BJP, says Asaduddin Owaisi||Denying West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s allegations stating Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is bringing a party from Hyderabad to divide minority votes, All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) President Asaduddin Owaisi on Wednesday said the former should worry about her own home state as many people are shifting loyalty towards BJP. “Till date there is no man who can buy Asaduddin Owaisi with money. Her allegation is baseless and she is restless. She should worry about her own home, so many of her people are going to the BJP. She has insulted the voters of Bihar and the people who voted for us,” said Owaisi.Banerjee had yesterday said, “To divide minority votes they have caught hold of a party from Hyderabad, BJP gives them money and they are dividing votes. Bihar election has proved it.” Owaisi further said, earlier Banerjee has praised the BJP, she has also been a part of the National Democratic Alliance so she should avoid such absurd statements. Meanwhile, Owaisi met former Uttar Pradesh Minister Om Prakash Rajbhar in Lucknow today. “Today was our first meeting, we will fight elections together in the front, now let’s see who else joins us,” said Owaisi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-should-worry-about-her-home-her-people-are-going-to-bjp-says-asaduddin-owaisi/story-0n0dPtEBjlSZomyntmX9xN.html
16-12-2020||India||Indigenous carbine passes final user trials: Ordnance Factory Board||A new joint venture protective carbine (JVPC) has successfully passed the final phase of user trials, meeting all criteria of the General Service Qualitative Requirement, the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) has announced. The compact gas-operated weapon has an effective range of more than 100 metres and weighs less than three kilos. During the tests, the ammunition penetrated 3.5 mm thick mild steel plate and 23 layers of soft armour at 100 metres, the OFB said in a statement. The weapon can be fired with one hand. It has a rate of fire of 800 rounds per minute. The JVPC, which feeds through the pistol grip unlike any other indigenously developed weapon in 5.56 x30 mm calibre, is being issued to Central paramilitary forces and state police organisations, Gagan Chaturvedi, deputy director general, OFB, said in a statement. Also read | DRDO successfully demonstrates quantum communication between two labsThe weapon features a 30-round steel magazine, semi bull-pup design, retractable butt, low recoil and multiple rails for mounting lights, laser pointers and optical sights. The carbine has been jointly developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the OFB which has its headquarters in Kolkata. It is manufactured at the Small Arms Factory, Kanpur, while the ammunition is produced by Ammunition Factory Khadki in Pune. The weapons earlier cleared the trials of the Directorate General of Quality Assurance, Chaturvedi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigenous-carbine-passes-final-user-trials-ordnance-factory-board/story-AybXhL52kCkDWOlKA9Go6N.html
16-12-2020||India||Kerala civic body election: LDF ahead with 520 seats||With counting of votes for local body polls in Kerala underway on Wednesday, early trends showed that the ruling CPI(M) led Left Democratic Front was leading in 520 of the total of 941 panchayats.The LDF was also leading in 10 out of the 14 district panchayats and 108 block panchayats of the total of 152, according to the State Election Commission figures.The Congress led UDF was ahead in four district panchayats. Out of the six corporations in the state, the LDF and the UDF were leading in three each. BJP is ahead in 26 panchayats.Also Read | Kerala civic body election: Congress’ N Venugopal lose by 1 vote to BJP’s mayor candidateA total of 21,893 wards in 1,200 local self-governing bodies, including six corporations, 941 village panchayats, 14 district panchayats and 87 municipalities went to the polls in three phases on December 8, 10 and 14.The first phase saw 73.12 per cent turnout, the second phase 76.78 and the third and final phase, 78.64 per cent.Left leaders and workers claimed that the “hate campaign” against the CPI(M) through various issues raised by the Opposition Congress and BJP, including the gold smuggling case and other matters, failed to resonate with the people.“All the hate campaigns against the Left have been proven wrong,” senior CPI(M) leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan told the media.State Finance Minister T M Thomas Isaac in a tweet said LDF was heading towards a resounding victory in local body elections.“LDF heading towards a resounding victory in the local body elections.People reject the slander campaign of Congress and BJP and also the machinations of central agencies.It is a vote for left politics and development alternative of Kerala government,” Isaac tweeted.In 2015, the ruling LDF had nearly swept the civic polls by winning 549 village panchayats, 90 block panchayats, 44 municipalities and four corporations.At the district panchayat level, both UDF and LDF had won seven seats each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-civic-body-election-ldf-ahead-with-520-seats/story-IvlyN1jSAqevIXtzv0F4PK.html
16-12-2020||India||Jharkhand proposes Rs1 lakh compensation for casualty in road accident||Jharkhand has decided to include fatalities in road accidents in the state disaster list, officials said on Wednesday. This means that the family of anyone dying in a road accident will receive a compensation of Rs1 lakh.State disaster management department minister Banna Gupta said, “The historic decision was taken on humanitarian grounds. The proposal was approved in the state disaster management authority (SDMA) meeting held under the chairmanship of chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday evening.” The minister said the compensation amount would be provided by the state disaster management department. “Jharkhand is probably the first state where the government will give compensation against casualty in road accident. The current practice is that the government hires an insurance company which gives the coverage amount after claim,” he said. However, the provision will only be applicable in case of death in road accident not injury, officials said. Joint secretary at the disaster management department Manish Tiwary said, “Earlier, road accident casualties were not in Centre or state disaster list. We have decided to include this in state disaster list.” He said the proposal would now go to the Cabinet for final approval. As per the records available with the state transport department, Jharkhand has been witnessing over 5,000 road accidents and over 3,000 deaths every year. An analysis of the road accidents data since 2016 shows that number of casualties has increased in the state over the years. In 2019, the state recorded as many as 5,215 road accidents, with 3,800 deaths reported in them. Even though the number of accidents declined in comparison to 2018, but casualties have increased. In 2018, the state had recorded 5,394 accidents with 3,542 deaths. However, the numbers of accidents and casualties have both declined sharply in 2020 due to Covid-triggered lockdowns. A total of 3,366 road accidents took place till October 2020, in which 2,294 people lost their lives. On the decision, joint transport commissioner (road safety), Ravishankar Vidyarthi, who is also the head of the lead agency on road safety in Jharkhand, said, “Road accidents or casualties are always unexpected. These sudden deaths cause trouble for the families left behind.”Vidyarthi said the department has also initiated hordes of measures including road safety audit and road engineering correction to reduce the accidents on Jharkhand roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-proposes-rs1-lakh-compensation-for-casualty-in-road-accident/story-0mEZJyb8xrCYpXagGNMd2H.html
16-12-2020||India||Supreme Court dismisses plea on Allahabad HC order over religious conversions for marriages||Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea seeking to set aside an Allahabad High Court order, which held that conversions just for the sake of marriage are invalid.A Bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde while dismissing the plea said, “We see no reason to interfere (with Allahabad High Court order), dismiss.”The PIL said if the court does not allow a person to freely choose his religion, it amounts to a violation of his or her fundamental right as guaranteed under the Constitution of India.It also sought direction for providing immediate police protection to the couple whose petition was dismissed by the high court.The plea was filed by advocate Aldanish Rein against the High Court order declining to provide police protection to the married couple where a Muslim woman converted to Hinduism and married a Hindu man.The High Court had on September 23 dismissed the plea by the couple seeking direction to police and the woman’s father not to disturb their marriage and had said conversion just for the sake of marriage is not valid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-dismisses-plea-on-allahabad-hc-order-over-religious-conversions-for-marriages/story-w3xpC49mhSX7CAieUZOmcI.html
16-12-2020||India||Cabinet approves next round of spectrum auction, announces sugar export subsidy||Amid the ongoing farmers’ protest, the Union Cabinet on Wednesday met and took decisions related to agriculture, telecom and power sectors. Announcing the decisions, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said the Cabinet will provide subsidy on 60 lakh tonne sugar which will benefit five crore farmers and five lakh workers. The money will directly be credited to the bank accounts of the farmers. “For the last two and three years, there have been a surplus in production and therefore the price has gone down,” Javadekar said. Farmers will get three credits in the coming days, the minister added. The food ministry had proposed Rs 3,600 crore subsidy for exports of 60 lakh tonnes of sugar in the marketing year 2020-21 (October-September).In another important announcement, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said auction for the next round of spectrum allocation has also been approved by the Cabinet. The last auction was held in 2016.“Cabinet approves Auction of spectrum in 700 MHz, 800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1800 MHz, 2100 MHz, 2300 MHz and 2500 MHz frequency bands, for validity period of 20 yrs. A total of 2251.25 MHz is being offered with total valuation of Rs 3,92,332.70 crores,” the minister said.The Union Cabinet meeting, held via video conferencing, started at 11.25am.The last Cabinet meeting was held on December 9, where the cabinet gave a mod for Aatmanirbhat Bharat Rojgar Yojana (ABRY) to boost the employment in the formal sector and incentive the creation of new employment opportunities during COVID-19 recovery phase under Aatmanirbhar Bharat Package 3.0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-announces-sugar-export-subsidy-will-benefit-5-crore-farmers-says-javadekar/story-Awbub0f2WlR0dbfUZ2gtFI.html
16-12-2020||India||Groom stabbed to death for not providing more liquor to friends to enjoy wedding celebrations||In a shocking incident, a groom was stabbed to death barely hours after his marriage by some of his friends in a village near here because he refused to provide them more liquor to enjoy the celebrations. Police said the incident took place on Monday night in Palimukim Pur village when the 28-year-old Bablu went to meet his friends soon after his marriage. His friends, already in an inebriated state, demanded more liquor from him, but the victim expressed his inability to arrange it saying that they already have enough of it, police said. This triggered arguments resulting in one of his friends stabbing him in a fit of rage, said police, adding the victim was rushed to a hospital, but he succumbed to his injuries. The main accused Ramkhiladi was arrested on Tuesday, Circle Officer Naresh Singh said on Wednesday. Five other accused are yet to be arrested as they are absconding, Singh said, adding they too would be nabbed soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/groom-stabbed-to-death-for-not-providing-more-liquor-to-friends-to-enjoy-wedding-celebrations/story-SeOag519JK3B1uz68e6t9O.html
16-12-2020||India||CAT dismisses tax official’s appeal against compulsory retirement||The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) has dismissed a case against the government’s decision to compulsorily retire tax officials allegedly on charges of corruption last year, a finance ministry official said.“This justifies the government’s step of compulsorily retiring some black sheep in the tax administration last year,” the official said requesting anonymity.After the Union finance ministry sent more than seven dozen tax officials of the Indian Revenue Services (IRS) on compulsory retirement last year for their unscrupulous activities, some of them had approached various benches of CAT against its decision.“The principle bench of CAT in its December 9 order in one such case, pronounced through video conference, said that it did not find merit in the application and the same was accordingly dismissed,” the official said, while referring to a CAT’s order. The government had launched its zero-tolerance policy against corruption of tax officials on June 10, 2019 when it forced 12 senior income-tax officials to retire from their jobs over allegations of misconduct such as fraud, extortion and sexual harassment. Following week, it forced another 15 senior Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs officials to retire over allegations of corruption.“So far, 85 tax officials have been penalised for their unscrupulous activities under the drive,” the official quoted above said. Meanwhile, the revenue department, which is an arm of the Union finance ministry, has directed its top officials to perform their duties without fear or favour, and adopt zero tolerance in matters of corruption committed by its officials, he said. “Agreeing to the government’s contention that the scope of interference with the order passed by invoking Fundamental Rules 56 (J) is very limited and not warranted in the instant case, the bench has come out very straight on the face of complainant, stating that the record of the applicant speaks for itself, and it was no longer in the interest of the department to continue the applicant in service, as the personal life of the applicant was not only extraordinary but also dented the very reputation of the department,” the official said.The clause (J) of the Fundamental Rules 56 empowers the government to retire officers in public interest with immediate effect on completing 50 years of age.The taxman was compulsorily retired by the government on September 27, 2019, under FR 56 (J) on various charges and complaints alleging demand of bribe and concern over the quality of orders passed by him, besides a large number of irregularities noticed during vigilance inspection, the official said.“Besides several indiscipline and serious integrity issues, the official was accused of bigamy by his ex-wife and also of amassing wealth disproportionate to his income. He allegedly purchased a flat in Ashok Vihar, Delhi, and handed over the same to his estranged wife by way of alimony without furnishing any intimation as required under Conduct Rules,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cat-dismisses-tax-official-s-appeal-against-compulsory-retirement/story-udnaoMFLh53ShyIGtEjGGL.html
16-12-2020||India||Six new ‘eyes in the sky’ for IAF to be built by DRDO on Air India planes||In a major boost for the indigenous defence industry, India is going to make six new Airborne Early Warning and Control planes to be developed by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on aircraft from Air India to further improve Air Force’s surveillance capabilities along borders with China and Pakistan.Government sources said that as per the discussions on the AEW&C Block 2 aircraft to be developed by the DRDO under a Rs 10,500 crore project, the six aircraft would be acquired from the Air India fleet and modified to fly with a radar that will give 360-degree surveillance capability to the defence forces.“The six AEW&C block two planes would be highly capable than their predecessor NETRA plane and provide 360-degree coverage deep inside the enemy territory during missions. The government is expected to clear the project soon,” government sources told ANI.The project to build the AEW&C system on existing aircraft from the Air India fleet may also mean that India may not buy the six Airbus 330 transport aircraft planned to be acquired earlier from the European firm, the sources said.The Defence Research and Development Organisation had earlier planned to build six Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) on the Airbus 330 aircraft for which some facilities were planned to be created in Bengaluru.As per plans, the six new aircraft would be sent to a European destination to the original equipment manufacturer for modification of the planes for installing the radar, the sources said.Sources said the project has been planned in a way to promote Make in India in defense and Aatmanirbhar Bharat.Block-I of the project was delayed beyond the scheduled timelines but with the prior experience under its belt, the Centre for Airborne Studies lab of DRDO is planning to complete it in a shorter timeframe.The IAF has three PHALCON AWACS systems bought by it from Israel and Russia under which the radar is provided by the Israelis whereas the platform used is the Russian Ilyushin-76 transport aircraft.The two NETRA aircraft provided by the DRDO have also performed very well in the recent conflicts where they have flown extensively to keep an eye on the enemy activity.The six new ‘eyes in the sky’ would be stationed at different places in the countries for effective surveillance long both the borders, the sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-new-eyes-in-the-sky-for-iaf-to-be-built-by-drdo-on-air-india-planes/story-aMZzLNsbLwqeLPH3rfooWN.html
16-12-2020||India||‘Farmers’ protest can end in 5 minutes if...’: Sanjay Raut offers a solution||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Wednesday said that the ongoing stir by thousands of farmers will reach a conclusion within minutes if the government wants.“If the government wished, it could end the issue by sitting with the farmers in half an hour,” Raut told news agency ANI. The parliamentarian also suggested intervention by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “resolve the standoff in five minutes”.“If the Prime Minister intervenes himself, it will be resolved in five minutes. Modi ji is such a big leader, everyone will listen to him. You initiate the talk yourself and see the miracle that happens,” the Shiv Sena leader said.Thousands of farmers hailing from Punjab and Haryana are protesting near Delhi demanding repeal of three contentious farm laws passed by Parliament in September. The farmers have alleged that the laws will reduce their earnings and will give larger control to the corporations.The protest has entered its third week, but there are no signs of a resolution to the standoff between the farmers’ unions and the government. Five runds of talks have been held so far, but the deadlock is contuinuing. While the government is saying that it can hold more rounds of talks, the farmer organisations are determined with their demand that the three laws be repealed.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the farmers organisations have expressed apprehension that it will pave the way for eliminating the minimum support price (MSP) cushion and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-pm-modi-intervenes-sanjay-raut-lobs-ball-in-government-s-court-on-farmers-issue/story-IZkJgSr7v8D9tOpm3iajcK.html
16-12-2020||India||1971 saw India’s emergence globally as a mature State: Arjun Subramaniam||Arjun Subramaniam is a retired Air Vice Marshal from the Indian Air Force and the author of India’s Wars: A Military History 1947-1971 and Full Spectrum: India’s Wars 1972-2020. On the 49th anniversary of the victory in 1971, he spoke to HT about India’s moment of triumph:How do you look back at the 1971 war and India’s triumph?There are a few issues that immediately strike a historian when one looks back at the 1971 war.The first is that the war and the liberation of Bangladesh were an outcome of a “whole-of-government” approach. There was perfect synergy between the political establishment, the military commanders and operational commanders. If one recollects that time in history, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi wanted General Sam Manekshaw to go into Bangladesh in March-April of 1971. But Gen Manekshaw explained to PM Gandhi the need for a fairly long preparatory period that would allow him to offer a decisive outcome to the military operation. It goes to the credit of PM Gandhi that she listened to her Army chief, and waited for six more months, even though it cost India quite heavily in terms of the increased number of refugees that came into the country.The second is the jointness among the three armed forces: The Indian Army, Navy and Air Force. There was also a clear understanding among the higher levels of operational leadership in the Indian military of what were the outcomes expected from them.Third, by going into the country in December, India gave itself the time to train the Mukti Bahini — which emerged as the eyes and ears of the Indian Army when it moved into Bangladesh in 1971.Lastly, at a tactical level, there was professional acumen and courage across junior leadership.What were the key elements of India’s military strategy that helped it win the war?Right from the beginning, it was decided that there would be different strategies for the western front and the eastern front.On the eastern front, the strategy was one of creating overwhelming superiority to drive a decisive outcome — the defeat of the Pakistan Army in East Pakistan. The creation of Bangladesh or the liberation of East Pakistan was not one of the initial military objectives. It came in later because of the spectacular success of the three armed forces in pressurising the Pakistanis to the point of psychological collapse in East Pakistan.On the western front, what Gen Manekshaw and India’s strategic establishment realised was that there was near-parity of ground forces between the Indian Army and the Pakistan Army. But India realised that to drive any decisive victory, you needed the Indian Army to be able to score decisive victories across the western front, which was a difficult proposition. Therefore, Gen Manekshaw’s strategy for the western front was what was called “offensive defence”. His move to pull out forces from the western front to the eastern front was a deliberate attempt to create this overwhelming superiority in the east. India did not try to bite off too much. To expect a spectacular victory on both fronts was just not possible. There was significant superiority as far as the Indian Navy and Indian Air Force was concerned. What emerged out of the 1971 war was that the Indian Air Force and the Indian Navy grew out of the shadows of their big brother, the Indian Army. They performed spectacularly during the war. They emerged as independent service entities and contributed significantly in operations on both the western and eastern front.The arrival of the US seventh fleet remains an abiding memory and scarred generations about the United States. At the same time, India was able to rely on Soviet support to an extent. How did India deal with the international geopolitics of the war?One thing that deserves mention is that we must not undercut ourselves to look back on our own performance in isolation in the 1971 war. Yes, the Indo-Soviet Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation was a big confidence-booster. It allowed India a strategic buffer, but ultimately, we must give ourselves credit for the outcome of the war.As far as international opinion is concerned, and why I call it a “whole-of-government” approach, is that by March, PM Gandhi realised that India had to go to war, but being a mature democracy, it did not want to go to war. From March to November, even as the Indian armed forces continued to build up capability and deploy for war, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and foreign minister Dr Swaran Singh along with the PM’s advisers tried their best globetrotting across the world to impress upon the West to call upon Pakistan to stop the genocide in Bangladesh. But that didn’t happen. Significant efforts were made by India in the international arena to prevent the war. This is how India emerged internationally as a mature State. Not one country, except China, criticised India’s move into East Pakistan. The world realised that had India not intervened, there would have been a genocide of even more horrific proportions. This raised India’s stature on the world stage.Do you think we failed to convert the military victory into a political advantage in Shimla?Of course. By any yardstick, India failed to derive adequate political and strategic leverage from the operational outcomes of the 1971 war. Put simply, we were not able to drive a quid pro quo agreement that met our strategic requirements. It happened because India was under tremendous pressure, both globally and internally, to return the 93,000 prisoners.This was when Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto pleaded with PM Gandhi that he had just come to power, and if issues such as Kashmir, the Line of Control and the redrawing of boundaries were to come into the agreement, it would mean a sure-shot downfall for him in Pakistan. He used democracy as a leverage against PM Gandhi.One statement that remains etched in everyone’s memory of that time was that he said “bharosa kijiye” — which means to say that he promised to address all of these issues at some time in the future. But many of these issues linger even today and are festering in India-Pakistan relations. Despite the support to the war of liberation, how do you see the ebbs and flows of the relationship with Bangladesh?Bangladesh is emerging as the driving force for India’s Act East Policy. Therefore, every political establishment in India understands the need to develop and maintain good relations with Bangladesh. It is even more so now, because the trajectory of Bangladesh’s economic growth indicates that it is an emerging economy that has been doing well despite various setbacks in South Asia. There will always be contentious issues between our nations, but the onus lies on India as the larger nation to be able to manage the relationship. A good relationship with Bangladesh has many positive outcomes for India. This is well understood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1971-saw-india-s-emergence-globally-as-a-mature-state-arjun-subramaniam/story-gMCCU0Acmi6f0TTJoCRNPK.html
16-12-2020||India||AGP leader Pabindra Deka quits party||Ahead of assembly polls in Assam early next year, former minister and three-time MLA from Patacharkuchi in Bajali district, Pabindra Deka, has quit the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), citing the party’s alleged failure to address concerns over the Citizenship Amendment Act, or CAA. He submitted his resignation papers to party president Atul Bora. The 69-year-old was one of the founder members of the AGP, which was formed in 1985, after signing of the Assam Accord that ended a six-year agitation against illegal Bangladeshis. The AGP is a member of the ruling coalition in Assam, which is headed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP); the coalition also has the Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF). The AGP has 14 members in the 126-member assembly; three of them are ministers. “I am quitting AGP as it failed to represent aspirations of indigenous Assamese people and protect their rights. The party is working under dictates of BJP. The party also failed to oppose Citizenship Amendment Act, which seeks to grant citizenship to religious minorities from Bangladesh,” Deka said on Tuesday. Deka had first entered the assembly in 1985, securing over 92% of the total votes cast. He became MLA again in 2001 and 2016. There are indications that he is likely to join the Assam Jatiya Parishad, the new political party floated by the All Assam Students Union (AASU) and the Assam Jatiyatabadi Yuva Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) --- two of the largest student organizations in Assam. There are speculations that four-five more sitting MLAs from AGP could quit in the coming weeks and join other parties. On Tuesday, Roselina Tirkey, a sitting Congress MLA quit the party and joined the ruling BJP. The 39-year-old, who represents the tea-tribe community, won from Sarupathar in Golaghat district in 2016. Speculations have been doing the rounds that few other Congress MLAs could also join the BJP ahead of the assembly polls due in March-April next year. The Congress has 22 members in the state assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agp-leader-pabindra-deka-quits-party/story-6xOC0gjjzO1uQ81sfEb0eL.html
16-12-2020||India||TRP manipulation case: Republic TV CEO Vikas Khanchandani gets bail||A metropolitan magistrate court on Wednesday granted bail to Republic TV CEO Vikas Khanchandani arrested in connection with its probe into the alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation scam.Khanchandani was arrested on Sunday and was remanded to judicial custody on Tuesday, after which a bail plea was moved by his lawyers. The plea was allowed on Wednesday afternoon.During the Crime Branch’s probe, it was revealed that some cable operators had used dual LCN (Landing Channel Number) technology which allowed viewing of one channel on two channel numbers at a time.The Republic TV officials also contacted cable operators to fix LCN and LCN promotion. Khanchandani knew everything as he was part of Republic’s internal WhatsApp group where discussions about LCN and Promotion LCN discussions to boost Republic TV’s TRPs took place, police officials said.The police discovered about the discussions on company’s WhatsApp group after investigators seized cell phone of company’s chief operating officer Priya Mukherjee (also part of the WhatsApp group), who has secured anti-cipatory bail in the matter. Besides, Mukherjee worked under Khanchandani.The fake TRP scam came to light in October when ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers.Hansa is one of BARC’s vendors on engagement with panel homes or people’s meters. TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial for attracting advertisers.As per the police, some of these households were being bribed to tune into Republic TV and a few other channels. Republic TV had, in the past, denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trp-manipulation-case-republic-tv-ceo-vikas-khanchandani-gets-bail/story-qLPQV75cGFsDFuq5CvSrlM.html
16-12-2020||India||‘Discussed vast potential of India-UK partnership’: PM Modi meets UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday met visiting foreign secretary of the United Kingdom, Dominic Raab, on the penultimate day of the latter’s four-day visit to India. Taking to Twitter after the meeting, PM Modi posted he discussed with Raab the “vast potential” of the India-UK partnership in a post-Covid and post-Brexit world, adding that he is looking forward to the visit of British PM Boris Johnson to India next month as the chief guest of the Republic Day celebrations.“Excellent meeting with Dominic Raab, UK Secretary of State. Discussed the vast potential of the India-UK partnership in the post-COVID, post-Brexit world. Looking forward to next month’s visit by PM Boris Johnson as Chief Guest at our Republic Day celebrations,” PM Modi tweeted. Excellent meeting with @DominicRaab, UK Secretary of State of @FCDOGovUK. Discussed the vast potential of the India-UK partnership in the post-COVID, post-BREXIT world. Looking forward to next month's visit by PM @BorisJohnson as Chief Guest at our Republic Day celebrations. pic.twitter.com/E8cpkqbOJTThe prime minister had invited his British counterpart to be Republic Day chief guest in a telephone conversation on November 27. The visit was confirmed by Downing Street on Tuesday.Also Read | Boris Johnson accepts India’s invite, will be Republic Day parade chief guestRaab’s visit to India comes at a time massive protests by farmers are taking place on the outskirts of Delhi against three agricultural laws passed by Parliament in September. The protests have made international headlines, with members of the Indian diaspora, and even Canada PM Justin Trudeau and several members of his administration expressing their support for the protesting farmers.At least three dozen British MPs, led by Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, who is a Sikh himself, had earlier sought an “urgent” meeting with Raab, as well as updates on representations, if any, the foreign office may have made with India on the issue.Also Read | 36 British MPs back farmers’ protest, want UK to raise issue with IndiaIn an interview with news channel India Today, the British foreign secretary said the UK is of the view “decisions on reforms in India’s agriculture sector are for the government and the people of India to take.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/discussed-vast-potential-of-india-uk-partnership-pm-modi-meets-uk-foreign-secretary-dominic-raab/story-68vq1FUJZcQ2TMKPjK8BDN.html
16-12-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity rate lowest ever since May: Health minister Satyendra Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain on Wednesday said the positivity rate of Covid-19 cases is declining and it was below 2 per cent for the first time on Tuesday since the month of May.“There were 1,617 Covid-19 cases in Delhi yesterday. It is a matter of great satisfaction that the outbreak has been declining. The positivity rate was 1.9 per cent yesterday (probably the lowest ever) and I would still like to request people to wear masks. The mask campaign started by the Delhi government also seems to have a great effect,” said Jain.Regarding the availability of ICU beds, Jain clarified that overall 50 per cent ICU beds are available. However, in some private hospitals, the occupancy is about 80-90 per cent. Asked whether the test can be increased to 1 lakh, Jain explained, “Now the positivity has reduced significantly. WHO says that the positivity should be less than 8 per cent and it is optimum till 5 per cent. So far the positivity rate is up to 5 per cent, it indicates sufficient testing. Since we have now 2 per cent positivity rate, let us wait till how long it lasts. The positivity rate has been less than 3 per cent for the last 5 days. If the positivity rate is less than 5 per cent for the last 15 days, then it definitely indicates a downtrend.”Talking about the ‘third wave’ in the national capital, he elaborated, “We cannot say the third wave is over since the cases are coming, be it only 2 per cent. Now corona will remain like other diseases but certainly, the chances of its massive outbreak seem to be less. According to WHO parameters, our 2 per cent positivity rate looks fine.”On the MCD scam charges and mayor’s demonstration, Jain alleged that it is the tactics of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to divert the attention of people from farmers’ agitation. “Look at the timing, when Arvind Kejriwal went to meet the farmers at the Singhu border, they staged a protest here. BJP’s ‘dharna’ is a political ‘dharna’, only for doing politics,” added Jain. Reacting on BJP’s ‘Mahapanchayat’ regarding the farm laws, the Delhi Health Minister said, “If they want to do ‘Panchayat’, it should be done at Singhu and Tikri borders. Fire is at one place and water is being put at another place. It is very strange. Why is there so much arrogance? Withdraw the laws as soon as possible and end the deadlock.”Meanwhile, Jain said the Delhi Government has issued the orders to include the employees of the Jal Board and electricity department along with police, civil defence and sewerage workers in the category of frontline workers so that they can be vaccinated at the first phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-positivity-rate-lowest-ever-since-may-health-minister-satyendra-jain/story-SCSZzj0fg8BzKISnDZn0OK.html
16-12-2020||India||TRP scam: Republic TV CEO granted bail on surety of Rs 50,000||The Esplanade Court in Mumbai on Wednesday granted bail to Republic TV Chief Executive Editor Vikas Khanchandani, who was arrested last Sunday, in the alleged TRP scam. He was earlier remanded to police custody till December 15. He has been granted bail on a surety of Rs 50,000.Khanchandani was questioned previously by the investigators twice before his arrest.Mumbai Police registered a case of manipulating television rating points against the Republic TV after rating agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Agency about the rigging of TRP by some channels. It was alleged that some viewers were bribed to view certain channels to increase TRP. In its charge sheet, the police alleged that an official of Hansa Research Agency paid money to a few households to watch these channels.According to the police, apart from this, Republic TV officials had contacted cable operators to use dual landing channel number (LCN) technology — which facilitates the viewing of the same channel on two different channel numbers at the same time — to manipulate the numbers. The CEO was aware of it as he was a part of the channel’s internal WhatsApp group where discussions on LCN took place, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trp-scam-republic-tv-ceo-granted-bail-on-surety-of-rs-50-000/story-qhdyUiW2oNxPKyB8eO7fnM.html
16-12-2020||India||Kerala civic body election: Congress’ N Venugopal lose by 1 vote to BJP’s mayor candidate||Congress mayoral candidate N Venugopal, has lost to the BJP candidate by one vote, in the Kochi Corporation North Island ward in the state’s local body elections. “It was a sure seat. I can’t say what happened. There was no problem in the party. There was a problem with the voting machine. That may be the reason for BJP’s victory,” Venugopal said. “I have not decided to go to court with the voting machine issue so far. Will check what happened exactly,” he added. Also Read | Kerala: BJP workers celebrate in Thiruvananthapuram as NDA leads in 13 wardsThe counting of votes for local body polls in Kerala is underway at 244 counting centres across the state.With all Covid-19 protocols in place, the counting of votes of Kerala local body elections started at 8 am on Wednesday. The final results are expected by 1 pm.State Election Commissioner V Bhaskaran has said the postal votes, including special ballot votes, will be counted first and EVM votes later.Also Read | Explained: Why this year’s Kerala civic body elections matterThe district collectors of several districts of Kerala have imposed section 144 of CrPC on the basis of reports from concerned district police chiefs. The clashes between party workers were reported in many places of these districts during the election.The CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF), Congress-led, United Democratic Front (UDF) and BJP led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) were in the fray for local body polls in Kerala.The local body polls were held in three phases in Kerala. 78.64 per cent voter turnout was recorded in the third and the final phase of the local body polls. The second phase recorded 76.38 per cent voter turnout and in the first phase, it was 72.67 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-civic-body-election-congress-n-venugopal-lose-by-1-vote-to-bjp-s-mayor-candidate/story-ycFYpw26ngakTiB8LxfXaK.html
16-12-2020||India||Kerala: BJP workers celebrate in Thiruvananthapuram as NDA leads in 13 wards||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers celebrated in Thiruvananthapuram, where counting is underway for Kerala local body elections on Wednesday. BJP workers were seen with lotus flowers in their hands and raising slogans hailing the party. As per the early trends of the local body poll results, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is leading in 13 wards. In Kerala local body poll results, Left Democratic Front (LDF) has won seven wards, NDA three and United Democratic Front (UDF) one, in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation.S Pushpalatha, LDF’s mayor candidate has lost to an NDA candidate by 145 votes.With all Covid-19 protocols in place, the counting of votes of Kerala local body elections started at 8 am on Wednesday. The final results are expected by 1 pm.State Election Commissioner V Bhaskaran has said the postal votes, including special ballot votes, will be counted first and EVM votes later.The district collectors of several districts of Kerala have imposed section 144 of CrPC on the basis of reports from concerned district police chiefs. The clashes between party workers were reported in many places of these districts during the election.The CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF), Congress-led, United Democratic Front (UDF) and BJP led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) were in the fray for local body polls in Kerala.The local body polls were held in three phases in Kerala. 78.64 per cent voter turnout was recorded in the third and the final phase of the local body polls. The second phase recorded 76.38 per cent voter turnout and in the first phase, it was 72.67 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-bjp-workers-celebrate-in-thiruvananthapuram-as-nda-leads-in-13-wards/story-kdRWsXHQoo0p8VwXcBpY2I.html
16-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: SC notices to Centre, Delhi on pleas seeking reopening of borders||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice on petitions demanding reopening of Delhi’s borders blocked by farmers agitating against the three farm laws passed by Parliament.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde called the issue “important” And issued notice to Centre and Delhi government. The court allowed the petitioners to include the farmer organisations which are striking to also be included as parties in the petition while posting the matter for hearing tomorrow.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the court that the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) is one of the organisations spearheading thr agitation. At the same time, he pointed out, “Other interests have also taken over this farmer protests.” Highlighting the steps the government was taking to negotiate with farmer groups, he said, there was no headway as farmers were not willing to sit across the table with the Union ministers. “The government is and was willing to engage in talks and discuss clause by clause but the organisations’ approach is, ‘will you repeal or not repeal’.”The bench said, “This will soon become a national issue. It doesn’t seem the government sitting with farmers will resolve the issue. We will form a committee to resolve the issue. It will have members from BKU, the Union Government and some farmer bodies from rest of India.”Mehta was open to this suggestion. While Delhi government represented by advocate Rahul Mehra submitted that the issue of farmers must be immediately resolved, the bench remarked, “Delhi has nothing to do with resolution of dispute. It’s between Centre and farmers.”The court also allowed the petitioners, Rishab Sharma, Reepak Kansal and GS Mani, to contact the solicitor general’s office and get the names of the farmer organisations blocking the road. The court noted, “We must have farmers before us to enable negotiation,” allowing the petitioners to join them as parties to their petitions. The court told Mehta, “These petitions appear to be ill-conceived. We don’t see any legal issue involved except right to free movement of citizens being affected under Article 19(1) (g). Only person which is at the spot is the Union which has blocked the farmers from entering the Capital.” The court asked him to prepare a framework of this committee and members to be included from the governmentThroughout the hearing, Mehta got messages from senior advocate Harish Salve who wished to address the court but was not allowed into the videoconferencing facility. His petition was not before the court. The court directed Salve’s petition to also be listed tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-sc-notices-to-centre-delhi-on-pleas-seeking-reopening-of-borders/story-smqBccUpU272QuxojADkTN.html
16-12-2020||India||Tamil Nadu allows public meetings with 50% capacity in open spaces||Tamil Nadu has announced further relaxations to Covid-19-related restrictions such as allowing outdoor meetings for political, religious, sports and cultural gatherings at 50% capacity from December 19.Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami, in a statement on Wednesday, said that organisers will have to take prior permission from district authorities to conduct the events. Tamil Nadu goes to assembly polls in early 2021 and political parties such as the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) have already begun campaigning. In some cases, permissions have been denied, and a few leaders have briefly courted arrests for violating pandemic norms. Wednesday’s announcement comes a day after the higher education department in Tamil Nadu instructed its colleges and universities to conduct testing on their campuses and hostels after IIT-Madras turned into a Covid-19 cluster. Tamil Nadu had earlier allowed reopening of classes for final-year undergraduate students from December 7.IIT-Madras has a total of 191 positive cases as of Wednesday. Greater Chennai Corporation conducted mass testing at the neighbouring Anna University campus on Tuesday. Six out of 550 tested turned positive. Meanwhile school education minister K A Sengottiyan had earlier said that schools are unlikely to reopen anytime soon.As of December 15, the coronavirus has infected 8,01,161 people in the state and claimed the lives of 11,919. Altogether, 7,79,291 people have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-allows-public-meetings-with-50-capacity-in-open-spaces/story-SzFEsNdcgsnAE8STSC9rYO.html
16-12-2020||India||‘Do not withdraw challenge’: Manish Sisodia to UP minister’s debate dare||Do not withdraw the challenge now, said Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday, taking on Uttar Pradesh basic education minister Satish Dwivedi who dared the Delhi minister to pay them a visit and debate the education and school facilities in the two states. The UP minster threw the challenge soon after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Tuesday that his Aam Aadmi Party will contest the 2022 Uttar Pradesh state polls. In his announcement, Kejriwal had highlighted conditions of healthcare facilities, schools, governance and law and order in Uttar Pradesh.“BJP leaders asked for a debate on school models. They challenged me for a visit and also an open debate. I accept both the challenges. Next Tuesday [December 22], I will be in Lucknow. Please let me know where to come for the debate and who to argue with – the chief minister, deputy CM or education minister of UP. Let’s have an open debate on government schools in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh… I have one request, please do not withdraw the challenge now,” said Sisodia, who also doubles up as Delhi education minister. Sisodia added, “Schools get better with quality education, freedom to teachers, etc. The Delhi government is the first and the only one to spend 25% of its budget on schools… Schools in Uttar Pradesh are in extremely bad shape… I urge Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath to improve the condition of schools in Uttar Pradesh. If he doesn’t do that, people will vote the AAP to power and we will change the condition of the education sector in the state.”The UP government is yet to respond to Sisodia’s acceptance offer. Last month, Manish Sisodia was invited as a guest speaker on an online panel discussion on the happiness curriculum of the Delhi government by the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE) during its International Education Week. Professor Fernando Reimers, Ford Foundation professor of practice in international education at HGSE, praised Sisodia’s vision and said the happiness curriculum was path-breaking, and impressive in tackling the huge challenge of building capacity of teachers, and enforcing happiness classes in all Delhi government schools. The Delhi government introduced the ‘happiness curriculum’ in its schools from July 2018. Under the curriculum, nursery and kindergarten students twice a week and students from classes 1 to 8 spend time engaging in meditation, storytelling, and activity sessions. The curriculum includes storytelling and activities, followed by question-and-answer sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-not-withdraw-challenge-manish-sisodia-to-up-minister-s-debate-dare/story-cI8S0tIj3mMKPD3k3MZyKM.html
16-12-2020||India||SC notice to Centre on petitions seeking uniform grounds for divorce, alimony||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to Centre on separate petitions seeking uniform grounds of divorce and maintenance for citizens across the country.Two separate PILs filed by BJP leader Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay stated that women across all religions ought to be treated equally and if some religious practices deny them their fundamental rights, such practices should not be protected.The bench of CJI SA Bobde and justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, “We issue notice with caution.”The bench said, “You are making us go into a direction which will encroach upon personal laws and demolish what the personal laws seek to achieve. “Senior advocate Pinky Anand argued the petition for uniform grounds for divorce while senior advocate Meenakshi Arora argued the other petition seeking uniform maintenance and alimony grounds. Both petitions were filed by Upadhyay.The petition on divorce said, “Grounds of divorce are neither gender neutral nor religion neutral. For example, adultery is a ground of divorce for Hindus, Christians and Parsis but not for Muslims. Incurable leprosy is a ground of divorce for Hindus and Christians but not for Parsis and Muslims. Impotency is a ground of divorce for Hindus-Muslims but not for Christian-Parsis. Underage marriage is a ground of divorce for Hindus but not for Christians, Parsis and Muslims.”The bench asked, “Can we remove these discriminatory grounds without entering personal laws?”The lawyers cited the Shayara Bano decision where the SC struck down triple talaq as unconstitutional.The lawyers further cited judgments of the top court recommending Parliament to consider Uniform Civil Code. The court said that triple talaq was not found to have sanctity of law under Muslim personal laws. However, the bench sought response of the Centre on both petitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-to-centre-on-petitions-seeking-uniform-grounds-for-divorce-alimony/story-g84zheik2cLfBclFfteTFL.html
16-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Biden names Buttigieg to cabinet in a first for an openly gay person and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Biden names Buttigieg to cabinet in a first for an openly gay personUS President-elect Joe Biden has nominated Pete Buttigieg, the openly gay former mayor, as his transportation secretary. If confirmed, he will be the first LGBTQ person to hold a cabinet post in the country. Read moreAway from home, soldiers on LoC battle rogue enemy, bitter coldThe life of a soldier on duty along the 744-km-long Line of Control (LoC) is not an easy one and it only gets tougher during the winters when the mercury plummets to sub-zero level. Read morePM Modi pays tribute at National War Memorial on Vijay DiwasPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday paid tribute at the National War Memorial in New Delhi on the 50th anniversary of the 1971 that made Bangladesh an independent country. The day is celebrated as ‘Vijay Diwas’. Read moreKerala local body polls: LDF leads in four corporations, UDF in twoThe counting of the Kerala local body polls is currently underway with the Left Democratic Front leading in the local body elections, according to initial trends. Read moreExclusive: Okinawa’s new B2B electric scooter to arrive before Oki100 e-bikeGurugram-based Okinawa Autotech is all geared-up to kickstart the year 2021 with the launch of a B2B electric scooter which is slated to arrive in the first quarter of next year, the company exclusively told HT Auto in a recent interaction. Read moreSalma Hayek shares orange juice recipe with ‘secret ingredient’ to add beauty to your morning | Watch tipsAdding all the missing zest to our cosy winter morning, Frida actor Salma Hayek gave fans a rare glimpse of her London home while spilling the beans on her beauty and fitness secret for youthful appearance. Read moreShakeela trailer: Richa Chadha give an honest account into the making of an adult star. WatchThe first trailer of Richa Chadha-starrer Shakeela is out. The over two-minute trailer gives an honest account of how a young girl from a modest Indian home is forced to become an adult star, but one who keeps her conscience clean, no matter who the adversary. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-biden-names-buttigieg-to-cabinet-in-a-first-for-an-openly-gay-person-and-all-the-latest-news/story-izQAX5esrJt1RsuAONvURK.html
16-12-2020||India||China’s spies, India and the 2013 paper by NSA Ajit Doval that saw it coming||Before he became National Security Advisor to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Ajit Doval as Director of VIF think-tank wrote a seminal paper published on July 3, 2013 titled “Chinese Intelligence: From a Party Outfit to Cyber Warriors.”The paper highlights the Chinese intelligence agency Ministry of State Security’s (MSS) penetration into the Dalai Lama establishment in Dharamshala and supporting the anti-India North-East insurgent groups with the help of Pakistani Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) when required, and keeping a close watch on Indian Army activities on the border with Tibet.The paper concludes: “The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) over the years, has upgraded its intelligence capabilities at tactical, technological and strategic levels, particularly in Asia Pacific Region, South Asia and Central Asia. The MSS has evolved itself as the premier foreign intelligence agency and besides diplomatic intelligence, it has been aggressively hunting for technological data and systems information to augment national economic and military capabilities. It continues to bank heavily on Chinese global diaspora that provides it a vast catchment area for human assets for intelligence gathering and espionage. To widen its catchment area, it is expanding its illegal cover for intelligence gathering for using commercial companies and business houses, media agencies, Chinese banks etc. Establishment of nearly 380 Confucius Institutes in 180 countries, Chinese language institutes etc. also are part of its foreign intelligence activities. China envisions for itself a big power role and, silently but steadily, is building up its intelligence capabilities commensurate to that vision.”While it is quite evident from the monograph that both western world, Indo-Pacific and India knew about the penetration of Chinese intelligence, it was woken up from deep slumber after the PLA troopers in a planned action aggressively transgressed into the north banks of Pangong Tso followed by Galwan and Gogra-Hot Springs area of East Ladakh.This week, an investigative report by The Australian spotlighted how loyal members of Communist Party of China infiltrated western consulates and mega corporations masquerading as professionals. The 2016 leak of the Communist Party member data-base also reveals, as per The Australian, that newspaper editors and intellectuals act as influencers of the largest Communist Party in the world on social media and seminars.Even though The Australian investigative report does not talk about India, India’s lead intelligence agency did caution the Cabinet Secretary and senior secretaries to the threat posed by Chinese intelligence in the government, particularly in departments of telecommunication, power and higher education on July 15. The Indian agency’s presentation gave a broad overview about Chinese intelligence infiltration attempts into the government and the key pillars of democracy. The use of Chinese mobile applications for extracting data and the role of Confucius Institutes as an influencer along with embedding malware into power equipment was also highlighted. It was then decided that the government review the Confucius Institutes in the country and memorandums of understandings with countries sharing land borders with India should first get approvals from the ministry of external affairs and the ministry concerned. The action, five months later, is still work in progress.Ajit Doval, in his 2013 paper, wrote that in 2009, the University of Toronto’s Information Warfare Monitor Citizen published a “Ghost Net” report detailing intrusion by Chinese hackers into the network system of Indian Security Establishment and offices of Dalai Lama’s secretariat. The report was expectedly rejected by Beijing.Although the Indian counterintelligence closely tracks Chinese activities, the reduction of Pakistan to a client state of the Middle Kingdom would have serious security repercussions for the sub-continent as Islamabad could become an important source of intelligence collection against India and the sub-continent with linguistic and cultural similarities. The appointment of officials belonging Chinese United Front Work Department, which reports directly to the central committee of the Chinese Communist Party, as ambassadors to the Indian sub-continent presents a bigger security challenge. These ambassadors are ideologically committed workers of the Chinese Communist Party as opposed to Indian diplomats whose views on India and the world are not dictated by the political party in power.Given the humongous financial resources with these embassies, Indian security agencies are already fighting a downhill battle against Beijing’s influence.It is quite evident that the two iron brothers will exploit all Indian fault-lines, right from Kashmir, north-east insurgencies, Maoists to the economic disparity and religious fundamentalism, to destabilise India.It is to the credit of Chinese pelf and power, that even though 1.6 million people have succumbed to coronavirus, which originated in Wuhan in November 2019, the international community finds it very hard to blame Beijing or demand reparations for the year lost.With India standing up the PLA aggression in East Ladakh and demanding that the status quo ante of April 2020 be restored, the Narendra Modi government needs to be battle-prepared for a dominant China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-spies-india-and-the-paper-by-nsa-ajit-doval-that-saw-it-coming-in-2013/story-K3pij9TPEcL4CBW340C4ML.html
16-12-2020||India||Seven dead, 25 injured as bus collides with gas tanker in UP’s Sambhal||Seven people died, while 25 more sustained injuries on Wednesday morning when an Uttar Pradesh Roadways bus collided with a gas tanker here amid reduced visibility due to fog, police said.The crash took place in the Dhanari police station area, they added.“A UP Roadways bus of Aligarh depot collided head-on with a gas tanker on the Agra-Moradabad road on Wednesday in which seven persons were killed, while 25 others got injured. The number of deaths could go up,” Superintendent of Police Chakresh Mishra said.He added that the injured have been admitted to nearby hospitals.Police said the deceased are yet to be identified. Police and district administration officials are at the spot and rescue operations are on, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seven-dead-25-injured-as-bus-collides-with-gas-tanker-in-up-s-sambhal/story-U808M8vcvZENhkJ3zWHruK.html
16-12-2020||India||Explained: Why this year’s Kerala civic body elections matter||Counting of votes polled in the crucial local body elections is underway as the traditional political fronts -- Communist Party of India (Marxist) led Left Democratic Front (LDF), Congress headed United Democratic Front (UDF) and Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance, sat with their bated breath for the results. As per early trends, the LDF is leading in 403 of the 941 gram panchayats, followed by UDF with 341. In district panchayat as well, the LDF has clear lead of 11 seats while UDF trails with three. In municipality, the UDF and LDF are fighting a close battle. The UDF is leading 39 while LDF is just one seat behind (38). Also Read | Kerala local body polls: LDF leads in four corporations, UDF in twoWith all Covid-19 protocols in place, the counting of votes of Kerala local body elections started at 8 am on Wednesday. The final results are expected by 1 pm.Here is what these elections mean for the political parties in Kerala ahead of Assembly election- The local civic body elections are generally seen as pointer to the upcoming Assembly election. The results of the civic body polls will give a peak to the voters’ mood as the LDF looks for re-election.- With good cadre and grassroots reach, usually LDF enjoys edge in local body elections. However, this year, this looks difficult as the state chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan came under fire for the high-profile gold smuggling scandal. One of its ministers is also being questioned by central agencies. - Ground reports suggest some of the early advantages and track records of the ruling LDF are overshadowed by sensational cases including corruption cases, narcotics and the controversial Kerala Police Act.- BJP-led NDA, which was looking for all means to break the decades-old bipolar polity led by UDF and LDF, is hopeful of improving its seat tally compared to the 2015 civic polls.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-why-this-year-s-kerala-civic-body-polls-matter/story-WJG8R652qMr6kh3X2csXcK.html
16-12-2020||India||Away from home, soldiers on LoC battle rogue enemy, bitter cold||The life of a soldier on duty along the 744-km-long Line of Control (LoC) is not an easy one and it only gets tougher during the winters when the mercury plummets to sub-zero level. “South of Pir Panjal range, where the mercury drops to sub-zero level and a deceitful enemy is few hundred metres away, the border guarding duties become even more challenging,” said a senior Army officer. “The LoC gets covered under snow. There is a dense fog, icy winds and poor visibility. Right from Poonch, towards Valley, everything is snow bound and the Krishna Ghati (KG) sector towards Rajouri is in the grip of intense cold. Therefore, guarding the border becomes a daunting task,” he said. Also read | Greater integration between foreign and military policies key to cope with challenges: JaishankarThe officer said that during winters, ambushes also can’t be ruled out because Pakistan has been waging a proxy war against India. So in this season, soldiers fight two adversaries—Pakistan and an inclement weather, he said. To keep the cold at bay, the Army has provided warm clothes, gloves, monkey caps, snow shoes, bukharis, DG sets, first aid kits, and has deployed battle field nursing assistants to attend to health-related issues of the soldiers along the LoC. “The drill of washing their feet with warm water to escape frostbite is there. Seeing the weather condition, it can be done twice in a day,” he said. “The LoC fence is lighted up in the night so soldiers don’t feel the monotony of their job. Then, we also change duties frequently which is always performed in pairs. There is the concept of buddy pair,” said the officer. A junior commissioned officer and 10 other soldiers patrol the LoC and the critical stretches are led by an officer. To keep the troops motivated, they are given leaves to ensure they get to spend quality time with their families, said the officer. Satbir Singh, a solider who served in Poonch sector, said, “We are given everything we require…from kerosene oil to hot food and warm clothing. Health checkups are an indispensable part. Serving the motherland at the LoC gives us a sense of pride”. “My colleagues in Kashmir and Siachen face more inclement weather than us,” he said. The LoC in Jammu and Kashmir has mostly remained active even in winters. This correspondent, who toured it in October 2016, still remembers an officer telling scribes to move inside trenches as Pakistan army had hoisted red flags on their posts to indicate hostility and as a sort of warning that they can open fire on any unusual movement. That year, India had carried out surgical strikes on terror launch pads across the LoC in Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK) on the intervening night of September 27 and 28 from Nowshera and Bhimber Gali sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/away-from-home-soldiers-on-loc-battle-rogue-enemy-bitter-cold/story-84VmDVZqVGAzsTIIE4kg2J.html
16-12-2020||India||Cipla launches rapid antigen test kits for detecting Covid-19||Pharmaceutical major Cipla Limited on Wednesday announced its partnership with the Premier Medical Corporation Private Limited for commercialisation of the rapid antigen test kits to detect Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India that will detect the viral disease in just about 15-20 minutes.The company will start supplying the kits from this week, it said in a statement. This is Cipla’s second launch in the diagnostics space after Elifast: SARS CoV-2 IgG ELISA Test Kit, which is a test kit to detect antibodies against the virus that causes Covid-19.“In this collaboration, Cipla will be responsible for the marketing and distribution of the Rapid Antigen Detection Test for the qualitative detection of SARS-CoV-2 antigen that will be manufactured by Premier Medical Corporation Private Limited,” said the company in a statement issued on Wednesday. Also read | India records 26,382 new Covid-19 cases; death toll crosses 144,000The test is a rapid point-of-care nasopharyngeal swab test that directly detects the presence or absence of coronavirus antigen in the patient’s body, generating results within 15-20 minutes. Only authorised labs are permitted by ICMR to conduct the rapid antigen testing. The test will be marketed under the brand name ‘CIPtest’. “CIPtest is a reliable high-performing kit that has been validated and approved by ICMR. It is found to have specificity and sensitivity of 98.09% and up to 75% respectively. It is not only rapid with a quick turn-around time, but also enables easy interpretation of results without the need of any additional instrument. Cipla’s expansive distribution network will help in ensuring supply of kits across the country,” the company statement added.The drug major had also tied up with Hyderabad-based Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) to work on anti-viral drugs against Covid-19.Looking to repurpose certain already available drug molecules, the collaboration had been working on three molecules, remdesivir, favipiravir and baloxavir.While remdesivir was originally developed to treat the Ebola virus disease, favipiravir and baloxavir are anti-virals approved for treating influenza A and B.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cipla-launches-rapid-antigen-test-kits-for-detecting-covid-19/story-y7x4ECL3URSpgOUpvHdNsL.html
16-12-2020||India||50th anniversary of 1971 India-Pakistan war: All you need to know||India on Wednesday is observing the 50th anniversary of the 1971 war with Pakistan, also known as the Bangladesh Liberation War. Fought under the leadership of then-prime minister Indira Gandhi and chief of army staff (COAS), General Sam Manekshaw, the war ended in less than two weeks with a decisive victory for India, and resulted in the creation of Bangladesh, which was then known as East Pakistan.Here’s all you need to know about the 1971 India-Pakistan war:1. The conflict took place in the backdrop of tensions between Pakistan (also known then as West Pakistan) and the Bengali majority East Pakistan, which was closer to India then it was to Pakistan.Also Read | PM Modi pays tribute at National War Memorial on Vijay Diwas2. On 25 March 1971, the Pakistan Army, led by Lieutenant General Tikka Khan, who later went on to become Pakistan’s first COAS, launched Operation Searchlight to quell the rebellion in East Pakistan. Massive human rights violations were reportedly perpetrated by the Pakistan Army during this operation. 3. The hostilities between India and Pakistan formally began on December 3, 1971, when the Pakistan Air Force (PAF), launched pre-emptive air strikes on 11 Indian airfields. Addressing the nation the same evening, PM Indira Gandhi called the air strikes “declaration of war against India.”Also Read | ‘Surrender or be wiped out’: Field Marshal Manekshaw’s warning to Pak army during 1971 war4. While the Indian Air Force (IAF) responded with initial retaliatory strikes the same night, PM Gandhi ordered a “full-scale” invasion of Pakistan. Thus officially commenced the Indo-Pakistani war of 1971.5. The war came to an end in less than two weeks on December 16, 1971, with the Eastern Command chief of the Indian Army, Lt Gen JS Aurora, making the Eastern Command chief of the Pakistan Army, Lt Gen AAK Niazi, sign the instrument of surrender.6. As a result of the surrender, around 93,000 Pakistani troops were taken as prisoners of war (PoW) by India. The 13-day duration of the war also makes it one of the shortest wars in history.7. East Pakistan became Bangladesh, with Awami League leader, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, becoming its first President in January 1972, as well as its second prime minister in 1974. Mujib, who was assassinated in 1975, is the father of current Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina.8. The war is also known for the Indian Navy’s daring assault, called Operation Trident, on Pakistan’s financial hub of Karachi, which was also the headquarters of the Pakistan Navy. To commemorate this operation, India observes December 4 as Navy Day.9. The 1971 war is also known for the battle of Longewala, in Rajasthan, in which outnumbered Indian troops fought off advancing Pakistani adversaries. The battle is the subject of the 1997 Bollywood film ‘Border,’ with actor Sunny Deol playing Major KS Chandpuri, who led Indian troops.10. Throughout the conflict, the Indian forces were assisted by the Mukti Bahini, a Bengali guerrilla resistance movement, which was fighting the Pakistani forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50th-anniversary-of-1971-india-pakistan-war-all-you-need-to-know/story-U1JwHfjrFvQaWr7Rp3dNHI.html
16-12-2020||India||Maharashtra forms 4 sub-committees to expedite critical wildlife habitat declaration||The Maharashtra government has formed four sub-committees of the State Board of Wildlife (SBWL) to examine proposals for the critical wildlife habitats (CWH) and expedite their declaration, according to a government resolution (GR) issued on Tuesday.The state also published a GR on the formation of a panel (study group) to prepare a five-year conservation action plan for pangolins – the world’s most trafficked animal. HT had on Monday reported the state nod for it. The panel would be headed by Ramesh Kumar, conservator of forests (wildlife), Pune.Meanwhile, the four CWH sub-committees were set up across revenue sub-divisions such as Nagpur, Amravati, Konkan and Nashik, and Pune and Aurangabad. Each committee has at least two members with a coordinating forest officer. Responsibilities of the committees include verification of CWH proposals submitted by the expert committee for a particular sub-division on the basis of guidelines issued by the Centre, investigate interests of local people towards creating the CWH, check whether biodiversity will be conserved under the CWH tag, and submit reports to the SBWL within 15 days of receiving a proposal, the GR said. The matter was taken up by the state after SBWL member Kishor Rithe put it up for discussion during a meeting on August 7.At present, not just the state, the entire country does not have a single CWH despite guidelines being put in place by the Union environment ministry in January 2018. However, state chief wildlife warden said he had approved proposals for eight CWHs in Vidarbha and western Maharashtra, which will be put forth before the SBWL during its next meeting.The Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006, includes the provision to notify CWHs, which are areas required to be kept “inviolate for the purposes of wildlife conservation” identified within protected areas (PAs) such as national parks and sanctuaries. Thus, declaration of CWH does not necessarily involve resettlement of forest-dwellers, it can also be an area of co-existence after modification of forest rights. FRA applies here as forest rights of scheduled tribes and traditional forest dwellers are taken into account while proposing a CWH while Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, implies the conservation of the PA.At present as per existing guidelines, the proposal to declare a CWH is assessed on a case by case basis under scientific, objective criteria and examine community forest rights with village panchayats by expert committees formed for each PA, which include government and non-government members, social scientists, ecologists, and representatives from the village panchayat and tribal welfare.Maharashtra intends on declaring CWHs across all 55 PAs (49 wildlife sanctuaries and six national parks). “The idea is to declare a CWH in every PA of the state and ensure the process is completed swiftly to push for the protection of not only tigers, leopards, and elephants but threatened species like the Great Indian Bustard, Mouse Deer, Giant Malabar Squirrel, and Oriental Small Clawed Otter from going extinct,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra. Kakodkar said the expert committees have identified a particular area within the PA as a CWH. Their proposals will be studied by the sub-committee, and then recommended to SBWL. Once the SBWL approves, the proposal will be sent to the National Board for Wildlife for its recommendation. Once that happens, the Centre will publish a notification calling for suggestions and objections for a stipulated time period following which the CWH will be declared. “I have approved eight proposals, mostly from Melghat Wildlife Sanctuary, few more areas in Vidarbha and few from along the Western Ghats. The Nagpur and Amravati sub-committees will soon commence deliberating on them,” he said.Rithe said it would have been more effective to set up only one larger overarching committee accommodating all members rather than division sub committees. “All the committees need to have common understanding while dealing with the complex PA issues. However, I have requested PCCF to address this problem,” he said.The issue of CWHs was first raised by environment group Vanashakti through its 2014 petition before the Bombay high court that sought directions to demarcate CWH to protect species from going extinct from PAs due to direct human intervention, agricultural expansion, poaching etc. An example highlighted was of Sanjay Gandhi National Park where the striped hyena and civet cat had gone extinct. “After years of struggle, wildlife finally gets a small space to survive,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti, adding that to conserve species, it was imperative that some areas are kept free from human intervention. “Maharashtra will be the first state to demarcate CWHs, and hopefully, we will be able to stem the rapid decline and loss of biodiversity,” he said.Report flagged procedural lapses in CWH identificationAs Maharashtra steps up its efforts to declare CWHs across all PAs, a report released by the Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment and non-profit Kalpavriksh in August highlighted several violations by the state while proposing a CWH. According to the report, the process of forest rights recognition was far from complete across 39 PAs with over 1,000 villages whose rights could overlap with the PA boundaries. Among these, only 150-odd villages had received community forest resource rights. The second finding included the claim by the forest department that 25 PAs did not have any human habitation, which the report stated was incorrect. Third, the PA expert committees were functioning without outlining specific criteria and were interpreting the CWH as simply free of humans and not demonstrating actual threat to the existence of wildlife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-forms-4-sub-committees-to-expedite-critical-wildlife-habitat-declaration/story-65o7Z73MyWvfh1EB9FbJaP.html
16-12-2020||India||Trust between Indian Army and China’s PLA evaporated after Galwan clash, says top military commander||A top military commander has said that trust between the Indian Army and China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has evaporated after the clash in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley in June. Lieutenant General Anil Chauhan, GoC, Eastern Command, said it will take time to rebuild the trust.“I’d like to say there’ve been no major intrusions or face-offs in Eastern Command area since friction in Ladakh. Post-Galwan incident, mutual trust on LAC between us & Chinese PLA evaporated & will take time to stabilise,” Lt Gen Chauhan said said at an event organised on the occasion of Vijay Diwas at Fort William, Eastern Army Command Headquarters in Kolkata.In national capital Delhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other army official paid tributes at the National War Memorial on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the 1971 India-Pakistan war that led to the creation of Bangladesh.PM Modi lit the ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ at the NWM as part of the tribute to the fallen soldiers while defence minister Rajnath Singh unveiled the logo for ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’.Four ‘Victory Mashaals’ (flames) lit from the Eternal Flame of National War Memorial will be carried to various parts of the country including to villages of Param Vir Chakra and Maha Vir Chakra awardees of 1971 war.In an official release on Tuesday, the Ministry said, “In December 1971, the Indian Armed Forces secured a decisive and historic Victory over Pakistan Army, which led to the creation of a Nation - Bangladesh and also resulted in the largest Military Surrender after the World War - II. From 16 December, the Nation will be celebrating 50 Years of India-Pak War, also called ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’. Various commemorative events are planned across the Nation.”Various commemorative events will be conducted pan-India wherein war ‘Veterans and Veer Naris’ will be felicitated and events like band displays, seminars, exhibitions, equipment displays, film festivals, conclave and adventure activities are planned.Vijay Diwas is celebrated every year on December 16 to mark India’s triumph in liberating Bangladesh from Pakistan in 1971.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trust-between-indian-army-and-china-s-pla-evaporated-after-galwan-clash-says-top-military-commander/story-S0Jqa4r3tBGgB8BC0jTFaO.html
16-12-2020||India||Voting underway for seventh phase of DDC elections in Jammu and Kashmir||Polling is underway for the seventh phase of District Development Council (DDC) elections, for 31 constituencies in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday. Braving the cold weather conditions, voters arrived at a polling station in Airwan, Nagri Block of Kathua this morning. Necessary Covid-19 protocols were been followed at the booth including temperature check and social distancing.Voting for 438 Panch and 69 Sarpanch seats will be conducted today simultaneously. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, State Election Commissioner (SEC) KK Sharma said that a total of 31 DDC constituencies will go to polls including 13 seats from the Kashmir division and 18 from the Jammu division.He said that against the 13 DDC constituencies of the Kashmir division which will go to polls on Wednesday, there are 148 candidates in the fray including 34 females. In the Jammu division, there are 150 candidates in the fray for the 18 DDC constituencies in this phase, including 38 females.A total number of 6,87,115 electors (3,59,187 male and 3,27,928 female voters) are going to elect their representatives in all 31 DDC constituencies, he said and added that a total of 1,852 polling stations have been designated with 1,068 in Kashmir division and 784 in Jammu division.The SEC further informed that of 117 sarpanch vacancies notified in the 7th phase of Panchayat by-elections. There shall be a contest in 69 constituencies, and 231 candidates including 79 females, are in the fray, he added.Parties including the National Conference, People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Peoples Conference and CPI(M), formed the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration and are fighting the maiden DDC elections together. National parties BJP and Congress are also in the fray.Elections for the DDCs, which are being held in eight phases, will conclude on December 19 and the counting of votes be held on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/voting-underway-for-seventh-phase-of-ddc-elections-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-GxqIEKXV9Oh1CEkwHUHU8K.html
16-12-2020||India||‘Surrender or be wiped out’: Field Marshal Manekshaw’s warning to Pak army during 1971 war||The Additional Directorate General of Public Information (ADGPI) of the Indian Army on Wednesday posted a picture of Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw strategising with fellow army officers amid the 1971 war on photo and video sharing app Instagram commemorating the 50th anniversary of India’s victory of Pakistan.A post shared by Indian Army (@indianarmy.adgpi)The photo was shared with the caption, “’You surrender or We wipe you out’ was the message given by Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw to Pakistan on 13th December 1971.”“The Field Marshal lived his words as the world will see unprecedented surrender of more than 93000 Pakistani soldiers.”India is celebrating the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ on the occasion of India’s victory over Pakistan in 1971 war, that made Bangladesh an independent country.PM Modi along with several officials from the defence ministry paid tributes at the National War Memorial in New Delhi and kickstarted the 50th anniversary celebrations of the event.The 1971 war was fought between the Pakistan Army and the allied forces of Bangladesh’s Muktibahini and the Indian Army led by Field General Sam Manekshaw. The Pakistan government chose not to recognise the Awami League’s win in the 1970 elections following which Awami League leader Sheikh Mujibur Rahman called for a nationwide strike. Pakistan, fearing that East Pakistan will continue to demand more autonomy arrested Rehman and imprisoned him in Lahore on charges of sedition.After arresting Rahman, Pakistan prime minister Yahya Khan sent General Tikka Khan to Dhaka to stem the insurrection. In March 1971, General Tikka Khan launched a crackdown on Bangladesh’s political leaders, students and minorities. Tikka Khan’s actions, according to several observers, were nothing short of a war crime.Pakistan prime minister dragged India into the war when on December 3, Pakistan Air Force attacked India’s air bases in Amritsar, Ambala, Agra, Awantipur, Bikaner, Halwara, Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, Pathankot, Bhuj, Srinagar and Uttarlai. Indian Air Force quickly repulsed the attacks and simultaneously moved into East Pakistan.By December 14 it was clear that Pakistan’s forces were depleted and Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw asked Niazi, commander of Pakistani forces, to unconditionally surrender in front of the Indian Army. Ninety three thousand Pakistani troops surrendered to the Indian Army on this day in 1971 making it the biggest surrender since World War II.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surrender-or-be-wiped-out-field-marshal-manekshaw-s-warning-to-pak-army-during-1971-war/story-ynQr8Ggo1W6YqE2FQQbaAI.html
16-12-2020||India||PM Modi pays tribute at National War Memorial on Vijay Diwas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday paid tribute at the National War Memorial in New Delhi on the 50th anniversary of the 1971 that made Bangladesh an independent country. The day is celebrated as ‘Vijay Diwas’.‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ - a symbol of victory - was also lit by the Prime Minister. There are four such mashaals or torches which will be carried to various parts of the country, including to villages of Param Vir Chakra and MahaVir Chakra Awardees of 1971 War.The entire year is being celebrated as ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ to commemorate the golden jubilee of the 1971 India-Pakistan war. Various commemorative events will be conducted pan-India wherein war Veterans and Veer Naris will be felicitated.Meanwhile, defence minister Rajnath Singh and home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday extended their wishes to countrymen on the occasion of the Vijay Diwas. The ministers saluted the bravery and courage of the Indian Army.“Today, on the occasion of Vijay Diwas, I salute the valour and bravery of the Indian Army. I remember the bravery of our soldiers who wrote a new saga of bravery in the 1971 war. Their sacrifice is a source of inspiration for all Indians. Nation will always revere them,” Singh said on Twitter. आज विजय दिवस के अवसर मैं भारतीय सेना के शौर्य एवं पराक्रम की परम्परा को नमन करता हूँ। मैं स्मरण करता हूँ उन जाँबाज़ सैनिकों की बहादुरी को जिन्होंने १९७१ के युद्ध में एक नई शौर्यगाथा लिखी। उनका त्याग और बलिदान सभी भारतीयों के लिए प्रेरणा का स्रोत है। यह देश उन्हें हमेशा याद रखेगा।The home minister said that the Indian Army made a historic change on the world map on this day.“On this day in 1971, the Indian Army, with its indomitable courage and valour, made a historic change on the world map, protecting the universal values of human freedom. This mark with golden letters in history will continue to make every Indian proud. Happy Vijay Diwas,” Shah tweeted.The Indian Armed Forces had in December 1971 secured a historic victory over Pakistan Army, which led to the creation of Bangladesh and also resulted in the largest military Surrender after the World War–II.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tribute-at-national-war-memorial-on-vijay-diwas/story-GK9p2P3I4pe5wt6gppHyHP.html
16-12-2020||India||India records 26,382 new Covid-19 cases; death toll crosses 144,000||India recorded 26,382 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry update on Wednesday. With this, the nationwide tally reached 99,32,547.The number of active cases, which have been steadily falling, stood at 3,32,002, the health ministry update at 8 am showed. And 94,56,449 patients have been cured or discharged from the hospitals.The country also recorded 387 fresh fatalities due to Covid-19, which took the nationwide death toll to 1,44,096.India’s daily case trajectory is at its lowest level in five months. On Monday, India recorded 22,022 new Covid-19 cases. This is the lowest number of new infections reported across the country since July 2, when the country saw 21,853 daily cases.The numbers are also receding in every major hotspot region in the country, according to analysis of data done by Hindustan Times. In India’s worst-hit state, Maharashtra, the seven-day average of daily cases has dropped nearly 82 per cent from the peak of 22,149 seen on September 17.Senior government officials said on Tuesday that India has bucked the global trend and is showing a sustained improvement in containing the Covid-19 outbreak. But at the same time, they warned that trends in other countries are also a strong reminder of how the situation can quickly go out of control even if one peak is contained.Senior government officials said on Tuesday that India has bucked the global trend and is showing a sustained improvement in containing the Covid-19 outbreak. But at the same time, they warned that trends in other countries are also a strong reminder of how the situation can quickly go out of control even if one peak is contained..“Active cases have declined from over 10 lakh in mid-September to fewer than four lakh at present... India’s cumulative fatality rate has also come down to 6.37%, and if you take into account the last week, it is 3%,” said said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan.According to Bhushan, preparations are underway to prepare local officials to receive and administer vaccines, a process that is likely to cover close to 300 million people by the middle of next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-26-382-new-covid-19-cases-death-toll-crosses-144-000/story-2Eqdf8i1FdpkD6hZTni36M.html
16-12-2020||India||Trinamool leader refuses to meet minister, seeks meeting with Mamata Banerjee||Trinamool’s Jitendra Tiwari, MLA from Asansol and former mayor of the city, has accused the state government of not allowing the Asansol Municipal Corporation to get Central funds due to politics and avoided meeting urban development minister Firhad Hakim in Kolkata on Tuesday evening. He told the leadership that he will talk only with chief minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee and nobody else. Since Banerjee is touring north Bengal, the party informed Tiwari that the CM may meet him on December 18, a TMC leader aware of the development said. This happened on a day when former cabinet minister and party heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari stoked speculations that he may join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) during Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the poll-bound state later this week. Speculations started in Asansol too where two TMC councilors, who are known to be close to Tiwari, wrote social media posts praising Adhikari. In a letter to Hakim on Sunday, Tiwari said that the state government did not let the Asansol Municipal Corporation receive funds to the tune of Rs 2000 crore from the Centre under the smart city project because of political reasons. Though marked confidential, the letter got leaked. Tiwari alleged that he wrote to Hakim on the same issue at least five times in the past but Sunday’s letter was leaked by someone on purpose. “I will discuss these issues only with the chief minister,” he said. The Asansol MLA also informed the higher education department that he wants to resign from the governing body of two local colleges. These have caused a major embarrassment for the TMC because the BJP won two adjacent Lok Sabha seats in West Burdwan district in 2019. The developments have triggered speculations that Tiwari, who is the TMC’s district unit president, may leave the party in the run-up to the crucial assembly polls due in about five months. “…I am very aggrieved to state that our city was chosen by the Ministry of urban development, Government of India, under Smart City Mission project which if would have been allowed by you, our city could have received funds amounting Rs 2000 crore which would be very crucial for development of the city,” Tiwari wrote in a letter to Hakim on Sunday. “… due to political reasons we were not allowed to get benefits from it by the state government,” Tiwari wrote. Union minister of state Babul Supriyo is the MP from Asansol while the adjacent Bardhaman-Durgapur seat is represented by another Union minister of state, SS Ahluwalia. The region has a sizeable non-Bengali speaking as well as a Muslim population. Asansol is the second biggest city in south Bengal. It is located in the state’s biggest industrial and coal mining belt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-leader-refuses-to-meet-minister-seeks-meeting-with-mamata-banerjee/story-6Lu8DRBxo8E8JcgrfWcwvK.html
16-12-2020||India||Will farmers continue their protest at Delhi border or shift to other place? Crucial Supreme Court hearing today||The Supreme Court will on Wednesday hear a petition seeking removal of the farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws from Delhi borders.The farmers have been protesting at Singhu and other border points of Delhi since November 26 seeking the repeal of the three laws passed in September.The petition has been filed by law student Rishabh Sharma and will be heard by a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, justice A S Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanian. Sharma has said in his petition that commuters are facing hardships due to the road blockades and the gatherings might lead to an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said on Tuesday that the farmers are being misled about the reforms introduced by his government in the agriculture sector. He also lashed out at the opposition parties and farmer organisations.Modi expressed surprise at the protests triggered by the reforms his government introduced in September. Some opposition parties and farmers’ unions had all along demanded such measures, which couldn’t be implemented in the past, he said at Dhordo in Kutch, Gujarat.“The farmers are being misled about the agricultural reforms. They are being fooled into believing that others will occupy their lands,” PM Modi said in Hindi. “These reforms are exactly the same that farmers’ organisations and even the opposition have been asking over the years,” he said.The farmers are protesting against the recently enacted Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Meanwhile, farmer leaders on Tuesday asserted that they will “make” the Centre repeal the three new agri laws in a hardening of their stand. The union leaders again made it clear the government should first repeal all the three laws and only then there can be further talks. Negotiations between the government and the farmers’ unions have remained stuck after five rounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-farmers-continue-their-protest-at-delhi-borders-or-shift-to-other-place-crucial-supreme-court-hearing-today/story-snUsZ0z0LAxK4KdyAq60AP.html
16-12-2020||India||ABVP finds new president in Chhaganbhai Patel; Nidhi Tripathi re-elected general secretary||Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party, has elected Chhaganbhai Patel as its president and Nidhi Tripathi has been re-elected as its general secretary.In a statement issued on Tuesday, the ABVP said the two were elected for the year 2020-21. Both of them will assume charge at the 66th ABVP conference to be held in Nagpur on December 25-26, it added.According to the statement, Patel hails from Mehsana district of Gujarat and holds a PhD in pharmacy. Presently, he is working as the principal of Sarvajanik Pharmacy College in Mehsana. As per the statement, he has published over 170 national level research papers and guided more than 23 scholars in research.Tripathi hails from Pratapgarh district of Uttar Pradesh. She did her BA from Allahabad University and MA and MPhil from Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi from where she is pursuing her PhD as well, the statement said.As a researcher in Sanskrit literature,Tripathi has presented papers in various national and international conferences, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abvp-finds-new-president-in-chhaganbhai-patel-nidhi-tripathi-re-elected-general-secretary/story-gpCx7jUVSKKuW9uzg0p4eJ.html
16-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: IMD forecasts heavy rainfall in south India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Heavy rainfall likely in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Puducherry; spell to last till Dec 22: IMDThe southern states of Tamil Nadu and Kerala will experience heavy rainfall for the next few days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said in its weather forecast. Read moreDelhi minimum temperature rises slightly, cold day conditions likely to persistDelhi recorded a minimum temperature of 5.9 degrees Celsius (until 6.30am ) today, around 2 degrees higher than Tuesday’s minimum of 4.1 degrees C. Read moreAjinkya Rahane’s great captaincy testCricket rarely remembers the vice-captain. Think Virender Sehwag, Gautam Gambhir or Rohit Sharma, exemplary batsmen who also happened to be the deputy at different times. Now think Ajinkya Rahane, India’s current vice-captain. Read moreEnraged Tom Cruise threatens to fire Mission Impossible 7 crew in leaked audio tirade, listen hereAn audio clip of actor Tom Cruise yelling at crew members on set of Mission Impossible 7 has been leaked. Cruise lost his cool after noticing a lapse in social distancing on set, and threatened to fire those allegedly flouting rules. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor in Rs 4k baggy T-shirt at the beach makes a strong case for comfy clothingActor Janhvi Kapoor has a certain elan about her. Within a small period of time, the Dhadak actor has made a name for not just her acting skills, but also her dressing sense. Read moreCustomer leaves $5,000 tip for waitress, restaurant shares ‘thank you’ postWith the festive season upon us, many are feeling jolly and generous. This notion stands particularly true for a customer of an Italian restaurant Anthony’s At Paxon in Pennsylvania, US. Read moreCovid vaccine side-effects can’t be ruled out: Indian govt, after UK advisoryThe Union government commented on the possibility of side-effects from Covid-19 vaccine. The government said that ‘adverse’ reactions can’t be ruled out when vaccination starts. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-imd-forecasts-heavy-rainfall-in-south-india-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2cYOrI9tgji0oKg8pNBRFM.html
16-12-2020||India||Migrant labourer shot dead in Bihar’s Jamui village||A 23-year-old migrant labourer was shot dead at his village in Jamui district of Bihar on Tuesday for allegedly not paying extortion money.The incident took place when Pravin Mahto and his cousin were returning from the market. As soon as they reached the outskirts of Bichhwe village falling under Sikandra police station, some assailants shot at Mahato from point blank range. He was rushed to the hospital where he was pronounced brought dead.The main accused has been identified as Ranit Yadav, who, Mahto’s father Dasrath alleged, had demanded Rs 1lakh as extortion money from Mahato in October. Yadav had even threatened Mahto of dire consequences if the latter failed to pay. Also read | Delhi man shot dead in Raghubir Nagar, one heldFollowing the killing, irate villagers blocked Jamui-Sikandra road and disrupted vehicular traffic for over four hours. The protesters accused police of inaction since Yadav’s wife is a Bihar Police constable.However, Sikandra SHO Dhruv Kumar said a case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Yadav and others and raids are on to nab them.In Gopalganj, garment trader Vijay Manjhi was shot at in a market under the Vishwambhar police station area for allegedly not paying Rs20 lakh extortion.Manjhi was outside his shop when motorcycle-borne miscreants shot at him, following which he was rushed to the hospital. Manjhi is recuperating in hospital where he is said to be out of danger. An FIR was registered under the IPC and the Arms Act against four unidentified men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-labourer-shot-dead-in-bihar-s-jamui-village/story-ao7H6yqyMZG2yCp9EH3yIP.html
16-12-2020||India||Swarnim Vijay Varsh: PM Modi to kickstart 50th anniversary celebrations of India’s victory over Pak in 1971 war||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will light up ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ at the National War Memorial (NWM) in Delhi on Wednesday and kickstart the 50th-anniversary celebrations of the 1971 India-Pakistan war, the Ministry of Defence said. In an official release on Tuesday, the Ministry said, “In December 1971, the Indian Armed Forces secured a decisive and historic Victory over Pakistan Army, which led to the creation of a Nation - Bangladesh and also resulted in the largest Military Surrender after the World War - II. From 16 December, the Nation will be celebrating 50 Years of India-Pak War, also called ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’. Various commemorative events are planned across the Nation.”Prime Minister Modi will be received by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh at the venue.The Prime Minister, Chief of Defence Staff and Tri-Service Chiefs will lay wreath and pay homage to the fallen soldiers.The Prime Minister will light up the ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ from the eternal flame of NWM on the occasion.“Four Victory Mashaals (flames) will be lit from the Eternal Flame of NWM. These Mashaals will be carried to various parts of the country including to villages of Param Vir Chakra and MahaVir Chakra Awardees of 1971 War. Soil from the villages of these Awardees and from areas where major battles were fought in 1971 are being brought to the NWM,” read the release.Various commemorative events will be conducted pan-India wherein war ‘Veterans and Veer Naris’ will be felicitated and events like band displays, seminars, exhibitions, equipment displays, film festivals, conclave and adventure activities are planned.Minister of Defence for state Shripad Yesso Naik and other senior civil and military officials of the Ministry of Defence will also be present on the occasion.Vijay Diwas is celebrated every year on December 16 to mark India’s triumph in liberating Bangladesh from Pakistan in 1971.In one of the fastest and shortest campaigns of military history, a new nation was born as a result of the swift campaign undertaken by the Indian Army.After facing defeat in the 1971 war, the then Army Chief of Pakistan General Amir Abdullah Khan Niazi, along with his 93,000 troops, surrendered to allied forces which also comprised of Indian Army personnel. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swarnim-vijay-varsh-pm-modi-to-kickstart-50th-anniversary-celebrations-of-india-s-victory-over-pak-in-1971-war/story-M2HKELfk90gMjbS9rCrAwL.html
16-12-2020||India||Delhi minimum temperature rises slightly, cold day conditions likely to persist||Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 5.8 degrees Celsius (until 9am ) today, around 2 degrees higher than Tuesday’s minimum of 4.1 degrees C.Cold day conditions are likely to persist in pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh during the next two days. Cold wave conditions are also very likely in pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan during the next four days, India Meteorological Department has said in its bulletin.Severe cold wave conditions are likely to develop over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh on Friday and Saturday.Also read | Heavy rainfall expected in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry from todayDense fog is likely in isolated pockets over Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, north Rajasthan, Bihar and Haryana today.The all-time lowest minimum temperature recorded in Delhi is 0 degree C on December 27, 1930. Last year, the city had recorded a minimum of 2.4 degrees C on December 28.On Tuesday, the maximum temperature recorded was 18.5 degrees C at Safdarjung, 5 degrees C below normal and 16.7 degrees C at Palam, 7 degrees C below normal.According to IMD, a cold day or severe cold day is based on two parameters—a minimum temperature under 10 degrees C, maximum temperature 4.5 degrees C or 6.4 degrees C below normal respectively.A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degree C in the plains. Witnessing a cold day and cold wave together means the gap between day and night temperatures was lower than normal.“There have been intense western disturbances which have brought widespread snowfall to the Western Himalayas. Now icy winds are blowing over Delhi from that region. Climatologically also minimum temperatures fall sharply after December 15 but this year the drop has been abrupt,” Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre said on Tuesday.Delhi recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 268 in “poor” category today morning. According to the air quality early warning system under ministry of earth sciences, Delhi’s AQI is likely to improve due to relatively stronger winds today.Under the influence of an easterly wave, scattered to fairly widespread rain/thundershowers very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep area from today to Sunday. Heavy rains are likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal today and tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-minimum-temperature-rises-slightly-cold-day-conditions-likely-to-persist/story-ycJuRRx9wBqpckSO4jk1nI.html
16-12-2020||India||Heavy rainfall likely in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Puducherry; spell to last till Dec 22: IMD||The southern states of Tamil Nadu and Kerala will experience heavy rainfall for the next few days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said in its weather forecast.According to IMD, heavy rainfall is very likely at isolated places over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal. These places will also witness thunderstorm accompanied with lightning.The situation will continue till December 22, the IMD said. Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar islands, south coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam can also experience rain during this period, it further said.The weather is likely to be dry in remaining parts of the country, the weather department said in its forecast.North India, meanwhile, is under the grip of a cold wave and dense fog has engulfed many states. National capital Delhi recorded its lowest minimum temperature of the season - 4.1 degrees Celsium - on Tuesday. On Wednesday, Delhi’s minimum temperature stood at 5.9 degree Celsius (at 6.30 am).The IMD has said that ‘cold day’ conditions are likely to persist in pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan and West Uttar Pradesh for next two days. Some of these areas may experience ‘severe cold wave’ on Friday and Saturday.In Himachal Pradesh, Keylong and Kalpa recorded sub-zero temperatures despite dry weather in the state.In the Kashmir Valley, night temperatures dipped below the freezing point owing to a clear sky, with the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg shivering at minus 10.2 degrees Celsius.All weather stations in the Valley recorded sub-zero night temperatures several degrees below the normal for this part of the season, IMD officials said.Churu was the coldest place in Rajasthan with a minimum of 5.2 degrees Celsius followed by Pilani where the night temperature was 5.3 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-expected-in-tamil-nadu-kerala-and-puducherry-from-today-imd/story-mytFnPY00FjbKxwCO4hWmM.html
16-12-2020||India||Nitish Kumar government approves free coronavirus vaccine for all in Bihar||In line with its poll promise, the Nitish Kumar government on Tuesday approved a proposal for providing free anti-coronavirus vaccine to all the people of the state. The decision was taken at the first meeting of the cabinet. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced that Bihar would be given free vaccines against Covid-19 during the state polls.Sources said chief minister Nitish Kumar directed the health department to work out the modalities of inoculating every resident of the state against coronavirus. “The modalities will be worked out in the coming days. A decision in principle has been taken for free vaccination in the state. In the first round, the health workers may be given the doses followed by people above 60 and then 50. There will be consultation and a detailed report on the vaccination drive would be prepared soon,” said a senior government officer aware of the developments. Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad said: “We have decided to carry free innoculation of vaccines against Covid-19 to every resident of the state as it was a foremost promise of the BJP and also the NDA. Our decision is a big gift to people of the state after formation of the government. We feel Bihar’s biggest strength is its human resource and we want them to be protected against the deadly disease as the world is battling with the pandemic.” The deputy CM said the Covid vaccines would be given once it is approved and available in the market. Former deputy CM and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi said, “The decision of the state cabinet to provide free vaccines against Covid-19 to the entire population of Bihar is a welcome decision. I feel other states should emulate it. The BJP in its manifesto had promised to provide free vaccines knowing well how in Bihar only a small section of the populace could afford it at market prices. Once the vaccines come, the frontline workers, police personnel and those above 50 would be given the doses in a phase wise manner,” he said. The cabinet also decided to generate 20 lakh jobs in government and non-government sector in the next five years and also to link Hindi language with technical education apart from constructing Ashray stalls in every city for the senior citizens.The state cabinet approved the implementation of all programmes under Atma Nirbhar Bihar and Saath Nischai (Seven resolves) -2 for the next five years (2020-2025) apart from approving 14 other agendas, according to a press release issued by the government. Other major decisions taken were enhancement of incentive to unmarried girls having passed intermediate from Rs 10000 to Rs 25000 while for married/unmarried girls having done graduation, the incentive has been raised to Rs 50000 from Rs 25000 for higher education. Youths keen on starting business will be given Rs 5 lakh loans at one percent interest plus 50% subsidy on the project cost up to maximum of Rs 5 lakh would be provided. There will be a centre of excellence opened in all ITI ( Industrial Training Institute) and Polytechnics for higher training of students so that they adapt to needs of employment in the technical sector. The Seven resolves part 11 would be focusing on further improving the infrastructure and facilities in health, education, agriculture and other sectors as well, a statement from the cabinet department said. Incidentally, the decision of generating 20 lakh jobs in the government and non-government sector is another ambitious programme. Officials said the chief secretary would be calling a meeting of all departmental heads on Wednesday to discuss the modalities of generating jobs for youths to address the unemployment issue, which was a major poll agenda during the recent election. The opposition RJD had rallied on its poll agenda by promising 10 lakh government jobs, if voted to power. “There will be creation of posts in the government and also encouragement to the private sector to generate more jobs in the state. The matter would be discussed and a report would be prepared soon,” said another officer. Among the other highlights of the cabinet decisions were opening of mega skill centres in every district, tool room in every division, sport university at Rajgir, free medical treatment for children having a hole in the heart under “Child Heart Scheme” and formation of new department for skill development and entrepreneurship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-government-approves-free-coronavirus-vaccine-for-all-in-bihar/story-SBnulemMnZihANPmKOswIM.html
16-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Monday, India recorded 22,022 new cases of the coronavirus disease. Case numbers typically take a hit on Mondays owing to low testing over the weekend, but the last Monday on which the country recorded fewer than 22,022 cases was back on June 29 (18,318 cases).India saw 352 deaths from Covid-19 on Monday. The last Monday on which it saw fewer deaths was back on June 22 (311 deaths).Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage India’s Covid-19 numbers have clearly taken a turn for the better — as the charts accompanying this piece show.Why is this happening?Let’s start with why it is not happening. Inadequate testing — this columnist’s favourite bugbear, as many have pointed out — is not the reason. On Monday, India conducted 993,665 tests. On the Sunday before (December 13), it did 855,157. On Monday, June 29, it conducted 210,292 tests; and on the Sunday before (June 28), it did 170,560. Nor is it that some states and Union territories are depending overly on the wrong kind of tests. Both Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, to name just two, have increased the number of Reverse Tanscription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests they conduct. These molecular tests are considered the gold standard in testing and are far more accurate than rapid antigen tests (which still account for a majority of the tests conducted by Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, although their proportion of the whole has decreased). Bihar still continues to depend on rapid antigen tests, though.So, what could explain the sharp fall in case and death numbers? The current seven-day average of cases is 28,827, 72.6% of what it was on December 1, 63.2% of what it was on November 1, and 37.8% of what it was on September 1. India has 333,392 active cases currently, 59.1% of the number of active cases on November 1, and 35.3% the number on October 1.One possible explanation is that there is better adherence to safety protocols such as the wearing of masks and social distancing. If everyone wore masks in every situation where it made sense for them to (and not just in every situation where they were required to), the number of infections is bound to fall sharply — and India could well be seeing some of that.Another is that with around 143 million people possibly exposed to and infected by the virus — this number is arrived at by assuming a 0.1% infection fatality rate and working backwards from the around 143,000 deaths India has seen to date — immunity levels in the population are high enough to ensure a fall in the number of infections. This number, 143 million, translates into an 11% exposure at the aggregate level — a proportion which is likely to be much higher in urban areas and much lower in remote rural areas. And given that there is a strong possibility of some under-reporting of deaths, the actual levels may be higher. For instance, 200,000 deaths would translate into 200 million infections, and an exposure level of almost 15%.Also Read| India bucking global trend but must keep its guard up in Covid fight: OfficialsA third, and this is a more speculative explanation than the other two, is that the virus has infected most of the people susceptible to infection — we know that not everyone exposed to the virus is infected; and that not everyone infected becomes a transmitter — and that as it jumps from person to person, it is increasingly coming in touch with people who do not get infected. This would mean some pre-existing protection — perhaps from previous coronavirus infections or exposure to other viruses; or perhaps from something such as the BCG vaccine, something most Indians are administered in childhood, and which, research has shown, does offer some protection against Covid-19, or at least lessens the severity of the infection.All three explanations are mere theories at this point — there could be more such — but we’re having to think along these lines simply because India’s trajectory of infections is otherwise almost inexplicable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-abLwNtBKD7bES2CoCSs97L.html
16-12-2020||India||No winter session due to Covid-19; Opposition objects||The Union government on Wednesday confirmed that there will be no Winter Session of Parliament this year, and cited concerns raised by several parties over the Covid-19 pandemic as having prompted the decision.A number of Opposition parties, however, opposed the move, contradicted its contention that they were consulted, and stuck to their demand that a session be held, particularly in the wake of the ongoing farmers’ agitation near the Capital over the last three weeks.The Congress, the Left parties, the Nationalist Congress Party and the Shiv Sena said no consultations were held with them over calling off the session altogether, but the Trinamool Congress, the second-largest opposition party in Parliament after the Congress, said it had told Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi that they did not want a shortened winter session.Also Read: Why the winter session matters | HT EditorialThe government interlocutors indicated that it plans to hold a normal Budget Session starting in January 2021, and the Union Budget will be presented as per schedule on February 1.HT was the first to report on November 16 that the rising cases of Covid-19 infections in Delhi had cast a shadow on the Winter Session, and the government was considering clubbing it with the Budget Session. To be sure, the number of cases in the Capital has reduced substantially since November 16 (seven-day average of daily infections was 6,521 then against 2,129 as of December 15). Some of the important issues the Opposition was expected to raise in Parliament include the ongoing farmers’ protests, the state of the economy, the border stand-off with China and the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Some of the key bills due for discussion and passage are Personal Data Protection Bill, Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Bill and National Commission for Allied and Healthcare Professions Bill.Parliament normally holds three sessions in a calendar year – Budget (end of January to early April), Monsoon (July to August) and Winter (November to December). This year, the Budget Session was cut short by eight days, and an already shortened Monsoon Session was also reduced by the same duration due to the pandemic.In 2008, the UPA government skipped a formal Winter Session but extended the Monsoon Session for a few days in December.Also Read| Only Congress has an issue with no Winter Session: Pralhad JoshiThe government managers pointed out that despite taking elaborate safety measures, several MPs and Parliament officials tested positive during the Monsoon Session (held from September 14 to September 23). Three MPs — Anil Gasti, Balli Durga Prasad Rao and H Vasanthakumar — and Union minister of state for railways Suresh Angadi died after being infected by the virus.On Sunday, Joshi wrote to the Congress’s Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury informing him that he had “informally contacted floor leaders of various political parties and they have expressed their concerns about the ongoing pandemic and opined of doing away with the Winter Session”. At 10:49am on 15.12.2020, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad told me: He [Joshi] has not talked to me. 4 mins later @ghulamnazad told me: They [Modi Sarkar] have not consulted us. So stop playing these silly games Mr. Joshi. @JoshiPralhad https://t.co/3LVUMRYbcm“The government is willing to have the next session of Parliament at the earliest; it would be appropriate to have the budget session, 2021 in January 2021 keeping in mind the unprecedented circumstances created by Covid-19 pandemic,” Joshi wrote in the letter seen by HT.Chowdhury sent a letter to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla on December 3 demanding a Winter Session be held at the earliest. Replying to Chowdhury’s letter, Joshi wrote that “winter months are very crucial for managing the pandemic because of recent spurt in cases during this period, particularly in Delhi”. He also said that a Covid-19 vaccine was expected soon.Several Opposition leaders criticised the decision, and Joshi’s letter was met with rebuttals. Senior Congress leader and former Union minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted saying that the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, was not consulted by the government on the issue.“Mr Pralhad Joshi is as usual departing from the truth,” Ramesh said.While the Trinamool Congress’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien said: “Consulted? Are you joking?” when asked about the government’s outreach to various parties, the party’s Lok Sabha floor leader Sudip Bandopadhyay said that Joshi had spoken to him.“Our party is of the opinion that a short Winter Session is meaningless. We want Winter and Budget sessions to be clubbed into a full-fledged session in which all issues can be discussed,” said Bandopadhyay.The Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s parliamentary leader Elamaram Kareem said the Left parties had not been consulted. “We have been demanding debate on farmers’ issues in Parliament in Winter Session. It’s a national issue but Modi government doesn’t discuss serious national issues. Similarly, National education policy was also not discussed,” he said.The government hurriedly pushed three controversial farm bills in the Monsoon Session, ignoring repeated demands by the Opposition for parliamentary review of the proposed laws. The Rajya Sabha passed the bills amid a massive disruption that led to suspension of eight MPs from the chamber. The Opposition also said that none of their pet issues, such as economy, plight of migrant workers, inflation was discussed in the House.In the past few weeks, the opposition parties have stepped up their demand for holding the Winter Session in view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation over three new farm laws, saying the government should repeal these legislations and hold fresh discussions on reforms in the agricultural sector.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik said on Tuesday that Parliament should sit for a Winter Session, even for a short duration. “Not holding the Winter Session and evading questions is not right for democracy. Opposition parties and farmers are demanding that the session should be held even if it is for two days only,” he said.The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Lok Sabha member Bhagwant Mann said that the government was scared to hold discussion on the farmers’ issue in Parliament and has decided not to call the session. “If you do not want run Parliament then why spend thousands of crores on the new building?” he asked on Twitter.As per the rule, there should not be a gap of more than six months between two sessions of Parliament.Speaking to HT, Joshi said, “This is an extraordinary situation. Many people have suggested not to go for session as there is a spike in the number of cases. The government because, of the extraordinary situation, are calling it (next session) in January. What’s the problem?”S Sreedharan, former secretary general of Lok Sabha, said there is no constitutional breach since the six months’ gap between the two sessions is not there. “But, if the government is convinced of the reasons for not convening the Houses as usual, it should formally consult the political parties and carry them on board.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-winter-session-due-to-covid-19-opposition-objects/story-M2W9JvkxIPez840RnZSnhP.html
16-12-2020||India||Number Theory| Covid-19: Why India is on the right track now||India’s Covid-19 numbers have taken a turn for the better. The rate of new infections being reported across the country is at the lowest level in five months, shows data analysed by HT. This is the first time a drop of this magnitude and consistency has been recorded in the Covid-19 trajectory in the country.All data points to this being the best situation the outbreak has been in five months. A look at how numbers show India is swinging the battle against the disease.1. India’s daily case trajectory at lowest in 5 monthsOn Monday, India recorded 22,022 new Covid-19 cases, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. This is the lowest number of new infections reported across the country since July 2, when the country saw 21,853 daily cases. The seven-day average of daily cases, also referred to as the case trajectory of a region, touched 93,617 on September 16, the highest recorded till date. As of Monday, this number stands at 28,827 — down 69% from the peak. The last time it was at this level was on July 15, or five months ago, when it was 28,594. One of the best signs, however, is that there have been little fluctuations in the drop in the trajectory. The seven-day average has seen a near-steady decline since the mid-September peak (barring a weeklong fluctuation seen in the second half of November, caused largely by rising cases in Delhi, West Bengal and Rajasthan).Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage2. For the first time, Covid situation is under control in all of India’s hot spot statesEven after India’s new cases hit the mid-September peak, there were some regions that were still reporting rising numbers – notably Delhi, Kerala, West Bengal and Rajasthan. Delhi’s third wave, for instance, was so strong that it caused a momentary spike in the overall numbers across the country in November. However, in the past fortnight, even that has been brought under control. As a result, for the first time since the outbreak gripped the entire country, numbers are receding in every major hot spot region in the country. In India’s worst-hit state, Maharashtra, the seven-day average of daily cases has dropped nearly 82% from the peak of 22,149 seen on September 17. In Karnataka, this has dropped 87% from the peak; in Andhra Pradesh it is down 95%; it is 82% down in Tamil Nadu; and Kerala has seen a 47% slump from the peak witnessed in the state. Delhi, which has seen the latest peak (7,341 cases a day for the week ending November 14), has also witnessed an impressive 71% drop from its peak.Also Read| India bucking global trend but must keep its guard up in Covid fight: Officials3. Testing right: Positivity rate touches lowest everOn Monday, 2.2% of samples tested across India came back positive – the lowest single-day positivity rate reported since April 25 (also 2.2%). The average rate of samples testing positive for Covid-19 across the country has dropped from 9.3% for the week ending September 22 to 3% for the week ending June 17, another trend that is suggestive of a contracting outbreak. In the nearly eight months since the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had been releasing data on Covid-19 testing in the country, this is the lowest that the average positivity rate has ever touched in India. A dropping positivity rate, coupled with falling new cases, suggests that the testing strategy against the virus is paying dividends. India’s rate of testing (seven-day average of daily tests) has been hovering very close to peak levels – it has remained around the million mark (963,800 samples were tested every day in the preceding week) over the past three months.4. The secret to Delhi’s remarkable turnaroundDelhi was one of the key regions that defied the larger trend when India’s first Covid-19 wave started receding for the first time. While cases were dropping across the country in early October, the Capital was seeing the start of the third wave. This wave peaked in mid-November and has seen a remarkable turnaround since. The reduction in new infections has come hand-in-hand with a drop in the positivity rate and a significant improvement in testing. On December 15, for instance, Delhi tested 85,105 samples for Covid-19, of which 42,056 were tested using the more accurate Reverse Tanscription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) method. Both these figures were single-day records for Delhi. But despite a record number of tests, the single-day positivity rate was only 1.9% – only once (April 6) has Delhi ever reported a fewer proportion of samples testing positive. The average positivity rate on Tuesday stood at 2.7% – the lowest ever recorded. The average positivity rate should consistently drop to 5% or below if testing is adequate and is keeping the outbreak in control, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). In Delhi, this has presently been below the threshold for nine days in a row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-theory-covid-19-why-india-is-on-the-right-track-now/story-mHAv8jcqv2KAZhpDNS07XI.html
16-12-2020||India||India bucking global trend but must keep its guard up in Covid fight: Officials||India has bucked the global trend and is showing a sustained improvement in containing the Covid-19 outbreak, senior government officials said on Tuesday but warned that trends in other countries are also a strong reminder of how the situation can quickly go out of control even if one peak is contained. Speaking at the government’s routine briefing on the Covid-19 situation, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul also enumerated the legwork being done across the country for the logistics and training that will be required to deliver vaccines to hundreds of millions of people by next summer.  “Active cases have declined from over 10 lakh in mid-September to fewer than four lakh at present... India’s cumulative fatality rate has also come down to 6.37%, and if you take into account the last week, it is 3%,” said Bhushan, before speaking about the ongoing spike in infections and deaths in other countries.Paul described the contrast between India and the world as a warning as well as a source of satisfaction. “It is a reminder of the nature of the virus because even we might get a second wave of infections and deaths since this is how this virus behaves. Things can take a drastic turn even after it stabilises. The key lesson is, don’t take things for granted,” he said.On the other hand, he added, “it is reassuring that we are saving lives. Our situation now is like it was in July. People are now saying that the R-naught has reduced to below 1 and the outbreak is shrinking”. Paul went on to stress on the need to be careful, saying: “Remember, we have a large population of people who are vulnerable”.On Tuesday, 26,249 new infections were reported across the country, taking the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 9,932,841, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. Meanwhile, 385 more patients lost their lives to the disease in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of fatalities in the country to 144,149.The Niti Aayog official highlighted the case of the national capital, congratulating the Delhi government and the departments involved for having brought the outbreak under control. “But even as many regions show an improvement, some are still a concern, like Uttarakhand, Nagaland and Himachal Pradesh. We are in touch with officials there,” Paul said.According to Bhushan, preparations are underway to prepare local officials to receive and administer vaccines, a process that is likely to cover close to 300 million people by the middle of next year. “We will use 29,000 cold chain points, 240 walk-in coolers, 70-walk-in freezers, 45,000 ice-lined freezers, 41,000 deep freezers and 300 solar refrigerators will be used. All these have already reached states and more equipment is being sent,” the health secretary added.The supplies were among three broad focus points from detailed guidelines sent to the states. These largely dealt with assigning of responsibilities (Bhushan said 23 ministries and departments of Centre and states have been told their roles), training and equipping the people who will be involved in logistics as well as administration of shots, and on how to monitor for and respond to any adverse reactions people might have.“Instructions (have been) issued on minor, severe and serious AEFI (adverse effect following immunisation). States will identify one AEFI management centre in each block, which could be fixed health facilities. Each AEFI management centres will be mapped with every session sites (vaccination centres) to make sure people can be taken to these instantly,” Bhushan said.These preparations are being done while at least three vaccine candidates are being assessed for an emergency approval. Paul said there was good progress in the vaccine pipeline, and highlighted a candidate by Gennova which is based on the same mRNA platform as the doses developed by Pfizer and Moderna and was cleared for clinical trials last week. “Unlike Pfizer and Moderna, this vaccine will require normal cold chain temperatures,” Paul said. To be sure, this vaccine candidate has just been cleared for Phase 1/ 2 trials. Following that, it will, subject to approvals, enter Phase 3 trials. “We now have six vaccines undergoing human trials in India,” he said, while adding that the approval and assessment process is being done in an independent and objective manner. “This process is being carried out by independent experts and people should feel reassured that whichever vaccine will be approved, it will be on the basis of established scientific and global parameters,” the officials said.The Drugs Controller General of India is assessing emergency use authorisation applications from Pfizer, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech. Of these, Pfizer has been approved in several countries after having completed phase III trials and finding an efficacy of close to 95%.Serum Institute has applied for approval of the vaccine developed by University of Oxford and AstraZeneca, which has shown an efficacy of 62%-90%, according to an interim analysis. Bharat Biotech is at present carrying out phase III trials. Both of these companies have been asked by the DCGI’s subject expert committee (SEC) to present more data relating to their trials for their applications to be assessed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bucking-global-trend-but-must-keep-its-guard-up-in-covid-fight-officials/story-i5xvHzPB917W9bdLuag3bP.html
16-12-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee challenges BJP to impose President’s Rule in West Bengal||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee challenged the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government to impose President’s Rule in the state ahead of the assembly elections. Banerjee added that only the Trinamool Congress-led state government will be able to find a permanent political solution for the long-pending issues of Darjeeling. “When they (BJP) try to scare me, I tell them why don’t you impose President’s Rule in the state and see what happens. It would be wonderful. My work load would come down and I would be able to hold rallies and meetings and take all your votes.” “In Parliament elections, TMC didn’t win a single seat from north Bengal. What crime have we committed? What injustice have we done? The BJP won all seats? I may not get any seat in Lok Sabha polls but I want all your blessings in the assembly polls,” said Banerjee while speaking a rally in Jalpaiguri on Monday. Banerjee also took a jibe at the AIMIM, saying that the party is here to help the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-challenges-bjp-to-impose-president-s-rule-in-west-bengal/story-gKWpfuDUAmtDcCnlw7g2DL.html
16-12-2020||India||Will join hands with Rajinikanth if our ideologies match, says Kamal Haasan||Actor and politician Kamal Haasan reiterated on Tuesday that he will join hands with his contemporary Rajinikanth, if it benefits the people Tamil Nadu. “If our ideologies match and if it helps the people of Tamil Nadu, we will shed our ego and co-operate. I’ve said this before,” Haasan told the media in Thoothukudi district for the upcoming 2021 elections in the state. Haasan launched Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) in 2018 from Madurai and kicked-off the first phase of his four-day election campaign on Sunday from the same district. There is wide anticipation if Haasan and Rajinikanth, the former co-stars in Tamil cinema with a huge cult following, will also partner politically as Rajinikanth was also planning to launch his party in January. The party is likely to contest all the 234 assembly seats in Tamil Nadu. “We both have said that we need a change in Tamil Nadu,” Haasan said. “But we can’t consider one-liners. So let their (Rajinikanth’s party) ideology and policies be clear and then we’ll talk. We are just a phone call away.”MNM fought the 2019 Lok Sabha polls but couldn’t win a seat but registered a 3.7% vote share. Haasan will be making his poll debut in the assembly elections next year, but he is yet to announce his constituency. The fledgling parties of Rajinikanth and Kamal will be fighting Dravidian rivals who have formed successive governments in the state — the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and their national partners Congress and Bharatiya Janata party, respectively. Haasan also drew on matinee idol MG Ramachandran (MGR) who broke away from the DMK to form the ADMK, later renamed as AIADMK. “For those who haven’t even seen MGR’s face, I grew up on MGR’s lap,” Haasan tweeted with a video of MGR kissing him on his forehead. “MGR belongs to the people. We cannot call him a DMK or an AIADMK man.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-join-hands-with-rajinikanth-if-our-ideologies-match-says-kamal-haasan/story-6Vnydtm7A7qy6rBNACBmQJ.html
16-12-2020||India||Army colonel facing rape charges held||An Army colonel accused of raping his civilian friend’s wife of Russian origin after intoxicating her husband at the Officers’ Mess in Cantonment area was arrested on Tuesday. “Col Neeraj Gahlot was arrested while trying to flee to an unknown place to evade his arrest,” said Superintendent of Police (East) Raj Kumar Agarwal.Police had launched a manhunt for Col Neeraj Gahlot whose mobile location was traced in the vicinity of officers’ mess on Monday evening but he had been evading his arrest, said Cantonment Circle’ Additional Superintendent of Police Nikhil Pathak. A team headed by Chakeri police station’s SHO Ravi Srivastava was dispatched to nab the absconding officer, but his room was found locked from outside, the ASP said.The colonel posted here was booked on Sunday for allegedly raping his friend’s wife at the Officers’ Mess, police said.The victim’s husband, a civilian, lodged an FIR against the Army officer at the Cantonment police station, SP Agarwal had said earlier. According to the complainant, his wife is of Russian descent and has been living in India for 10 years.The accused allegedly had invited his civilian friend to the Officer’s Mess and gave him an intoxicating drink which made him him unconscious, said police adding the Army officer subsequently raped his friend’s wife. The accused also allegedly assaulted the woman when she put up a resistance. After raping the woman, the colonel took leave from his bosses and went underground to evade arrest, said an official. The rape survivor was subsequently produced before a judicial magistrate who recorded her statement under section 164 of the CrPC, said Pathak, adding the statement, however, is yet to be shown to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-colonel-facing-rape-charges-held/story-OVQxhVzPKMo2R4OPxNm7VN.html
16-12-2020||India||Mukul Roy says TMC will not get even 100 seats in 2021 Bengal assembly elections||BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy claimed on Tuesday that TMC will not get even 100 seats out of the total 294 in the West Bengal assembly polls in 2021.He said all those who are keeping themselves away from BJP because of misunderstandings must be convinced to return to its fold.“With responsibility I am saying that TMC will not even cross the 100 seat mark in the coming state poll,” he told a meeting of BJP workers at Shimurali in Nadia district.“Ask TMC to say how many seat they are going to win,” he said.Asking party workers to convince those who were staying away from the party due to misunderstanding, Roy said “This is not the time for ego. There is big and strong fight before us and we have to win as Amit Shah Ji wants at least 200 seats in Bengal to turn it into Sonar Bangla and push TMC to the bottom like CPI-M.” Criticising Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, he said that earlier she did not sit with rich persons but now she does just that. He hit out at the state government for the power rates in West Bengal, which she said is the highest in the country.Roy, who was earlier a prominent leader of the ruling Trinamool Congress, criticised the Mamata Banerjee government for misusing funds given by the Centre post Cyclone Amphan.“In two phases Modi handed over Rs 3400 crore to the Bengal government for Amphan effected people. But the poor people remained in the same plight”, Roy iterated.Union home minister Amit Shah will arrive in Bengal later this week and address two rallies on December 19 and 20, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukul-roy-says-tmc-will-not-get-even-100-seats-in-2021-bengal-assembly-elections/story-E8mjsclG3Gkv2q3n9Sb0CI.html
16-12-2020||India||79 more IIT-M students test Covid +ve||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Madras on Tuesday reported 79 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the total number of infections of the viral disease in the institute to 183 since December 1, officials said.All 79 new cases are that of students. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan said 978 reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests have been conducted in the institute to detect Sars-CoV-2, the contagion that causes Covid-19, including 770 students. “The positivity rate is 19%,” he said.“With this, testing has been completed,” IIT-Madras said in a statement, adding that the next round of testing will be conducted after 10 days.Until Sunday, 71 people on campus had tested positive out of which 66 were students. On Monday, 33 more tested positive. It is suspected that the virus spread rapidly at the hostel mess where students gathered and couldn’t wear masks while eating. The mess has been shut and food is being sent to the students’ rooms. The institution has temporarily shut down its academic departments and research labs.A postdoctoral student, who has been in the campus hostel since March, was one of the hundreds of students who was tested for Covid-19 on Monday. She is awaiting her results. “Only one mess was open and it was overcrowded, so I’ve been ordering food from outside,” the student, who did not want to be named, said.Patients from IIT-Madras are being treated at the government-run King Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research. “We have taken X-ray and CT-scan of the positive patients and they are stable as of now with mild symtoms,” said Radhakrishnan.Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu government has directed state-wide testing across educational institutions and hostels since it has allowed the reopening of final year classes for undergraduate students from December 7. “We have sent an instruction to all colleges and vice chancellors of state universities to follow Covid-19 standard operating procedures and conduct testing,” said minister for higher education KP Anbzhagan. After two students reported fever at Anna University, the Greater Chennai Corporation began mass testing on campus on Tuesday similar to the exercise at IIT-Madras. “Close to 500 students were tested,” said vice-chancellor MK Surappa. “The two students have tested negative and we will receive the remaining results on Wednesday.”Radhakrishnan said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has instructed the health department and all collectors to monitor testing at educational institutions, working women’s hostels and mansions. “We have instructed campuses to send food to students if there is only one eating area on campus,” he said.Radhakrishnan warned of action under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, against the management of educational institutions if they failed to restrict students from sitting together in classes or in eating areas without social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/79-more-iit-m-students-test-covid-ve/story-4gzp5qnUKfe72pbdQCnEmO.html
16-12-2020||India||Covid-19 doesn’t differentiate between rich, poor: Supreme Court||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) does not differentiate between the rich and the poor, asserted the Supreme Court on Tuesday as it rued that arguments were being made about how poor people will not be able to pay steeper fines instead of making certain that everyone wears a mask to contain the spread of the deadly virus. The Supreme Court bench, headed by justice Ashok Bhushan, was hearing a suo motu (after taking note on its own) matter relating to various measures being taken by the Centre and states to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic.When the issue of wearing masks cropped up, justice MR Shah, also a part of the bench, referred to the statistics submitted in the court by the Gujarat government to express his surprise over more than Rs10 crore having been collected in fines only on account of people not wearing masks. “Is it not shocking that more than Rs10 crore is collected only on account of not wearing masks? And this can only be a tip of the iceberg. There could be many more,” said justice Shah. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre and Gujarat government in the matter, replied that the fine amount has now swollen to about Rs19 crore. At this, justice RS Reddy, another member of the bench, said: “There are reports coming that the rate of infection is going down in the entire country. And look what people are doing. They started celebrating marriages in large gatherings.” Mehta, on his part, submitted that steeper fines for not wearing mask could be an effective deterrent but the bench replied: “We cannot direct states how much the fine should be. It is for the states to take a call.” Joining the discussion, advocate Vishal Awtani, who had filed an application in the matter, told the bench that the poor will not be able to pay higher fines, and hence the suggestion by the S-G to increase the fine may not be the appropriate solution. But this argument did not go down well with the bench, which emphasised that everyone has been given masks free of cost by all the governments. “Why are poor not wearing masks given to them free of charge? Poor or rich, everyone has to follow the law. This virus does not differentiate between rich and poor,” the bench said. The court added that had people been finding it too difficult to pay fines, the collection only in one state (Gujarat) could not come to be around Rs18-19 crore, while underscoring that everyone must be encouraged to wear masks, follow social distancing, and abide with other safety regulations. Consider giving break to residents, interns During the hearing, the bench also asked the SG to look into the reports that resident doctors and interns were getting breaks from work despite being on duty for months. “Mr Mehta, you should look into this as well. You may have shortage of doctors, but that doesn’t mean these resident doctors and interns, who are students, will not be given break for months together. Some of them have not had a gap for the last eight months,” the bench told the SG.The court expressed fear that such prolonged duties could affect their mental health. “They are mentally broken. They have been working for eight months without break. They also need some rest. Consider giving them break after a month of work. What will happen if the doctors in the making are mentally broken at this age?” it asked Mehta, who assured the bench that the government would examine the issue.The bench also said that it will pass a detailed order later this week on fire safety norms in hospitals. Earlier, the bench has taken a suo motu cognisance of the fire tragedy at a Covid hospital in Rajkot, where five lives were lost. It had sought reports on fire safety from all states and Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-doesn-t-differentiate-between-rich-poor-sc/story-gAJl7g55x7cu5Oc5llXKjM.html
16-12-2020||India||‘Love jihad’ charge fake, admin behind miscarriage: UP woman||A 22-year-old woman from Uttar Pradesh, who was sent to a shelter home and her husband arrested under a new law against forced conversions by marriage, alleged on Tuesday that her mother leveled fake charges against the interfaith couple and added that she married a Muslim man and converted to Islam of her free will.The woman, Muskan Jahan or Pinki, also alleged that medical negligence at the shelter home was responsible for the miscarriage of her three-month-old foetus – a charge denied by the state administration. “I am happy with my marriage and have snapped all my relations with my parents, who reside in Moradabad,” she told media persons. Her comments came a day after she was released from the shelter home and moved back into her in-laws’ house in Moradabad district’s Kaanth town. On Monday, she told a magistrate that she was a major, 22 years old and married Mohammad Rashid under no pressure. She demanded the immediate release of her husband, Rashid, and his elder brother, Mohammad Saleem.Jahan was the first woman detained under the UP Prohibition Of Unlawful Conversion Of Religion Ordinance 2020, which outlaws religious conversions by marriage, coercion or enticement. She had converted to Islam after marrying Rashid, 28. She was shifted to a government shelter home after Rashid was booked on December 6.Speaking on Tuesday, Jahan accused the staff of the shelter home of ill-treating her and providing treatment only when her health grew worse. “They ignored my complaint of pain in the stomach for three days and took me to hospital only when my health deteriorated,” Muskan said.She further alleged that injections and medicines given to her in hospital were to terminate her pregnancy. This allegation was refuted by the inspector of Kaanth police station, Ajay Gautam, who described the allegations as “rumour” and “fake news”.Jahan and Rashid fell in love and married in Dehradun on July 24 in a madrassa. Rashid belongs to Kaanth town of Moradabad district and went to the local court on December 6 to get his marriage registered. But some local Hindu activists landed at the court, took the couple to Kaanth police station.At the time, Gautam said the woman’s mother had charged Rashid of enticing Jahan by posing as a Hindu man, Sonu, and hiding his religious identity. Later, Rashid was booked under section 3 of the new law and Jahan was sent to a shelter home.But Jahan said she knew that her husband was Muslim and blamed the Hindu activists, saying they started the trouble on December 6. The activists took them to police station and also brought her mother there, she alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/love-jihad-charge-fake-admin-behind-miscarriage-up-woman/story-u162bDqXpY4xMYZ0xBX75M.html
16-12-2020||India||Deploy central forces in Bengal, BJP asks EC||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has requested the Election Commission of India to deploy central police forces and enforce the model code of conduct in West Bengal at the earliest to avoid large-scale political violence during the campaign ahead of the crucial 2021 assembly elections. A BJP delegation from West Bengal, which met Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora in New Delhi on Monday, also cited discrepancies in the draft voters’ list and alleged that names of dead voters have not been deleted. “The BJP requests your intervention to ensure early deployment of CPF else the ruling Trinamool Congress, with the active support of West Bengal Police, will make campaign very difficult, resulting in widespread violence,” stated a letter submitted to the CEC. Accusing the West Bengal Police of being partisan, the BJP alleged that although its national president JP Nadda’s convoy was attacked in full public glare during his visit to Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district on Thursday,afternoon, the police didn’t act. “Political murders have been going on since the Lok Sabha polls and several BJP workers have been killed till date. They have got heightened in the last few months. The state police invariably deflect these as personal enmity and family feud and no action is taken. All this makes normal political activities very challenging.” The Trinamool Congress (TMC) rubbished the allegations. “Deployment of central forces ahead of the elections is a routine exercise. Half of the central forces have already been deployed as bodyguards of BJP leaders. It appears as if an entire army is moving with them. What new central force do they want? People have seen central forces in previous elections. They will vote for TMC,” said Kunal Ghosh, a spokesperson of TMC. Some of the central leaders as well as top state leaders of the BJP including the party’s president of West Bengal unit Dilip Ghosh are protected by security personnel provided by various central police forces . These people are armed with automatic weapons. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya was alloted a bullet-proof SUV by the Centre on Monday, days after the party’s national president JP Nadda’s convoy was attacked. The BJP has also requested the poll panel not to use members of the West Bengal State Government Employees Federation for polling duties as they have allegedly pledged their support to the chief minister and her party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deploy-central-forces-in-bengal-bjp-asks-ec/story-a9SpgT3vfXnm9xHWvE80AO.html
16-12-2020||India||Bihar cabinet gives nod to free Covid-19 vaccine||The Bihar cabinet on Tuesday approved free vaccination of coronavirus disease (Covid -19) in the state as and when it is available, keeping in line with the poll promise of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the recently concluded state assembly elections. The BJP is the senior partner in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in the state. Also Read: Wedding halls, polling booths in Covid-19 vaccine planConfirming the development, deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad said: “ We have decided to carry free inoculation of vaccines against Covid-19 to every resident of the state as it was a foremost promise of the BJP and also the NDA. Our decision is a big gift to people of the state after the formation of the government. We feel, Bihar’s biggest strength is its human resource and we want them to be protected against the deadly disease as the world is battling with the pandemic.” Former deputy CM and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi, said : “The decision of the state cabinet to provide free vaccines against Covid-19 to entire population of Bihar is a welcome decision. I feel other states should emulate it. The BJP in its manifesto had promised to provide free vaccines knowing well how in Bihar only a small section of populace could afford it at market prices. Once the vaccines comes, the front line workers, police personnel and those above 50 would be given the doses in a phase wise manner,” he said.Ahead of the state election while releasing the BJP’s manifesto, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had on October 22 said the people of Bihar would be given free vaccines against Covid-19 once it was available for production on a mass scale. Also Read| 100 people per session, electoral rolls, mobile sites: Centre’s Covid-19 vaccine guidelinesVijay Kumar Chaudhary, water resources minister and senior JD(U) leader, said, “Free vaccines is a desirable step and it would help the people of the state to get protected. Our government is committed in providing health needs to the people and free inoculation is a step in that direction for public welfare.” Opposition did not comment on the development.The free vaccine promise had kicked up a political storm with opposition parties saying that linking public health to elections was a “degeneration of politics”.Rashtriya Janata Dal Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha had said,“It is unfortunate if vaccine for a pandemic becomes a part of a manifesto and a poll issue,” said The cabinet on Tuesday also approved the implementation of all programmes under Atma Nirbhar Bihar, Saat Nischai (seven resolves) and approved 14 other agendas, according to a press release issued by cabinet secretariat department. Free Covid-19 vaccine is one of the many components of the seven resolve programme. According to a statement issued by the government after the cabinet meeting, these measures are expected to create “20 lakh new jobs in government and private sectors”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-cabinet-gives-nod-to-free-covid-19-vaccine/story-ekGCsmcPRxgSvc3xHSbfVJ.html
16-12-2020||India||Farm unions slam Centre, say govt lacks sympathy||Farmers’ groups camping on Delhi’s borders to protest against three laws passed by the Centre to open up agricultural trade on Tuesday accused the government of lacking sympathy for their community and announced a day of mourning for the farmers who they claim have died during their campaign.The 35 farmers’ groups said villages across the country would observe a day of mourning on Sunday for the 20 farmers who died during the farmer’s agitation that started on November 26. “On an average, one farmer has died every day since this agitation started on November 26. We will pay homage to all the farmers who have been martyred in this duration on December 20 across all villages in the country,” said Jagjit Singh Dallewala, president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur), said. “When their names and photos will reach villages, more people will come forward to join us in our struggle.”On Tuesday, four farmers died in two separate road accidents in and around the Mohali and Patiala districts of Punjab. The death of these farmers dominated the discussions at the Singhu border on Tuesday as farmers from Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Uttarakhand joined the agitation. The farmers’ groups announced their plans on a day that Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the farmers had been misled by farmers’ groups and opposition parties to protest against the laws they themselves had sought in the past, but failed to implement. In reaction, they alleged that the government lacked any sympathy for the farming community. Farmers’ leaders also attributed the government’s decision to cancel the winter session of Parliament to the pressure they had exerted on the Centre, saying it wanted to dodge questions from the opposition.“We elected the PM and gave him the power to speak and yet he didn’t speak for us in the past 20 days,” said Yudhvir Singh Sehrawat, general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait). Asked if the farmers would try to enter Delhi, Dallewala said: “Only time will tell.” Dallewala also said the farmers would only hold a dialogue with the government if it talked about repealing the laws instead of proposing amendments to them The massive farmers’ protest was set off by three laws pushed through by the government in September that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules. Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices. Protesters decided to call off further negotiations on December 8 after a meeting with home minister Amit Shah, claiming a stalemate. Farmers, mainly from north Indian states, have massed at the entry points to the national capital.Bharatiya Kisaan Union leader Rishipal Ambavata also said that the farmers would also block Delhi-Chilla border on Saturday, two days after it was reopened. The gathering of farmers at the UP Gate border remained peaceful throughout Tuesday. At the Chilla (Delhi-Noida link road) border in the afternoon, nearly 100 farmers arrived from Noida in cars and tried to march towards Delhi through the carriageway that they had cleared on Friday night. Security forces blocked the road using iron barricades and reinforced their presence, causing a traffic jam. However, a senior police officer had a quick discussion with the farmers and convinced them not to block traffic. After nearly 10 minutes, the barricades were removed and traffic was restored. The protestors parked their vehicles and sat on one portion of the road, which has been barricaded and dedicated to the protesting farmers. “The Uttar Pradesh government has been stopping farmers from proceeding to Delhi. Many representatives of farmers have been kept in house arrest. We will not tolerate this. If the government continues harassing farmers, we will have no choice but to escalate our agitation to Lucknow and at local levels in Uttar Pradesh. If required, we may block the entire Delhi-Meerut expressway again,” said Rajveer Singh Jadhon, president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union’s UP unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-slam-centre-say-govt-lacks-sympathy/story-6DqqydPYqC3FzdL0Plwn5K.html
16-12-2020||India||Only Congress has an issue with no Winter Session: Pralhad Joshi||Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi spoke to HT about the decision to call off the Winter Session of Parliament, and the criticism by Opposition leaders that they were not consulted. Edited excerpts:Your decision to cancel the Winter Session has become very controversial. The Opposition says they were never consulted. In September, we had a session and in September itself, all parties including the Congress decided to conclude it early (due to large number of Covid-19 cases). It is basically the Congress party which has raised the major objection to the Winter Session being cancelled. Let the Congress leaders talk among themselves. If they are not in talking terms, it is not our responsibility.Who did you speak to? Jairam Ramesh tweeted that there wasn’t any discussion.Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad and Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary.They agreed to not have the session?I had a talk and I asked them what is your suggestion. They said ‘theek hai. aap Budget Session kar sakte hain (okay, you can hold the Budget Session)’. That’s what they said. We don’t want to say where we talked about it in public because decency doesn’t demand that. We have also spoken to the other major political parties. More than that I do not want to reveal. If they have a fight in their own house, they need to sort it out. Jairam Ramesh should talk to his leader. It’s not my job to make them talk to each other. Even Derek O’ Brien of the Trinamool Congress said that he hadn’t been consulted?Sudip Bandhopadhyay is their parliamentary party leader; we spoke to him. This entire thing has been done through dialogue and consultation. Many people due to Covid-19 didn’t want the session to take place now. It was an informal discussion, and I don’t want to name people publicly. I don’t want to name anybody. Basically, it is just the Congress party which has a problemWhat about the general criticism that the government had the session when they had to push their ordinance through but not discuss the protests?This is an extraordinary situation. Many people have suggested not to go for session as there is a spike in the number of cases. The government because, of the extraordinary situation, are calling it (next session) in January. What’s the problem?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-cong-has-an-issue-with-no-winter-session-pralhad-joshi/story-WoA3JSg2fp0lRFt1mz14DI.html
16-12-2020||India||Scuffle breaks out in K’taka Upper House||A one-day special meeting of the Karnataka legislative council, sought by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to remove the chairman of the house who belongs to the Congress, was marked by bedlam and scuffles between rival legislators, forcing its sine die adjournment, leaving the state at the edge of a potential constitutional crisis.BJP and Congress members shoved and pushed each other over the ruling party’s attempt to oust council chairman K Prathapchandra Shetty through a no-confidence motion as chaos descended on the House.When the house convened on Tuesday morning, deputy chairman S L Dharame Gowda of the Janata Dal (Secular) occupied the chairman’s seat. Congress members of the legislative council (MLCs) tried to push him out. As chairman Shetty tried to occupy the seat, BJP MLCs objected, saying he cannot preside over a no-confidence motion against himself.Congress members led by the party’s leader in the council, S R Patil, said the no-confidence motion had already been rejected by the Chairman’s secretariat because of procedural lapses and no one except Shetty could preside over the house. Congress MLC Narayanaswamy was seen pushing Dharame Gowda out of the chairman’s seat and occupying it.Revenue minister R Ashoka accused the Congress of assaulting not only BJP council members but also the marshals as well as the watch and ward staff. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa too hit out at the Congress.“Even after knowing that they do not enjoy the confidence of the house, it is unfortunate that the Congress and Shetty have behaved in this manner. After being served a no-confidence motion how can the person against whom it has been served preside over it?” Yediyurappa aked.Congress members defended the move. Patil said: “The no-confidence motion was rejected by the Chairman. They were trying to rule through the deputy Chairman against the rules of the house and the constitution.”BJP had served a notice of a no-confidence against Shetty, but the council chairman on December 10 adjourned the house sine die, saying that it did not meet the minimum 14-day advance notice period.The BJP then approached governor Vajjubhai Vala to reconvene the council for one day to enable it to remove the chairman. The BJP also wanted to pass the controversial Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle 2020 bill, which was to be also taken up for consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scuffle-breaks-out-in-k-taka-upper-house/story-0eQrA3P94gDSqg2bLjandK.html
16-12-2020||India||Gloves are on: Cold wave grips Delhi||Delhi’s minimum temperature fell to 4.1° Celsius in the early hours on Tuesday, bringing December’s first cold wave condition, according to meteorological department data that also showed that the Capital also recorded a “cold day” since the high settled at 19.4°C, significantly lower than what is normal for this time of the year.The cold, which began setting in from Monday evening, has gripped several parts of northern India, arriving as frosty winds from snow covered mountains. Tuesday’s minimum was a 4.3°C drop from the day before. The all-time lowest minimum temperature recorded in the city is 0°C on December 27, 1930. Last year, Delhi had recorded a minimum of 2.4°C on December 28. “There have been intense western disturbances which have brought widespread snowfall to the western Himalayas. Now icy winds are blowing over Delhi from that region. Climatologically, minimum temperatures typically fall sharply after December 15 but this year the drop has been abrupt,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.“During the next three days, we are expecting several parts of northwest India including Delhi to record both cold to severe cold days and cold wave. There are mostly clear skies and chilly winds blowing which is causing both day and night temperatures drop sharply. But in some places over Punjab and Haryana we are noticing uplifted fog, which also causes day temperatures to drop as sunshine doesn’t warm the surface,” added Shrivastava.The maximum temperature on Tuesday was recorded at 18.5°C at Safdarjung, 5°C below normal and 16.7°C at Palam, 7 degrees below normal. According to IMD, a “cold day” or “severe cold day” is considered based on two parameters—a minimum temperature of under 10°C and if maximum temperature is 4.5°C or 6.4°C below normal respectively. A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum is 10 degrees or below and/or is 4.5 notches lower than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 °C in the plains. A cold day and cold wave together means the gap between day and night temperatures was lower than normal.Delhi logged a record cold spell of 18 days last year when maximum temperatures were significantly below normal continuously. There was a cold spell for 17 days in 1997 and eight days in 2014. This time too there can be a cold spell for four days until December 19, Shrivastava said. Many parts of northwest India are recording “severe cold day” conditions since Sunday. They were markedly below normal (-5.1°C or less) at most places over Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh, and Delhi; at many places over west Madhya Pradesh; central Maharashtra and west Rajasthan and at isolated places over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, East Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, according to IMD. Severe Cold Day conditions were observed in pockets of Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi.Cold day conditions are very likely in some pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan and West Uttar Pradesh during next two days, IMD said in its bulletin on Tuesday. Cold wave conditions are very likely in some pockets of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan during the next four days. “When there is incursion of such cold air from the hills both day and night temperatures drop. This will continue for at least next 3-4 days,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre. The average air quality index (AQI) reading in Delhi was at 230 at 4pm on Tuesday, falling in “poor” category. Scientists said the air is likely to improve due to relatively strong northwesterly winds. Air quality is likely to remain in “moderate/; category on December 16 and 17. “The wind speed is about 12 kmph but we are expecting it to pick up further which will be favourable for dispersal of local pollutants,” added Shrivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gloves-are-on-cold-wave-grips-delhi/story-AawoqfssgWyGLjUPlxFqNO.html
16-12-2020||Today's||49 years on, India, Bangladesh should deal with unresolved issues||As Bangladesh marks its liberation war victory day on December 16, it is a good time to look at a crucial question that was both central to that era and is relevant even in the present day: where do Delhi-Dhaka ties stand now? Vikram Doraiswami, the Indian high commissioner to Bangladesh, said in his first press briefing in Dhaka, “There is not, and will never be, a diminution of the highest level of importance that Bangladesh holds in India.” The leaders of the two nations, Prime Ministers (PMs) Narendra Modi and Sheikh Hasina, meet virtually on December 17, and it is clear that relations need a serious reboot.On the economic front, Bangladesh is India’s largest trading partner in South Asia. Between 2009-10 and 2015-16, the trade deficit grew in India’s favour at a staggering 164.4%. Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) from India to Bangladesh is $3.11 billion, including Reliance’s $642-million 745 MW gas-fired project and Adani’s $400 million in Mirsarai Economic Zone. Despite India-Bangladesh relations being referred to as a “role model”, the irony is that in India’s Consolidated FDI policy 2017, Bangladesh is put in the same category as Pakistan. The FDI policy’s para 3.1.1 says, “A non-resident entity can invest in India…However, a citizen of Bangladesh/Pakistan or an entity incorporated in Bangladesh/Pakistan can invest only under the Government route.”But there is good news too. Today, India and Bangladesh are better connected and goods are transported by road, rail and river routes using Bangladeshi vessels, trucks and railway. Recent agreements allow India to ship goods through Mongla port road, rail, and water routes. The border remains sensitive. In spite of Section 11 (11) of the India-Bangladesh Coordinated Border Management Plan --- which says, “Neither side will resort to the use of lethal weapons except in self-defence against terrorists or smugglers” --- at least 25 Bangladeshi civilians were killed by the Border Security Force (BSF) in the first six months of this year. On the United States (US)-Mexico border, infamous for the narcotics trade, 111 were killed by the US border patrol force since 2010. In that period, 294 Bangladeshis were killed on the Indo-Bangla border.Water remains another difficult issue. Bangladeshis have observed the tug-of-war on the Teesta water-sharing issue between the Centre and state. Indian PMs are sometimes accompanied by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee during state visits to Dhaka; sometimes the CM has visited on her own. But all that has transpired are empty promises, as rivers run dry and farmers are cut off from their livelihood. However, during PM Sheikh Hasina’s India tour, an MoU was signed allowing India 1.82 cusecs of water from the Feni River. India’s controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) have created a negative impression in Bangladesh of India’s intent, which the Bangladesh Prime Minister termed “unnecessary”. Syed Muazzem Ali, the late Bangladesh high commissioner to India and recipient of the Padma Bhushan, once said, “Bangladeshis are not interested to migrate to India; they would rather go to Italy.” The CAA excludes Muslims from being granted citizenship as persecuted minorities, while the NRC in Assam excluded 1.9 million people, majority of them Muslims. The NRC and CAA can’t be brushed aside as “internal matters” when they have ramifications across the border. The China factor also adds another dimension to the ties. Bangladesh is China’s second-largest arms export destination. Chinese firms have been outbidding their Indian counterparts in infrastructure projects. Bangladesh is deftly navigating relations with its two biggest neighbours in a neighbourhood in flux. Nepal is increasingly becoming closer to China; Bhutan has withdrawn from the Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal (BBIN) initiative, Sri Lanka and the Maldives are playing a balancing act, both rooted in Chinese investments; Afghanistan is increasingly under the Taliban’s sphere of influence as the US withdraws troops. In a thaw in relations, Pakistan’s high commissioner to Bangladesh recently met the Bangladesh PM as both sides pledged to improve bilateral relations. If Indo-Bangla relations are to move to “newer heights”, then unresolved issues have to be dealt with soon. Any dithering on this, with the region’s only trusted partner, may prove costly for India if it wants to avoid the kind of catch-up diplomacy it has been doing in the neighbourhood in the wake of the growing Chinese threat and Beijing’s widening influence in South Asia. Syed Munir Khasru is chairman of the international think tank, The Institute for Policy, Advocacy, and Governance (IPAG) with a presence in Dhaka, Delhi, Melbourne, Vienna, and Dubai. The views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/49-years-on-india-bangladesh-should-deal-with-unresolved-issues/story-U89UhWKCvatR08Og1YjvPP.html
16-12-2020||Today's||BJP’s backward classes strategy starts to pay dividends in South||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) recently turned a municipal election into a national one and succeeded in making inroads into a bastion of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), the party in power in Telangana. This Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) election mattered to the BJP for several reasons. First, the party uses any opportunity to anchor itself in a region that has so far resisted its dominance. In recent state and national elections, the BJP had already set foot in Hyderabad. It received 18% of the votes in Hyderabad district in the 2018 assembly election and 34% in the general elections the following year (27% in Secunderabad and 42% in Hyderabad). Second, Hyderabad is not only a bastion of a former ally of the BJP – the TRS – but also the home base of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), which rattled the BJP in the recent Bihar election. Taking the fight to AIMIM’s home turf provided an opportunity for the party to send some strong signals to its Hindu base. The campaign for Bhagyanagar, the BJP’s proposed new name for the city, was one such. Also Read: Why BJP believes there’s ‘opportunity to grow independently’ in AndhraThe BJP made impressive gains in this election, winning 48 seats against four in 2016. The TRS lost its majorly, slipping from 94 seats to 56. AIMIM retained its base by winning 44 seats in its historical strongholds and the Congress was left with a measly two seats. While the TRS remains ahead and in control of the GHMC, its vote share is identical to the BJP’s (there’s just a 0.3% difference).  Beyond its symbolic aspect, this election mattered to the BJP for a third reason, which has to do with identity politics. This local election provided the BJP with an opportunity to test in the South a strategy that has yielded positive results in the North: the mobilisation of non-dominant backward classes. In the general elections, the BJP distributed only three tickets out of 17 in the state to Other Backward Class (OBC) candidates, against eight tickets to Intermediary Castes (mostly Reddys); six seats were reserved. Two of the three OBC candidates won their seat. In the municipal election, the party banked on the mobilisation of Most Backward Classes (MBCs) who are notoriously under-represented in Telangana politics. Since the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh and creation of Telangana in 2014, nearly half the seats of the Telangana assembly have been won by intermediary caste candidates, nominated by all major parties. While backward classes represent 50.7% of the population (according to the 2010 Srikrishna Committee on Andhra Pradesh’s bifurcation), their share of representation in the assembly has decreased from 19% in 2009 to 14% in 2018. Among them, the Munnuru Kapus form the largest group, but they barely make for a quarter of all OBC MLAs, who belong to a large array of smaller groups. This leaves a large segment of the population without descriptive representation, a space that the BJP now seeks to occupy. According to the Srikrishna Committee, 41.2% of the population of Hyderabad is Muslim and 34.9%, OBC. Muslims tend to be concentrated in the central (and older) part of Hyderabad and in the South of the city. This is where AIMIM won its seats, while the BJP won its seats in the rest of the city and in the Secunderabad territory. Also Read: What Hyderabad says about the BJP | HT EditorialThe BJP’s strategy involved mobilising the diverse smaller segments of the city’s large backward classes, largely ignored by the TRS and other parties. That is reflected in the social profile of the candidates. The BJP gave 26 of its 149 tickets in these elections to MBC candidates. This may not seem much but it sent a clear signal to the many voters who belong to those small groups. Eight of them were elected, alongside 17 other OBC candidates. In Jubilee Hills, the city’s richest ward, a BJP MBC candidate won against a Kamma candidate, fielded by the TRS. The TRS also fielded many OBCs but fewer MBCs in comparison. The BJP’s OBC candidates belong to 11 different groups, against seven for the TRS, which predominantly give tickets to Goud and Munnuru Kapu candidates. Tickets are not the only way to woo support. Ahead of the campaign, the BJP and the RSS worked hard to build and consolidate support among MBC groups such as Kurumas,Kummaris,Vadderas, Viswakarma and Chaattada Srivaishnava, and among larger OBC groups such as Gouds, Mudirajs, Yadavs, and Padmasalis. The RSS conducted many caste-based functions, held in RSS schools by functionaries who belonged to similar groups. They promised each group representation against their effort to canvass their caste members across the city. The BJP also appointed several MBCs in prominent party positions, including the state President and the State Organising Secretary (both also belong to the RSS). It also succeeded in getting upper and intermediary castes candidates elected, including 14 Reddys. This ability of the BJP to combine support from traditional elites and a collection of small and marginal backward groups has become a trademark of its electoral strategy. The difference is that the BJP does not necessarily shun locally dominant groups, but also gives priority to marginalised segments. This differs from the Northern situation, where non-dominant OBCs get representation but remain marginalised within the BJP. One important implication of these observations is that caste is at the centre of the BJP’s southern strategy and that reading the progress that the BJP makes in the South through a purely communal lens is insufficient. Obviously, folding backward identities into the Hindutva mould is part of the story. But the BJP also develops a language of caste-based mobilisation that imitates the forms of mobilisation that regional parties used to perform in the early 1990s. The BJP seeks to expand its presence in the South by offering representation to communities that have been historically marginalised and form a significant share of the electorate. Gilles Verniers is Assistant Professor of political science, Ashoka University, and Co-Director of the Trivedi Centre for Political Data. Surya Rao Sangem is founder, BC Times, and a Hyderabad-based political analyst. Kiran Kumar Gowd is a Research Scholar in the Department of Political Science at the University of Hyderabad. Views are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/bjp-s-backward-classes-strategy-starts-to-pay-dividends-in-south/story-swebeI5s09K0sEFc0CHOlL.html
16-12-2020||Editorials||The importance of political memoirs | HT Editorial||The late former president, Pranab Mukherjee’s final book, in his series of memoirs, on his presidential years has run into controversy. In the backdrop of early excerpts put out by the publisher — where Mukherjee was critical of the political management under the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) after his elevation to Rashtrapati Bhawan — his son, Abhijit, has demanded that the book’s publication be stopped. In contrast, his daughter, Sharmishta, has backed the publication of the book and lent it greater credibility by saying that her father had completed the manuscript and the final draft had his approval.The book, of course, must be published. But this debate goes beyond the feud within the Mukherjee family — and raises a larger question about the place of political memoirs in India. India has seen some great classics in this genre by its tallest leaders — Mahatma Gandhi’s My Experiments with Truth and Jawaharlal Nehru’s autobiography are at the top of the list. These memoirs give a glimpse of the early socialisation of those who ended up shaping the nation’s trajectory, their motivations, and offer to historians rich material to understand the how and why of historical events.Yet, the tradition of political memoirs is marked by paucity. Many leaders don’t record their experiences or gloss over inconvenient facts. They don’t allow biographers access to their private papers or make access contingent on control. What India needs is more — not less — of candid autobiographies by those who helmed the nation; it also needs readers to be more open in treating this as a historical record rather than scoring political points over it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-importance-of-political-memoirs-ht-editorial/story-4OzxAx2JgueoiKN8PcF6qK.html
16-12-2020||Editorials||Stay firm, but be sensitive | HT Editorial||The farm protests have continued despite the government’s offer to amend the laws and address key concerns of agitating groups — except an outright repeal of laws and inserting the guarantee of continued procurement under the minimum support price regime within the law. This newspaper has consistently backed the agrarian reforms, and continues to believe that the protesting farmers would do well to adopt a more flexible approach to the issue. But this does not absolve the government of its duty of continued outreach.This, indeed, has happened. But along with that, ministers as well as leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have sought to undermine the farm movement, with pejoratives, including by labelling them as the “tukde-tukde gang” — a term that adds little analytical value but has unfortunately been used by the regime to label criticism as anti-national, meant to fragment the country. This is unfortunate. The farm movement — despite the presence of select individuals who harbour extreme identity-based aspirations and the counterproductive role of the diaspora — is a rooted mass movement, which has genuine economic and political concerns. By tarnishing the credibility and motivations of farmers, mostly from Punjab, the government risks deepening the trust deficit and alienating a large segment of the population in this crucial northern border state.It doesn’t help that the Opposition too ends up responding in a similar manner, with Akali Dal leader — and a BJP ally till not so long ago — Sukhbir Badal calling the BJP the real “tukde tukde gang” and warning against the deepening Hindu-Sikh divide. In a state with a troubled history of communal relations, a discourse that moves from economic anxieties to one about nationalism and communalism will only entrench attitudes and make a compromise difficult. Political competitiveness inevitably leads to crudity in political language. And this has only deepened over the last few years with increased political polarisation. But words have consequences, and can well have serious implications for national unity. The government must stay the course on the laws — but it must do so while sensitively reaching out to farmers to allay their apprehensions, perhaps with a senior minister making a visit to the sites of agitation and engaging in dialogue as a symbolic mark of respect to the movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/stay-firm-but-be-sensitive-ht-editorial/story-m5FVM1RggYXsHtonvtlAYM.html
