24-12-2020||News||An unlikely common strand of 2020 — land and property rights||The year 2020 drew sharp focus to land and property rights issues in India. The year began with protests against the National Register of Citizens (NRC), which — if implemented — would have relied on citizens having their land records in place to prove citizenship. Many commentators lamented how landless migrant labour would meet these stringent requirements in a country where land records management is in an abysmal shape with limited digitisation. With the onset of the pandemic, and India going into an unprecedented lockdown, the shocking sight of migrant labourers walking the highways for days exposed the lack of inclusive housing in our cities. They were forced to leave cities not only due to the lack of affordable housing, but also because informal rent agreements enabled abrupt evictions. While many developed countries enforced rent moratoriums and protections against evictions, in India, authorities could not create such a safety net. Informal tenancy in urban and semi-urban India and landlessness in rural India plunged the most vulnerable populations into further despair.Lockdowns across the world also forced businesses to consider diversification of their supply chains. This turned the attention of policymakers to the ease of doing business to make India an attractive destination for companies looking to invest in new locations. Again, land reforms became a central part of this conversation. While the central government explored the idea of creating land banks, some states focused on structural reforms. Karnataka amended laws to remove restrictions on buying and selling of agricultural land by non-agriculturalists.Other developments that brought focus to property rights include the SVAMITVA (Survey of villages and mapping with improvised technology in village areas) scheme launched in April 2020. The scheme aims to survey non-agricultural inhabited land in rural India. The stated goals are connecting rural Indians with institutional credit through better property records, and empowering Panchayati Raj institutions through property tax collection.In October 2020, in response to the migrant crisis, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs announced the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) Scheme. The scheme aims to fill the affordable housing gap in cities by utilising government-funded vacant houses along with construction, operation and maintenance of new affordable housing projects by private players.In an unrelated development, the Supreme Court passed a landmark judgement; it ruled that daughters have equal coparcenary rights in Hindu Undivided Family properties, even if the father died before the enactment of the 2005 Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act. Gender activists celebrated the judgment as this ambiguity had presented a big hurdle for women across India in accessing their property rights.Though these developments seem disparate, it is worth noting that land and property rights dominated people’s lives and public narrative even in an extraordinary year such as 2020. The year highlighted the fault lines in our land governance and exacerbated the effect of existing inefficiencies in our system. As we look to kickstart recovery in 2021, one hopes that policymakers will retain focus on making land records services citizen-friendly, undertaking surveys of previously unsurveyed areas, improving land markets and continuing to invest in affordable housing in our urban centres. Presently, there are interesting policy proposals under discussion to achieve these goals. Apart from ARHC and SVAMTIVA that may be scaled up, a Model Tenancy Act aimed at bridging the trust deficit between tenants and landlords is under consideration. The Centre and states are mulling subsidies in stamp duty rates to boost the real estate market and property registration. Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are making huge investments in new surveys and technology to improve land governance.A continued focus on land and property rights is important — these cross-cutting issues not only impact the growth of India’s economy but play an important role in the lives of all Indians. Among other things, 2020 has also been a stark reminder that governments must prioritise securing land and property rights for all its citizens.Aparajita Bharti is founding partner and Bindushree D is policy associate at The Quantum Hub, a public policy research and advocacy firmThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/an-unlikely-common-strand-of-2020-land-and-property-rights/story-U9WkOuxxzlOW7CCb844GnI.html
24-12-2020||News||Accept the SC’s advice, don’t underestimate the agitation||The fact that the protests against the Centre’s farm reforms are led by farmers from Punjab lends them extra muscle and the movement, historicity. Official interlocutors need to take into account the staying power of the Sikh community, the agitation’s main driving force, while seeking to break the protracted logjam.The optics of the stir lend it a pre-bifurcation pan-Punjab dimension as farmers with differing political predilections have forged a joint front with their counterparts from the adjoining agrarian state, Haryana. Besides Himachal Pradesh, Haryana was part of undivided Punjab till the adoption of the 1966 Reorganisation Act. Lending shoulders to the wheel they have set into motion are groups from Rajashtan, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra.Around 40 different farm unions under one umbrella have laid siege to Delhi. They are supported by a range of political parties, but not led by any one. Having them jointly and severally on one negotiating table is an unwieldy exercise, driving home the utility of the Supreme Court (SC)’s suggestion that an “impartial and independent” committee of experts be constituted to hear both sides. The ambience for a structured dialogue could be made congenial if the government puts on hold the laws the farmers want undone. Pressing the pause button on the legislations will be a face-saver for the agitators, who want a repeal, and the Centre, which is loath to roll them back. Observers point to the availability of a reservoir of jurists, retired generals, academics, agriculture experts and bureaucrats who can inspire trust on either side. The top judiciary’s advice to the government makes eminent sense also because it will be difficult to get the farmers to repose trust in the current dialogue format. As observed by the Court, the interface thus far between the two sides has failed to yield results. The renewal of talks through a credible, bipartisan mechanism might stand a better chance to persuade farmers to reciprocally defer their radical “scrap the laws” stance towards a workable middle ground that addresses their concerns. A point widely overlooked or ignored is that the Centre’s counter-narrative, after the talks hit a dead end, has had negative implications for its parallel offers of a dialogue. Be it studied or incidental, the dichotomous messaging has queered the pitch rather than prepared ground for a fruitful engagement.If the intent is to tire out the agitators, the history of Sikh movements would be a good reference point for the official side. Their struggle to free their shrines from the control of the British-appointed mahants went on from 1920 to 1925. It coincided with the formation of the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC) and the Akali Dal. Jawaharlal Nehru was jailed when he joined the Sikh morcha at Jaito in Faridkot. The British ultimately bowed to popular pressure, ushering in the 1925 Gurudwara Act that made SGPC the custodian of all historic Sikh places of worship. Mahatma Gandhi termed it the first victory of the freedom movement when the keys to the Golden Temple’s toshakhana were handed over to Baba Kharak Singh, the first president of the SGPC.Thereafter, in 1949, Akali veteran Master Tara Singh became the first political detainee of post-Independence India. He was the one to lay the basis of the Punjabi Suba movement — for a Punjabi-speaking state — which reached fruition 15 years later, in 1966. His arrest led to the Dal’s break-up with the Congress, its partner in the freedom movement. The schism widened with Punjab’s post-reorganisation claim on Chandigarh. The high point of this agitation was the demise of Darshan Singh Pheruman in a fast-unto-death. In that limited sense, the alleged suicide by a Sikh priest near the farmers’ protest site at Singhu border appears a leaf out of history.The Akali Dal of today is but a shadow of its record of yore. Undeterred by the incarceration of their top leaders, jathas of Akali workers and supporters courted arrest each day during the 1975-77 period of the Emergency. The party is now on the margins of the farmers’ movement which has kept politicians at arm’s length. That’s also the reason why the protestors have no paramount leader — or a small set of leaders — for a compact with the government.At the height of the separatist surge in Punjab, Balwant Singh, a non-Jat Sikh Akali who served as finance minister in Punjab, had explained to this writer his relevance in the Dal: “Sikh politics is the politics of agitation which cannot succeed without negotiations. I’m their negotiator.” He later played a key role in the 1985 Rajiv Gandhi-HS Longowal accord. But the pact reached by excluding such weighty leaders as SGPC chief GS Tohra and Parkash Singh Badal, failed to find popular endorsement. It also led to the assassination of Longowal and Balwant Singh.The ongoing farmers protest is peaceful. But the unraveling of the Punjab accord is a lesson that agreements reached at the cost of genuine leaders never work. That should lead the government away from the futility of engaging with marginal players — and towards accepting the Court’s valuable counsel. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/accept-the-sc-s-advice-don-t-underestimate-the-agitation/story-JdWahN0JtjilwN6uanojDJ.html
24-12-2020||Noida||More join as protest enters 26th day at UP Gate||Ghaziabad: Dozens of more tractor-trolleys have come in at the UP Gate protest site in the past two days after the protesting farmers earlier this week had blocked the Delhi-Ghaziabad side of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway. Farmers’ leaders said that some of their vehicles are still stuck at the Uttarakhand border, even as the protest at the UP Gate entered the 26th day on Thursday. As more vehicles came in, the tents and tractor-trolleys have lined up from the UP Gate up to Khoda Colony on the highway while more trolleys are getting parked on the road leading from Dabur Crossing to the protest site. “We still have some issues with vehicles which are getting stopped at borders of UP-Uttarakhand and also in Udham Singh Nagar. We will speak to officials about this. People are coming in rotation to the UP Gate to attend the protest,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand. Over the developments on Thursday in Delhi when senior Congress leaders met President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking his intervention to repeal the three laws, the protesters at UP Gate reiterated that the ongoing protests at Delhi borders were purely farmers’ agitation. “They are leaders of political parties and we cannot say anything about them. We know that the agitation is purely of farmers,” Bajwa added. The district police confirmed that more tractor-trolleys arrived at the UP Gate on Wednesday. “Some vehicles arrived to join the protest on Wednesday, while others were midway and reached UP Gate from different areas. However, we are ensuring that roads do not get blocked and there is no hindrance to normal traffic movement. We are already in touch with the farmers’ leaders to ensure that protests remain peaceful,” said Gyandendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2).The protesting farmers are demanding rollback of the Centre’s three farm laws. At least six rounds of talks between government representatives and farmers’ leaders have failed to break the deadlock as the government has proposed amendments and not inclined to repeal the laws. “For decades, our incomes have not increased and we are still producing food and soldiers. I am from a farmer’s family and protesting here while my brother is serving the Indian Army,” said Vijay Hindustani, a second-year law student from Shamli in western UP who joined the protest two days ago. Vijay is roaming bare-chested in the winter chill and displaying names of martyrs which he has got tattooed on his back. “I started getting tattooed names of martyrs on the back after the Pulwama attack on security forces. I will continue to remain at the UP Gate site till the new farm laws are repealed,” he added, while showing a sticker with words scribbled, “I love Kisan” and pasted to his chest. The stickers, of late, have become popular at the UP Gate site. The farmers said that such stickers are distributed by volunteers at every protest site. “We have pasted the sticker on our T-shirts and many such stickers are also pasted on tents, tractor-trolleys and other vehicles at the UP Gate. The sticker shows that we all are farmers though we are from different farmer organisations. I am a volunteer of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, but have pasted the sticker on my T-shirt,” said Prashant Tyagi, a youngster from Muzaffarnagar. On Thursday, a group of Buddhists also arrived at the protest site and said that they will continue to stay at the UP Gate till farmers protest goes on. “We have been to Singhu Border protest site for the past two days and now come to the UP Gate. The farmers here are carrying on peaceful protests. This is very important that the protest has remained peaceful. So, we will stay here in their support. Once, one of our groups leaves, the other will join,” said Acharya Bhikkhu Sumit Ratna, who arrived from Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/more-join-as-protest-enters-26th-day-at-up-gate/story-us7QhppRleGC93hodGuiZK.html
24-12-2020||Noida||Sample collection of travellers from UK initiated on priority in Ghaziabad and Noida||Ghaziabad: A day after the Uttar Pradesh government directed for tracking people who have returned from the United Kingdom (UK) since November 23 in the wake of the rise of a new variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus in that country, the district administrations of Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar have identified about 200 and 425 such travellers, respectively. Officials said that multiple teams of the health department have set out for tracing theses travellers and collection of their samples. The new variant, referred to as Sars-CoV-2 VUI 202012/01 (Variant Under Investigation, year 2020, month 12, variant 01), was detected in the UK earlier this month and was reported to be more transmissible.The officials of the Ghaziabad health department said that till Thursday evening, they collected samples of 41 persons while at least five teams have been deployed to get in touch with others. The officials said that they have received a list of about 200-240 travellers from the UK. However, there were signs of concern as the officials said that houses of 8-10 travellers were found locked.“These are some people whose houses were found locked by our teams, and some have even gone out of station after their return from the UK. So, We have forwarded a list of these people to our Covid control room and they will be traced with the help of the police. We have received a list which indicates that there are about 200-240 travellers from UK so far. There are some duplicity of names, and we are figuring these out,” said chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta. The UP government has already laid down a set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) and have laid special emphasis on tracking of those travellers who have returned from UK on December 9 or thereafter. In the SOPs, such people will mandatorily get tests done through the RT-PCR method and will stay in home quarantine. Once their tests turn positive, they will be isolated in a facility and a part of their sample will also be sent for genome sequencing to figure out if they are infected with the latest variant of the virus, VUI-202012/01. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “The travellers whose houses were found locked will be traced immediately through the electronic surveillance by the police. We have already asked our two Covid hospitals to come up with separate isolation wards for travellers and similar directions have also been given to private hospitals in case the travellers wish to get admitted to private hospitals. If anyone is found infected with the new variant, they will not be allowed home isolation even if they are asymptomatic,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, said that all the travellers have been identified in the district and teams were working on priority basis for their sample collection. District health officials said that they identified a list of 425 travellers till Thursday evening who have arrived from UK to the district since November 23. “The collection of sampling is taken up on priority basis. We have 12 teams which are out in field for sample collection. The sample collection work will continue till late night,” said Dr Sunil Dohre, district surveillance officer, GB Nagar. Even the state government officials said that they are focussing on testing of travellers who have returned from UK so that any spread of new variant is kept under control. “It is mandatory for those who returned from UK on or after December 9 to get their RT-PCR test done. They can take up tests at the nearest testing centre or can contact the control room or the chief medical officer. This variant is known to spread fast and we do not want it to spread in the state. In case the RT-PCR test is negative for such travellers, they will still need to remain home quarantine for at least one week,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health). “Even those who have returned from European countries and showing symptoms, should also take up RT-PCR test at the earliest,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/sample-collection-of-travellers-from-uk-initiated-on-priority-in-ghaziabad-and-noida/story-nJf1XbJS2e3Hifl6J7t5XI.html
24-12-2020||City||Delhi govt initiative to bring civil servants, UPSC aspirants closer||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Thursday launched an initiative for the students of its schools, who aspire to crack the UPSC exam, under which they will get a chance to interact with civil servants every month and seek guidance.According to a statement issued by the government on Thursday, every month, young officers will share their experiences, strategies, and insights about UPSC exam preparation with the Delhi government school students. The first such session was held on Thursday when Delhi Director Education Udit Prakash interacted with 60 students of classes 9th to 12th at a school in Kalkaji. The session was streamed live on YouTube where more than 5000 students watched it live.During the interaction, Prakash, an IAS officer, shared his experiences during the UPSC exam preparation and gave tips to the students. He said that he had decided to become an IAS officer after class 10. “People think that IAS/IPS officers are from different planets as they have cleared a very difficult exam. But, it’s not like that. I was a normal student like everyone else… Delhi government schools students are very hardworking and have the potential to excel in civil services exam. The program has been started to develop students’ understanding about the exam,” he said.Delhi education Minister Manish Sisodia also attended the session. “All the young UPSC aspirants should also dream about what they want to do after becoming an IAS/IPS officer. They should set a dream to serve a larger purpose, whether it’s about developing rural India or eradicating corruption or removing hatred and violence from the society. If students are clear about the larger purpose they want to serve, they can easily overcome the hurdles and they won’t be tired or scared in the pursuit of their dreams,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-initiative-to-bring-civil-servants-uspc-aspirants-closer/story-EeYTI6DHzvcKPW9IixucMM.html
24-12-2020||City||Ensure no panic over HSRPs: HC tells govt||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Thursday asked the Delhi government to ensure that no panic is created among the people for obtaining the colour coded fuel stickers and high security registration plates (HSRP).A bench of justice Siddharth Mridul and justice Talwant Singh, while hearing a plea by the president of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee, Anil Kumar, alleging that the Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) were overcharging for the colour coded fuel stickers and HSRPs that have been made mandatory for vehicles in the national capital. The bench suggested that the Delhi government should give more time to people to get the stickers before imposing a fine of Rs 5,500 for violations.“We are concerned that it should not lead to any panic. We are only concerned about the fact that people should get adequate time and they should not be made to queue up for this,” the court said.The judges said even they were clueless about the requirement of the stickers and asked additional standing counsel Satyakam to come with “detailed instructions” regarding steps taken by the Delhi government to publicise the stickers and HSRP.The court asked them to clarify their stand on the fact that why were the vendors charging ten times the original price fixed by the Delhi government in 2012. The Delhi government had in August made it mandatory for the vehicle owners in Delhi to have a high-security registration plate (HSRP) and a colour coded sticker to determine its engine and fuel type. The court, on Thursday, sought to know from government’s counsel Satyakam as to who decided to outsource the sale of stickers and HSRP to OEMs and whether more time ought to be given to people to obtain the stickers and HSRP before starting to fine them for lack of the same.Satyakam, during the hearing, told the bench that the Delhi government has nothing to do with fixing the rate of the stickers and HSRP and it was only concerned with implementing the Supreme Court directions that all vehicles should have HSRP and the stickers. He said the Centre had fixed the rates and added that the concept of stickers was introduced only in 2018 by the apex court.However, advocate Sunil Fernandes, representing the petitioner, showed the court an April 2012 public notice issued by Delhi government indicating rates of the HSRP sets and individual stickers. He said the concept of stickers was already there and the only difference was the apex court direction in 2018 to make them colour coded according to the fuel used.Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Wednesday held a meeting with officials of the transport department, Society of Indian Automobile manufacturers (SIAM), HSRP manufacturers and suppliers, Federation of Automobile Dealers association and major OEMs. He asked all stakeholders to provide unique reference numbers to complaints related affixation of HSRPs. According to the plea, the manner in which the Delhi government was implementing Supreme Court orders for HSRP and colour coded fuel stickers would lead to a loss of around Rs 342 crore to the people of the national capital. It said that the notified fee for a colour coded sticker is Rs 12.15 and for a complete HSRP set, including the sticker, it is Rs 213.24.However, the OEMs were charging customers Rs 141.60 (tax not included) and Rs 991.20 for the sticker and the HSRP set, respectively, the petition has claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ensure-no-panic-over-hsrps-hc-tells-govt/story-I0WrZV84NP8PM2mFhygtbL.html
24-12-2020||City||Arbitrary fees: Parents’ forum protests against private schools in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh Student Parents Forum on Thursday staged a protest outside the office of the directorate of education, Shimla, against the arbitrary fees charged by private schools in every districtThey said that the state government should ask private schools to only charge tuition fees and immediately issue a notification to ban other charges being levied by them.The forum also submitted a memorandum of their demands to the director of education who assured them of suitable action.Forum’s convener Vijender Mehra accused the chief minister and the education minister of misleading parents and said that the decision taken in the Cabinet meeting is completely opposite of statements made by them regarding fees being charged by private schools.“The committees made under the chairmanship of deputy commissioners are misleading as it will only benefit private schools while parents will continue to be exploited as this order will legalise all kinds of charges being levied by private schools,” said Mehra.The forum has warned the director of education of another protest on December 28 if their demands are not fulfilled and has also appealed to people to boycott full fees that are being charged by private schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/arbitrary-fees-parents-forum-protest-against-private-schools-in-himachal/story-Zkg5ruAGMhVWGNfttjufYO.html
24-12-2020||City||Himachal logs 374 Covid cases, 5 deaths||With 374 new cases on Thursday, the total number of positive cases reached 53,766. Five persons succumbed to the virus today, taking the fatality figure to 887 in the state. The active case stands at 4,681.One death each has been reported in Hamirpur, Una, Shimla, Mandi and Kangra district.Around 317 patients have been cured, taking the total recovery count to 48,151, while 7,14,560 persons have been tested in the state so far.Of the new cases, 102 were reported in Mandi, 76 in Kangra, 42 in Solan, 34 in Shimla, 26 in Chamba, 22 cases each in Bilaspur and Hamirpur districts, 18 in Una, 10 in Sirmaur, nine in Kullu, seven in Kinnaur and six in Lahaul and Spiti district.With 9,856 cases, Shimla remains the worst-hit district followed by Mandi where 9,397 people have tested positive to date.As many as 7,463 cases have been reported in Kangra, 6,205 in Solan, 4,320 in Kullu, 3,117 in Sirmaur; 2,779 in Bilaspur, 2,642 in Una, 2,767 in Chamba 2,717 in Hamirpur, 1,292 in Kinnaur and 1,211 in Lahaul-Spiti district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-374-covid-cases-5-deaths/story-vdTRQWNs4kU2koK20tXGKI.html
24-12-2020||City||Trident Cup T20 cricket tournament: Abhishek Sharma’s century guides Punjab Reds to semi-finals||Punjab Reds’ IPL player Abhishek Sharma scored 115 runs off 85 balls, studded with 9 fours and 9 sixes, and shared an opening partnership of 139 runs with another IPL player Prabhsimran Singh, who scored 55 runs in 43 balls, (3 fours and 2 sixes) in the team’s last league match against Malwa Heroes during the ongoing Trident T20 Cup cricket tournament at Hara Cricket ground here on Thursday. The duo proved to be instrumental in their team scoring a total of 216 runs for 3 wickets in 20 overs.Punjab Reds had won the toss and decided to bat first. Gurkeerat Mann scored 13 runs and Anmolpreet Singh remained not out with 18. Malwa Heroes’ Suchit Goel starred with the ball with figures of 4-0-39-2. A fine spell of swing bowling by India player Sandeep Sharma 3-0-7-3 and left arm spinner Abhishek Sharma 3-0-22-2 restricted the Malwa Heroes to 111 for 7 wickets in 20 overs, thus winning the game for their team by a huge margin of 105 runs. The match was dominated by the star-studded Punjab Reds.Abhishek Sharma of Punjab Reds was adjudged man of the match for his all round performance. Sukhjit Singh Hara, mayor, Sahnewal, and partner of Hara Cricket Academy, presented the award.Punjab Reds topped their group with three wins and 6 points and have qualified for the semi-finals.In another crucial match at GRD Academy ground, Punjab Blues beat Ludhiana XI to enter semi finals. Ludhiana XI won the toss and decided to field first. This was a must win game for Punjab Blues to qualify for the semi finals. Ludhiana bowlers made some early inroads and left Punjab Blues tottering at 45 runs for the loss of 3 wickets. However, a partnership of 59 runs for the 4th wicket between Karan Kaila, who remained not out with 66 runs off 48 balls (3 fours and 3 sixes), and Aarush Sabharwal, who scored 27 runs off 19 balls (3 fours), steadied the innings. Later on, Geetansh Khera played a cameo of 34 runs off 16 balls (4 fours) and carried the team’s total to 186 for 5 in 20 overs. As per the net run rate, even if Ludhiana XI lost the match and managed to score 166 runs in 20 overs, they would have still qualified.However, they were restricted to 128 for the loss of 5 wickets in 20 overs by the experienced bowling line up of Punjab Blues. For Ludhiana XI, opener Gurjot Singh scored 30 runs off 42 balls , Kashish Panseja 30 off 20 balls and Arjun Puri 22 off 24 balls. Punjab Blues’ Karan Kaila, Rahul Sharma and Barinder Sran were economical with the ball. Punjab Blues won the game by 58 runs and qualified for the semi-finals.Karan Kaila of Punjab Blues was adjudged man of the match.Punjab Reds will face Punjab Blues at GRD Academy ground while Amandeep Cricket Club, Amritsar will take on Jalandhar XI at Hara cricket ground||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trident-cup-t20-cricket-tournament-abhishek-sharma-s-century-guides-punjab-reds-to-semi-finals/story-TL55qAkMN0DSQuetduAANK.html
24-12-2020||City||Dharamshala-Mcleodganj ropeway to be ready in June 2021: HP CM||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday accentuated executing agencies to accord priority to tourism projects. While presiding over the meeting of the tourism board, Thakur said the aerial ropeway connecting Dharamshala to Mcleodganj would be completed by June 2021 which was being constructed at a cost of Rs 150 crores. He said that the state would get an annual fee of Rs 1 crore from this project once it starts functioning. He also expressed displeasure over the delay in Adi Himani to Chamunda ropeway in Kangra district and Bhuntar to Bijli Mahadev ropeway which was coming up in Kullu district for which concession agreement was signed and survey completed. He said that the concession agreement and prefeasibility report have been finalised regarding Sri Anandpur Sahib to Shri Naina Devi ropeway. He said that this project is coming up at a cost of Rs 200 crores. CM added that the light and sound show at Town Hall, Shimla, will be completed by March 2021 and will provide a glimpse of the culture, tradition, lesser-known places of the state. He said that this would be an added attraction for the tourists visiting the state. He said that Shimla Heliport was coming up at a cost of Rs 12.13 crore and will be completed by March next year. Thakur said that work on the Convention Centre at Kiarighat in Solan district under the Himalayan Circuit of Swadesh Darshan Scheme was nearing completion. He said that this project worth Rs 30 crore would be completed by March next year. He added that work had also been started on the development of Hateshwari Temple at Hatkoti in Shimla district which would be completed by December next year. He said that the Union government has approved upgradation of the Food Craft Institute, Dharamshala to the Institute of Hotel Management at a cost of Rs 11.75 crore. He said that out of this, the first installment of Rs 4.10 crore has been received. He said that a detailed project report of Rs 100 crore under integrated development of spiritual circuit under Swadesh Darshan Scheme has been sent to the Centre for approval. CM said that the state government had also decided to organise crafts mela in the state on the pattern of Surajkund Craft Fair for which about 95 bighas of land had been identified on Kalka-Shimla National Highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dharamshala-mcleodganj-ropeway-to-be-ready-in-june-2021-hp-cm/story-1OEwpWwNh1M2dSxbAghyLL.html
24-12-2020||City||24/7 canal-based water supply project : Ludhiana MC invites villagers to sell land for water treatment plant||While the Punjab cabinet has given its nod for the 24x7 surface/canal-based water supply project in the city which will be funded by the World Bank, the municipal corporation (MC) is struggling to find 50 acres of space in nearby villages to set up a water treatment plant.The process of finding the land was delayed amid the pandemic. In September, a few villagers had stepped forward to sell their land, but the proposals were rejected due to the high rates quoted by them.Now, MC has again issued a public notice inviting villagers to sell their land situated near Sidhwan Canal, Sirhind Canal or Ludhiana-Ambala GT Road. Those interested can submit their quotations with MC joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh at MC’s Zone-D office till January 15, 2021.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “We are looking for suitable sites and meetings had also been conducted with villagers in the past. I had also visited a few sites in nearby villages with Kulpreet Singh. We have invited quotations from villagers again and expect that the site will be finalised soon.”The project had been planned due to the depleting level of ground water in the city. Water in the city is currently supplied through over 1,000 tube wells.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/24-7-canal-based-water-supply-project-ludhiana-mc-invites-villagers-to-sell-land-for-water-treatment-plant/story-YSpzdSSeRNtBLU34wiHH0O.html
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Two sex detection rackets busted in Ludhiana||Two illegal sex detection centres were unearthed during raids carried out on Tuesday and Wednesday.The first raid was carried out by a team of the Punjab health department in Pratap Chowk in which three people were arrested and an ultrasound machine was recovered.The accused have been identified as Manmohan Pal of Janakpuri, who is a registered medical practitioner (RMP), and Tinku Rana and Ramesh Lal, who were acting as touts for him, police said.District family planning officer Dr SP Singh said the accused were arrested on the basis of a tip-off. Investigating officer Gurdev Singh said that Pal had been booked earlier by Shimlapuri police for a similar offence. The second raid was conducted in coordination with a team of the Haryana health department at a matron’s house on Daba Road.The team tracked the accused through a decoy patient who was posing as pregnant woman. “The matron had established a clinic where she was operating the sex detection centre. She was arranging the ultrasound through another person. As soon as she arranged the machine, she was arrested and handed over to the health department team and Hisar police,” said SP Singh.Preliminary investigation has revealed that the machines were being procured from Jharkhand and other parts of India. “The ultrasound machines used for such crimes are more than 15 years old. Such gangs operate in clandestine manner and tracking them is really difficult,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-sex-detection-rackets-busted-in-ludhiana/story-Wv0fcmbxqDmTTzaSTCkMFM.html
24-12-2020||City||The year of the pandemic: The year lecture halls came home in Ludhiana||The year 2020 saw institutes of higher education take lecture halls to students’ homes in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, with authorities switching to zoom classes, holding virtual counselling and arranging for online exams. However, the journey was not without hiccups with a section of students facing trouble accessing online classes in the absence of smartphones and laptops and shaky internet connections. College authorities also received a poor response from students during the online registration process for undergraduate and postgraduate courses. Financial difficulties caused due to the pandemic sadly forced many students to drop out. June saw colleges reopen for staff. However, two lecturers tested positive in different institutions soon after, forcing one of the institutions to shut down as a precautionary measure. Hostels have also remained closed since the lockdown and the facility has not been offered to freshers. Regular classes were started for final year students in November, however, poor attendence was recorded in most government and private institutions. Teachers were seen taking physical and online class simultaneously with the help of laptops at government colleges. Many private colleges continued with online classes as Covid cases were surging in the district. As per directions from varsities, college authorities got their staff and students tested for Covid before reopening. Though it remains uncertain when students will start attending regular classes, the new building government college building in Ludhiana east will be completed by February. In July, authorities had decided to defer the Panjab University Youth and Heritage Festival amid surging Covid cases. The festival will now be held in November However, in November, it was decided the festival will be conducted in February 2021 after the final exams. Only solo performances and participation will be allowed in all contests be it music or fine arts. HIGHSStudents clinched top positions at PUFinal-year students from different Ludhiana-based colleges bagged the top positions in Panjab University (PU). Palak Dewan of Sri Aurbindo College of Commerce, a bachelor of commerce student, topped the varsity with 3,254 out of 3,700 marks. Another student of the same college, Nikita Jain, secured 2,925 out of 3,400, topping PU in the bachelor of business administration course. Anchal Bhardwaj of Arya College, girls section, secured the first position in humanities. She secured a near-perfect 2,101 out of 2,400.Girls extend a helping hand to Covid warriors In a bid to help those on the frontline in the battle against Covid, girls studying at Industrial Training Institutes stitched four-layered washable masks from their houses. The masks were distributed among workers of the district administration, healthcare workers, municipal corporation employees, police, asha and anganwadi workers, panchayats, farmers, migrant labourers.Virtual job fairWith shortage of workers almost bringing industries to a standstill, the Government Industrial Training Institute (ITI), Gill Road, organised a virtual fair to augment the manpower shortage. LowsFew enrolments in rural areasColleges affiliated to Panjab University (PU) report more vacant seats than any other year. Though the varsity extended the last date of admission to August 31 to give more time to students to enrol themselves in undergraduate courses, authorities said the situation hardly improved. Students desirous of studying in government colleges, which already have a low fee structure,have requested authorities to collect fee in instalments. Despite concessions, the seats remain vacant.Unfinished government college building Almost three years after laying the foundation stone of the new building at Government College, Ludhiana (East), around 20% construction work still remains pending. The building stands opposite Vardhman Mill on Chandigarh Road. Construction work had been delayed due to the pandemic. In June, work came to a halt due to paucity of funds. Work on a multi-purpose hall, canteen, and landscaping will be completed over the next three months. Colleges discontinue PG courses Five private colleges, affiliated to Panjab University, have stopped offering postgraduate courses for this academic session due to few takers. College principals said due to financial constraints amid the pandemic, many students have not applied for masters courses this year. Courses such as masters in Punjabi and Hindi and postgraduate diploma in computer applications seem to be losing their sheen. Students are opting to pursue masters in business administration, masters in commerce and other skill-based courses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/the-year-of-the-pandemic-the-year-lecture-halls-came-home-in-ludhiana/story-tGsppjLrfoz6ie7grZKlgI.html
24-12-2020||Gurugram||Regional transport authority to take measures to reduce road fatalities||The regional transport authority (RTA) has asked the police to share details of all accidents across the city to analyse the average response time in each case. Officials privy to the matter said they want to calculate the time taken by an ambulance to reach a spot or for an accident victim to get first-aid. In many cases, victims die due to excessive bleeding and not receiving timely medical help. As per the data, it takes 18 minutes on an average for a road accident victim to get medical aid. RTA officials say that this time should reduce to at least 12 minutes. Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, RTA, Gurugram, said that they are trying to increase the chances of survival of road accident victims with the timely medical help. According to medical experts, the initial hour of the accident is considered as the “golden hour” and a delay of even a few minutes could prove to be fatal in some cases. In most of the accidents cases, people die due to excessive bleeding. Cutting down the time for ambulances to reach accident spot can help in reducing the number of fatalities. In case of an accident, an ambulance usually comes from Civil Hospital or the trauma centre after receiving a call on 108. “We have asked the health department to cut short the response time and bring it down to 10-12 minutes,” said Yadav, adding that she has also asked the health department to tie-up with the private hospitals in the city and work out some arrangement under which the nearest private hospital can send its ambulance. This will considerably cut shot the response time,” she said. Gurugram has a large number of private hospitals and these are located in almost every part of the district. Therefore, the nearest private hospital is in the best position to provide medical help to road accident victims, said RTA officials. Private hospitals, along with private ambulance operators, together own around 500 ambulances in the city. People usually call on 108 or 100 (police control room) to report accidents and these calls go to the Civil Hospital from where an ambulance leaves for the accident victim. Many times, victims are taken to the nearest trauma centres of multi-specialty hospitals “We will have to work out some system under which even a private hospital can get notification about an accident,” Yadav said. In some cases, the victims are taken to the nearest private hospital from the accident spot, but private hospitals do not keep record of it. “Private hospitals should alert the health officials after admitting any accident victim. At present, they are only informing the nearest police station,” said Yadav adding that she has asked the health officials to prepare records of time lapse between road accidents and death of victims and find out ways to reduce the response time. Dr MP Singh, deputy civil surgeon and head of the referral transport unit of Civil Hospital, said they have 24 ambulances out of which five are equipped with advanced life support system, 11 have basic life support, six are patient transport ambulances and two are for children. “We dispatch ambulance soon after receiving a call. The time to reach the accident spot depends on the traffic and distance. We will work towards improving the response time,” said Singh. With an aim to reduce road fatalities in year 2021, the Gurugram Police jointly with the local authorities will start several campaigns in the city, starting January. They have decided to start more road safety campaigns and involve all government agencies, including the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, the NHAI and the Haryana Sahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). They will start publicity campaigns highlighting the dangers of erratic lane changes and the need for stricter police enforcement, said the police. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that the police personnel are mostly the first who can utilise the golden hour and immediately give first aid to the victim. We have been training them with the help of private hospitals. “The ambulances are expected to provide paramedic care, which may ensure the survival of accident victims till he/she receives specialised care from a hospital. The first aid training (among traffic police) is rudimentary as it does not train its personnel to provide emergency medical treatment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/regional-transport-authority-to-take-measures-to-reduce-road-fatalities/story-Ngtf9l7iGGMupEleAhZIjO.html
24-12-2020||Gurugram||Farmers on highway to march to Delhi; will not allow it, say police||Farmers camping on the Delhi-Jaipur national highway at Jaisinghpur Khera in protest of the new farm laws on Thursday said that they would start proceeding towards Delhi on Friday, signalling their intent to further escalate the ongoing agitation.Farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana and Gujarat had started proceeding towards Delhi earlier this month but were stopped by the Rewari police at the Haryana-Rajasthan border. Since then, they have been protesting at Jaisinghpur Khera, located near Shahjahanpur in Alwar district, at the Rajasthan-Haryana border, for the past 12 days. Due to the farmers’ protest, one carriageway of the Delhi-Jaipur national highway has remained closed since December 13.Addressing a press conference from the protest site on Thursday, farmers’ leaders said that they would start proceeding towards Delhi around 1pm on Friday. “Farmers have been protesting for many days and demanding that the new farm laws are repealed. They want the minimum support price (MSP) for crops guaranteed. Today, farmers’ groups announced that they will proceed towards Delhi from tomorrow afternoon. They will not return to their villages until their demands are met. In order to amplify their voices, they are prepared to surround Delhi,” said Sanjay Madhav, member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan.Santveer Singh Mohanpura, a farmer leader from Shri Ganganagar in Rajasthan, said that the goal of farmers was to proceed towards Delhi since Day One, but the Haryana police had been preventing them from doing so. “We want to go to Delhi. If the government prevents us from moving towards Delhi, the government will be responsible for its actions. If the government stops us, it will be accountable for any inconvenience that the public might face because of our movement,” said Mohanpura.He added that farmers are standing firm on their demands and would not back down till the three laws are repealed. “We will not talk about amendments. The government needs to roll back the laws,” said Mohanpura.Vijoo Krishnan, joint secretary of All India Kisan Sabha, the agricultural arm of the CPI(M), said that there had been multiple attempts to discredit the ongoing farmers’ agitation, but farmers will not back down. “Our demands need a solution. These bills are anti-farmer and will benefit corporations. Since November 26, when the Dilli Chalo movement was started, the Modi government has adopted an arrogant stance. The government will eventually bend to the farmers,” said Krishnan.Abhishek Jorwal, superintendent of police (Rewari), said that the police are keeping a vigil and wouldn’t allow farmers to cross the border. “There is heavy police deployment on the stretch. We will not let farmers cross the border,” said Jorwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmers-on-highway-to-march-to-delhi-will-not-allow-it-say-police/story-hEs4ZzlCTGytZN2m6HJPPI.html
24-12-2020||Gurugram||HSPCB issues order to shut down cement mixing plants in view of deteriorating air quality||The Haryana State Pollution Control Board’s (HSPCB) regional office issued orders on Thursday to shut down all hot mix plants in Gururgam until January 2, in view of the deteriorating air quality across Delhi-NCR. Commonly used in construction work and road laying, hot mix plants (also known as cement mixers or drum mixers) are used to mix construction material, such as concrete, sand, gravel and other aggregates. Following instructions issued a day earlier by the Central Pollution Control Board(CPCB), the HSPCB also called for departments concerned to step up frequency of road-sweeping and water sprinkling at locations that are prone to accumulation of dust.Shakti Singh, the HSPCB’s regional officer and nodal officer for Grap compliance in Gurugram, did not specify where these measures will be stepped up. However, he said, “We will be issuing directions to the MCG, department of town and country planning and so on and asking them to step up dust mitigation measures. We will also ask them to inspect construction sites for any violations of Grap rules.”Air quality in the city, however, remained in the “very poor” category of the AQI even as other major cities in Delhi-NCR veered into the “severe” category. Gurugram recorded 361 on the CPCB’s daily air quality bulletin, up from 340 the day prior. Meanwhile Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad and even Faridabad recorded a second consecutive day of “severe” air on Thursday, prompting the CPCB to issue directives to all major NCR towns.Experts said that Gurugram’s lower AQI is likely due to favourable wind speed and direction. “Northwesterly winds are blowing at a pace between eight to ten kilometres per hour, which may be causing eastward movement of pollutants away from Gurugram and into the capital city and beyond,” said Sachin Panwar, a city based air quality scientist.As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Air quality is likely to remain in very poor category on 25.12.2020 and 26.12.2020. Surface winds are likely to remain light and ventilation will be poor resulting in deterioration in air quality... The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from Northwest direction of Delhi with wind speed 08-12 kmph, mainly clear sky and moderate to dense fog in the morning on 25.12.2020.”The city recorded a maximum temperature of 22.3 degrees Celsius on Thursday (same as the previous day), while the minimum temperature stood at 6 degrees Celsius — one degree less than the previous day. As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city, minimum temperature will drop to 4 degrees Celsius by the end of the week, while maximum will drop to 16 degrees Celsius. Generally cloudy skies are expected to prevail, while mornings will be dense with fog.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hspcb-issues-order-to-shut-down-cement-mixing-plants-in-view-of-deteriorating-air-quality/story-luyXS8S06pAwlwd6ylhLVI.html
24-12-2020||Gurugram||Car parks, area increase will boost affordable housing, say experts||The decision to increase the area of affordable housing projects and allow car parks will boost affordable housing in the state, said realtors engaged in developing such housing. The government on Wednesday amended the affordable housing policy of 2013 to boost supply, create more commercial components, like shops, and make it attractive for buyers.As per the amendments, the maximum area has been increased from 10 acres to 30 acres while the minimum area has been reduced from five to four acres, with the caveat that the size of the community building will not be reduced. Under the amended policy, the commercial area, where shops and other facilities can be set up, has been increased from 4% to 8% of the net planned area.An important change that has been incorporated by the government, which has been a long-standing demand of developers, is that they will be allowed to provide one car park space for each unit and the rate would not be more than 5% of the cost of flat against such an allotment, a government official said.City-based real estate developers, consultants and experts said that the amendments will give a major boost to affordable housing, as bottlenecks in supply will be removed and a large majority of buyers who refrained from purchasing houses due to lack of parking would now be more enthused.Vinod Behl, a city-based real estate expert, said that the amended policy will ensure continuity in the recent uptick in demand after a lull due to Covid. A tripling of the project size limit and reduction in lower area limit will give supply a push, he said. “The provisions for car park space and additional commercial space for convenience shopping within the housing complex will boost demand side of affordable housing,” he said.Gurugram has the largest number of affordable housing projects in the state and around 80 projects are in various stages of development. Given the interest shown by homebuyers, the department of town and country planning has been taking several measures to increase the availability of such units and taking steps to streamline the process.Pankaj Bajaj, president, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI), NCR, said that the existing affordable projects in Haryana would have faced parking shortage, just like DDA developments in Delhi during the 1970s and 1980s. “It was thought that the middle class uses only two-wheelers or public transport. This is not really true, especially in post-covid times,” he said.Pradeep Aggarwal, managing director, Signature Group, said that developers would be able to increase the area of a project and space for a car park would boost projects. “The reduction of area limit for from five acres to four acres will be benefitting many developers and will give a boost to affordable housing,” he said.Sanjiv Mann, the senior town planner, Gurugram, said that a notification for the changes would be issued soon. “These changes would give a boost to this segment and help buyers get more affordable houses,” he said.Rajat Goel, joint managing director, MRG World, said that this was the only segment that saw maximum sales and the maximum number of new launches in 2020, as 70% of the all the launches this year were in the affordable segment. “The margin for developers will also improve and supply will also get a boost,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/car-parks-area-increase-will-boost-affordable-housing-say-experts/story-v9HPKEVbWcmBNDcnpmJusI.html
24-12-2020||Gurugram||Around 700 UK returnees on district admin radar||At least 695 travellers who arrived in Gurugram from the United Kingdom between November 25 and December 23, as per the list shared by the Bureau of Immigration, will be monitored by the district health department to identify if any of them have been infected with a new strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which is more transmissible.According to the health official, the state health department on Thursday night received a comprehensive list of 695 travellers who arrived in Gurugram from the UK in the last four weeks. Of these, at least 438 travellers — including 113 travellers as reported by HT on Thursday — arrived after December 9 and over 257 people arrived between November 25 and December 8.“Following the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the union ministry of health and family welfare, our teams have started following up with the people having recent travel history to the UK,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.“Some might have completed their 14 days of the infection cycle. Teams will be contacting them to self-monitor themselves for symptoms like fever, cough, cold and difficulty in breathing,” said Yadav. According to him, they will be followed up through calls or visits by the rapid response teams.Passengers who arrived before December 9 will also be contacted by the teams, said officials. “They will be tested too if they develop any influenza-like illness for 28 days from the date of their arrival from the UK. They will be tested through Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) and their samples will be sent to CSIR – Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi,” said Yadav.People testing positive will be isolated at an institutional facility set up at a PG in Sector 22. “It will be the designated facility for travellers who test positive. They will have to stay at the facility until their genome sequence results are declared,” said the chief medical officer, adding that state government will issue further directives for the surveillance of UK returnees.As per the guideline, if the gene sequencing remains consistent with the current SARS-CoV-2 genome circulating, then the positive patient can be allowed home isolation. But if the genomic sequencing indicates the presence of a new SARS-CoV-2 variant, then the patient will continue to remain in a separate isolation unit. The person will be tested on the 14th day of infection. In case sample tests positive, isolation will continue until two consecutive samples taken within 24 hours test negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/around-700-uk-returnees-on-district-admin-radar/story-h0edvcrUP5yV75SOcbY5mL.html
24-12-2020||Gurugram||Antigen testing camps increased in key areas||Despite an ongoing slowdown in the number of daily Covid-19 cases emerging from the district, the health department has decided to increase the number of antigen testing camps in key areas, as a pre-emptive move to stay ahead of the spread of SARS-Cov-2. From 98 testing camps organised in the nine days leading to December 22, a total of 128 camps will be held in the subsequent nine days until December 31, according to data shared by the health department.Moreover, antigen tests will now be deployed across 31 healthcare blocks, as opposed to just 27 earlier. The new locations include Ghangola, Bhora Kalan, Kasan and Rajendra Park, where antigen camps were earlier put on hold in view of the decreasing positivity rate in these areas. The majority of upcoming antigen camps, meanwhile, have been organised in areas like Haily Mandi, Badshahpur, Mullahera and Sohna, from where a high number of Covid-19 infections are usually reported, due to dense population in these areas. While officials did not specify whether a higher positivity has been observed in these regions of late, Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gururgam, said, “We decide the locations of antigen camps based on weekly analysis of testing data from PHCs and UPHCs. The reason we have increased the camps in certain places is to stay ahead of the spread of the illness. In our experience, it is not a good strategy to relax testing even if the growth rate is decreasing. If antigen positivity in a particular region shows an uptick, it will allow us to plan accordingly to prevent another surge of cases in that area.”A medical officer with the health department, requesting anonymity, said that this step is presently intended to serve as a surveillance tool. “While we are not facing any surge in cases at present, antigen camps have been useful in helping us identify where clusters of infections are present. It is important to keep testing up in these regions. Take Bhangrola for example. We have not conducted any camp there in the last few days because the situation improved. But we will now return there to see if the situation has changed. These are also areas where people are reliant on public healthcare,” the officer said. Meanwhile, officials said that they plan to continue conducting at least 4,000 RT-PCR tests in the district each day, along with about 600 antigen tests. “We were, until recently, conducting between 6,000 and 10,000 tests per day, but seeing the decline in positivity rate, 4,000 tests is now an optimum number,” said Dr Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/antigen-testing-camps-increased-in-key-areas/story-fv2sSVWBgJLmBuq5B6IqqN.html
24-12-2020||Gurugram||Car-jacking gang busted; two men arrested||The city police busted a three-member carjacking gang and arrested one of the members from the Palam Vihar area in the wee hours of Wednesday, said the police. On Sunday night, two of its members had allegedly robbed a 34-year-old businessman of his car at gunpoint in Sector 102. The police said the suspects approached the victim while he was standing outside his car and getting some construction material loaded on a truck. The police said the suspects took victim at the gunpoint and snatched his car keys. When he tried to raise an alarm they threatened to kill him. They drove the car towards Dwarka, said the police. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that they formed crime teams after the incident was reported. “Our crime teams started conducting investigation following which they received leads. The suspects had fled towards Jhajjar and when the police personnel deployed at a check point tried to stop them they tried to run over them,” he said. The police recovered CCTV footage from several spots that showed that the suspects had come in a Fortuner SUV. Sangwan said they had identified the car and raids were conducted. One of the suspects was arrested from village Makdola in Gurugram. He was identified as Lokesh Sehrawat , a history-sheeter, who had been jailed twice. During his questioning, he revealed that the mastermind of the gang is Jaipal Dhankhar, a resident of village Gola in Badli. He is wanted for the robbery of the liquor shop in Bahadurgarh and for attacking police teams. A case was registered at Jhajjar police station, said the police The three-member gang used to target parked cars on isolated stretches. Anyone who was driving alone was taken at gunpoint. The police said the Fortuner car belongs to Dhankhar, who is absconding. He had sold the SUV to a Delhi-based businessman but had not transferred the vehicle on his name. He had forcefully got his SUV back despite taking the full amount from the buyer. The gang is likely to be involved in 20 car-jacking cases, said the police, adding that they will get more insight into the case after Dhankhar is arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/car-jacking-gang-busted-two-men-arrested/story-tg7GdoKLhaDIpUAIiQJgdM.html
24-12-2020||Gurugram||New industrial policy focuses on employment||Under the new Haryana industrial policy, 10% area of industrial estates can now be reserved as a residential area for labour housing and panchayat land will be made available, on a lease, with the consent of villagers, to promote industrialisation in rural areas.Haryana deputy chief minister, Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of industries and commerce, made the statement on Thursday, while sharing detailed information about the Haryana Enterprises and Employment Policy- 2020.He said that the new policy is important for regional development and generating maximum employment, and will also make Haryana the preferred investment destination in the country.Chautala said that the floor-area ratio (FAR) of Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) plots, with an area of more than 2,000 square metres for labour housing, has been increased by 250% and 5% of the area of industrial estates will be reserved for warehousing activities. He said that the HSIIDC will also formulate a policy to offer land leases to reduce the burden of upfront cost on investors.He further said that a scheme will be formulated by the HSIIDC to construct dormitories and industrial houses for workers in industrial estates.He said that the limit of the number of workers for exemption from coverage under the Factories Act, 1948, has been increased from 20 to 40 for energy-related industries. He said that the IT, ITES, electronics, auto and textile industries have been declared as public utilities under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, in the new policy.The FAR has been increased from the general level of 50% to 150%, i.e., up to 200% in case of general industries, whereas the FAR in case of warehousing has been increased from general level of 75% to 150%, he added.He said that an entrepreneurship development programme has also been prepared to equip the youth in various skills, under which financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh per year will be given to government universities, NITs, IITs and technical institutions. Three-month certificate courses will also be conducted from the next academic session in ITIs and colleges, he said. On increasing employment, he said that the industries will be given Rs 48,000 per employee every year by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/new-industrial-policy-focuses-on-employment/story-NM7jVnDtHU4248iiOVEisJ.html
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Driver sacked for post against Haryana Deputy chief minister, HC puts state on notice||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought a response from Haryana government on a plea challenging Hisar district administration’s decision of terminating services of a driver over a social media post allegedly against deputy chief minister Dushyant Singh Chautala. The high court bench of justice Lisa Gill, said the state should respond by the next date of hearing, otherwise, it would consider issue of some relief to the petitioner driver, on the adjourned date of December 29. The petition was taken up on December 23 and adjourned for December 24 on state counsel’s request to get instructions. However, on Thursday the state failed to respond. The petitioner, Panna Lal, who is a driver with sub-division officer (civil), Hansi in Hisar, was terminated from services on December 15 for posting against the deputy chief minister. As per the plea, his services were terminated after the SDO (civil) received a Whatsapp message about the alleged post made by him on December 11. Lal, a contractual employee, had told the court that he was terminated without being given an opportunity of personal hearing and without following the principles of natural justice. He was appointed a driver on contract basis under outsourcing policy of the government in 2018 and his services were extended from time to time. His services were appreciated by the officer and awarded appreciation certificate on January 26, the plea says. He had told court that the posts in question against the deputy chief minister were made by someone else and not by him and that too in 2018-2019, when he was not even a deputy chief minister. He had sought from court that the termination order be set aside and till the time the petition is pending, it be stayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/driver-sacked-for-post-against-haryana-deputy-chief-minister-hc-puts-state-on-notice/story-lM740AqZ8fFD5T3AfY4lfN.html
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana ‘Sushasan Divas’ venue shifted to Chandigarh||A day after announcing to celebrate “Sushasan Divas” (good governance day) on Friday at Kurukshetra as a state-level event, the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government on Thursday shifted the venue to Chandigarh. “The Haryana government has decided to organise a state-level programme at Chandigarh on December 25 on the occasion of Good Governance Day, being celebrated to mark the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee,” an official spokesperson said in a statement without citing the reason for sudden change in the venue. Apparently, the decision to shift the venue comes in the backdrop of agitating farmers blocking chief minister Khattar’s cavalcade in Ambala and later BKU (Charuni) activists threatening to show black flags to the CM during his Kurukshetra visit on December 25. The spokesperson said the state-level event at Chandigarh will be chaired by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and that the programmes will also be organised at the district level, in which cabinet ministers, Union ministers will participate in various districts. As per the new programme, minister of state for sports and youth affairs, Sandeep Singh will be the chief guest in Kurukshetra district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-sushasan-divas-venue-shifted-to-chandigarh/story-BaX0Ts3mwbMtYbuEz6gwzN.html
24-12-2020||City||Hooda campaigns for civic body polls in Sonepat||In the last phase of canvassing for the civic body polls, former chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday campaigned for party’s mayoral nominee Nikhil Madan and councillor nominees at Sonepat.Addressing a poll rally at Sonepat, Hooda said he is reading people’s face and they want a complete change in the civic polls. “The local body elections are an opportunity for the people of Sonepat to teach a lesson to the BJP as the government completely ignored the development aspirations of people over the last six years.During the Congress regime, basic facilities like water supply and sewerage system were expanded in Sonepat but only corruption happened during the six years of the BJP. Not only in Sonepat, big scams took place during the BJP government all across Haryana,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hooda-campaigns-for-civic-body-polls-in-sonepat/story-LZODEcs7hlKElE2HXc8doI.html
24-12-2020||City||Two cops booked for drug smuggling in Jind||Exposing links between two Jind Crime investigation agency (CIA)-1 personnel and drug peddlers, the Haryana State Narcotics Control Bureau (HSMCB) on Thursday booked two CIA assistant sub-inspectors Praveen Kumar and Jaibir and others posted at Jind CIA-1 for depositing less amount of ‘ Doda chura’ they seized from a drug peddler on December 18.Haryana State narcotics control Bureau DSP, Rajesh Kumar said they received a tip-off that a truck loaded with ‘Doda-chura’ was lying at Uchana police station, which was seized by the Jind CIA and Uchana police on December 18.“Then, we shared the information with deputy commissioner Aditya Dahiya, who deployed Uchana BDPO as a duty magistrate. In his presence, we recovered 20 bags of Doda chura weighing nearly 398.150 kg and a huge amount of onion on the other side of the truck. A joint team of CIA and police had recovered 414kg Doda chura from Jagroop, a resident of Jind’s Palwan and recovered the truck. The next day, police arrested his accomplice Rakesh Kumar of Karnal for the drug smuggling case,” the DSP added.The DSP said the cops had deposited only 414kg contraband in treasury amount and did not unload 398.150 kg contraband from the truck and not shown in the treasury.“This is a serious crime done by the cops and drug peddlers. We have booked both the assistant sub-inspectors posted at Jind CIA-1, both drug peddlers and few unknown policemen under section 15(3), section 25, 29, 59 of the NDPS Act. We have started an investigation into the matter to ascertain the role of other cops in the drug smuggling network. It is a matter of probe that the investigation officers did not deposit the entire contraband in the treasury and parked a truck with 398.150 kg Doda chura at Uchana police station. Prime facie it appears that the cops and drug peddlers were aiming to gain a huge amount from the remaining contraband,” the DSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-cops-booked-for-drug-smuggling-in-jind/story-XHI0rsOVi52mx9UH7dKpsJ.html
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||10% area of industrial estates to be reserved as residential area for labour housing: Haryana deputy CM||At least 10% area of industrial estates will be reserved as residential area for labour housing and to promote industrial activity in rural areas the panchayat land will be made available on lease with the consent of villagers, according to Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala. Unveiling “Haryana Enterprises and Employment Policy- 2020”, Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of industries and commerce department, said the target of this policy is to generate 5 lakh jobs and attract over ₹1 lakh crore investments in the next five years. “The new policy will encourage exports and we have set the target of exports of ₹2 lakh crore,” he said during a press conference. Describing the new policy as important for regional development and generating maximum employment, the deputy CM said this policy will make Haryana as the preferred investment destination in the country. Under this policy, he said, mega and ultra-mega projects will be exempted from the purview of all labour laws in Haryana, except the Minimum Wages Act, 1948, for a period of three years, subject to the fulfilment of certain conditions. He said where a project is in force and payment of arrears of HSIIDC has been paid, automatic provision for transfer of plots has been approved. To encourage micro and small scale industries, the FAR has been increased up to 250% of the plots. Stating that special provisions have been made for startups, he said the new policy provides for an 8% interest subsidy (up to a maximum of Rs 20 lakh) for starting a startup, besides 100% state GST refund for seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10-area-of-industrial-estates-to-be-reserved-as-residential-area-for-labour-housing-haryana-deputy-cm/story-n9pTQMoWHb1dScSp1zRlIO.html
24-12-2020||City||Dushyant Chautala cancels Jind event after farmers dug up helipad area||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala had to cancel a programme scheduled at Jind’s Karsindhu on Thursday after farmers vandalised the helipad area at Shivaniaa Public school in Uchana Kalan.The farmers dug up the helipad area and raised ‘Dushyant go back’ slogans while waving black flags. Another group of farmers shouted slogans against Chautala at Karsindhu village and dared him not to visit Bangar belt (consisting Jind, some part of Kaithal, Hisar and few parts of Bhiwani) of Haryana as he failed to stand with them against the Centre’s three farm laws.As per district officials, Chautala was expected to visit Karsindhu village to participate in an informal function.Azad Palwan, a farmer leader, said they vandalised the helipad area as Chautala failed to extend his support to the farmers protest. “We had announced a boycott of BJP-JJP leaders supporting the Haryana government in our villages and will show them black flags if they try to enter. We had elected him so that he could protect farmers’ rights but he failed to do so. He is sitting in the BJP’s lap for his personal interest and has no sympathy with agitating farmers,” he added.Another farmer leader, Krishan Kumar, said Chautala is the ‘biggest liar’ and he used farmers’ votes to gain political benefit. “His great grandfather Devi Lal, who was former deputy prime minister had chosen farmers over ‘kursi’ (chair) but Dushyant has preferred ‘kursi’ over farmers. We had never expected he would use our vote to gain personal benefits. We will allow Chautala’s entry in our villages after he will quit the government to support us,” he added.Farmers boycott Naina Chautala, Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) and various organisations have announced social boycott of Dushyant’s mother and Badhra MLA Naina Chautala and Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh in villages of Dadri district. Ranbir Fouji, a panchayat representative, said they held a panchayat of farmers at Dadri and decided to ban the entry of Naina Chautala and BJP MP Dharambir Singh in their villages. “We will gherao their residences too,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dushyant-chautala-cancels-jind-event-after-farmers-dug-up-helipad-area/story-DLRBDHtSepnPWXCSTgLMkJ.html
24-12-2020||City||Agitating farmers shut down reliance stores at Kurukshetra mall||Farmers, who have been protesting against the Centre’s three agriculture bills, shut down Reliance stores in Kurukshetra on Thursday. Carrying flags of farmer organisations, the peasants entered a shopping mall and asked owners to shut down their three outlets.The activists alleged that the three laws have been enacted to allow big corporates to purchase food grains from farmers and sell them at their own prices. “We will continue our protests at Reliance outlets, fuel stations and Jio mobile towers until the government accepts our demands,” a farmer said. Police officials reached the spot but failed to take any action. Officials at the outlets said they shut down their stores to avoid any violence and clash with the farmers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/agitating-farmers-shut-down-reliance-stores-at-kurukshetra-mall/story-P5TWS1qGm9P66snXe0NEfL.html
24-12-2020||City||Kurukshetra University postpones UG, PG exams till February end||The Kurukshetra University has decided to postpone graduation and post-graduation examinations till the last week of February due to the Covid-19 pandemic.As per the previous schedule, the examinations of the odd semesters of graduation and post-graduation courses were slated to be held in December. The decision is likely to affect about one lakh students studying in the campus and around 250 colleges of the state affiliated with the varsity.Brajesh Sawhney, director, public relations of Kurukshetra University, said due to the Covid-19 pandemic guidelines, the academic council of the university has decided to postpone the examinations till February end. He said the entire syllabus will be included for the examinations and colleges have been directed to complete it as per schedule. However, the exams of students in technical courses like B Tech, studying at the campus, are being conducted online.Colleges affiliated with the university are yet to receive any official communication in this regard. “We are not sure when the examinations will be conducted but online classes are being conducted to complete the syllabus,” said Hari Prakash Sharma, principal of the Indira Gandhi National College Ladwa.A BSc final year student of DAV Girls’ College Yamunanagar said,“As per the previous schedule, our fifth semester exams should have been completed in December and classes for the sixth and last semester should have started in January. But now, our exams have been delayed by three months and we will get a short window for the last semester, exams for which will be held in May.” “This will delay completion of graduation and we may face problems in getting admission in post graduation courses,” she added.The students say there is no clarity whether the examinations will be conducted online or offline. As per the university management, the state government has not issued any guidelines to resume physical classes yet and the decision to conduct the exams will be taken in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kurukshetra-university-postpones-ug-pg-exams-till-february-end/story-lmCp2YuD5VYgsbWlXwARgO.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||‘Will talk to airport authorities’: Delhi health minister on Covid-19 positive UK flyers slipping out||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government in the national capital will speak to airport authorities amid reports that two Covid-19-infected flyers from the United Kingdom had fled from the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport.The Delhi government had said on Tuesday that those arriving from the UK were being traced and tested and an institutional quarantine facility was being set up separately for the infected cases at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital. The facility is away from the main Covid-19 wards in the hospital.As per reports, the two passengers from the UK landed in Delhi on Tuesday and further travelled to Punjab and Andhra Pradesh despite testing positive for the coronavirus disease.One of the passengers, Mary Winfred Ann Parrie, is a private school teacher from Rajahmundry city in Andhra Pradesh. She tested positive at the Delhi airport health centre and was further handed over to the Safdarjung Hospital. However, Ann Parie fled from the hospital and reached Rajahmundry via train in the wee hours on Thursday, reports said.According to news agency PTI, the passengers have been traced and “brought back” to Delhi.On being asked about these two incidents at a press briefing, the Delhi health minister said, “Flight operations and security is under the airport authorities... but, a person who has tested positive, should not have moved out. ”Jain had said on Wednesday that those arriving in Delhi from the UK in the last few weeks, were being rigorously traced, and tested if anyone is showing slightest of coronavirus-like symptoms.“The Delhi government is on alert in the wake of a mutated coronavirus strain detected in the UK. The situation is being closely monitored, as this strain is more transmissible,” he said.The national capital logged 871 fresh coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours which pushed the overall tally to nearly 620,000. A total of 10,347 people have died and 601,268 have recovered. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that vaccine to combat the virus will be first administered to 5.1 million residents who fall under the Central government’s “priority category’ adding that each person will be given two doses of the vaccine.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/will-talk-to-airport-authorities-delhi-health-minister-on-covid-19-positive-uk-flyers-slipping-out/story-4oegfkRXArgVX3DHVJAOSP.html
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Private university in HP sold 45,000 fake degrees, reveals SIT probe||A special investigating team (SIT) comprising officials from the income tax department, enforcement directorate, Himachal Police and crime investigation department (CID) have unearthed evidence in an education scam of Solan- based private university, Manav Bharti (MBU), selling more than 45,000 fake degrees.“The number of fake degrees can vary. We presume it’s much higher. It’s a very well organised racket which was being run for the last one decade,” said additional director general (ADG) of police,” CID, N Venugopal, on Thursday.The probe revealed that each degree related to technical subjects was sold to students within and outside Himachal Pradesh (HP) for ₹1 lakh to ₹3 lakh, he added.The SIT team also rounded up a Jammu based agent of the university who struck deals locally for selling the fake degrees. The sleuths found that the manager of MBU sold degrees outside the state through ‘agents’ who in return got handsome commissions. In a majority of cases the buyers paid cash for degrees to these agents who provided details of the candidates to the university for making the fake degrees. SIT sent sleuths to seven different states, including Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, and Uttarakhand. Visits were also made to Jammu, Delhi, Chandigarh and Kashmir to trace the whereabouts of the agents.MBU, the probe found, enrolled more than 95,000 students in different courses. Arrests madeThe SIT in June arrested MBU chairman Raj Kumar Rana after the HP high court refused to grant him anticipatory bail. ​​Rana was arrested on the court premises as soon as his bail plea was rejected. ​He was taken to Solan for interrogation. Earlier in that week,SIT had arrested a former registrar of the university, KK Singh. Two university officials, registrar Anupama Thakur and assistant registrar Munish Goel, were arrested in March. ​The fake degree scam was unearthed in February this year after the University Grants Commission (UGC) received an anonymous complaint about the alleged sale of more than five lakh degrees by two private universities in HP, MBU in Solan and APG in Shimla. ​The UGC then apprised the state government of the matter and sought appropriate action against the institutes.A case under sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the university officials for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy on March 3. MBU was established in 2009 under the HP Private University (Establishment & Regulation) Act and is owned by the Manav Bharti Charitable Trust.​||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/private-university-in-hp-sold-45-000-fake-degrees-reveals-sit-probe/story-TxIjKVOAHfCnwz5BhqjmYP.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||‘Not afraid of such cowardly attacks’: Kejriwal lashes out at BJP over Delhi Jal Board incident||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has come out all guns blazing against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over an incident of vandalism at Delhi Jal Board (DJB) office. AAP leader and DJB vice chairman Raghav Chaddha blamed the BJP for the attack, saying it was carried out due to the party’s stand against the farm laws.AAP chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also joined in, calling the attack shameful. Kejriwal also said that he and his party are not afraid of such cowardly attacks.“The BJP should understand that the Aam Aadmi Party and my government are fully with the farmers till their last breath. We are not afraid of such cowardly attacks. I appeal to all the workers not to be provoked by such attacks of BJP, and show support to farmers,” the AAP chief tweeted in Hindi. ये बेहद शर्मनाक हैभाजपा समझ ले कि आम आदमी पार्टी और मेरी सरकार पूरी तरह से अंतिम साँस तक किसानों के साथ है।इस तरह के कायरना हमलों से हम नहीं डरते।मेरी सभी कार्यकर्ताओं से अपील है कि भाजपा के इस तरह के हमलों से उत्तेजित ना हों, संयम बरतें और पूरी तरह से किसानों का साथ दें https://t.co/4FvRWRwVt1Earlier, Chadha had tweeted a video clip purportedly showing broken doors, glass, pots, furniture and blood stains on the floor at the DJB’s headquarters at Jhandewalan in New Delhi.The DJB vice chairman also addressed a press briefing after the incident where he alleged that the attackers warned AAP to not speak in support of the farmers who were protesting against the central government’s farm reforms. Chadha reiterated that the party’s support against the removal of the three reforms would continue.On the other hand, the BJP has denied the charges with party spokesperson Virendra Babar pointing out that Kejriwal’s party had itself planned the attack and is now blaming the BJP. “The Delhi Police has detained party unit chief Adesh Gupta and many workers, but we are not afraid of these tactics,” Babar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/not-afraid-of-such-cowardly-attacks-kejriwal-lashes-out-at-bjp-over-delhi-jal-board-incident/story-SNglwYejyhX93jxiZ21WiI.html
24-12-2020||Bhopal||Ambedkar idol installed to save illegally-made house from demolition in MP village||A group of people renamed a residential house in Madhya Pradesh’s Morena district as Ambedkar Bhawan by installing a six feet idol of iconic Dalit leader, BR Ambedkar, overnight to allegedly save three illegally constructed houses from a demolition drive against encroachment on government land, district police said on Thursday. Heavy police force was deployed at Chaina village of Morena district as a large number of people sat on dharna in front of the Ambedkar’s idol against the drive of the district administration. Morena district collector Anurag Verma said, “The idol of Dr B R Ambedkar has been installed overnight in an illegally constructed house on Wednesday. We have asked the villagers to remove the idol respectfully. We have given an ultimatum of two days to them. Further action will be taken in the matter after two days.” Morena, superintendent of police, Anurag Sujaniya said, “ A joint team of police and district administration has been trying to demolish the houses constructed on government land in Chaina village for the past two days. On Tuesday, villagers attacked the team and injured two government employees.” “Police also registered a case against 10 people including Bhim Army district president Manoj Samil and an owner of the illegally constructed house, Jagdish Tagore, under section 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assaults or use of criminal force to stop a public servant) and 146 (rioting) of Indian Penal Code (IPC),” he added. Police arrested Manoj Samil and are trying to nab Tagore and eight others, the SP said. A villager Pran Singh, who is sitting on dharna, said, “The villagers spent all their money in constructing their houses and now the district administration wants to demolish it. The idol was installed to save the villagers from the injustice of the district administration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/ambedkar-idol-installed-to-save-illegally-made-house-from-demolition-in-mp-village/story-kxOXL8N8JT4qQ4o53oejgP.html
24-12-2020||Dehradun||Four-year-old tigress translocated from Corbett National Park to Rajaji||A four-year-old tigress was on Thursday translocated from Corbett National Park as part of a project to repopulate Rajaji Tiger Reserve’s western part. The reserve that is home to two tigresses, who have not bred for almost a decade, is located around 150 km from the park in Uttarakhand.The Centre approved the tiger translocation to the reserve in 2016. Five tigers, including three females, will be translocated there from Corbett Tiger Reserve.Uttarakhand’s chief wildlife warden JS Suhag said the four-year-old tigress was tranquillised and radio-collared at Corbett on Wednesday and translocated in an ambulance overnight. “It was released in a temporary enclosure in the Motichur Range of Rajaji Tiger Reserve in the early morning hours of Thursday.”Also Read: Third elephant radio-collared in Uttarakhand“This is the first tigress to be translocated in Uttarakhand and has been released in an enclosure. We are monitoring its health. It takes time for an animal to get accustomed to the new environment or else it could suffer trauma... The translocated tigress is completely healthy.”He said two veterinary officers monitored the health of the tigress during the transportation process. “There was also provision for oxygen supply,” said Suhag. He added two other forest staff members were also present in the ambulance used for translocation.DK Singh, director of Rajaji Tiger Reserve, said, “We will be monitoring the health status of the tigress for a few days in the temporary enclosure before releasing it in the wild.” He added after its release, the tigress’ movements will be monitored. Singh said another tiger will be translocated within a few weeks.A National Tiger Conservation Authority team in September 2019 visited Rajaji to conduct reconnaissance for the translocation exercise and suggested a soft release of a pair of tigers in the reserve’s western side. A soft release means that tigers are released in a large enclosed area where they are kept for a few days to monitor their health before they are released in the wild.Rajaji Tiger Reserve has around 37 tigers and only two tigresses in its western part spread over 570 sq km. The reserve has a capacity for 83 tigers. The reserve’s eastern and the western part are divided by a busy traffic corridor, making it difficult for the tigers to move between the two parts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/tigress-translocated-from-corbett-to-rajaji/story-28DLyP9KUK4rSC44849JvK.html
24-12-2020||Pune||Pune Police do not give permission for Elgar Parishad to be held||The Pune Police have denied the Elgar Parishad conclave permission to be held.The conclave was scheduled to take place at the Ganesh Kala Krida Manch on December 31 from 2 pm to 7 pm. The police have rejected permission on the grounds of Covid-19 restrictions. “We have denied permission to the organisers to hold such event in view of Covid situation and law and order,” said Pune Commissioner of Police Amitabh Gupta. The Akhil Bharitya Brahman Mahsangh had requested the city police to be “extremely restrained” while considering at request, moved by retired high court judge Justice B G Kolse Patil, seeking permission for the Elgar Parishad. Besides Patil, several activists had also applied for permission for the conference. When contacted, Patil’s number was answered by an attendant who said that he was addressing a gathering. The former judge had claimed that the venue fees of Rs 40,000 had already been paid. He had said that he had already booked the hall, paid the charges and sought permission from the police for holding the meet. “If the police don’t give us permission, then we will go to the high court to seek permission,” Kolse Patil had said. Retired Supreme Court judge PB Sawant and retired justice Kolse Patil were the conveners of the Elgar Parishad held on December 31, 2017. The next day, violence broke out in the village of Bhima Koregaon on the occasion of the bicentenary of the 1818 Battle of Koregaon Bhima. According to the chargesheet, Maoist forces were behind organising the conclave and funded the meet. As many as 14 academics and activists have been arrested across the country for suspected Maoist links in connection with the case, which has been taken over by the NIA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-police-do-not-give-permission-for-elgar-parishad-to-be-held/story-foTcko6zmYYB1B0GDsq0dL.html
24-12-2020||Pune||‘In 3-to-5 years, fringe areas can be developed; PMC can generate ₹10 cr in 10 years’||PUNE Kunal Kumar is joint secretary and mission director (Smart Cities Mission), Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Government of India, since May 2018. Earlier, he was municipal commissioner at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), for close to four years. What do you think of the 23 villages being merged into the PMC? I don’t think there is a need for inclusion of areas in PMC. I think, Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA), PMC and Pimpri-chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) should decide whether to merge areas or not. If they are in need of merger, they (three agencies) should have to do a revenue analysis. PMRDA, PMC and PCMC should combine to take view of development in these areas. In fact, PMRDA already exists and is doing development work. Why should merge 23 areas in PMC? There should be a governing council of PMRDA, PCMC, and PMC, Pune Smart City development Corporation (PCDCL) and Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal (PMPML) for the development of the entire Pune region. How can PMC generate revenue for the development of these 23 areas? There are multiple options to generate revenue. First, PMC should identify lands in the 23 areas which have good potential to generate revenue. There is a chance of generation of revenue by joint ventures with private players. Land monetisation will not be done by selling land, but creating infrastructure involving private parties, which can pay back the private parties as well as the corporation. PMC can develop infrastructure by utilising existing taxpayer contributions. As the corporation will get revenue after one or two years from the inclusive areas, it should have to formulate the right capital investment plan. Parking charges, allowing four Floor Space Index (FSI) in transit oriented development (ToD) around metro stations area, and generate money by implementing river-front development projects and monetising open areas on the river side. What do you think about municipal bonds to generate revenue for development? Yes, it is a feasible option to raise money through municipal bonds. But, there should be appropriate tax revenue analysis so that repayment can be done. How much revenue can be generated? Under the parking policy which I had introduced during my tenure, it generated Rs 200 to Rs 250 crore. After implementing riverfront development projects, corporations can monetise land along the riverside. It will give Rs 2,000 crore to PMC. People are living in fringe areas because they don’t get affordable housing. If the city uses 4 FSI in TOD development along the metro corridor, high-rises will come up where the corporation can allow flat sizes varying from 300, to 500, and 1,000 square feet. PMC will get revenue as people buy affordable houses. Metro project has the capacity to generate Rs 3,000 crore to Rs 4,000 crore in 10 years. Corporation has the capacity to generate around Rs 10,000 crore to Rs 12,000 crore in a span of 10 years. How many years to develop the 23 fringe areas? Development can be done in three to five years. But time will depend on the administrative capacity and political will power. I think corporations should set priorities. PMC should provide water and sanitation in the first phase. After that, PMC should provide public transport. The corporation should develop drainage and underground work then start a road network. It should charge for collection and disposal of garbage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/in-3-to-5-years-fringe-areas-can-be-developed-pmc-can-generate-10-cr-in-10-years/story-n6OcPuxNM9HRaeBrFMRQoK.html
24-12-2020||Pune||After PMC seals 207 properties, 81 defaulters pay dues||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) sealed 207 properties of defaulters in the last 45 days following which many paid their dues. This move by PMC to recover the property tax proved effective as 81 defaulters paid dues after which their properties were released, according to PMC officials. There are still 126 sealed properties with dues remaining to be settled. These sealed properties are from the various parts of the city. In order to recover the property tax from defaulters, the PMC had launched an amnesty scheme from October 2 this year. The scheme has been extended until January 26, 2020 as the civic body received a good response with many taking benefit and paying their dues. When the scheme was launched it offered an 80 per cent discount on the penalty amount if the dues were paid by November 30. Now, in the extended duration of the scheme period, citizens who pay their dues by December 31 will get a benefit of a 75 per cent rebate on the penalty amount. Citizens who pay the tax between January 1 and January 26 will get a 70 per cent rebate on the penalty amount. The tax collection officials are positive about getting a response in the extended duration. The amnesty scheme received a good response so far from citizens. A total of 1,23,000 defaulters availed the benefit of the amnesty scheme until now. The PMC recovered 401 crore from property tax defaulters. A total of 81 properties have been released after the settlement of the property tax dues. “The defaulters still have an opportunity to get their property released. They should pay the dues as soon as possible. If the dues are not paid soon we will proceed for auction,” a PMC official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/after-pmc-seals-207-properties-81-defaulters-pay-dues/story-4uP0nDxEmZnondCSWBpNHP.html
24-12-2020||City||Light snowfall likely on the higher reaches of Kashmir over the weekend||Snowfall is expected on the mountains in Kashmir over the weekend, the weather office said on Thursday.Srinagar-based director of the meteorological department Sonam Lotus has said that the weather will mostly remain dry till Friday.“There is a possibility of light snowfall on the higher reaches during December 26-27. There is no forecast of any major snowfall till December ends,” he said.The 40-day intense winter period “chillai kalan” started in Kashmir Valley on December 21 with sub-zero night temperatures across the region.Also Read: Top 10 coldest places in India right nowThis year, the winter has already started on a harsh note as the temperature dropped to a record minus 6.6 degree Celsius in summer capital Srinagar on December 19, the lowest temperature of the season and also the second-coldest December night in the past decade.“The snowfall will mostly be on the mountains in south Kashmir on December 26 and 27,” said an official of the MeT department.The mercury dipped to minus 3.8 degrees Celsius in Srinagar on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, around two notches below the normal, he said. The tourist resort of Gulmarg witnessed a temperature of minus 5.6 degrees Celsius. Gulmarg already had four spells of snow this winter and winter games have already begun on the icy slopes of the resort.The cold wave has been leaving water taps frozen every night across Kashmir.Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages, starting with the 40-day intense period from December 21(chillai kalan) followed by 20 more days that are less intense (chillai khurd) and lastly 10 days of mild cold (chillai bache).The night temperatures continued to go below zero in most places of Kashmir.In Jammu, the temperature was also cold at 6.6 degrees Celsius, 1.5 points below normal. Leh, in the Union Territory of Ladakh, recorded a low of minus 13.5 degrees Celsius, while Kargil recorded a low of minus 17.2 degrees Celsius and Drass, the second-coldest place in the world, recorded minus 23.1 degrees Celsius temperature.The night temperatures started dipping in Jammu and Kashmir from December 14 after snowfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-mountains-to-get-snow-over-the-weekend/story-QHU80enXAD9NWSaUhxNwLM.html
24-12-2020||Pune||Man befriends group, shares room and dupes of Rs 5 lakh||A man was remanded to the custody of Pune police until Thursday by a local court for duping three men by posing as one of their roommates by befriending them while playing cricket. The arrested man was identified as Hrushikesh Mohan Bombale (28), a resident of Khed area of Manchar, Pune. He has two previous cases registered against him in Chandan nagar and Chikhali - both similar in nature. “He had disappeared with the phone. So, we traced him using technical analysis. We froze his account and told the manager to alert us once he comes to regain access to his account. He came there and the manager told us but he was gone by the time we could reach from Sinhagad to Hadapsar. We followed him for the next four to five days and when he switched on the stolen mobile phone, we nabbed him,” said senior police inspector Devidas Gheware of Sinhagad road police station. He was arrested on Tuesday and remanded to police custody by a local court until Thursday. The police have recovered a Honda CB Unicorn motorbike worth Rs 50,000 and a phone worth Rs 4,000 from the man. The chain worth Rs 4,50,000 weighing 150gram in gold was used by the arrested man to secure a gold loan from a private gold finance company. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Akshay Dhavade (24), a resident of Dangatnagar in Shivane who runs a garage. Dhavade told the police that he and two of his friends - Dhanba Navade and Dinesh Shalivahna - met the accused while playing cricket. The complainant’s friends had given a place to live to the accused who claimed that he was running around looking for a job and needed a place to live in June 2020. In the last six months, Bambale allegedly made the complainant and his friends trust him and help him. While Navade gave him his bike to use, Shalivahna gave him a phone to use. On December 14, the men were having tea in Shivajinagar when Bamble told the complainant that he wanted to flaunt a gold chain to his girlfriend on a video call and took his gold chain while he was already in possession of Navade’s bike and Shalivahna’s phone. He then tricked them and fled the spot after which his phone was not reachable. A case in the matter was registered on December 16. A case under Section 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Sinhagad road police station against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-befriends-group-shares-room-and-dupes-of-rs-5-lakh/story-i3nnvWPVDyxg6Oidl3MAdK.html
24-12-2020||Pune||Car crashes into two-wheeler, one dead||A woman was booked for crashing her Tata Nano car into a two-wheeler in Sangvi phata area on Monday afternoon. The deceased was identified as Sunita Balkrushna Jadhav (45), a resident of Sai Chowk in Navi Sangvi area of Pimpri-Chinchwad. Jadhav was riding a Hero Pleasure two-wheeler while the woman was driving a white Tata Nano. The accused woman was identified as Hrutu Manish Gupta (42), a resident of Pimple Saudagar who was driving a Tata Nano car registered in Pune city. Both women are housewives. “Both the vehicles were heading in the same direction. Nano’s mirror touched the deceased woman’s vehicle and she fell and sustained a head injury which instantly caused her death. The Nano driver took her to the hospital,” said police sub-inspector Vinod Shendkar of Sangvi police station A complaint in the matter was lodged by Shivprasad Jadhav (28), son of the deceased woman. A case under Sections 304(a), 279, 338 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 184, 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Sangvi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/car-crashes-into-two-wheeler-one-dead/story-KbDb8kP7egoy4TJ3jIGVgM.html
24-12-2020||Kolkata||TMC leader questions PM’s ‘enthusiasm’ to link Tagore to Gujarat||Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Bratya Basu criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for linking Rabindranath Tagore to his home state Gujarat, saying “the great Bard” was a universal poet.“Rabindranath Tagore is a ‘viswakavi’ (universal poet). Then why is the Prime Minister so enthused on establishing his (Tagore’s) links with the state of Gujarat. It’s unfair to limit the great bard’s relevance to a particular region,” said Basu.His comments came hours after the Prime Minister addressed the centenary year celebration of Visva Bharati university in Shantiniketan, West Bengal. The university was founded by Tagore. The TMC leader also took a jibe at the Prime Minister when he said that despite talking of India’s acceptance, Modi could not practice the same, citing examples of cow vigilantism and asking if the PM could take responsibility for that.“PM claimed ‘visva’ means universal & is trying to apply that in context of acceptance in India. But can he practice this spirit of acceptance? What about cow vigilantees who beat people to death. Can he take responsibility for their actions as he preaches?” he said.Tensions between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the TMC are boiling over ahead of the crucial West Bengal assembly elections scheduled to be held during Apri-May next year. The BJP has been trying very hard to gain a strong foothold in the state’s politics. Many BJP leaders have claimed that the party will defeat TMC in next year’s Assembly election.The party won 19 out of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general elections and have even snatched one of TMC’s most prominent ex-leaders, Suvendu Adhikari. Union home minister and former BJP chief Amit Shah has scheduled several campaign rallies in the state in the months leading up to the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-leader-questions-pm-s-enthusiasm-to-link-tagore-to-gujarat/story-otluOrNSvQJHBP1Xw7b3LK.html
24-12-2020||Pune||Expanding Pune: Why merger of 23 villages pushes case for two civic corporations in Pune; cue PCMC||PUNE With the proposed merger of 23 areas – referred to as villages in the government records – into the Pune Municipal Corporation, the civic body is all set to become one of the largest municipal bodies in the state, in terms of area. According to a letter written to the urban development department by district collector Rajesh Deshmukh, the PMC area will now be responsible for 518.16 sqkm, once these 23 areas become part of Pune. With the city’s areas growing by around 187.16 sq.km from the existing 331 sq km and the addition of a population of five lakh, many believe the civic body will not be able to deal with the burden. Civic activists and senior government officials are in favour of formation of a new corporation to prevent the extra burden on the PMC. The existing Pune corporation came into being in 1950. Increasing urbanisation led to the formation of the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation 32 years after that, in 1982. Mahesh Zagade, former municipal commissioner and ex-CEO of the Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA), said, “A separate municipal corporation is the solution to cater to the development of the surrounding areas. There are four municipal corporations in Delhi. Here, we can also form another corporation like Pimpri-Chinchwad.” After 1982 when PCMC was formed, the city had seen rapid expansion in its population and area. From 145.92 sq km in 1985, the city’s limits grew to 243 sq km in 2001 and 331 sq km in 2017. Anita Gokhale Benninger, urban planner and executive director of the Centre for Development Studies and Activities, said there is a need for decentralisation.“Instead of a merger, the government should implement a decentralisation model for development,” Benninger said.She expressed a fear that merger may make the city like Mumbai – “haphazard”. There is an authority - PMRDA - to develop these areas. “PMRDA should carry out the development in these proposed 23 villages,” she said. With the extended area, PMC’s strength of corporators will also increase. AAs per the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act, a municipal corporation with a population of over 24 lakh in its area needs to have a minimum of 145 elected corporators.Pune currently has 165 and this can now go up to 175. Vijay Kumbhar, a civic activist, said, “There is a need to form a new corporation. At present, PMC is not able to manage the villages already merged. We cannot provide facilities instantly to 23 merged villages. Under the 74th amendment of the constitution, local self -government becomes planning authority. They have the power to develop their areas. Merge means encroachment on the sovereignty of 23 areas. Merger is the centralisation of all services. Merger will help the government to create a land bank. There should be a regional plan which can reserve rights of all agencies like PMC, PCMC, and fringe villages.” According to Vivek Velankar, another civic activist, there is no problem with a merger as long as PMC makes a plan to provide basic facilities. “Water is the main problem in the existing city. What will happen if 23 villages are included in the PMC limit? How will we get extra water and from where?,” he asked. Sarang Yadwadkar, civic activist and architect, said, “Is the corporation able to mange the existing city? We are not able to develop infrastructure within the city limits. A huge area under the control of one authority is a concentration of power. Corporation should divide now. One corporation cannot take the burden of extra area.” Ramchandra Gohad, former senior official of town planning department, said, “Merger will not solve the purpose of development of 23 villages. Corporation is already under stress as 11 fringe villages merged in 2017. Corporation has a lack of manpower and revenue to provide basic facilities to the upcoming 23 villages. New corporation will help to solve or handle problems of 23 villages.” POLITICS Considering that the 23 villages are under control of NCP and Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party is not very keen in their inclusion in PMC, especially when civic polls are lined up in early 2022. To prepare the party for the polls, city BJP chief Jagdish Mulik has started meeting residents from these areas. People in the know, on how and how not toThere is a need to form a new corporation. At present, PMC is not able to manage the villages already merged. We cannot provide facilities instantly to 23 merged villages. Under the 74th amendment of the constitution, local self -government becomes planning authority. There should be a plan.” Vijay Kumbhar , civic activist“There is no problem with a merger as long as PMC makes a plan to provide basic facilities. Water is the main problem in the existing city. What will happen if 23 villages are included in the PMC limit? How will we get extra water and from where?”Vivek Velankar , civic activist“Merger will not solve the purpose of development for the 23 villages. Corporation is already under stress as 11 fringe villages merged in 2017. Corporation has a lack of manpower and revenue to provide basic facilities to the upcoming 23 villages. ” Ramchandra Gohad, former senior official of town planning department“Is the corporation able to mange the existing city? We are not able to develop infrastructure within the city limits. A huge area under the control of one authority is a concentration of power. Corporation should divide now. ”Sarang Yadwadkar, civic activist and architect||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/why-merge-of-23-villages-pushes-case-for-two-civic-corporations-in-pune-cue-pcmc/story-ZbctjzKZGHHqKm9Tuc5WyH.html
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Forest official assault case: Ambala court points to police lapses, terms DFO’s arrest unjustified||An Ambala court has granted bail to Kurukshetra divisional forest officer (DFO) Virender Singh Gill, accused of manhandling chief conservator of forests (north circle) G Raman earlier this month, saying the reasons cited for his arrest are not sustainable and unjustified. Gill, accused by his senior Raman of attacking him at his office in Ambala City’s Company Bagh for refusing to sign tenders, was granted bail by the court of judicial magistrate first class Anita Rani on December 17. The order was made available on December 22. The court said that in such cases, the police have to be further satisfied that the arrest is necessary to prevent such a person from committing any further offence or tampering with evidence. The prosecution had asked for a judicial remand of the accused. “This court is of the view that reasons mentioned for the arrest of the accused are not tenable. Reasons and material have not been mentioned by the investigation officer on the basis of which the police officer reached the conclusion mentioned by him. The alleged occurrence is of December 7; medical examination was conducted on December 8, while the FIR was registered on December 9 and the accused has been produced today (December 17). After a lapse of six days, the accused, who is a public servant, was arrested. Documents produced on file reveal no efforts were made by the investigating officer to ensure the accused joined investigation by issuing him a notice,” the order read. The court also referred to the case of Arnesh Kumar Vs State of Bihar in the Supreme Court and said, “The guidelines prescribed in the case and provisions of Section 41 of the CrPC have also not been followed. Thus, the arrest made by the investigating officer is not justified.” On December 18, Hindustan Times reported how Ramit Khattar, a nephew of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, and a local BJP worker, Rajat Malik, were eyewitnesses and were present at Raman’s office when the alleged manhandling took place. Both admitted they were at his office on December 7 for the redressal of Malik’s complaint when the incident occurred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/forest-official-assault-case-ambala-court-points-to-police-lapses-terms-dfo-s-arrest-unjustified/story-3xf7oABGErepkaedRQ3vWN.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||Raghav Chadha talks about ‘motive’ behind attack on office, says will keep supporting farmers||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha said that the attack carried out by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers at Delhi Jal Board (DJB) office was meant to threaten the party and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Chadha, the vice chairman of the DJB, also claimed that the attackers wanted AAP to not speak in favour of farmers protesting against Centre’s laws.“The attackers from the BJP created mayhem at my office and threatened the staff. They openly threatened chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and asked him to stop speaking in favour of the farmers,” Chadha said while addressing a press conference after the incident.ALSO WATCH | Raghav Chadha alleges BJP workers vandalised his office; tweets videosThe attackers also said that such deadly attacks will be carried out against all AAP leaders if you don’t stop opposing Centre’s laws, Chadha further said.“The motive behind this attack was to silence us, but our party chief Kejriwal has told us not to stop supporting farmers. So, no matter what these BJP workers say, our support to farmers against the three black laws will continue,” said Chadha.Soon after Chadha’s comments, Kejriwal said on Twitter that this is a shameful incident. Kejriwal further said that he and his party will stand with the farmers “till our last breath”.Chadha had earlier tweeted a video clip purportedly showing broken doors, glass, pots, furniture and blood stains on the floor at the DJB’s headquarters at Jhandewalan in New Delhi.However, the BJP denied the allegations saying the attack was orchestrated by AAP. Delhi BJP spokesperson Virendra Babar alleged that the AAP had itself orchestrated the attack and was now blaming the saffron party.The police, meanwhile, said there was a protest call by the BJP where scuffle and manhandling were reported. Thirty protesters were also detained, the police said, adding that there are no reports of AAP members or other people getting injured.Delhi BJP media head Naveen Kumar said that the party workers had staged a “peaceful protest” against problems concerning water tanker and those who vandalised the office were not the supporters of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/office-attacked-by-bjp-workers-over-aap-s-stand-against-farm-laws-raghav-chadha/story-KhMRg1stnPmnZTGFfgEtbL.html
24-12-2020||Dehradun||Rape accused Uttarakhand BJP MLA fails to appear for DNA test sampling||Uttarakhand BJP MLA from Dwarahat constituency, Mahesh Singh Negi, failed to appear before the Dehradun district and sessions court for DNA test sampling on Thursday, citing ill health. Negi had been ordered by the court on Wednesday to appear before it at 11am on Thursday to provide his sample for a DNA test to establish paternity.The court had also ordered the complainant woman, who has accused Negi of raping her repeatedly and fathering a child, to be present along with her daughter, whose samples had to be taken too, for DNA testing.Negi, while speaking over the phone on his inability to appear before the court, said, “I respect the court’s order but I am not well to appear before it. As soon as I recover, I will present myself before the court.” The court was informed of his absence by his counsel. The counsel of the complainant woman, SP Singh, said he had the information that Negi won’t appear before the court. “We had come to know that his counsel is going to move an application on it, hence the complainant didn’t appear before the court with her daughter. First Negi would give his samples then the medical staff would take the woman’s daughter’s samples,” said Singh. Also Read: Rare snow leopard, Himalayan brown bear, Tahr sighted in Gangotri National ParkHe said the court has set January 11 as the next date for DNA test sampling.Earlier in November, then inspector general of Garhwal range, Abhinav Kumar, had transferred the case from Dehradun police to the woman police station in Pauri Garhwal district to avoid allegations of a biased and unfair probe. Earlier, the Dehradun police had submitted a charge sheet against the 30-year-old woman in a case of extortion and blackmailing, filed by Negi’s wife, who had accused the woman of blackmailing and an attempt to extort ₹5cr from Negi, by threatening to frame him in a rape case.After she was accused of blackmailing and extortion, the woman filed a case, accusing Negi of raping her for several years and fathering her daughter, following which, Negi and his wife were booked for rape and criminal intimidation. The woman also demanded a DNA test of her child and Negi to prove her claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/rape-accused-uttarakhand-bjp-mla-fails-to-appear-for-dna-test-sampling/story-6oYfwpdLsrFGqDhXwDc2hN.html
24-12-2020||Pune||Taste of life: Why a city’s foodscape defines its very soul||31 May, 1881. A small advertisement appeared on the last page of ‘Kesari’, one of the most prominent newspapers of the time. It announced the opening of the first ‘Bhojangruha’, or eating house, in Pune. The Bhojangruha would cater to Brahmin students and travelers, and the rates would not be exorbitant, it added. The proprietor of this venture was one Mr. Narayan Ramchandra. The opening of ‘Pune Bhojangruha’ was part of a larger set of events which led to a renaissance in the city. Pune had been in a state of decline after Bajirao II left for Bithur. The British then ruled the city. The British then ruled the city. The moneylenders, admirals, soldiers and clerks had been left moneyless and jobless. There were ruins of old mansions and houses, and the inhabitants left the city to earn a living. The population of Pune in 1818 was 0.15 million. It was reduced to 70,000 in 1841, and in 1851 it was a mere 40,000. Amidst this huzun, a ray of hope was the inauguration of the railway line between Bombay and Pune. The British had started a couple of schools a few years earlier. The municipality had started functioning in 1858. With the collective effort of some brilliant and selfless social and political leaders like Lokhitawadi Gopal Hari Deshmukh, Mahatma Jyotiba Phule, Savitribai Phule, Vishnushastri Chiplunkar, Mahadeo Govind Ranade, Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Gopal Ganesh Agarkar, Gopal Krishna Gokhale, and Mahadeo Ballal Namjoshi, Pune soon changed its fortune. Students from all over Maharashtra started coming to the city to study and later, earn their living. It quickly became the epicenter of the nationalist movement in Maharashtra, and perhaps, India. The leaders, apart from establishing educational and academic institutions, newspapers, libraries, were also debating and discussing issues like caste, widow remarriage, women’s education and of course, independence with heated passion. But this was also accompanied by events which resulted in ostracisation of many. A teacher was made to apologise because he ate a candy offered by a British officer. A tea party held in a church in Guruwar Peth created a storm which refused to die down for a decade at least. Visiting a restaurant was frowned upon and considered a taboo, akin to visiting a brothel. Caste and religion played a dominant role in deciding who would eat with whom. The renaissance changed the fortune of the city, but also brought to the forefront several issues which made one see how deeply interconnected food, religion, caste, gender and history were. Food sheds light on people’s way of life, their cultural values and their perspectives on life. While food is one way to get to know a place, it also brings to the fore many lesser-known stories. We always tend to associate history with monuments and buildings. But, food also plays a dominant role in helping one understand the past. Food is a magical lens that allows you to see the landscape and certain events in a different way. One can take cities as palimpsests where environmental, economic and social contexts combine into buildings, streets, public spaces. There is, however, another shaping force: food. Despite being absent from today’s urban planning, historically food systems played a crucial role in shaping pre-industrial cities like Pune, defining foodscapes. Food has also played a major role in defining and directing socio-political events in almost every city and country in the world. Pune is no exception. Eating habits are considered a cultural element; therefore, they differ according to the culture of a society. Cultures are in constant interaction with each other. Although a country’s or a city’s food culture is a result of accumulation of years of knowledge transferred from generation to generation, some old habits, in complete or partial, have been exterminated through the recent years’ advances in technology. It is important to know what we have lost or forgotten to make sense of the present and the future. In the next few weeks, let us try and take a look at the foodscapes of Pune in the past and the present. Let us revive the memories of eateries and restaurants, of recipes, people, events, traditions, kitchens that made us what we are today. After all, we are what we eat – and so is a city. Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food historian. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted on chinmay.damle@gmail.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/taste-of-life-why-a-city-s-foodscape-defines-its-very-soul/story-PgjOlyE1xUWVls5rm6ccLO.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||Mob vandalises Delhi Jal Board office; 30 detained||Around 30 people have been detained after a mob allegedly vandalised the office of Delhi Jal Board (DJB) on Thursday afternoon. An FIR in connection with the incident is yet to be registered, the police said.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said that the accused were supporters of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The BJP has denied the allegation.“After this they entered the complex and broke into my office, they vandalised the entire office, broke furniture, glass, doors , windows, office machinery and injured people. They also threatened staff workers,” said Raghav Chadha, AAP spokesperson and vice chairman of Delhi Jal Board.BJP's violent attack on my office today. Entire office vandalized, staff threatened and injured. pic.twitter.com/GHNGq6410BChadha also shared photos and videos in his social media handles.ALSO WATCH | Raghav Chadha alleges BJP workers vandalised his office; tweets videos Delhi BJP media head Naveen Kumar said that the party workers had staged a “peaceful protest” against problems concerning water tanker and those who vandalised the office were not BJP supporters. “It was a call for protest by the BJP. There was some scuffle, manhandling and vandalism. Some police personnel have been injured and we are getting them medically examined. So far we have no reports of AAP members or other public persons getting injured. We have detained about 30 of these protesters. We are registering an FIR at DBG Road police station,” said a senior police officer who didn’t want to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mob-vandalises-delhi-jal-board-office-30-detained/story-KqJV0sQdPjC7wVhwscUHnK.html
24-12-2020||Lucknow||UP health officials trying to trace UK returnees face switched-off phone hurdle||The Uttar Pradesh Health Department is facing an uphill task of connecting to those who have recently returned from the UK, where a new variant of the coronavirus has been detected, as many of them have switched off their mobile phones.Passenger flights between India and the United Kingdom have been suspended from Wednesday till December 31 or till further orders in the wake of the emergence of the mutated strain of the virus.Also, the Centre has advised states to ensure that passengers from the UK should undergo RT-PCR test and be isolated in a separate unit of an institutional facility if found positive.Chief Medical Officer (CMO) of Lucknow Sanjay Bhatnagar on Thursday said, “The central government has provided a list of those returning from the UK to Uttar Pradesh, including those coming to the state capital. But it only mentions their phone numbers. Efforts are on to contact them but most of them have switched off their phones.” Many have been traced and efforts are on to connect with others them, the CMO said.A senior official of the Health department said an alert has been sounded in all the states.“The list received by Uttar Pradesh from the Centre mentions phone number of about four dozen passengers who arrived here from the United Kingdom since Novmeber 24. But it does not have their addresses. Phone calls to most of the mobile numbers are either not being received or are switched off,” the official said.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said that those who came to the state from abroad between November 25 and December 8 should undergo tests for detection of Covid-19.He also directed compulsory RT PCR tests of all those who came to the state after December 9.“We have to remain alert keeping in mind new strain of coronavirus. All those who came to the state from abroad between November 25 and December 8 should be tested and compulsory RT-PCR test should be done for those coming after December 9,” the chief minister was quoted as saying in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-health-officials-trying-to-trace-uk-returnees-face-switched-off-phone-hurdle/story-cSu4iqXffWg8hYMPpneA3H.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||AAP leader Raghav Chadha alleges Delhi Jal Board office vandalised by BJP workers||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha on Thursday claimed that the office of Delhi Jal Board (DJB) was vandalised by workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Chadha is the Vice Chairman of DJB.The AAP leader also said that he will address a press conference at 4 pm about the incident.“BJP goons have attacked the @DelhiJalBoard headquarters. My entire office has been vandalized. Staff has been threatened,” Chadha tweeted.“I will address an Important Press Conference at 4pm at @AamAadmiParty Headquarters on this violent attack by BJP and the real reason behind it,” he further said in another related tweet. BJP goons have attacked the @DelhiJalBoard headquarters. My entire office has been vandalized. Staff has been threatened. pic.twitter.com/iEwhaGBYRBA number of AAP leaders criticised the incident and found a chance to attack the BJP.What kind of goondaism is this int he national capital? First they house arrested CM @ArvindKejriwal. Then they attacked Dy CM @msisodia’s family. And now this deadly attack on the office of @raghav_chadha. @AmitShah is not able to forget the defeat in the election and is resorting to all this,” said AAP leader Sanjay Singh.ALSO WATCH | Raghav Chadha alleges BJP workers vandalised his office; tweets videos The AAP meanwhile accused Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta of orchestrating the attack.“AAP MLA and @DelhiJalBoard Vice Chairman @raghav_chadha’s office vandalized by BJP workers. The mob was led by Delhi BJP Chief @adeshguptabjp,” the party tweeted.Meanwhile, a senior police officer who did not wish to be identified said, “It was a call for protest by the BJP. There was some scuffle, manhandling and vandalism. Some police personnel have been injured and we are getting them medically examined.”The officer also said that there were no reports of any AAP members or public getting injured and 30 of these protesters have been detained. An FIR is being registered at the DBG Road police station, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-leader-raghav-chadha-alleges-delhi-jal-board-office-vandalised-by-bjp-workers/story-SHPW0scn2WVX7NZtTPMBZN.html
24-12-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal Assembly Election 2021: Congress to ally with Left parties||The Congress on Thursday formally announced its tie-up with the Left parties for the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal. West Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury tweeted the announcement. “Today the Congress high command has formally approved the electoral alliance with the Left parties in the impending election of West Bengal,” he tweeted. Today the Congress High command has formally approved the electoral alliance with the #Left parties in the impending election of West Bengal.@INCIndia@INCWestBengalWest Bengal, along with Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry, will go to polls in March-April next year. The central committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) had in October approved the West Bengal unit’s decision to have an electoral understanding with all secular parties, including the Congress, in the upcoming assembly elections. The CPI(M) polit bureau had given its go-ahead to the move but had left the final decision to the central committee. In the 2016 elections, the central committee of the CPI(M) had rejected the West Bengal unit’s decision to have a tactical seat-sharing understanding with the Congress. In the subsequent elections, the Congress won 44 seats and the Left Front ended up with just 32.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-assembly-election-2021-congress-to-ally-with-left-parties/story-8PBKecg8nwHwaNGiGcciKN.html
24-12-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government clamps night curfew on New Year eve, bans parties||Rajasthan government has imposed night curfew on the New Year eve in all cities in the State with a population of over one lakh. The curfew will be imposed from 8 pm on December 31 to 6 am on January 1, with the aim to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state. The order issued by the State home department also says that markets in the state will be closed at 7 pm on New Year’s eve. The order will be applicable in all municipal councils. No New Year party will be organised on the occasion and bursting of firecrackers has also been banned in the state. The orders have been issued following the decision to impose Diwali like restriction on New Year. A senior official of the department said the night curfew has been imposed amid fear of the new more contagious Covid strain found in the United Kingdom. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has appealed to people to celebrate the New Year at home and avoid bursting firecrackers or outdoor gatherings. “Keeping the public health paramount, the state government had taken a strict measure during the Diwali festival and now a similar decision has been taken for the New Year,” he had tweeted. Also Read: Ensure strict compliance of firecracker ban on Christmas, New Year: CPCB Meanwhile, Rajasthan has crossed the three lakh mark for total number of coronavirus patients registered in the state. However, on the positive side, the number of active Covid cases, recorded per day, has gone below 1,000 in the state. The recovery rate stands at 95%. On Wednesday, 992 active cases were recorded across the state, apart from eight deaths, taking the casualty toll to 2,642. Half-a-dozen districts have recorded less than 100 Covid cases, the minimum number—32-- recorded in Jhunjhunu followed by Karauli-57, Pratapgarh-78, Bikaner-91, Hanumangarh-92 and Dholpur -96.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-government-clamps-night-curfew-on-new-year-eve-bans-parties/story-qIkZnbyhsEYi5yeM4xVHfJ.html
24-12-2020||City||Parties woo Independents as they emerge key players for at least four J&K DDCs||Political parties in Jammu & Kashmir have begun seeking the support of Independent candidates, who have become crucial to the control of at least four out of 20 District Development Councils (DDC) including that of Srinagar for which election results were declared on Tuesday. Independents account for 18% of the total of 278 elected DDC members. Out of 14 DDC seats in Srinagar, independents have won seven. The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), the six-member grouping formed in October to fight for the restoration of the region’s special status, and Apni Party have bagged three seats each. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) won the remaining seat.Former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti, whose National Conference (NC) and People’s Democratic Party are part of the PAGD that swept the polls in Kashmir Valley, have alleged that some Independents have been “abducted” and forced to support the BJP.Also Read: J&K Congress has a plan to checkmate BJP, deny it power in 15 district councils“The administration has now taken on the responsibility of trying to collect independent candidates for the BJP & it’s recently formed subsidiary. It seems the government doesn’t have enough to do & has branched out in to this line of work as well,” he tweeted. “An ex-MLC [member of legislative council] of @JKNC_ [NC] from South Kashmir has been taken away by the police to stop him contacting the independent DDC members elected in his district. At the same time the authorities are taking the trouble to transport some of these independents to Srinagar for ‘discussions’.”Mufti also blamed the BJP and “its proxies” for abducting independent candidates. “BJP & its proxies are sore losers & have resorted to abducting independents who won DDC elections. They are shamelessly using all means to increase their tally. This isn’t dance but death of democracy in J&K,” Mufti tweeted.PAGD leaders said they were in touch with Independent candidates and aim to control all the 10 district councils in the Kashmir Valley. “...some independents have joined us and more will join us in the coming days. We are in touch with many candidates who have a clean image,” said a PAGD leader on condition of anonymity.Apni Party President Syed Altaf Bukhari said he too has the support of some independents. “People across Jammu & Kashmir, especially in district Srinagar, deserve accolades for coming out in support of Apni Party and ensuring the win of its candidates...”BJP spokesman Altaf Thakur denied allegations that the Independents were being forced to join his party. “...every party is trying to seek the support of Independent candidates. So far, in Kashmir, nobody has joined us.”The eight-phase DDC elections were the first such exercise in Jammu & Kashmir since Constitution’s Article 370, which gave the region special status, was scrapped in August 2019.The PAGD won 110 seats of the total 280 across 20 districts. The BJP grabbed 75 seats and emerged as the single-largest party. It won 72 out of 140 seats in the Hindu-dominated Jammu region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parties-woo-independents-as-they-emerge-key-players-for-at-least-four-j-k-ddcs/story-k5affFjVWPq4qlvv8DtstJ.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt informs HC: Reservation of Covid beds being reduced to 60% from 80% in 33 pvt hospitals||The Delhi government has informed the Delhi high court on Thursday that it has decided to reduce the reservation of ICU beds in 33 private hospitals of Covid-19 patients from 80% to 60%, thereby increasing the number of ICU beds for non-Covid-19 patients. However, the number of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients in Delhi government hospitals will continue to remain the same.The information was given to the court as part of a plea by the Association of Healthcare Providers challenging the September 12 order of the Delhi government to reserve 80% ICU beds in 33 private hospitals for Covid-19 patients.In a meeting conducted on December 23 for the formulation of recommendations regarding the de-escalation of Covid-19 dedicated beds, it was found that there was a significant decline in the number of Covid-19 cases admitted in the hospital from 6,023 on December 7 to 2,866 on December 23, registering a fall of 52.4%.The minutes of the meeting stated that the Covid-19 bed occupancy on December 23 is 2,866 (total Covid-19 beds are 18,779), and Covid-19 ICU bed occupancy is 1,319 (total Covid-19 ICU beds are 5,100).“So it was decided that a de-escalation plan may be executed for ensuring the adequate provision of non-Covid-19 medical and tertiary care services in larger public interest as advised by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, (MoHFW), government of India,” the minutes stated.The expert committee of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) unanimously agreed that in the backdrop of the current declining trend of occupancy among all categories of beds (Oxygenated, ICU, Ventilator Covid-19 beds), the de-escalation may be carried out in a graded manner, both in Delhi government hospitals and private sector hospitals.The committee decided not to recommend any change in the status of the number of Covid-19 beds for the central government hospitals.It also said that since Lok Nayak Hospital and Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital are the prominent hospitals in government sector catering to the medical need of a major portion of the population, including children from all parts of Delhi, in terms of emergency medical/other medical/tertiary care, it was agreed that the number of Covid-19 beds shall be de-escalated to 1,000 from the existing 2,010 in Lok Nayak Hospital.Similarly, in the GTB Hospital, the number was reduced to 500 from the existing 1,500.The committee also recommended that since private sector hospitals are important stakeholders for the provision of medical and tertiary care services, the reservation of Covid-19 beds in private hospitals should be de-escalated to 45%.“This will result in making 55% beds in private sector hospitals available for NON Covid-19 patients. It will increase the NON Covid-19 beds in private sector from existing 6760 to 8696(approx), an increase of more than 1930 beds. Covid-19 beds in private sector shall decrease from existing 9051 to 7115 (approx),” the minutes said.“….the committee was cognizant of the fact that the critical care for non-Covid-19 patient is also very important specially in the upcoming winter season. At present the occupancy of Covid-19 ICU beds is 1,319 out of total Covid-19 5,100 beds (approx 26%). Also the committee was aware of the evolving situation of the new strain of Covid-19 virus found in UK and need of critical care in Covid-19 pandemic,” it added.Taking into account the current Covid-19 scenario, committee members categorically decided that the de-escalation plan shall be reversible and the non-Covid-19 beds thus provisioned via this arrangement shall be converted to Covid-19 beds in case of any such need across the state.“The committee will re-visit the recommendations after 10 days to assess the impact/outcome and will strategise accordingly for on Covid-19 & non-Covid-19 medical services new recommendations, if required in light of the emerging situation,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/80-reservation-of-covid-19-icu-beds-to-reduce-to-60-delhi-govt-to-hc/story-GUZEt0yG6gVpSZpA9SnoyI.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 vaccine to be given to 51 lakh people in first phase in Delhi: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said it has identified 51 lakh people who will be the first ones to get Covid-19 vaccination in the city under the Central government’s “priority category”.Addressing a digital press conference, the chief minister said currently Delhi has built and arranged storage capacity for 74 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. He said the storage capacity in the city will be increased further to 1.15 crore doses in a week’s time. Kejriwal further said that each of the 51 lakh identified persons is being registered and an SMS will be sent to the person’s mobile number notifying him/her about the date, time and place of vaccination.“The corona situation in Delhi has improved over the past few days. The positivity rate has come down below 1% now. But, everyone is waiting for the vaccine now. The Delhi government has made all arrangements and is ready to receive the vaccine doses form the Central government, to store it and to administer it to the identified people,” he said.Also Read: Sinovac Covid-19 shot more than 50% effective, but data withheldKejriwal addressed the media after he held a high-level meeting with health officials and other stakeholders on Delhi’s vaccination strategy.He said the Central government’s “priority category” has been broken down to three parts: healthcare workers, frontline workers, and the elderly and those with comorbidities. “Our healthcare workers such as doctors, nurses, paramedic staff and so on will be the first ones to get the vaccine does in Delhi. We have identified 3 lakh healthcare workers who will be vaccinated. Next, will be the frontline workers which include police, civil defence volunteers and municipal workers. There are 6 lakh such persons. Third category is of those who are 50 years of age or ilder and those below 50 years who have co-morbid conditions.There are 42 lakh persons under the third category,” said Kejriwal. He said each person will be given two doses of the vaccine and the total estimated requirement of doses in Delhi as of now is 1.02 crore. The chief minister said sufficient centres or camps will be set up fro administering the vaccine doses. “In case anyone develops side-effects, we also have teams of specialists ready to treat such people,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/51-lakh-people-to-get-covid-19-vaccination-on-priority-delhi-cm-kejriwal/story-Ur1wkXRxUQvEkdCT4JqYDJ.html
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Bar Council of India’s 3-year moratorium on opening new colleges set aside||The Punjab and Haryana high court has quashed Bar Council of India’s (BCI) decision of not allowing the opening of new law colleges for three years.The high court bench of justice Rekha Mittal said the decision violated the fundamental right of a citizen to practice any profession, or to carry out any occupation, trade or business, under Article 19(1) (g) of the Constitution.The BCI, a statutory body that regulates legal practice in the country and grants approval for opening law colleges, had taken the decision in August 2019, citing non-adherence of guidelines/circulars by institutions imparting legal education by already approved institutes.The decision was challenged by the Chandigarh Educational Society, which wanted to open a law college at Jhanjheri in Mohali and had in December 2019 applied for permission for the academic session 2021-22. In May, it moved the high court claiming that all procedural requirements were fulfilled but the BCI was sitting over its application. It was also argued that under the Advocates Act, 1961, the BCI had no power to ban the establishment of new institutes for imparting legal education.The court found that the BCI had failed to point out any provision in favour of its decision. It also failed to point out how many institutes have been shut down till date for non-adherence to the prescribed standard of legal education or circulars issued by the council.“The BCI cannot justify its failure to ensure maintenance of standards of legal education by imposing a complete ban on setting up new law colleges,” the court said, adding the BCI can issue guidelines and circulars and press for their compliance either at the stage of grant of approval to a new college or for adherence to existing ones.The council was directed to process the Chandigarh Educational Society’s application within three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bar-council-of-india-s-3-year-moratorium-on-opening-new-colleges-set-aside/story-1ghgizlioOeOCzVPbWnoAI.html
24-12-2020||Patna||Bihar’s Srijan scam gets even bigger, another FIR lodged for missing Rs 100 crore||Yet another FIR has been lodged in Bhagalpur in connection with the illegal transfer of Bihar government funds to the account of Srijan, an NGO for women’s development, which has emerged as the epicentre of a massive scam whose magnitude keeps growing every year. The latest police complaint, lodged on Wednesday night by Bhagalpur welfare officer (DWO) Shyam Prasad Yadav, has accused the NGO, the then branch managers of Bank of Baroda, Bank of India, Indian Bank and others of illegally withdrawing Rs 99.88 crore from the accounts of the district administration concerned. Police said that after the detection of alleged embezzlement of over Rs 100 crore, belonging to the SC/ST welfare department, from the bank accounts, the DWO has submitted an application with the Kotwali police station to lodge an FIR against Srijan Mahila Vikas Sahyog Samiti (SMVSS). The DWO has named the SMVSS managing committee members, former and present officials of a nationalized bank and others for committing financial irregularities that started way back in 2007. With this, the total number of FIRs lodged in the infamous Srijan scam has reached 25. The fresh siphoning off government money came to light after an accountant general conducted a special audit of the welfare department, Bhagalpur and found fraudulent transfers of Rs 99.88 crore between 2007 and 2017. The joint secretary of the welfare department, ordered Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar to lodge an FIR in this regard. Meanwhile, the latest FIR in connection with the Srijan scam is likely to be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Patna soon.Sources in the Bhagalpur administration informed that earlier two separate FIRs were lodged with the Kotwali police in connection with the scam of Rs 221.60 crore, related to the welfare department. The then DWOs, Ramiswar Sharma, Ramlala Singh, Lalan Kumar and Arun Kumar (currently in jail) and others were involved in the scam. Also Read: ED attaches over Rs 14 cr assets in Bihar’s Srijan scam caseThe Srijan scandal broke out when a few cheques issued by the Bhagalpur district administration were dishonoured citing ‘lack of funds’ in the government account. The Bhagalpur police lodged the first FIR in the Srijan fund transfer scam on August 7, 2017, after a cheque of Rs 17.70 crore of the urban development department bounced due to lack of funds in the account. The following day, two more cases involving over Rs 350 crore surfaced. It is estimated that more than Rs 2,400 crore was fraudulently transferred from district project accounts to the Srijan bank accounts with the help of bureaucrats, politicians, staff of the commissionerate, bankers, and Srijan staff led by its late founder Manorama Devi. Till date, Bihar police has lodged 25 FIRs at Bhagalpur, Saharsa and Banka districts, in which CBI took up 22 FIRs for investigation and filed 14 separate charge sheets against two former district magistrates of Bhagalpur—KP Ramaiah and Birendra Kumar Yadav-- former ADMs Jaishree Thakur and Rajiv Ranjan Singh besides officials of Bank of Baroda, Bank of India and the Indian Bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-s-srijan-scam-gets-even-bigger-another-fir-lodged-for-missing-rs-100-crore/story-iWbWIMZJ3gaIbjxzynSEOP.html
24-12-2020||Kolkata||‘Tagore’s vision for Visva-Bharati University essence of self-reliant India’: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that Rabindranath Tagore’s vision for the Visva-Bharati University is the basis for the call for a self reliant India, adding that the call was made for the world’s benefit too.“Rabindranath Tagore called for a ‘swadeshi samaj’. He wanted to see self-reliance in agriculture, commerce and business, art, literature etc. Tagore wanted the entire humanity to benefit from India’s spiritual awakening. The vision for a self-reliant India is also a derivative of this sentiment. The call for a self reliant India is for the world’s benefit too,” he said.Also Read: PM Modi on Tagore’s Gujarat link, Srimati Hutteesingh and Jnanadanandini DeviSpeaking at the centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati University in West Bengal’s Santiniketan, he said that the university was a venerable source of constant energy to the country and the ideas originated there were being carried forward by the nation in the international sphere.“India is the only major country which is moving in the right direction to achieve the targets of the Paris Agreement,” he said.West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal were also present at the event.Visva-Bharati University, founded by Rabindranath Tagore in 1921, is the oldest Central University in the country. In May 1951, the university was declared to be a Central University and an Institution of National Importance by an Act of Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tagore-s-vision-for-visva-bharati-university-essence-of-self-reliant-india-pm-modi/story-V8DKe2kc9BMBcI62TbuJWP.html
24-12-2020||Jaipur||Six killed in two road mishaps in Rajasthan||Six persons were killed in two separate road mishaps in Rajasthan’s Ajmer and Udaipur districts. In the first incident, a car carrying four friends collided with a truck-trailer parked on the Jaipur-Ajmer National Highway in Madanganj-Kishanganj area of Ajmer district in the wee hours of Tuesday, and in the second, two students from Kota were killed in a road mishap on a highway near Udaipur, said police.Four friends-- Pawan Ram (24) and Dalpat Singh (25) of Dausa and Sanjay Sharma (24) and Hrishikesh Meena (25) of Alwar-- left Jaipur in a car on Tuesday night, December 22. They were headed to Udaipur for New Year celebrations.Police said that the car was speeding when it hit a parked truck tailor near Ramner bridge on the Jaipur-Ajmer National Highway at around 2.30 am on Tuesday night, killing all four.Over a dozen victims have been killed near Ramner bridge in the recent months.Also Read: BTP withdraws support from ruling Congress govt in Rajasthan Meanwhile, in another road mishap on Tuesday night, three friends--Rajat (24), Divyanshu (23) and Ankit (22)—travelling in a car to Debari from Pratapnagar in Udaipur, were hit by a truck on the national highway.Police reached the spot and took all the three injured youth to a hospital in Udaipur, where Divyanshu and Ankit died, while Ankit, who is seriously injured, is currently under treatment.Divyanshu and Ankit are engineering students and were in Udaipur for their examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/six-killed-in-two-road-mishaps-in-rajasthan/story-4DkclUW6r2HYqinY0wN8HK.html
24-12-2020||Pune||Police deny permission for Elgar Parishad Pune conclave: Here’s what you need to know||Police in Maharashtra’s Pune on Wednesday denied permission to retired justice BG Kolse Patil for organising an Elgar Parishad conclave in the city on December 31, citing the Covid-19 pandemic, the detection of a deadly new strain of the virus in the UK, and the need to maintain law and order. Here is what the event is about and why it has been in the news over the last few years: 1. Caste clashes broke out in Pune’s Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018, and left one person dead and 40 injured a day after an Elgar Parishad was organised in Pune. 2. The conclave was organised ahead of the bicentenary of the 1818 Battle of Koregaon in which the British army, manned primarily by Dalit soldiers, defeated the Peshwas, the then rulers who instituted oppressive caste practises. Also Read: Police deny permit for Elgar Parishad event3. Fourteen academics and activists have been arrested in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence. 4. The National Investigation Agency, which took over the probe into the violence from Pune police, has blamed Maoists for it. 5. According to a charge sheet filed in the case, Maoists were behind organising and funding of the conclave that was followed by the violence in Bhima Koregaon. 6. The Akhil Bhartiya Brahman Mahasangh had requested the Pune police to exercise restraint in acting on the request by Patil for permission to organise the Elgar Parishad this year. 7. Patil has described Elgar Parishad an anti-caste conference and had said he would move the high court if the permission was denied for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/elgar-parishad-here-s-what-you-need-to-know/story-1QZKXRwYINM32sbFykEuqN.html
24-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra student body raises plight of non-permanent teachers during Covid-19||The Maharashtra Students’ Union (MASU) has approached the minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant, requesting him to resolve the predicament of non permanent faculty in colleges in the state, whose suffering has been prolonged due to Covid-19. These visiting faculties are battling loss of jobs and wages due to the lockdown and other restrictions during the pandemic.In a letter addressed to Samant, MASU has highlighted the plight of thousands of teachers whose recruitment or transfer to a permanent role has been stuck due to the situations created by the pandemic.“Many of these teachers have already cleared the state or the national teacher eligibility test and are qualified to take important roles in colleges but are struggling to make ends meet at the present,” said Siddharth Ingle, president of MASU. With higher education institutes shut since March this year, many non-permanent teachers have lost jobs as their contracts could not be renewed during the lockdown. At present, lectures are still being conducted virtually, but teachers without a renewed or a new contract, have been left out.MASU has further shared examples of states like West Bengal, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala and Jammu & Kashmir, where visiting faculty are hired on 11-month long contracts to deal with issues including adhocism.Also Read: Maharashtra: SSC, HSC supplementary exam results declaredThe students groups have requested that until recruitment of teachers does not resume in the state, the government should appoint visiting faculty on an 11 month contract basis and pay them a monthly honorarium of at least Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000.“Permanent professors are paid anywhere between Rs 65,000- 1 lakh a month while the non-permanent faculty with equal education qualification have not been paid in months. The state education minister needs to address this issue,” added Ingle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-student-body-raises-plight-of-non-permanent-teachers-during-covid-19/story-2K23PWS7ozzfQpTr5HcG2K.html
24-12-2020||Kolkata||After being branded a traitor by TMC, Suvendu Adhikari to hold rally in hometown||A day after the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) branded Suvendu Adhikari, a former TMC heavyweight and minister who defected to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), a traitor and targeted his family at a rally at Contai, his hometown in Bengal’s East Midnapore district, he is set to hold a rally at the same place on Thursday. This would be his first rally in East Midnapore after he joined the BJP on December 19 at union home minister Amit Shah’s rally. On Tuesday, Adhikari addressed his first rally as a BJP leader in Burdwan district. BJP’s youth president in the state Saumitra Khan, who recently filed a divorce suit against his wife Sujata Mondol Khan after she switched over to the TMC, would also be present at Adhikari’s rally. Both the TMC and the BJP are desperately trying to show their strength in the district, which was considered to be the bastion of the TMC, more so of the Adhikari family.Also Read: After joining BJP, Suvendu Adhikari called ‘traitor’ in hometown by TMC TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee is expected to hold another rally at Nandigram in the same district on January 7, 2021. Adhikari and his family have played a key role in the growth of the TMC in East Midnapore. The Contai and Tamluk Lok Sabha seats, most of the assembly segments and many local bodies here have been controlled by 78-year-old Sisir Adhikari and his three sons since 2009. Sisir Adhikari, his father, is the sitting TMC MP from Contai. Dibyendu Adhikari, his brother, is the MP from Tamluk. His youngest brother Soumendu Adhikari is the chairman of Kanthi municipality. No member of the Adhikari family, however, attended the TMC rally in East Midnapore on Wednesday. “Akhil Giri (TMC lawmaker from Ramnagar and a known detractor of Adhikari) had sent invitation letters to everyone. If someone doesn’t attend then it is up to them,” said Saugata Roy, TMP MP. A two-time former Lok Sabha member with an impressive fan following among party workers, Suvendu Adhikari, 50, is acknowledged as one of the leaders who helped TMC chief Mamata Banerjee galvanise the anti-land acquisition movement at Nandigram in East Midnapore district during the Left Front rule. The two-year-long movement became a key factor in the CPI(M)’s ouster in 2011. On Wednesday, before the TMC rally, there was a clash between the BJP and the TMC workers in the district’s Ramnagar area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/after-being-branded-a-traitor-by-tmc-suvendu-adhikari-to-hold-rally-in-hometown/story-KWP3PVtbOugRYrMTgKJcfK.html
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana high court adjourns January cases till April and May due to Covid-19||The Punjab and Haryana high court will not resume physical hearing in January as it has adjourned the cases listed between December 24 and January 29 till April and May next year. The decision was taken by the court administration on Wednesday in view of the Covid-19 outbreak and to ensure safety of judges, staff and litigants, a senior official said. In case of urgency, a counsel can move an application for advancement of hearing, the official said, adding that the cases listed after March 24, 2020, through mentioning would be taken up on the already fixed dates. The high court is working in a restrictive manner since March and only urgent cases are being taken up. Physical hearing is suspended and cases are being taken up through video conferencing. The cases listed between December 24 and January 4 have been adjourned to March 31 and those from January 5 to January 27 to April 1 to April 30. The cases listed on January 28 and 29 would now be taken up on May 3 and 4. The official said any interim order passed in these pleas would stand extended up to the adjourned date. The court will remain closed from December 24 to January 3 for winter vacations. Only designated vacation benches will take up cases during this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-adjourns-january-cases-till-april-and-may-due-to-covid-19/story-p6xwEMhe8hzyDnVQfWnymO.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||Ensure strict compliance of firecracker ban on Christmas, New Year: CPCB||Observing that air quality in the capital and the NCR is deteriorating, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Wednesday directed pollution watchdogs of Delhi and three other states to ensure strict compliance of the ban on sale and use of firecrackers during Christmas and New Year.In an order, CPCB Chairman Shiv Das Meena also directed the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and the pollution control boards of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to ensure that stone crushers and hot mix plants remain closed till January 2, 2021.“Considering likely increase in activities during Christmas and New Year celebrations, pollution control boards of Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh must ensure that hot mix plants and stone crushers remain closed all the time till January 2, 2021.“The agencies must ensure that frequency of mechanised cleaning of roads and water sprinkling is increased particularly on the road stretches with high dust generation potential. Agencies must ensure compliance of orders of courts and the National Green Tribunal regarding banning of sale and use of firecrackers. The orders shall come into force with immediate effect,” the CPCB chairman said.The apex pollution watchdog also called for strict adherence to guidelines and standard operating procedure for dust mitigation at construction sites.“In case of violations, strict action should be taken against the violators like imposition of penalty/temporary stoppage of construction activities,” it said.The CPCB said that it has been reviewing air quality and meteorological scenario in Delhi-NCR on a continuous basis.It observed that PM 2.5 concentration in Delhi-NCR exceeded 250 ug/m3 (micrograms per cubic metre) on December 22, and it exceeded 300 ug/m3 on December 23 and is persisting in the same category for more than 10 hours.“Currently the AQI is in severe category,” it said.The order has been copied to the chairman of DPCC, UPPCB, Haryana State Pollution Control Board, Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board, Commission on Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas chairperson MM Kutty and Environment Secretary RP Gupta.The Commission on Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas, in its meeting held on November 10, had decided that in view of deteriorating air quality in NCR region, there is a need to invoke the graded response action plan (GRAP).The environment ministry notified the GRAP in December 2016 and enlisted actions as per different AQI categories namely ‘moderate’, ‘poor’, ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ according to the National Air Quality Index and a new category named ‘severe+’ or ‘emergency’.As per a direction of the Nation Green Tribunal issued on October 15, 2019, all brick kilns in the National Capital Region are closed.The NGT had earlier this month directed that there would be a total ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers during the Covid-19 pandemic in the NCR and all cities/towns in the country where the ambient air quality falls under the ‘poor’ and above category.The NGT had allowed only places where air quality index is ‘moderate’ or below to use green crackers from 11:55 pm to 12:30 am during Christmas and New Year celebrations.It had also directed all district magistrates to ensure that banned firecrackers are not sold and asked them to recover compensation from violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ensure-strict-compliance-of-firecracker-ban-on-christmas-new-year-cpcb/story-bn1l0AGpz6qIgwXOZXLfyI.html
24-12-2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar writes to Hardeep Puri over flight cancellations at Darbhanga airport||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has written to civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri over frequent flight cancellations due to foggy weather conditions at the Darbhanga airport and delay in transfer of 31 acres of land by the Air Force for the construction of a permanent terminal building there.He added the airport needs to be developed as an international airport. “For this, along with the expansion of the airport, it is necessary to provide night landing facility, besides installation of the necessary equipment to resolve issues related to low visibility due to foggy weather during the winter season,” he wrote.Also Read: Bihar junior doctors go on strike demanding raise in stipend“After the commissioning of the Darbhanga airport, a lot of people have started using this airport in a short time and there is a great deal of potential for the development of this airport.”The airport became operational under the Centre’s regional connectivity scheme on November 8. Low-cost carrier SpiceJet operates flights from Darbhanga to Delhi, Mumbai, and Bengaluru.Kumar has also proposed naming the airport after Maithili poet Kavi Kokil Vidyapati. “Vidyapati was not only a poet but he lives in the hearts of the people of Bihar and Mithila.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/nitish-kumar-writes-to-hardeep-puri-over-flight-cancellations-at-darbhanga-airport/story-cFQ6lHxXafr6op1y3Xjh4H.html
24-12-2020||Kolkata||Darjeeling Toy Train services to resume from December 25||The iconic Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR), popularly known as the Darjeeling Toy Train, will resume its services after nine months from Christmas Day. The services were suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic in March.“We were ready to resume the services. Now we have received the requisite permission from the state government. Initially, joy rides between Darjeeling and Ghoom and back [16 km] will be resumed from December 25,” said AK Mishra, DHR director.Passengers will be required to strictly follow the Covid-19 related guidelines and wear masks, maintain social distancing, and use hand sanitizer. Also Read: Will ensure TMC wins 18 seats in North Bengal: Bimal GurungBuilt in 1889, the DHR is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and a major tourist attraction in Darjeeling, a popular hill destination in North Bengal known as the Queen of the Hills.The Toy Train has featured in Bollywood films like including Rajesh Khanna and Sharmila Tagore’s Aradhana and Shah Rukh Khan’s Main Hoon Na.Over 1.5 million tourists visit Darjeeling and adjoining Sikkim annually and the Toy Train is very popular among them. The train comprising three compartments and ferries around 60,000 passengers annually.The DHR’s 13 steam engines are the real attractions and are regularly chartered by foreign tourists.“With the resumption of the services, local economic activities will get the much-needed boost due to the arrival of tourists. Depending on the requirement of tourists, more such services will be restored. Resumption of Toy Train services is very good news for travellers,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary of Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network.Around 15% of Darjeeling residents are directly or indirectly dependent on tourism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/darjeeling-toy-train-services-to-resume-from-december-25/story-6ubDAg1SsHVKMrYVK0FixM.html
24-12-2020||Kolkata||PM Modi likely to camp in West Bengal every month ahead of polls: BJP leader||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to camp in poll-bound West Bengal every month from January 2021 to bolster the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s campaign in the run-up to the crucial assembly elections, a top leader of the party’s Bengal unit has said. Meanwhile the Prime Minister is scheduled to virtually address the centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati University – set up by Rabindranath Tagore - in West Bengal’s Santiniketan at 11am on Thursday. “He (Modi) would be coming every month. The dates haven’t been fixed yet,” Dilip Ghosh, West Bengal BJP president told mediapersons on Wednesday, while answering a question on whether the Prime Minister is expected in February. With less than five months left for the Bengal assembly polls, union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president JP Nadda have been touring the state every month. Also Read: PM Modi to address centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati University todayIn December, while Nadda had visited the state in the second week, Shah arrived on a two-day tour in the third week. Meanwhile other senior leaders of the party from across India are also dropping in. BJP’s national president of Mahila Morcha Vanathi Srinivasan, union cabinet minister Prahlad Singh Patel and Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Chandra Maurya were in West Bengal earlier this week attending the party’s outreach programs, addressing organisational meetings and taking part in protests. The state’s ruling Trinamool Congress has taken a dig at the PM’s likely tours in the state. “He may come every day. So what? This proves that he has fewer tasks in hand,” Partha Chatterjee, state education minister and TMC’s secretary general, told mediapersons. Buoyed by its impressive gains in the 2019 Lok Sabha pols where the party won 18 of the 42 seats, the BJP has set a target of winning more than 200 seats in the 294-seated legislative assembly this time around. The party is putting together its biggest election machinery ever in the eastern state and as a part of it, several BJP leaders will be arriving in Bengal from Delhi and other states to work with the local unit for polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/pm-narendra-modi-likely-to-camp-in-west-bengal-every-month-ahead-of-polls-bjp-leader/story-c5wzYlCXkG2eiWvi5DyZvI.html
24-12-2020||Mumbai||Central Railway’s Mumbai-Delhi Rajdhani train to run from Dec 30||Nizamuddin (Delhi), the Central Railway (CR) said in a release on Wednesday.The CR had suspended its Mumbai-Delhi Rajdhani train after the outbreak of coronavirus in March.Train number 01221 Rajdhani special will leave the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) here on every Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday at 4.10 pm from December 30, it said. The train will reach Hazrat Nizamuddin at 11 am the next day.The release further said that 01222 Rajdhani special will leave Hazrat Nizamuddin at 4.55 pm on every Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday from December 31 and reach CSMT on the next day at 11.50 am.The 19-coach train including one AC first class, five AC-2 tier, 11 AC-3 tier and one pantry car will halt at Kalyan, Nasik Road, Jalgaon, Bhopal, Jhansi andAgra Cantonment stations in both the directions. Bookings for 01221 Rajdhani special train will open on December 25. Only passengers with confirmed tickets will be permitted to board these special trains, the CR said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railway-s-mumbai-delhi-rajdhani-train-to-run-from-dec-30/story-xWBU3LgLoTmPvfe5qcS4WL.html
24-12-2020||Patna||Low-key Christmas in Patna; churches to offer prayer service in shifts||Churches in Patna are gearing up for Christmas celebrations amid the Covid-19 pandemic by scaling down events to maintain safety protocols and organising prayer services in shifts to prevent larger gatherings.Fr Prem Prakash SJ, Vicar General of Patna Archdiocese, said, “Prayers will be conducted in two shifts between 7 am and 9 am by the Patna Archbishop. The gates of the church will be shut after the prayers. Devotees will not be allowed to light candles on church premises after the completion of the prayer service. Cultural events like carol singing and skit on Jesus Christ birth won’t be organised.”Queen of Apostles Church will also conduct the prayer services in two shifts on December 25.Also Read: Night curfew dampens Mumbai’s Christmas, New Year eve plansFr Pius Prashant SJ, Parish Priest of the church, said no night vigil will take place on Christmas eve, while two prayers will be held in the morning and two in the evening on Christmas day.“We have categorised the devotees based on their localities. A maximum of 350 devotees will be allowed to attend mass prayers in each shift. One mass prayer will be kept for elderly people. The church gates will be closed after 9.30pm.”Administrators of Baptist Union Church said they will arrange the first Christmas service at 9am for those living within a 6km radius while the second will start at 11 am for the rest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/low-key-christmas-in-patna-churches-to-offer-prayer-service-in-shifts/story-cH1E9BtBgcKrYbW8WdhrGJ.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||Marginal improvement in Delhi’s air quality; remains in severe zone||There was a marginal improvement in Delhi’s air quality on Thursday morning even as it remained in the severe zone at 7am. The hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) at 7am was 429. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, the overall AQI on Wednesday and Tuesday was 433 and 418, in the severe category. Scientists said the pollution levels have increased because of low wind speed and dipping temperature, which have trapped pollutants closer to the ground.Also Read: Noida, Ghaziabad among 5 UP cities with worst air quality in countryVK Soni, head of India Meteorological Department’s Environment Monitoring and Research Centre, said the wind speed did not pick up during the day on Wednesday which led to the accumulation of pollution particles.“The wind speed was largely calm through Wednesday... The forecast says that the AQI will remain in the severe zone on Thursday too,” Soni said. “The prominent pollutant has been PM 2.5. The contribution of larger particles has been less in the pollution over the last few days.” Soni said there is a possibility of marginal improvement in wind speed from December 25, which is likely to bring down the high pollution levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/marginal-improvement-in-delhi-s-air-quality-remains-in-severe-zone/story-2i27s2czqfXw6at4DywQqK.html
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Covid shadow: Christmas sales fall by 50% in Chandigarh||Even as Christmas is right around the corner, most markets are missing the fervor of previous years, and markets selling Christmas decorations, trees and even Santa figurines are reporting a crash in business by over 50%, mostly owing to the pandemic.Diwakar Sahoonja, proprietor of Dewsun in Sector 11, said that their business had taken a hit of over 50%. “We have Christmas trees going for as high as ₹7,000, but they hardly have any takers. In earlier years, Santa hats would be sold the most, but most parties have been called off this year. People just stay at home so greeting card sales have also taken a plunge,” he said.The Sector-20 market was seen decked with Christmas decorations with trees as high as 10 feet outside the shops, but as per the shopkeepers, not many people wanted to buy them. One of the shopkeepers here, Kunal Jindal, said that shopkeepers hadn’t purchased new stock for Christmas as they had already anticipated lower sales as was seen during Diwali.Another shopkeeper, Vijay Goyal, said that in previous years, a lot of school children would throng the shops during Christmas, but most private schools were closed now. He added that shopkeepers had made an extra effort to get made in India products, but that had also not helped with sales.Low-key celebrations in Sec 17The celebrations at Sector-17 Plaza will be kept low-key. President of Business Promotion Council, Sector 17, Neeraj Bajaj said, “This year, no big installation had been made in the Plaza. Block-wise decorations have been done and some shopkeepers have put up decorations.” He added that the shopkeepers didn’t want markets to get crowded.Meanwhile, at Elante Mall in Industrial Area, Phase 1, a 21-foot tall polar bear dressed as Santa had been installed to woo customers.The public relations officer of the Chandigarh traffic police, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Charanjit Singh Virk, confirmed that the traffic police had issued specific instructions to personnel regarding management of traffic in the major markets of the city on Thursday and Friday.Markets covered include sectors 18, 19, 22, 34 and 35, along with Elante Mall. Virk said, “There will be at least four challaning officers present in each of these markets from 10am to 8pm to issue on the spot wrong parking challans. One towing vehicle per market will also be present.” Although dedicated nakas for drunken driving remain unlikely, anyone found to be drunk will be taken to the nearest hospital for a blood test and booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-shadow-christmas-sales-fall-by-50-in-chandigarh/story-no1OoamNl4zKCZZYBZOlCI.html
24-12-2020||City||MC polls: BJP, Congress, HJP release manifestos in Ambala||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal presented the manifesto for the Ambala municipal corporation polls for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janata Party coalition on Tuesday at an election rally in Dhulkot area.The CM talked about the promises and the development projects undertaken by local MLA Aseem Goel. Khattar also promised to finally establish the Industrial Model Township (IMT) that he had announced in 2019 during the campaign for the assembly elections. IMT is said to be the dream project of former Union minister and local MLA Venod Sharma, who is also seeking votes on this issue.Major promises made by the party include constructing two multi-level parkings and community toilets in every ward, improving roads and door-to-door garbage collection.Congress national spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala on Wednesday introduced the election manifesto at a press conference here. The party that was in majority in the last House has promised to end the development charges, NOC system and contractual system of recruitment, construct multi-level parkings and toilets along with solving the problem of stray animals.Surjewala said that even BJP MLA Aseem Goel had to protest outside the Haryana Vidhan Sabha in October against delay in paddy procurement and stage a sit-in to get his works done. Surjewala also said that independent or regional parties could not bring about a change like the national parties.The other opposition party, former Union minister Venod Sharma-led Haryana Janchetna Party (HJP), also presented their manifesto.Sharma said that the party will try to provide 2,000 jobs for the locals in the next five years, ending the NOC system; a special package for new villages added in the corporation will also be announced. Sharma also hit-out at the BJP’s election convener Sandeep Suchdeva for “using the police and the government” to pressurise him in a “false case”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-polls-bjp-congress-hjp-release-manifestos-in-ambala/story-fyYU2tdTTm52kGWLwDjC6O.html
24-12-2020||City||Panchkula MC elections: Kumari Selja, Pawan Bansal come out in support of Congress mayoral candidate||Addressing a poll rally at Sector 4 in support of mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia and candidates from wards 11 and 13 Sharandeep Kaur and Akshay Chaudhary, former railway minister and senior Congress leader Pawan Kumar Bansal said that Upinder was a well-qualified, well-deserved and a capable leader to take the city miles ahead on the development path.“During her last stint as mayor, Ahluwalia did a remarkable job for the city. She had only one thing on her mind, to perform as per people’s expectations. She had only one mission, to serve the residents of Panchkula who had given her a chance to serve them,” he said.Meanwhile, Haryana Congress Committee chief Kumari Selja has called upon Panchkula residents to teach the Bharatiya Janata Party a lesson for its “anti-people and anti-farmers” policies by defeating them in the municipality corporation (MC) polls.Selja addressed a public rally in support of Congress mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia at Ramgarh on Wednesday.“It was BJP’s own anti-people policies that are now paying back to it. The government is not listening to those whom it claimed to be working for after coming to power. Farmers’ agitation is an eye-opener for the nation. BJP’s daily-dally approach to solve the agitation reflects its agenda to sell the country in the hands of a select few,” she said.Selja said that the Congress party didn’t believe in caste or community-based politics. “It’s the duty of voters to think rationally,” she pointed out.BJP’S Goyal appeals for support from lawyersPanchkula BJP’s mayoral candidate Kulbhushan Goyal met with the members of the District Bar Association, Panchkula, and assured the advocates their problems will be solved when he is voted to power. Addressing the advocates, he said that making multi-level parking was mentioned in the party’s manifesto and he will stand by his commitment. Goyal said that the city was facing huge parking issues because of increasing traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-mc-elections-kumari-selja-pawan-bansal-come-out-in-support-of-congress-mayoral-candidate/story-3O4OZJIsKpRUZjDkpw6evL.html
24-12-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka imposes night curfew from today to January 1: All you need to know||The Karnataka government on Wednesday decided to reimpose night curfew from 11pm to 5am in the state starting December 24 to January 1. All movement barring essential services will be restricted, chief minister BS Yediyurappa said, adding that there would be no hindrance to the religious celebrations planned in churches on Christmas eve on December 24.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe announcement was made amid concerns over a new strain of coronavirus disease that was recently detected in the UK. Meanwhile, Karnataka has registered over 911,000 coronavirus cases till now and as many as 12,029 have died, according to the Union health ministry dashboard.Here is all you need to know about the curfew:- The decision to reimpose the curfew was taken by a high power committee after the new variant of coronavirus, VUI–202012/01, which is thought to be 70% more transmissible than earlier versions of the virus, was detected in the UK last week.- The curfew was imposed also considering the fact that there was a possibility of people getting together for year-end celebrations and flouting social distancing guidelines, according to state medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar said.  Also Read: These states have imposed night curfew and other measures to check Covid-19 spread- As part of the fresh regulations, all incoming international passengers will be mandated to present a coronavirus-negative test with the test having been conducted within a 72-hour window before their arrival.- “All arrangements have been made at the airport to conduct tests and health staff have been deployed there to ensure no one enters the city without getting tested,” the chief minister said.- For now, the state is sticking to its plan to reopen schools from January 1, Yediyurappa said. - Before making the revised curfew announcement on Wednesday, Yediyurappa had said that the curfew would be imposed till January 2 and that all activities would go on as usual from 6am-10pm, adding no one should be out after 10 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-imposes-night-curfew-from-today-to-january-1-all-you-need-to-know/story-PPo5HO7bh8j4YEabQgSlRN.html
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Mode of semester examinations at Panjab University remains undecided||Even though deliberations have been going on for weeks, Panjab University (PU) is yet to take a final call on the mode of examinations for students of the odd semesters.A varsity panel constituted to take a decision on the matter has already held several meetings, but the final decision is yet to be made. Earlier, the varsity had conducted the examinations of the final semester students online in wake of the pandemic.Although PU has informed its affiliated and constituent colleges that the semester examinations of undergraduate courses and second-year postgraduate courses will be held, tentatively, in the second week of February, the mode has not been announced. The colleges have also been informed that the semester examinations of first-year postgraduate batches will be held in the second week of March.As the first semester of the 2020-21 academic session is about to end, the students are also waiting. A student on the condition of anonymity said, “The students are anxious to learn about the mode of exams because if the varsity decides to conduct them offline, many will have to come to Chandigarh from different places.”Dean university instructions (DUI) RK Singla was not available for comments. However, controller of examinations Jagat Bhushan said, “Deliberations are going on and the varsity will take a call soon.”Students seek extension for fee submissionA few students including the president of National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), Nikhil Narmeta, on Tuesday wrote to the DUI seeking extension in the last date for submission of tuition fee for the second semester (new batch) till March.They have claimed that the students were being asked to pay the fee hardly a month since they paid the first installment. “The students are not in a position to pay for the second semester yet,” the letter read.PU extends date for submission of application for fee concessionThe V-C has extended the last date to apply for all kinds of tuition fee concession/financial assistance (only for first-year students), which are existing in the handbook of information, to January 15, 2021.The extension in date has been given as the admission of undergraduate and postgraduate courses got delayed due to pandemic, and in anticipation of the approval from the syndicate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mode-of-semester-examinations-at-panjab-university-remains-undecided/story-RrEE92iFbNrXXU9kpdQTAM.html
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Loan disbursement camp for street vendors held at Chandigarh MC office||The municipal corporation on Wednesday organised a loan disbursement camp at the office premises under the PM Street Vendors Atma Nirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme, which was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the affected street vendors during the pandemic.MC commissioner KK Yadav gave sanction letters to the registered street vendors. He said that the vendors should come forward for applying for the PM SVANidhi scheme and availing discount of ₹500 per month in monthly street vendor’s fees for the loan period. These vendors were extended a loan amounting to ₹10,000 at 7% rate of interest subsidy for a period of one year.To date, the MC has sourced 2,029 online applications from street vendors by organising various community camps with support from the enforcement wing and DAY-NULM cell, out of which 1,139 applications have been sanctioned and 911 applications have been disbursed.As many as 77 registered street vendors have been sanctioned/disbursed on-the-spot loan by the Punjab National Bank, the State Bank of India, Punjab & Sind Bank and the Indian Bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/loan-disbursement-camp-for-street-vendors-held-at-chandigarh-mc-office/story-3gf1buHOJSIRQUN5DJ2asL.html
24-12-2020||Kolkata||PM Modi to address centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati University today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually address the centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati University in West Bengal’s Santiniketan at 11am on December 24.“Looking forward to addressing the centenary celebrations of the iconic #VisvaBharati University, Shantiniketan, among our premium centres of learning which is closely associated with Gurudev Tagore. Do tune in tomorrow, 24th December at 11 AM,” Prime Minister Modi tweeted on Wednesday. Looking forward to addressing the centenary celebrations of the iconic #VisvaBharati University, Shantiniketan, among our premium centres of learning which is closely associated with Gurudev Tagore. Do tune in tomorrow, 24th December at 11 AM. pic.twitter.com/d4ZAcA9IUeThe Governor of West Bengal Jagdeep Dhankhar and Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal will participate in the event, according to a release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).Visva-Bharati University, founded by Rabindranath Tagore in 1921, is the oldest Central University in the country. In May 1951, Visva-Bharati was declared to be a Central University and an Institution of National Importance by an Act of Parliament.Initially, the University was run based on the teachings of Tagore but it gradually evolved into the format in which modern universities developed elsewhere. The Prime Minister is the Chancellor of the University, the PMO release said. On Tuesday, PM Modi addressed the centenary celebrations of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU). He stressed on the importance of ‘unity in diversity’ in his address and said “no one is left behind due one’s religion, everyone gets the opportunity to move ahead, everyone is able to realise their dreams”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/pm-modi-to-address-centenary-celebrations-of-visva-bharati-university-today/story-5AWhRFEBVy8wef73DaoM8J.html
24-12-2020||City||Sion hospital assistant dean held for duping PG aspirant from Pune of ₹50 lakh||Sion police have arrested Dr Rakesh Verma, assistant dean of Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital (Sion hospital), for allegedly taking ₹50 lakh from a Pune-based doctor to secure her a seat for a postgraduate (PG) medical course. The complainant alleged she had transferred ₹21 lakh to Dr Verma’s account, while the rest of the money was paid to him in cash by September. Doctor Mohan Joshi, dean of the hospital, said, “Dr Rakesh Verma is attached with Sion hospital as assistant dean. The police arrested him and are conducting an inquiry. So I cannot comment more in the matter”.The police had taken Dr Verma for a medical examination, where he had complained of hypertension. He is admitted to the hospital and will be produced in the court once he is discharged from the hospital, said inspector Dilip Ghuge of the Sion police station. According to the police, the 28-year-old complainant in her statement to the police claimed she had received a call from a man named Rahul Singh in August, who offered to help her with the admission for the PG course through government quota. Singh said there are seats are available at the hospital where the accused works. The complainant met Singh and the duo then spoke to the assistant dean, said Ghuge.The complainant then handed over her documents to Singh for the admission process. A few days later, she met Singh along with her father at Mumbai Central. The next day, the complainant’s father and brother met Dr Verma at hospital where he allegedly demanded ₹1.5 crore for the admission. The duo said they could not manage paying the amount, following which it was reduced ₹50 lakh, said the officer. But when she did not get an admission, she approached Sion police on Tuesday, where a case was registered against the assistant dean under section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sion-hospital-assistant-dean-held-for-duping-pg-aspirant-from-pune-of-50-lakh/story-bADCfcoophpY1oCjB8X3dP.html
24-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC commutes death sentence of man who killed unborn child, kin||Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday commuted death sentence handed down to a resident of Jalna district for killing his mother-in-law and the child in the womb of his pregnant wife, into life imprisonment.“No doubt, the crime is heinous and condemnable,” said the bench of justice Ravindra Gauge and justice BU Debadwar. The bench, however, felt that the crime committed by Krishna Pawar was not so barbaric and cold-blooded that it would send shivers down the spine of a person, warranting imposition of capital punishment, not only to punish him but also to deter such other murders.According to the prosecution, the incident took place on October 24, 2015, at Walkhed. Wife of the 35-year-old labourer from Yawalpimpri in Jalna district had gone to her parent’s place, as Pawar used to suspect her character and harass her.On the fateful day, Pawar had gone to bring back his wife, who was nine-months pregnant at the time. But, he was asked to meet them at Walkhed, where the parties intended to discuss the issues faced by the couple and resolve them mutually.Pawar assaulted his pregnant wife, her mother and mother’s sister with a knife when the three women were waiting for Pawar’s brother-in-law. The attack resulted in the death of Pawar’s mother-in-law and the foetus in his wife’s womb. His wife and the sister of his mother-in-law survived the brutal attack.Pawar was arrested and prosecuted for the murders and attempted murders. This year on June 18, an additional sessions judge at Jalna convicted Pawar for the murders and sentenced him to death, terming the case a rarest of a rare one.On Tuesday, HC upheld his conviction, but commuted the death penalty handed down to him, to life imprisonment, after noticing that the brutal attack had resulted in the death of a woman and an unborn child, but the crime did not warrant the imposition of the extreme penalty. The judges said though Pawar had planned to attack his wife and mother-in-law, it was perhaps only a coincidence that the sister of his mother-in-law, Alkabai, also accompanied them. They felt, in the fit of anger Pawar might have overcome his sense of reason and went on to stab all the three ladies.HC has, however, taken stern note of four witnesses, including Alkabai, a victim of the attack, in the case turning hostile, and directed Jalna sessions court to conduct an inquiry as contemplated under section 340 of the Criminal Procedure Code, to initiate an action of perjury against the four witnesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-commutes-death-sentence-of-man-who-killed-unborn-child-kin/story-vQE7SncAWHDlaT6IrDwYgM.html
24-12-2020||City||Maharashtra govt approves EWS benefits for Marathas||In a bid to provide respite to the Marathas amid the stalemate over the reservation in jobs and college admissions, the state cabinet on Wednesday approved the proposal of extending the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) quota to the community.The step has paved the way for the community’s members from the economically weaker sections, with the annual income of less than ₹8 lakh, to avail the benefit of the 10% EWS quota.“Candidates availing the benefits under EWS, however, will not be allowed to avail the SEBC quota. The decision is subject to the final verdict of the Apex court in the petition pending before it. The decision of allowing the Maratha community members to avail the benefits under EWS quota has been taken in accordance with the observations by the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court,” the government resolution issued on Wednesday has stated.Following the decision, the Maratha community members will be able to draw certificates to avail the benefit under EWS for college admissions and government jobs. The community members will however have to compete with people in the open category for the 10% quota as opposed to the 12% and 13% reservation they would have got under the SEBC Act in admissions and jobs respectively.The community members have expressed their reservations over the decision. “The decision could go against our contention of urgency in hearing the matter in the top court. We have been opposing this move since the beginning. Secondly, the SEBC reservation has just been stayed and not cancelled by the court. This means the community cannot avail second reservation when the one meant for them is still in force. Most importantly, the actual percentage of Marathas getting EWS quota will be far lesser as compared to SEBC, as we will be competing with people in open category,” said Virendra Pawar, one of the organisers of Maratha Kranti Morcha.The constitution bench of five judges on December 9 had ruled to begin the regular hearing in the reservation petition from January 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-govt-approves-ews-benefits-for-marathas/story-vkGRdKYPg9UwEVgx3GEO5J.html
24-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body panel wants audit of ₹1,250 cr spent on Covid relief||Suspecting corruption into the emergency expenditures related to Covid-19, the standing committee of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has directed the administration to conduct a financial audit into the ₹1,250 crore spent for Covid relief work by the civic body. More than 100 proposals worth ₹1,250 crores were tabled in Wednesday’s meeting before the committee, about the various expenses related to Covid, like medicines, PPE kits, Covid Care Centres and so on.The committee refused to sanction the proposals and demanded that an audit report of all the expenditures to be submitted to the committee. Prabhakar Shinde, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) group leader and senior corporator in the BMC, said, “The administration has not given clear information on the expenditure done for Covid related works. A lot of Covid centres have only shown the total charges, but have not mentioned the number of patients that were treated there. There could be a mismanagement of ₹200 crores in all of the proposals.”Read more: Rs 630 crore spent on Covid-19, Mumbai civic corporation may have to rework budgetRais Shaikh, Samajwadi Party leader, said, “There has been gross negligence and mismanagement in awarding tenders for constructing Covid Care Centres. I have multiple examples where the tendering process was faulty.” Following the demands, the standing committee chairman, Yashwant Jadhav, directed the municipal auditor for a complete audit of the expenses.The proposals of Covid expenses tabled during Wednesday’s meeting were for post-facto approval, which means the contracts for the civic works have been awarded and BMC has already committed them for payment. This leaves little scope for the standing committee’s effective rejection of the proposals. This is possible because the standing committee gave spending powers to the municipal commissioner in March, in light of the lockdown, since the committee did not meet during that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-panel-wants-audit-of-1-250-cr-spent-on-covid-relief/story-ZjvXrmmVfmrwWmTwZTJsTN.html
24-12-2020||City||Bombay HC relief for Colaba special school against eviction order||In a relief to a Colaba-based school for special children, the Bombay high court (HC) has directed the army estate officer to consider afresh an eviction order issued by him on November 20 to the institute. The order had asked the school to vacate the premise on the grounds that the land belonged to the Indian Army. A division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Milind Jadhav, while hearing the petition filed by Able Disabled All People Together (ADAPT), earlier known as the Spastics Society of India, was informed by advocate Sunip Sen and Shrubo Dey that the estate officer had issued a show-cause notice on July 20 and an eviction order, passed under the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971, was sent four months later. The order asked the school, founded Padma Shri awardee Mithu Alur, to vacate the premise within 15 days. The petition has stated that the school was a tenant of the adjoining Afghan Church since 1972 and could thus not be called a ‘public premise.’ Therefore, the estate officer was not competent to pass such an eviction order, said the petitioner. The petition further states that the special school provided counselling, inclusive education, skills training to more than 3,000 special children and 10,000 families cutting across economic backgrounds, and it had been paying rent to the Bombay Diocesan Trust, which has been looking after Afghan Church since the early 1970s. It said that a similar eviction notice was issued in 2007, which was later stayed by the Centre. The advocates also submitted that a query of the school on the propriety of the estate officer to pass the order did not get a response. In response to the petition, the Centre submitted that the petitioner could appeal against the estate officer’s order, which was opposed on the grounds that the alternate remedy was not required, as the initial order was without jurisdiction. After hearing the submissions, the bench noted that as the query of the school on the propriety of the estate officer was not reflected in the November 20 order passed by him, it should be considered a ‘prima facie opinion.’ After the court’s insistence, the Centre and the estate officer said that a fresh order would be passed. The Court then asked the school to file its reply to the show-cause notice within two weeks ‘without prejudice to their rights and contentions regarding the issue of jurisdiction’. The bench also allowed the petitioner to make representation for inspection of the documents related to the premise before the authority as per the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bombay-hc-relief-for-colaba-special-school-against-eviction-order/story-ZfvGg1g6FUKgxLLetbFYdM.html
24-12-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra government to trace UK fliers||In view of the new strain of Covid-19 found in the United Kingdom (UK) and other countries, Maharashtra government on Wednesday asked the administration to trace and test air travellers arrived in the state from the UK in last one month from November 25 to December 23, for genomic sequencing and ascertaining if they match the new variant found there. Around 3,000 people have estimated to have arrived in the state from the UK in the past four weeks.Meanwhile, the state registered less than 4,000 cases for the seventh day in a row. With 3,913 new cases, the state tally touched 1,906,371, while the toll stands at 48,969 after 93 deaths were added on Wednesday.The state officials said they are taking all precautions to prevent the spread of the new variants of Covid-19.Read more: Over 1,500 landed in Mumbai from UK, other countries since Tuesday; none found infected yetThe respective district administrations have been provided with a list of travellers arrived in Maharashtra from the UK over the last four weeks. “The travellers found with the positive report will be institutionally quarantined. The samples of positive patients will be sent to Pune’s National Institute for Virology for genomic sequencing,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has appealed to citizens in Mumbai who have returned from the UK between November 25 till date to contact the ward control room of their areas in case they develop any Covid like symptoms and also get a preliminary medical check-up from a family doctor or nearest municipal health centre. They have also asked the UK returns to go through a Covid-19 test.Suresk Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said there could be an estimated 3, 000 UK returnees across Maharashtra, 30% of which will be in Mumbai. “We are preparing a list of all such returnees in the city and will contact them through ward war rooms,” he said.In the backdrop of the new strain of Covid-19 found in these countries, the state government has already announced measures to arrest the spread of the new variant of the virus. It has already stopped flights from the UK and enforced compulsory quarantine for passengers arriving from Europe, Middle East and South Africa.On Wednesday, the government extended the night curfew, imposed between December 22 and January 5, to the rural parts of the state on Wednesday, two days after it was announced only for the urban areas. The revised notification issued by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar says that if the district collector of any district is of the view that imposition of the said night curfew in his respective district will reduce the transmission of the virus, he is hereby authorised to do so, after obtaining permission for the same from the chief secretary.The decision of imposing the night curfew was taken as a precautionary measure after a new strain of Covid-19 was found in the United Kingdom and a few other countries. The government has however allowed the entertainment and amusement parks, tourist places outside the containment zones to operate. Similarly, water sports at various places too, have been allowed in the state. The operators will have to follow the standard operating procedure to be issued by the tourism department of the state government.Mumbai reported 745 cases and 14 deaths on Wednesday taking the tally to 2,88,561 and toll to 11,033. Pune, Nashik and Nagpur districts are among the highest contributors of fresh infections with 621, 394 and 330 cases respectively.State health department officials have expressed the sigh of relief as the cases continue to remain under control. Against the projection of the rise in the cases in December, the cases continue to be below 4,000 over the last few days.The experts, however, have a word of caution as they expect a surge in cases, in the second week of January. “The risk of the second wave is still there, though it would not be as high as it had been after the Ganpati festival in Festival. We still expect a surge in cases 15 days after Christmas festival. I do not think the new strain found in the United Kingdom, European and other countries will have any impact here as we have already started taking precautions. The district administrations have already been told to take due measures to contain the spread because of the crowding,” said Dr Avinash Supe, who heads the state-appointed death audit committee.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray during his meeting with the district collectors and commissioners on Tuesday has directed to increase the testing and tracing to contain the spread. The testing rate over the last 10 days has dropped to a daily average of 57,602 tests from a daily average of 82,071 tests in the last ten days in November.“The positivity rate in the state has dropped which means the number of cases has overalled dropped. The tests are done on the symptomatic people and since their number is low, the tests too, have dropped,” said Dr Supe.State’s case facility rate stands at 2.57%, while the recovery rate has reached to 94.51%. The active cases in the state are 54,573 after 7620 patients were discharged on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-maharashtra-government-to-trace-uk-fliers/story-1DYFaCC3EkGYkTE0ZdDZwM.html
24-12-2020||City||Looking for long-term alliance with Shiv Sena: NCP||Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) is looking for a long-term alliance with its ruling partner Shiv Sena. The party on Wednesday informed its cadres that they will remain with Sena for a long time and hence would to work accordingly to resolve disputes at local level. The party also inducted 18 rebel corporators of Congress from Bhiwandi-Nizampur on Wednesday, giving a jolt to its alliance partner. This is likely to lead to another round of tussle between the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) partners — Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress. Congress’s interim president Sonia Gandhi had recently written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and had expressed her unhappiness over the alleged non-utilisation of funds meant for socially backward classes in the state. Kicking off its preparations for the upcoming local bodies elections, NCP had called a meeting of party cadres, leaders and candidates who had lost the Assembly and Lok Sabha elections last year. The meeting was addressed by the senior ministers and leaders including Ajit Pawar and Jayant Patil.“We know that disputes are going on at the local level since the time the MVA government was formed. But we will be staying with Shiv Sena for a long time, so act accordingly and resolve disputes,” Ajit Pawar is said to have told the gathering in his address.Despite discontent and differences over several issues, MVA had recently completed its first year in the government. However, NCP inducted 18 rebel Congress corporators, including Bhiwandi-Nizampur’s deputy mayor Imran Ali Mohammad Khan, which may not go down well with the Congress.The rebel corporators in cross-voting had voted for Pratibha Patil, a candidate from Konark Vikas Aghadi, for the mayoral elections, following which the Congress lost the poll, despite having 47 members in the 90-member corporation last year. The party has already initiated disciplinary action against them.Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said they are rebels and a report will be sought from the district president. “They all are the rebels who have voted against a party candidate in the mayoral elections held last year. District president Tahir Rashid will be asked to submit a report on the matter,” Sawant said.NCP leaders said the corporators were planning to leave the Congress and would have joined some other party had the NCP denied them entry. “NCP has become a centre of attraction in the state and these 18 corporators had already decided to leave the Congress. We are not at fault. They would have joined any other party if we have denied them entry,” said a senior NCP leader, wishing not to be named.Political analyst Pratap Asbe said the move will impact the Congress-NCP relationship. “However, it won’t go to a level where they will think of falling apart from MVA, as they also need to be in power,” Asbe said.Meanwhile, the state Congress unit has started its preparations for the upcoming local body polls. Congress’s state president Balasaheb Thorat has constituted a 13-member election management committee and appointed observers for every observer for each election. Thorat has also appointed 12 ministers as contact ministers in each of the districts going for polls. The decisions were taken in a meeting called to discuss the party’s preparations for the upcoming polls. Five major municipal corporations — Navi Mumbai, Aurangabd, Vasai-Virar, Kalyan-Dombivli and Kolhapur — are going for polls next year. Two zilla parishads, 13 municipal councils and 83 nagar panchayats will also have elections next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/looking-for-long-term-alliance-with-shiv-sena-ncp/story-B5Unmy0XBZENhl18sPxhBI.html
24-12-2020||Mumbai||25-year-old woman steals ₹50-L valuables from senior citizen in Mumbai||Juhu police have booked a 25-year-old woman for robbing jewellery and cash to the tune of ₹50 lakhs from the locker of a senior citizen. The accused is absconding.According to police Praneeti Mehta, 74, had been staying alone since the past five years after her husband Jitendra Mehta passed away. Mehta had been on a lookout for a paying guest as she wanted company. “My aunt had never kept a paying guest without reference or police verification,” said Mehul Vohra, Mehta’s nephew who stays in Kandivli.The FIR stated that the woman identified as Manisha had been harassing Mehta since the past two months to allow her to stay as a paying guest, but Mehta had been denying as she did not know Manisha. “Manisha had also approached Mehta’s neighbour to allow her to stay as a paying guest, but they too had refused,” said Vohra.Read more: Mumbai man poses as cable operator, steals laptop worth ₹1.49 lakh from 71-year-oldOn Sunday, when Manisha came to Mehta’s house, she cried and pleaded the elderly woman to allow her to stay as a paying guest as she did not have anywhere to go.“My aunt had gone for a bath telling Manisha to sit in the living room and give her time to think. Manisha later entered the bedroom, opened the locker and stole the jewellery and cash kept there,” said Vohra.When Mehta realised that she had been robbed, she approached the police. Police are looking out for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/25-year-old-woman-steals-50-l-valuables-from-senior-citizen-in-mumbai/story-HckdDP7O5f5bDkRruK5x9I.html
24-12-2020||City||Mumbai Metro: No end to Maharashtra govt-BJP war of words over Kanjurmarg plot||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday slammed the Centre and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over their opposition to construct the car shed for three metro lines at the Kanjurmarg plot proposed by the state.Urban development minister Eknath Shinde said the state has documents to prove that the land is owned by the Maharashtra government, but it is because of the Centre that the Bombay high court (HC) has imposed a stay on the construction of the car shed on the plot. He added the state is exploring various options for the car shed. Shinde also said the previous BJP-led state government had given permission for a housing project on the Kanjurmarg plot.“Politics is being played over the Kanjurmarg plot. Going by the land records, the plot is a state property. If they [BJP] were okay with a housing project on the plot, why do they not want it to be used for the Metro project,” Shinde said during a press conference on Wednesday.Sena’s ally Congress also questioned the intention of the Devendra Fadnavis government over its decision to explore the possibility of launching an affordable housing scheme proposed by a developer on the plot. “What made the Fadnavis regime to accept the proposal of the developer for building one lakh affordable houses under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s (PM) flagship scheme ‘Housing for All 2022’ on the same plot? The state had also appointed a high-level committee of bureaucrats headed by the then additional chief secretary of finance on June 11, 2019, for the project,” said Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant.The Congress also said that one of the petitioners who moved HC against the constriction of the car shed at Kanjurmarg plot claiming to be the land’s lessee, had signed an agreement with the developer. He also claimed that the petitioner was supposed to get a benefit of hundreds of crores of rupees from the deal of agreement of development of the Kanjurmarg plot in 2009 with the developer. However, the petitioner had claimed that the agreement was later scrapped by the city civil court in 2016.Meanwhile, BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said his party has always taken a congruous stand on developmental issues and if the state government make the findings of the report of the committee headed by additional chief secretary Manoj Saunik on shifting the car shed to Kanjurmarg public, then the truth will come out before everyone. “It is the state government that has made it an ego and prestige issue. Our only demand is to make findings of the Saunik committee public. Everyone will come to know what is going on,” Upadhye said.Replying to the Sawant’s allegations, he said, “The agreement between the developer and the petitioner was signed in 2009 when the Congress-NCP (Nationalist Congress Party) government was in power. The BJP government only tried to find out the feasibility of the proposal for PM’s flagship scheme. Moreover, the committee was formed to see if the state government can use all the saltpan lands for affordable housing schemes as discussed in the western regional council meeting as well in a meeting chaired by PM.”Meanwhile, Shinde said the decision to shift the car shed to Kanjurmarg was taken in the larger interest of the citizens. “Constructing a car shed for Metro lines 3, 4 and 6 would have benefited the people. But amid the ownership battle between the state and Centre, the HC has unfortunately put a stay on the construction of the car shed at Kanjurmarg. The construction work for the Metro project is in full speed and we are exploring other options for the car shed. A plot in BKC is one of them and a study has been undertaken is this regard. The Centre should have taken a congruous stand on the matter,” he said.The state and the Centre have locked horns over the ownership of the Kanjurmarg plot. In October, the state government had decided to scrap the Metro car shed at Aarey Colony and shift it to Kanjurmarg. It also decided to integrate Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz), Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli) and Metro-4 (Wadala-Kasarwadavali) lines. However, HC granted a stay on the construction of the car shed, following the petitions filed by the Centre and the lessee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-metro-no-end-to-state-bjp-war-of-words-over-kanjurmarg-plot/story-NHaoQfiQ0BuVtNlsRv03kO.html
24-12-2020||City||Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train land acquisition proposal put in abeyance by Thane civic body||The proposal to hand over the reserved plot in Diva for the Mumbai- Ahmedabad bullet train was put in abeyance by the Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) ruling party Shiv Sena after it was tabled in the civic body’s general body for the fourth time on Wednesday. As per procedure, the proposal cannot be tabled again for approval for the next three months now. The move hardly comes as a surprise amid the tussle between the Sena-led state and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre after the Bombay high court (HC) stayed the constructed of the Mumbai Metro car shed plot in Kanjurmarg. The Sena is trying to create hurdles for the Centre’s bullet train project in Thane by not approving the land transfer for the fourth time. The bullet train is proposed to pass through nine villages in Thane district, including Shil, Davale, Padle, Desai, Agasan, Betavde and Mhatardi. It will have a station at Mhatardi in Diva. As per the agreement with the National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL), TMC has to acquire a land of 3,849 square meters near Shil, for which a compensation of Rs6.92 crore is offered to the locals. However, the residents had opposed the acquisition, demanding better facilities. The local corporators, too, had opposed it, following which the proposal was tabled for discussion on Wednesday. Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske said, “We have not taken any decision regarding the bullet train land acquisition proposal. We have kept it in abeyance as of now.” The BJP alleged that the Sena is playing politics for their benefit. Sanjay Waghule, BJP team leader in TMC, said, “Shiv Sena always claims that they are on the side of development, but the decision over the bullet train proposal proves otherwise. Shiv Sena is merely playing politics and trying to stall the project. They are doing the same in Mumbai too. They are demanding huge funds from the Centre for various projects but are creating obstacles for the projects. We will bring this to the notice of the central government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-ahmedabad-bullet-train-land-acquisition-proposal-put-in-abeyance-by-thane-civic-body/story-lvMYTdGviPDsMG8RJWMc8L.html
24-12-2020||Mumbai||Farm loans fraud in Maharashtra: ED attaches sugar plant, assets worth ₹255 crore||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday attached sugar plant, machinery, land, balances in a bank account and shares totalling to ₹255 crores of Gangakhed Sugar & Energy Limited (GSEL) and others in connection with a multi-crore bank fraud case, in which agricultural loans were fraudulently availed in the name of farmers.ED officers said assets worth ₹255 crores of GSEL, Yogeswari Hatcheries, Gangakhed Solar Power Limited have been attached under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA). The attached assets include sugar plant and machinery of GSEL worth ₹247 crores, situated at Gangakhed, in Parbhani district of Maharashtra, land worth ₹5 crores of GSEL, Yogeswari Hatcheries, Gangakhed Power Solar Limited situated in Parbhani, Beed and Dhule districts. Also bank balance of ₹1.58 crores, investment in shares worth ₹1.91 crores were held in the name of GSEL.Read more: ED raids 10 places in Maharashtra ‘linked’ to sugar baron Ratnakar GutteED had initiated an investigation in the case in May 2019, based on a first information report (FIR) registered by Gangakhed police against GSEL, its chairman Ratnakar Gutte and others.The FIR alleged that GSEL chairman and other accused allegedly conspired and by cheating, forgery and falsifying documents fraudulently availed agricultural loans in the name of poor farmers, based on forged loan proposals submitted to the banks. Gutte was also arrested in the case. The crime investigation department (CID), Aurangabad, investigated the case and filed a charge sheet revealing details of misappropriation of the funds.Investigations have revealed that the accused persons created the data on the farmers, who supplied the sugarcane to the factory, by collecting their KYC at the time of purchasing the sugarcane from them. The factory further signed an agreement with the banks for obtaining an agricultural loan for the farmers. Under the agreement, GSEL becomes the agent for the banks, whose responsibility was to do KYC verification of the farmers.“During the period from 2012-13 to 2016-17, GSEL forged agricultural loan proposals in the name of farmers based on of the KYC and submitted them to the banks. Banks had sanctioned the agricultural loan of around ₹ 772 crores. Using this modus operandi, around ₹635 crores were disbursed by the banks into the bank accounts opened in the name of the farmers,” ED officers said.GSEPL fraudulently availed loans from Andhra Bank, UCO Bank, United Bank of India, Bank of India, Syndicate Bank, Ratnakar Bank in the guise of ‘crop loan’ to 8,000 to 10,000 farmers on the guarantee given by GSEPL.The funds were never utilised by the farmers and instead, they were siphoned-off into different bank accounts of the GSEL, ED officers added.As agricultural loans of around ₹255 crores have become non-performing assets (NPA), hence, the assets have been provisionally attached under PMLA, ED stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/farm-loans-fraud-in-maharashtra-ed-attaches-sugar-plant-assets-worth-255-crore/story-ptmYWKY3TCX8X1y2mPVRDJ.html
24-12-2020||Mumbai||BKC plot not feasible for Mumbai Metro shed: Maharashtra govt panel in Jan||While the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is eyeing the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) plot for the Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) car shed, a committee appointed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had rejected the option in January 2020, stating it would not be technically and financially feasible. The Thackeray government recently shifted the shed from Aarey Colony to Kanjurmarg, however, the Bombay high court (HC) recently ordered an interim stay on the transfer of the land as the Central government also claimed ownership of the land. The state government had in December 2019 appointed a four-member Manoj Saunik committee to look at alternative sites for the car shed. The committee studied nine plots – Backbay or reclamation behind World Trade Centre, Colaba, Kalina, BKC, Mahalaxmi, Seepz, Kanjurmarg, Dahisar, SRPF Ground and Pahadi Goregaon. However, it stated that Aarey would be the most suitable option for the car depot. Based on suggestions from citizen groups, the committee had considered bifurcating the depot into two plots (BKC and Kalina) based on the space requirements. Metro-3 requires a 25-hectare plot for its depot. However, the 98-page Saunik committee report (accessed by HT) states, “Bifurcating depot requirements in two individual plots and accommodating them in Kalina and BKC is also not possible as the tunnels in this reach are already constructed. Any change in the constructed tunnels for joining it to the depot would require dismantling of both up and down tunnels at multiple locations for making two separate connections between the two tracks; and two separate connections with the depot connector (sic).” It further states, “Moreover the cost of land will be very high and lots of BKC land is reserved for the terminal station of the ongoing bullet train project and other infrastructure development already planned above it. This proposal has dual challenges of technical feasibility and serious cost and time overruns.” The committee had stated that the land in Kanjurmarg is sub-judice and shifting the car shed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg would result in numerous technical, financial and operational difficulties apart from majorly delaying the project, which was to be partly operational by 2021. HT had earlier reported that the BKC option was also rejected in the detailed project report for Metro-3 in November 2011 and by a committee chaired by former metropolitan commissioner UPS Madan. A senior official from the state government said the government was looking at various possibilities in BKC, including the option of taking the car shed underground. The official said, “The government is keen on Kanjurmarg, considering that it will serve as a common car shed for lines 3, 4 and 6 with an integration with line 14.” While line 4 will stretch from Wadala-Kasarwadavli, line 6 will be from Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli and 14 is a proposed line from Kanjurmarg-Badlapur. The chief minister, in his address to the state on Sunday, also invited the Central government for a dialogue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bkc-plot-not-feasible-for-mumbai-metro-shed-maharashtra-govt-panel-in-jan/story-xTgqMaMUM3juwNpyTWFkxO.html
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Two Punjab ministers to meet Piyush Goyal today to push for release of rural devp fund||As the Centre has not permitted Punjab to deduct rural development fund (RDF) from the cash credit limit (CCL) released for paddy procurement that ended on November 30, two cabinet ministers from the state – Manpreet Singh Badal and Bharat Bhushan Ashu would meet Union food minister Piyush Goyal to push for the release of funds, in New Delhi on Thursday. The RDF from the sale of kharif crop (paddy) for the central pool runs into Rs. 1,250 crore, a major revenue source for the state on which development of rural Punjab depends. It also funds the state’s key expenditure such as debt waiver launched by the chief minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh and sangat darshan programs of the former CM Parkash Singh Badal. As per the state’s regulations, 3% RDF is charged on the sale of food grains, and the Centre has, for the first time, missed mentioning it on the provisional cost sheet sent to the state before procurement of paddy. “We took up the RDF release issue with the Centre numerous times, but there has been no response; so we are meeting the Union food minister tomorrow,” said Ashu, who holds the portfolio of food and civil supplies minister. He is accompanying finance minister Manpreet Badal. Ashu added that the state government was hopeful of a positive response from the central minister. On October 30, the Centre had asked the state government to give justification for RDF, to which it was replied that it is very important and crucial for the rural development. As per a provisional cost sheet sent to the Punjab government last week, for giving taxes and incidentals on paddy procurement for the current season, clearance was given for dami (commission) of Rs 46 per quintal to commission agents (arhtiyas) and 3% mandi fee, but RDF was held back, seeking justification from the state government. “RDF is very important for us, especially when the revenues from all sources have shrunk due to Covid19 pandemic. We are hopeful that the Centre will accept our plea,” added Ashu, informing that it took more than a month to get an appointment from minister Goyal who took over the ministry after the death of previous incumbent Ram Bilas Paswan. What is RDF? The tax was imposed on purchase of wheat and paddy by an act of state assembly ‘RDF Act 1987’. It was increased from 2% to 3% in 2017 when Capt Amarinder Singh took over. The fund is under the purview of the rural development board which is headed by CM as ex-officio chairman. Mandi board manages usage of RDF, which is used on building and maintaining infrastructure in rural Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-punjab-ministers-to-meet-piyush-goyal-today-to-push-for-release-of-rural-devp-fund/story-FtP6nUp08LT5W4UCfhiu8K.html
24-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: ED questions Shiv Sena MLA Sarnaik’s son in money laundering case||Enforcement Directorate (ED) officers on Wednesday questioned Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik’s son Vihang for nearly six hours in the money laundering case linked to security services giant Tops Grup, owned by Rahul Nanda.This is the second-time Vihang was questioned by the ED. Previously the central agency after raiding his premises in Mumbai and Thane last month had questioned him for several hours at ED office.Officers are now questioning him about the details on the business deals with Amit Chandole, a close associate of Sarnaik, and Tops Grup, that had surfaced during the interrogation of other suspects in the case, ED sources said.The ED had also summoned Sarnaik on Monday for the second round of questioning, however, the legislator didn’t appear before ED.Read more: Pratap Sarnaik-Topsgrup case: MMRDA denies allegations of irregularities in security contractsSarnaik and his family members have already secured relief from the Supreme Court that directed ED to not to take any coercive action against the Sarnaik’s family. ED had summoned Sarnaik’s both the sons, but only one appeared before the agency on Wednesday.In the past, ED had arrested Sarnaik’s close associate Amit Chandole and Nanda’s company’s managing director M Shashidharan. ED had stated that it appears that Tops Grup obtained a contract from Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) in collusion with Sarnaik through illegal means, by a well thought out strategy. The aim of these illegal manoeuvres was to get additional inadmissible benefit by inflating the bills at the cost of MMRDA and illegal cash gratification to Sarnaik for facilitating this scam. Against this active role and criminal conspiracy, Sarnaik received 50% profit, earned out of the said contract through Amit Chandole.The remand application of ED stated that in the year 2014, a contract was signed by TopsGrup Security Services Limited (TGSSL), with MMRDA, as per which, there were about 350 to 500 guards which were to be deployed at MMRDA sites on a monthly basis. Out of the same, only 70% of guards were actually deployed. However, the billing was done for all the guards as per contract.The MMRDA has refuted all the allegations in its say submitted to Mumbai police Economic Offenses Wing (EOW) which is also probing a case against TOPS Grup.MMRDA submitted that alleged irregularities in providing 500 security guards by (Rahul Nanda’s) Tops Grup Security Services Limited (TGSSL) are baseless. Instead, there was no 500 strength at any given time in three shifts a day, the authority said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-ed-questions-shiv-sena-mla-sarnaik-s-son-in-money-laundering-case/story-lZDRrzAB9etaSVEMK0000M.html
24-12-2020||City||Vigil up as farmers snap power supply to telecom towers in Faridkot||After members of farmer unions snapped power supply to telecom towers of a private corporate house in Araian Wala and Bhana villages of Faridkot, police have been asked to talk to the agitators and ensure that mobile connectivity is not affected. “Farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws had disrupted power supply to Jio’s telecom towers and locked it. This may lead to problems for students taking online lessons from home due to the pandemic. Exams are round the corner and any disruption would have an impact on their studies,” said additional director general of police (ADGP, law and order) Ishwar Singh while asking the district police to persuade farmers to stop such disruptions.Senior superintendent of police Swarndeep Singh said special instructions have been issued to the district police to ensure that power supply to telecom towers continue. “PCR teams will be keeping a vigil in areas where the towers are located to ensure this,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vigil-up-as-farmers-snap-power-supply-to-telecom-towers-in-faridkot/story-RZmO6rmNZhBVUcWvUoZhxN.html
24-12-2020||Mumbai||Only 171 new colleges got AICTE approval in 2020-21||The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) approved 171 new institutes in the 2020-21 academic year, marking a 138% drop compared to last year when it gave approvals to over 945 institutes across professional courses. Experts say the lower number is due to the blanket ban on private engineering and pharmacy institutes across the country, despite year-on-year seat vacancy of up to 50%.According to AICTE, almost 70% of the institutes that were approved this year are government-run whereas in the past few years, private institutes have dominated engineering and pharmacy sectors. “While originally the ban on new engineering and pharmacy institutes was supposed to be until 2022, we received complaints and decided to go lenient on proposals for government-run engineering institutes only in those states where certain districts don’t have enough colleges for students,” said Anil Sahasrabudhe, chairman, AICTE.This year, the maximum number of institutes have been approved under management programs, followed by engineering. However, under engineering programs, more than 75% of the approved institutes will be government-funded. This year, Maharashtra received approvals for seven institutes, which include five management institutes and two government-aided engineering institutes.Despite the yearly hike in management seats and institutes, experts feel the ongoing pandemic and delay in admissions process may result in professional courses seeing vacant seats this year. “In any recession or pandemic-like situation, unemployment usually goes up and this forces many youngsters to opt for higher education courses like MBA [master of business administration]. However, this year, due to the high number of uncertainties across sectors, colleges might have to brace for vacant seats because many are also unsure about being in a position to pay the annual fees,” said R K Srivastava, professor and head of Sydenham Institute of Management Studies, Research and Entrepreneurship Education (SIMSREE).Earlier this year, HT had reported that 2020-21 had seen the highest number of closures for technical institutions in the last nine years, with 179 institutes shutting down. Another 44 institutes had withdrawn their approvals for the 2021 academic year and 762 professional institutes had applied for reduction of seats. All this brought down the total number of seats for professional courses across the country by over 2.63 lakh in 2020-21 compared 2019-20.Under AICTE’s blanket ban policy, not only were new institutes banned but additional seats in traditional engineering areas of mechanical, electrical, civil and electronics have also been banned. The committee further recommended that AICTE instead focus on existing institutes introducing undergraduate engineering programs in new-age courses such as artificial intelligence (AI), blockchain, machine learning, data science and analytics, cloud computing and robotics. Since the two-year ban on new engineering institutes was implemented starting 2020, several institutes have sought permission to start new branches in these areas.“Several branches of engineering including civil and mechanical are attracting very few students of late due to the few job offers they get. The software industry, on the other hand, is continuously evolving and thus attracting good jobs and students,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal, Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, in Bandra. He added that reduced seats in redundant branches and giving boost to new dimensions in the field are being welcomed by engineering aspirants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-171-new-colleges-got-aicte-approval-in-2020-21/story-b0vFs2F21lW28ufBAQBNML.html
24-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai court dismisses Kangana Ranaut’s plea for interim relief against BMC notice||The city civil court on Wednesday dismissed a notice of motion filed by actress Kangana Ranaut for interim relief against the notice issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for unauthorised alterations made at her residence in Khar in 2018.BMC had asked her to remove the part of the construction which was unauthorised and alterations are done in the flat without taking due permission of the corporation.Read more: Bombay HC asks petitioner to justify claim of actor Kangana Ranaut exceeding her constitutional rightThe actress had challenged the notice before the city civil court, Dindoshi, in January 2019. Besides, the actress had pleaded the court to restrain the officers of the corporation from demolition work for the removal of unauthorised construction.The actress had alleged that the notice issued by the corporation was vague regarding the exact nature of alleged unauthorised construction.The corporation maintained that there were no irregularities while issuing notice to the actress. The lawyer of the corporation argued that the actress had carried unauthorised work beyond the plan and no requisite permission has been obtained from the corporation.The court had, in January 2019, ordered to maintain status quo till the hearing of the notice of motion for restraining demolition. However, after hearing both sides, the court rejected her notice of motion and adjourned the matter for further hearing on her primary suit in February 2021.The court, later, on request of Ranaut’s lawyer, granted her time of six weeks for her to approach the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-dismisses-kangana-ranaut-s-plea-for-interim-relief-against-bmc-notice/story-BPhm1O6JP28DHHfQ4xemCN.html
24-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: SSC, HSC supplementary exam results declared||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) declared the results of Class 10 (SSC) and Class 12 (HSC) supplementary exams at 1pm on Wednesday. In the SSC exams, the state recorded a 32.60% result, a jump of about 10% points from that of 2019. Mumbai division which also consists of Thane, Raigad and Palghar recorded 29.88% result also witnessing a similar rise in the pass percentage. This year, a total of 41,397 students had appeared for the exams from the state. Of these, 12,646 were from the Mumbai region alone. In the HSC exams, the state recorded 18.41% result, a dip of about 5 percent points as compared to 2019. A similar trend was seen in the Mumbai division with 16.42% students passing the exam this year. A total of 69,274 students had appeared for the exams from the state of which 22,700 were from Mumbai division. The education department started supplementary exams in 2014 to ensure that students who fail the regular board exams, that are conducted in March, do not have to repeat an entire year. While the exams are usually conducted in the month of July-August, this year due to Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown, the exams were held in November-December. While SSC exams were conducted between November 20 and December 5, 2020, HSC exams were held between November 20 and December 10 across the state. This year, the number of students taking the exam had reduced by 80% and 47% for the SSC and HSC exams respectively. Teachers said that with the fear around the virus, very few students who failed the exams ended up filling forms for the supplementary exams. “There might be more applicants for the March series exam (which are planned post May 2021 due to the Covid-19 outbreak) as students would want to wait until cases reduce,” said the principal of a civic school in the western suburbs. Students who have cleared the SSC exam can apply for the additional admission rounds for first year junior college which are likely to be declared soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-ssc-hsc-supplementary-exam-results-declared/story-zIhE8UxT1WeBhvqhRuzvPN.html
24-12-2020||City||HSRPs: Govt wants unique numbers for each complaint||New Delhi: Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Wednesday said he has asked stakeholders to provide unique reference numbers to complaints related to affixation of high security registration plates (HSRPs) and colour coded stickers and resolve the grievances within 3-4 working days.The minister in a meeting with officials of the transport department, Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), HSRP manufacturers and suppliers, Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) and major original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), also directed for streamlining the overall grievance mechanism.“The transport department has been asked to streamline the overall grievance mechanism. He said that each grievance must be assigned a unique reference number and its receipt should be acknowledged within the next 24 hours. It should also be ensured that the grievance is resolved within the next 3-4 working days,” Gahlot said. Vehicle owners can apply through a single window for both the HSRP and colour coded sticker by logging www.siam.in or www.bookmyhsrp.com. For any grievance or queries, a user can call on 1800 1200 201 or write to hsrpquery@siam.in, grievance@bookmyhsrp.com and homegrievance@bookmyhsrp.com.Buoyed by the huge number of complaints from owners of vehicles registered in other states, the minister asked transport officials and SIAM to come up with a solution “as soon as possible” so that vehicles registered in other states can also apply in Delhi. The state transport department has been running a drive to challan and impose a fine of Rs 5500 on vehicle owners violating mandatory HSRP and color coded sticker norm. There are many vehicles in the city that are registered in other states where HSRP and sticker affixation are yet to take off. “We are exempting vehicles registered in other states and two-wheelers from the ongoing drive for now,” a transport official said. A statement from the transport department said that SIAM has agreed to resolve all issues before the next meeting scheduled on December 30.“SIAM has also been directed to scale up and strengthen home fitment facility so that public does not have to step out during the pandemic to get their HSRP affixed,” it said.Transport unions such as the state transport authority (STA) operators’s Ekta Manch, however, have demanded postponement of implementation of the HSRP affixation and sticker norms for at least one year. Shyamlal Gola, general secretary of the Union, said they have sought an appointment with minster Gahlot and are demanding slashing of the fine of Rs 5,500 as well. (Ends)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hsrps-govt-wants-unique-numbers-for-each-complaint/story-pHVRQhE6eIMpAxImoUqx4M.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||North MCD approves loans for 8,000 street vendors||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has approved applications of loans of ₹10,000 for over 8,000 street vendors under the Prime Minister Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) Yojna. The civic body has proposed to provide small non-guarantee loans to nearly 15,000 street vendors to help them build their livelihood. The civic body has also established a special camp at Dussehra ground in Mukherjee Nagar to facilitate applicants for the loan process. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash on Wednesday also visited the SVANidhi Yojna camp to take stock of the enrolment process. According to civic officials, the north corporation has received 11,267 applications so far for the loan, of which 8,819 have been approved, while 631 are pending. The remaining 1,817 applications have been rejected on various grounds. Prakash said the PM SVANidhi scheme intends to facilitate collateral-free working capital loans of up to ₹10,000 of one-year tenure, to help vendors resume their businesses in urban areas, including surrounding peri-urban and rural areas. He said the scheme intends to benefit nearly five million street vendors across the country but the local body aims to target 15,000 people by the end of the year “We are proactively working for the scheme and would achieve our target of 15,000 by December 31, 2020. We are organising camps in each of the wards to facilitate street vendors specially in the weekly bazaar areas to assist the vendors in filling up letter of recommendation applications and loan applications. To spread awareness among street vendors about the scheme, special arrangements of public address systems, distribution of pamphlets and banners have also been made,” he said. The mayor added that Aadhaar enrolment and updation centres have been set-up in every zone to link mobile numbers with Aadhaar as the generated one-time pin (OTP) is sent to the cellphone number linked to the Aadhaar card.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-mcd-approves-loans-for-8-000-street-vendors/story-p3FlqQOMM93FA2TvB0iNeN.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||AAP offers legal assistance to farmers seeking action against derogatory remarks by BJP leaders||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said on Wednesday that it will provide legal assistance and support to farmer groups across states willing to file court cases against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders for allegedly using derogatory remarks against those protesting against the contentious farm laws. The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless” and hit back, saying that the AAP is trying to “divert attention from the plight of farmers in Delhi”. “Leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party have at different times described the farmers as terrorists, anti-nationals, goons, agents of Pakistan and China, etc. The farmers now want justice. It is evident that the entire BJP is strategically working to destroy and discredit the farmer movement with their relentless abuse,” said Raghav Chadha, national spokesperson of the AAP. Chadha, who is also MLA of Delhi’s Rajendra Nagar assembly segment, said: “ They now want to knock at the doors of the court for justice. Several farmers have reached out to the Aam Aadmi Party for help, for seeking justice. They want to avenge their insult. The AAP vows to extend its whole-hearted support and legal assistance to farmers across the country in this regard.” But leader of opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said, “It is a baseless allegation. No BJP leader has abused farmers. Parties like the AAP, on the other hand, have been misleading farmers on the issue. With this new gimmick, they are trying to divert attention from their own failures as a government in the Capital and plight of farmers in Delhi who still have to pay road tax on tractors, higher power charges for irrigation, and fail to sell their agricultural produce at the minimum support prices. I have asked questions on these issues in the special Assembly session last week which chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has yet not answered.” Meanwhile, a group of AAP supporters protested outside the residence of MP Ramesh Bidhuri in Lodhi Estate on Wednesday, accusing him of using derogatory remarks against protesting farmers groups and demanding an apology. “..BJP MP Ramesh Bidhuri crossed all limits and abused the farmers. He must apologise and the central government must roll back the three contentious farm laws,” said AAP MLA Atishi, who led the protest. Ramesh Bidhuri said, “This is a totally baseless allegation. The AAP leaders twisted my words. What the AAP is doing to me and the BJP should be seen as an act of defamation and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has a record of apologising for such instances in the past. Right now, he is just trying to score brownie points by misleading farmers on the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-offers-legal-assistance-to-farmers-seeking-action-against-derogatory-remarks-by-bjp-leaders/story-59AT81OrQ6gJSMwI6g6WIJ.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||DDA to offer 1,210 flats in its new housing scheme in January||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Wednesday approved the proposal to launch a new housing scheme next year in January wherein 1,210 flats, mostly in high and middle income category, will be put on sale. This was approved along with other important proposals such as development control norms for unauthorised colonies and modification in the transit oriented development policy. The proposals were approved in a meeting, chaired by Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, on Wednesday.Delhi L-G tweeted, “Chaired meeting of Delhi Development Authority with VC, DDA @official_dda and other members. After detailed deliberations following key proposals were approved by the Authority: Development Control Norms for Unauthorised Colonies; Housing Scheme 2021, modification in Transit Oriented Development (TOD) Policy & Regulation, change of land use for TOD project at Trilokpuri, modification in UBBLs-2016 to promote Ease of Doing Business, disposal of Group Housing plots by e -auction.”Of the 1210 flats, 230 are high income group (HIG) flats in Dwarka and Vasant Kunj, 704 middle income group flats in Jasola and Dwarka and remaining in Manglapuri in Dwarka for economically weaker section category. A senior DDA official said that the 2021 housing scheme will be launched in January next year.After three unsuccessful housing schemes, the land-owning agency is hoping for a good response to its new housing scheme as these flats are spacious and located in areas which are well connected to the rest of the city.Last year, the DDA had put 18,000 flats, but had to reduce the number of flats in the scheme from to 10,294, as it didn’t get the desired response. The land-owning agency had received 45,012 applications for its flats, but it could sell only 8,438 flats—488 HIG, 1,555 in MIG, 5,172 in low income group (LIG) and 1,223 EWS category flats--- of which close to 6,000 flats have been returned, according to a senior official aware of the development.A year after the Centre started the process to give ownership rights to residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies in Delhi, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has formulated the development control norms for these colonies. In a meeting chaired by Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday, the DDA gave preliminary approval to the development control norms for unauthorised colonies.According to senior DDA officials, the norms will pave the way for planned development in these colonies. Apart from this, several key proposals such as housing scheme for 2021, modifications in the Transit Oriented Development policy etc were also approved in the meeting.Last year, the Centre had passed the National Capital territory of Delhi (Recognition of Property Rights of Residents in Unauthorised Colonies) Act, 2019, to confer ownership rights to residents in unauthorised colonies in Delhi. The Centre had directed the DDA to formulate norms for planned development in these colonies to improve the existing infrastructure.The DDA has revised the TOD policy and identified 12 nodes (locations) which will be developed as per the TOD norms wherein development will be done around the transit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dda-to-offer-1-210-flats-in-its-new-housing-scheme-in-january/story-NroiooC191VtElz5WyPpbM.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||Cabinet approves ordinance to protect unauthorised colonies||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved an ordinance, extending protection to unauthorised colonies, JJ clusters and constructions in Delhi’s rural areas built on agriculture land for another three years, Union minster Prakash Javadekar said on Wednesday.The NCT of Delhi (Special Provisions) Amendment Ordinance 2020 is an extension of a similar law first passed in 2011. When the 2011 law had expired, the government had in 2014 enacted the law again to grant a fresh extension.Since the law re-enacted in 2017 was ending soon and there was no winter session of Parliament, an ordinance was approved to extend the protection for another three years (till December 2023), Javadekar told reporters after the Cabinet meeting.The minister also said that the ordinance would have to be signed by the President before it comes into force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cabinet-approves-ordinance-to-protect-unauthorised-colonies/story-HACpQeyEryDI15PAWsZfSK.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality stays ‘severe’, IMD forecasts further drop in temperature this week||Air quality in the national capital continued to remain in the ‘severe’ zone for the second consecutive day on Wednesday as low winds and falling temperatures kept pollution levels high. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast a marginal improvement in the air quality on Thursday, but the air quality index (AQI) is likely to remain in the early end of the ‘severe’ zone. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that Delhi’s overall AQI on Wednesday was 433, up from 418 on Tuesday. In view of the deteriorating air quality in Delhi, the CPCB on Wednesday held a review meeting where they announced a slew of precautionary measures to prevent any further rise in pollution levels, including order hot-mix plants and stone crushers in Delhi to stay shut till January 2. The pollution monitoring body also ordered agencies concerned to increase the frequency of mechanised sweeping in all major roads and also directed agencies to step up dust mitigation measures. Senior CPCB officials said that even though the overall AQI has been in the ‘severe’ zone for two consecutive days now, but measures under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) will not be put in place in unless the levels of PM2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) consistently remain above the 300ug/m3 mark and PM10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres) remains above the 500ug/m3 mark for 48 hours. At 7pm on Wednesday, it was 17 hours since PM 2.5 levels were above the 300ug/m3 mark, but PM10 levels were below the 500ug/m3 mark. Scientists said the pollution levels were higher because of low wind speed and the temperature, which was trapping the pollutants closer to the ground. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring and research centre, said that the wind speed did not pick up during the day which led to the accumulation of pollution particles. “The wind speed was largely calm through Wednesday, which led to an accumulation of pollutants closer to the surface. The forecast says that the AQI will remain in the severe zone on Thursday too,” Soni said. Soni added, “The prominent pollutant has been PM 2.5, the contribution of larger particles has been less, in the pollution over the last few days, has been.” He added that there is a possibility of marginal improvement in wind speed from December 25, which bring down the high levels of pollution. Meanwhile, the temperature will also continue to drop over the coming days in Delhi and the neighbouring cities. IMD recordings show that on Wednesday the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official recording for the city, was 4 degree Celsius. This was four degrees below the season’s normal. The maximum temperature was 23.3 degree Celsius, two degrees above normal. At the Palam observatory, the minimum temperature was 7.1 degree Celsius, while in Ayanagar, it was 5 degree Celsius. IMD scientists said the minimum temperature is likely to remain the same on Thursday and start falling again from Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-s-air-quality-stays-severe-imd-forecasts-further-drop-in-temperature-this-week/story-3oqbDJLOZh5bmNvWhPV3EJ.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||Police prosecute six in central Delhi for causing noise pollution||The Delhi Police in the central district, recently armed with sound-level meters, have prosecuted six people causing noise pollution since Sunday.Sanjay Bhatia, deputy commissioner of police (central), said that while one such device was issued to all assistant commissioners of police a few weeks ago, the central district has started measuring the violation of the sound levels and has started prosecuting violators. Officers said this is the first time the city police have started using meters and booking people for this violation. The first person to be booked was a disc jockey in Chandni Mahal on Sunday who was allegedly playing loud music. “When we checked his sound level using the device, we found it to be 145.55 decibels,” Bhatia said.A motorcycle rider who had modified his vehicle’s silencer was another booked for noise pollution the same day. The DCP said the modified silencer’s noise was found to be 113.11dB of sound. Then, police near Jama Masjid booked an auto driver who was allegedly playing loud music in his vehicle at a level of 108.31 decibels. They were all booked under the Delhi Police Act and the Environment (Protection) Act, the officer said, adding that they were fined ₹5,000, but handed no jail term. Police said that as per law, there are different noise limits in separate zones during the day and night. Daytime is regarded as 6am-10pm, while 10pm-6am is considered nightime. Industrial areas have a limit of 75 decibels during the day and 70 at night. In commercial areas, the limit is 65 decibels during daytime and 55 at night, while in residential areas it is 55 and 45 respectively. And in silence zones, mainly around hospitals, schools and religious places it is 50 in the day time and 40 at nights. Experts said sounds louder than the prescribed limits can have serious health implications ranging from deafness to heart conditions to sleep disorder.While the DCP said it was the first time the Delhi Police has used this device, the traffic police have been issuing fines for pressure horns and loud music for a long time. “While pressure horns are easy to identify without a device, we were issuing those challans depending on how we manually perceived the sound levels,” Bhatia said. The officer said that the prosecutions using these devices will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-prosecute-six-in-central-delhi-for-causing-noise-pollution/story-bQzgeDvjWW6kmqCrQ2FeYL.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||Six districts in Delhi had higher positivity rate than city’s average during first 19 days of Dec: Govt tells high court||At least six of Delhi’s 11 districts reported a positivity rate higher than the city’s average of 3.25% during the first 19 days of December, according to data submitted by the state government in the Delhi high court. The highest average positivity rate was reported by northwest district at 4.75%, followed by southwest district (4.00%) and New Delhi district (3.51%), the data shows. The highest daily positivity rate reported during this period was in southwest district on December 1, when it saw a positivity of 7.99%. In the same period, Delhi’s daily positivity rate dipped from 6.85% to 1.30%. On Wednesday, Delhi saw a positivity rate of 0.99% — the lowest since the Delhi government releasing regular data on cases and tests. In comparison, the national average positivity rate stood at about 6.1%. Positivity rate or the proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested depicts the ongoing spread of the infection. Experts believe the spread of the infection to be under control when a positivity rate of 5% or less is maintained in an area for more than two weeks. The data was submitted to the high court on a petition seeking to ramp up testing in the capital. During the hearing on Dec 14, the bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad asked the Delhi government to ramp up testing in the districts that had seen a surge in the number of cases. “In the status report, you should indicate the districts in Delhi where number of cases have gone up. We expect you to increase the testing in those particular areas in districts where rate infection is higher. Doing random testing is one part, but if the focus is not on those particular areas, that won’t help,” the bench said. The court wanted to know the current situation while also seeking to know whether the government had started a fresh sero-survey. As per the data, northwest Delhi, which had the highest positivity rate, saw an increase of 1,863 between the average number of tests in the first week of December and the third week of December. For New Delhi district, the increase was of 1,468 between the first week and third week. As for southwest district, where the positivity rate was the second highest, the average number of tests dipped in week two and went up by only 101 between the first and third weeks, as per the data. “It is very encouraging to see that the positivity rate in Delhi has been going down consistently, especially since the government has increased the number of more accurate RT-PCR [reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction] tests. However, this does not mean that the government can scale down the number of tests. If the current number of tests is maintained and the positivity rate continues to remain low, it will instil confidence in people that the number of infections have gone down and to keep an eye out for future increase in the number of cases,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/six-districts-in-delhi-had-higher-positivity-rate-than-city-s-average-during-first-19-days-of-dec-govt-tells-high-court/story-XUyeSh19KA5y6QhDnGySzN.html
24-12-2020||Mumbai||Air India may refurbish seats of two Boeing 777 aircraft||Air India may refurbish seats of two of its Boeing 777 aircraft with seats pulled out from the two newly-acquired B777-300ER, which have been converted into VVIP aircraft. This task will be performed at Air India’s Nagpur maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) facility. Sources confirmed that though the work is yet to begin, the seats have arrived at the airline’s Nagpur facility from the United States of America (USA). In 2018, Air India had received two brand new B777s as part of a 2005 aircraft order. These were later converted and used for VVIP travel. The decade-old B747s that had previously been used for VVIP travel were converted back to regular seating and used in commercial operations.Airline sources said the de-configuration of these two aircraft is likely to be carried out soon by Air India’s Nagpur MRO facility. “This will help the airline [which had complaints for poor seat quality in these aircraft] to refurbish two of its old B777 aircraft,” a source said.A Nagpur-based source from Air India said over 650 seats have arrived at the Nagpur facility and work would commence this month. “It has been delayed due to some immediate issues that had to be taken care of on an immediate basis,” the official said. Air India did not respond to queries on this matter.The newly-acquired Boeing 777-300ER duo with the call sign Air India One landed in Delhi in October this year. Senior officials of Air India, security officers and senior government officials had visited USA in August to accept the delivery of the VVIP aircraft. The aircraft’s interior design was modified recently by Boeing and includes customisations. Air India One is used exclusively by the President, Vice President and Prime Minister.President Ram Nath Kovind boarded the inaugural flight of the Air India One-B777 aircraft on November 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ai-may-refurbish-seats-of-two-boeing-777-aircraft/story-idSz3yL5zkdl1GFMR4kDsK.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Positivity rate in Delhi falls below 1%||The national capital on Wednesday recorded a Covid-19 test positivity rate lower than 1% — the first time it achieved the milestone since the state government has started releasing regular data on the number of cases and tests, even as it added fewer than 1,000 new infections for the third straight day.Delhi reported 871 cases of the coronavirus disease on Wednesday, with over 87,000 tests conducted — a positivity rate of 0.99%. This is also the first time Delhi has added less than 1,000 cases for three straight days, since the city started seeing over 1,000 cases a day for the first time on May 28. At that time, the city was testing between 5,000 and 7,000 samples a day. Experts regard the positivity rate as a crucial metric to gauge the spread of an infection, and the World Health Organization recommends that a region with a comprehensive testing programme should maintain a positivity rate below 5% for two weeks, for an outbreak to be considered under control.“Yesterday [Tuesday], the positivity rate dropped to 1.14%, which is the lowest in eight months. And, today [Wednesday] we have seen that it has dropped to below 1%, which is probably the lowest in the country,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain during a press briefing on Wednesday. In comparison, the national average positivity rate stands at about 6.1%. Don’t need to vaccinate kids before sending them to school: Jain Health minister Jain on Wednesday also said it is not necessary to vaccinate children before sending them to schools. “It is not necessary to vaccinate the children before sending them to schools. The aim is to prevent the circulation of the virus in the community and to protect the vulnerable. In the first phase, the vaccine will be given to healthcare workers, front line workers, and those above the age of 50, or those who have comorbidities. The government is working on collecting the data of these persons,” he said. About 300 million people across the three priority groups were recommended to receive the vaccine first by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC). The Delhi government had insisted on keeping the schools and colleges in the state shut till a vaccine became available. This is mainly to prevent the children from carrying the virus back home and infecting the vulnerable members of the family, experts say. As for the new UK variant of the virus, the minister advised that people maintain mask discipline to prevent the spread of the infection. “Scientists say that the new UK variant spreads faster. However, the coronavirus is known to mutate over time and whether it is a UK variant, or the one from China, or the one from US, wearing a mask can prevent any of the strains from infecting a person. So, I urge people to continue to wear a mask. It was with the help of the people from Delhi that we have been able to control the spread of the infection,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-positivity-rate-in-delhi-falls-below-1/story-vejVJNdyWKb2P8jSlEEvNN.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt expedites process to launch cloud-based health info system||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal directed the health department to finalise the tender for a cloud-based health information management system (HIMS) at the earliest, during a review meeting on Wednesday. He was informed that the vendor is likely to be selected by February next year, with the system to be implemented by August next year. The central government has also announced an ambitious National Digital Health Mission that will digitise all patient records, where the ID will act “like a health care account” where a patient’s entire medical history will be available.The government plans to connect all its hospitals, dispensaries, polyclinics and mohalla clinics digitally. The comprehensive system will have a mobile app as well as a 24x7 call centre to help patients with health related information, seeking consultation and other assistance. The centralised call centre will provide two levels of help — the first where an operator will receive people’s calls and messages and provide information and the second where doctors and experts will provide appointments based on the problem or immediately provide solutions for an emergency case. The centralised centre is likely to have 45 seats, with five being for peak hours. There will be three shifts for people working in the centre: from 6am to 2pm, 2pm to 10pm, and 10am to 6pm. A QR code card provided to all Delhi residents will store basic demographic and health information of all residents, and help the government map all people eligible for its schemes. The HIMS will help the government deliver health care by bringing all patient-care services, hospital administration, budgeting and planning under the system. The system will initially connect the Delhi government health facilities, followed by other government health facilities, and will finally be extended to the private sector as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-expedites-process-to-launch-cloud-based-health-info-system/story-HgEu4thEATltlKhdw5NewM.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||Formulate SOPs for Covid complications: HC to Delhi govt||The Delhi high court on Wednesday directed the Delhi government to formulate standard operating procedures (SOPs) to deal with post Covid-19 complications and to ensure that facilities are available to test and quarantine travellers from the UK where a new strain of Covid-19 has emerged.The petitioner, Rakesh Malhotra, a lawyer, told a bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad, that there should be some SOPs for managing post Covid-19 complications in those who have recovered from the infection.The bench noted that Malhotra, who had been infected by Covid-19, continues to face serious health issues.“The expert committee already constituted by the Delhi government shall examine the aspect and come up with a SOP, which will be given wide publicity,” the bench said.“Keeping in mind the recent decision of the Central government of suspending flights from UK to India till December 31 due to an apprehension of transmission of a coronavirus variant that can spread very fast and the fact that a large number of persons had flown into Delhi before suspension of flights from UK, Delhi government shall ensure prompt and adequate testing and follow up in respect of those found positive with all seriousness to avoid another spate of infection in the city,” the bench directed.During the hearing, the Delhi government’s counsel filed a status report which says that in a meeting held on December 21 by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), it was decided that the “representative testing” shall be done with the focus on pockets where the positivity rate is more.According to the status report filed by the Delhi government, as of December 19 the positivity rate was below 2 per cent in all districts except north-west where it was 2.12 per cent. It also detailed the district-wise positivity rate which had court had asked them on the last date.“The positivity rate in Delhi between December 11 and 20 shows that it has climbed down from 2.64 to 1.29. It may be emphasized that while following the representing testing, suggested by DDMA, Delhi government shall ensure that testing through RT-PCR remains higher than through RAT,” the court said in its order.The matter would be now heard on January 14, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/formulate-sops-for-covid-complications-hc-to-delhi-govt/story-r6exWciUQGSq2kHrRcZU6O.html
24-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt goes all out to trace UK returnees, test them||With no new passengers from the United Kingdom (UK) arriving in Delhi, the city’s district administrations on Wednesday went all out to track and trace those who came from the UK over the past four weeks. A senior official in the revenue department said around 14,000 passengers arrived at the Delhi airport since November 25 of which only around 1,500 are Delhi residents. “The number of Delhi-based passengers is not more than 1,500. On Tuesday, when we were first asked to track passengers who arrived over the past two weeks, the number of Delhi-based passengers of the 7,000 total arrivals was 1,246 only. Numbers and addresses of the 1,500 passengers are still being given out by the airport authorities which is immediately being relayed to the districts,” said a senior revenue official. HT reached out to all the 11 districts of Delhi of which five responded. As on Wednesday evening, these five districts had identified and tracked a total of 357 passengers who flew into the Capital from the UK since November 25. The south east district which covers areas such as New Friends Colony, Jor Bagh, Lajpat Nagar, Greater Kailash, Nizamuddin and Chittaranjan Park had 94 passengers who came from the UK during the said period — the highest from among the districts of which data was available.“RT-PCR tests of most of the 94 passengers identified have been conducted and results are awaited. While tracking these people, we found that one passenger who arrived from the UK on December 12 had later tested positive after six days in Delhi on December 18. So, we immediately sent the Covid-19 positive person to the dedicated ward built at Lok Nayak Hospital. This ward is meant for only those passengers who came from the UK. The person’s sample has been sent for genome sequencing as well and result of whether it is the new strain of coronavirus is expected in 3-4 days,” said a senior official of the southeast district on condition of anonymity.The contacts of the person have opted for the paid quarantine facility at Aloft Hotel in Aerocity which has been designated for Covid-19 quarantine by the New Delhi district administration, the official said. For contacts of any UK returnee testing positive, the government’s free institutional quarantine facility has been created at Terapanth Bhawan in South Delhi’s Chhatarpur area. After the Central government released a fresh standard operating procedure (SOP) for tracking, testing and isolating UK returnees, Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev issued a fresh order on Wednesday asking all stakeholders in Delhi to ensure “strict compliance” to the guidelines. “This variant has an unusually large number of genetic changes particularly in the spike protein and therefore, requires enhanced epidemiological surveillance, enhanced containment and other measures to effectively tackle the challenge,” read the chief secretary’s order seen by HT. The New Delhi district said it has identified 74 passengers so far of which RT-PCR results of 46 persons arrived till Wednesday evening and all tested negative.The east district said it traced 55 UK returnees in its area of which Covid-19 results of 15 had arrived and all were negative. The tracking and testing process of UK returnees which began from Tuesday, however, is still on and was mired with some errors or confusion on day one, officials on condition of anonymity said. In some cases, it is the alertness of the passengers which is preventing a possible spread of the new strain of the virus.“One of the five UK returnees who tested positive at the IGI airport on Tuesday was from the east district. The person was taken to Safdarjung hospital. But there was some miscommunication and Safdarjung hospital released him prescribing home isolation. Then the alert Covid-19 passenger himself came into the government’s Arogya hospital in east district and that is how he came under the city’s Covid surveillance system. He was later shifted to the dedicated ward in Lok Nayak hospital on Tuesday night itself,” said a senior health official. The west district said it has identified 67 passengers who flew in from December 6 and that the number will increase further as they trace back to November 25. “It is not an easy task. Of the 67 passengers, we have been able to trace 60. The remaining 7 are all international residents with addresses of Delhi. Upon visiting the address, we find they are not there or have gone to some other state. Of the 60 people, samples of 42 passengers have been picked up and results of 17 have come. All are negative so far,” said a senior official of the west district. Similarly, the south west district had a list of 89 passengers, but it could track and trace only 67 due to the same problem. Of the 67, RT-PCR tests of 32 were done as on Wednesday evening and all were negative. Officials of the south west district said many passengers end up arguing with medical teams over getting RT-PCR tests done at a government facility.“In some cases, people are saying that we got RT-PCR tests done after arrival through private laboratories in Delhi as well, so there is no need to get it done again. We explain it to them that getting an RT-PCr test done within a day or two of arrival does not necessarily mean they might not have the infection as the virus takes at least five days to be noticed in the RT-PCR test. So, we are convincing them to undergo the test. If the test has been conducted a day or two ago, that still makes sense,” said member of the surveillance team in south west district. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the government is alert and responding responsibly. “We are alert and watchful at our end. People who have arrived here from the UK in the last several days are being rigorously traced and tested for slightest of Covid-like symptoms.” “A team has been made and house-to-house tracing is being done... they (UK returnees) are being advised self-isolation too,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-goes-all-out-to-trace-uk-returnees-test-them/story-r6AWc8jUwnQsnocztYO2LL.html
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Domestic help rapes 5-year-old in Ludhiana, arrested||A 40-year-old domestic help was arrested on Wednesday for raping his employee’s five-year-old daughter. The accused has been identified as Rajiv, a native of Uttar Pradesh.The victim’s grandmother stated in her complaint that the incident took place in the wee hours of Tuesday. She said that she heard her granddaughter scream, but when she went to look for her, she wasn’t with her mother.They searched the house and found the accused raping the child. The victim’s mother raised the alarm and tired to nab Rajiv, but he managed to escape. The child was rushed to the hospital where she is being treated.Soon after receiving the complaint, Dakha police registered a case under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 4 and 6 of the POCSO Act and arrested the accused.The accused is a father of four and was working at the victim’s house for the last few years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/domestic-help-rapes-5-year-old-in-ludhiana-arrested/story-cYJDfB43pO37YPfDKLJ3gO.html
24-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG planning to construct an indoor stadium in Sector 23||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is planning to construct an indoor sports stadium in Sector 23, opposite Palam Vihar.As per MCG officials, the indoor stadium will have facilities for sports such as badminton, table tennis, boxing, wrestling and kabaddi, among others.The MCG has already got an approval from its finance and contract committee (F&CC) for the project and work on preparing a detailed project report (DPR) has started.The project is part of MCG’s bigger objective of establishing a sports stadium in each of its four zones. Sector 23 falls under MCG’s Zone-2.“We have already got clearance from the F&CC on the matter. The project will cost us around ₹2.5 crore and the stadium will be entirely centrally air-conditioned,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.The official further said that as per the plan, a medical room will also be established inside the stadium for ensuring basic first aid to the athletes.Among the key points that the DPR will address is the parking facility and source of electricity. MCG officials said that they are exploring the option of installing solar panels on top of the stadium that will help in the running of the stadium lights, central air conditioning system, and other electricity equipment.MCG officials said that it will take them around three months to compile the DPR and subsequently tenders for the project will be floated.During a house meeting in August 2018, the MCG approved an agenda for constructing a sports stadium in each of its four zones. In another house meeting in September last year, MCG officials disclosed that, as per their planning branch’s report, a city needs a stadium measuring at least 10 acres to cater for a population size of 300,000-500,000.The report further highlighted that the city’s population is projected to increase to 4.2 million by 2031 and, overall, the city needs eight stadiums to cater to the needs of the residents.The city has two stadiums — Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 38 and Nehru Stadium near Civil Lines.In MCG’s own master plan, areas in sectors 9, 23, 64, 72, 89, 91, and 102 have been identified as potential locations where stadiums can be constructed.“Sports is a key part of any city. To facilitate in this endeavour, MCG is constantly looking to develop infrastructure so that residents have an option for recreational activities while athletes can also use it to further hone their skills,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-planning-to-construct-an-indoor-stadium-in-sector-23/story-5hd4jXzZjp5ErN8En0btNP.html
24-12-2020||Gurugram||HSVP gets approval for auto market in Sector 10||After a long delay, the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has finally got approval for setting up an auto market in Sector 10 of the city. The project will be developed over 32 acres of land, which is free of encroachment and it will have shops and repair areas for vehicles. The market will have bays for large and small vehicles, where these can repaired without causing any traffic congestion, said HSVP officials. Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP, said that they have got an in-principal approval for the auto market and the broad contours of the project have been finalised. This will help in executing the project in a short time, said Yadav. “There would be shops for auto parts owners, workshops and other such services in the market. Adequate space will be made available so that the roads are not encroached on. The revised plan for the market has been submitted by department of town and country planning and it is being sent to headquarters for approval,” said Yadav. The market will have a single entry and exit and the roads will be of 24 metres and 18 metres in width. It is being designed in such a manner that vehicles can move with ease, said officials. The market will also be self-sustaining with adequate amenities so that there is minimum impact on the adjoining residential areas, they added. Yadav said that they have identified auto shops and spare parts owners on Sheetla Mata Road, Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road and Old Jail Complex, who will be initially given an opportunity to own shops in the auto market. “The presence of so many shops and workshops on these roads leads to congestion. Shifting to the auto market will help in reducing these problems,” said Yadav. The department, however, still has not figured out the rate at which these shops would be allotted to the auto traders but it is expected that they would be given an incentive in price to ensure that they shift to the market. The auto market in Gurugram has been delayed by almost two decades and the project was originally planned to come up on a 55-acre plot in Sector 10. It remained stuck due to encroachment and litigation, said officials. The issue has been raised by CAG in its report on 2015 and it was also raised subsequently in the state assembly. Yadav, however, said that this time the plan was concrete and would be executed on the ground in next six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-gets-approval-for-auto-market-in-sector-10/story-tNiC5BN2HGESHcT42BrI0O.html
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Buddha Nullah pollution : Ludhiana MC ropes in students to spread awareness||With an aim to discourage residents from dumping solid waste in the Buddha Nullah, the municipal corporation (MC) has roped in NCC/NSS cadets from different colleges to conduct a door-to-door awareness campaign in the 16 wards falling in the vicinity of the nullah.The NCC cadets will also get an undertaking signed by residents that they will not dump the solid waste in the nullah. Puran Singh, state project director, Swachh Bharat Mission, and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting with principals of seven colleges on Wednesday and asked them to submit a list of students who can participate in the campaign. The participating colleges included SCD Government College, Government Polytechnic College, Rishi Nagar; Arya College, SDP College for Women, Kamla Lohtia SD College, Government ITI and Government College for Girls. “We have identified 16 wards which fall in the vicinity of the nullah and a 15-day awareness drive will be taken up. We will also make sure that 100% door-to-door collection of waste is done in the wards,” said Puran Singh.MC has already deployed 60 swachhta monitors at the 14- km long stretch of the nullah to stop residents from dumping waste.  MC to take campaign to social mediaSabharwal said MC will also upload videos and pictures of awareness drives on social networking sites and applications to reach out to the public at large. Also, videos will be uploaded on YouTube.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/buddha-nullah-pollution-ludhiana-mc-ropes-in-students-to-spread-awareness/story-2pjD5pR88JJlOBulJYJaGM.html
24-12-2020||Pune||Backlog results for HSC and SSC declared||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Wednesday declared the backlog student result of State Secondary Certificate (SSC) Class 10 and Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) Class 12. The state SSC passing percentage is 32.60 per cent and state HSC passing percentage is 18.41 per cent. The backlog HSC board exams were held from November 20 to December 10. A total of 69,274 students registered for these exams this year in various streams Arts, Commerce, Science and Vocational. Of which 12,751 students cleared with passing percentage of 18.41 per cent. In Pune division, a total of 12,869 students were registered, 12,835 students appeared for the exams and 1,917 students got passed in the exams with 14.94 per cent passing percentage. The highest passing percentage in the state was of Aurangabad division with 27.63 per cent. The SSC backlog exams were held from November 20 to December 5 in the state. A total of 44,088 students registered for the exam and 13,495 students passed with the state passing percentage of 32.60 per cent. In Pune division, a total of 6,489 students registered, 6,093 students appeared for the exams and 1,874 students got passed in the exams with 30.76 per cent passing percentage. The highest passing percentage in the state was of Aurangabad division with 39.11 per cent. “As the backlog results are declared online now, from December 24 to January 2 students can apply online for rechecking, evaluation, to get copy of the answer sheet or for the transfer certificate on http://verification.mh-hsc.ac.in link. The last date for online application is on January 12, 2021 and also pay fees for it online.” said MSBSHSE secretary Ashok Bhosale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/backlog-results-for-hsc-and-ssc-declared/story-MkR4AcwPiZGWu3mdmqIvSM.html
24-12-2020||Pune||CBI files chargesheet against principal of NDA||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a chargesheet against the principal of the National Defence Academy (NDA), Khadakwasla, Pune, in a case of admission malpractice and corruption. The principal named in the chargesheet is Om Prakash Shukla. He has been booked along with five others working as teachers at the premier defence training institute. “A case was registered on 08.05.2018 against Principal, NDA, Khadakwasla, Pune and others on the allegations of fraudulent appointments to various posts of civilian faculty at NDA on the basis of false and exaggerated claims in respect of teaching/research experience and exaggerated API scores. Searches were conducted on June 6, 2018, at the premises of accused which led to recovery of incriminating documents,” read a statement from CBI. The documents, submitted by Shukla to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) and the headquarters of the Integrated Defence Staff (HQ-IDS), allowed him to gain the position of professor for economics in 2007-08. The documents were found to be fraudulent by the CBI. In 2011, he went on to become principal of the institution and has retained the position since the registration of the case. Unidentified officials of UPSC and HQ-IDS were also booked in the case registered by CBI in 2018. However, the current chargesheet is only against Shukla. Shukla, and the others, were booked under Sections 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating), 465 (punishment for forgery) and 471 (using forged documents as genuine) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 13(2) with 13(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act by the CBI. The above findings are based on the investigation by CBI and evidence collected by it. Under the Indian Law, the accused are presumed to be innocent until guilt is finally established after a fair trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cbi-files-chargesheet-against-principal-of-nda/story-UuKPwtC7XXzw7z3dYv4iBM.html
24-12-2020||Pune||Class 10 and Class 12 exam dates yet to be announced||Practical exams dates for Class 10 and Class 12 will be decided after the examination schedule is announced, said officials from Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE).Shakuntala Kale, chairperson of MSBSHSE, said on Wednesday, “The decision will be made only after the time table is declared. The committee will decide how and when practicals will be conducted. As of now, nothing is decided.” On Tuesday, the board issued a notification declaring the form filling dates for Class 10 regular students. The notification stated that students can fill the form from December 23 to January 11 for the examination which will be conducted in 2021. Students who are repeating their academic year can fill the form from January 12 to January 25. The process of form filling and payment of examination fee will be done online by respective schools. The platform used will be SARAL database to fill exam forms.Earlier, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad said that the exams for Class 10 and Class 12 will not be conducted before May.“Due to the ongoing pandemic, there are various issues of completion of syllabus and holding exams. At least 25 per cent syllabus will be omitted so that teachers are able to finish the syllabus in time,” said Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/class-10-and-class-12-exam-dates-yet-to-be-announced/story-qjFoXdo0Taxa3iQxYxf8gO.html
24-12-2020||Pune||SPPU postpones first term practical, project submission dates||All the practicals, oral exams, seminars and project examinations for the first term in colleges affiliated to Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has been postponed to the second semester. The decision was taken by the SPPU’s board of examination and evaluation which later issued a circular. As physical classroom lectures have not yet started by SPPU due to the Covid-19 pandemic, practicals and other teaching sessions are pending for students. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, academic projects and other teachings that need laboratory have not started. Hence, it was decided that practicals, orals and other project works will be postponed to the second semester,” said Mahesh Kakade, director of SPPU’s board of examination and evaluation. “Students need to fill up their examination forms in a regular way and give their consent about appearing for the respective semester’s practical exams. All the results of the first and second semester will be declared online at the end of the semester. After they complete both the semesters, students will receive physical copies of their results.” Kakade said. Amit Shukla, a second year Bachelor of Science student said, “We are fed up of the online teaching for last six months as it is difficult to understand the subjects. If there is no laboratory and practical exposure of the subject then it would be difficult for us to appear for exams.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-postpones-first-term-practical-project-submission-dates/story-6zxQZBiLJDwjA45qLzUWLN.html
24-12-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 621 fresh Covid-19 cases, 9 deaths in 24 hours||The state health department, on Wednesday, reported 621 fresh Covid-19 cases and nine deaths in 24 hours, in Pune district. The district has reported 3.68 lakh Covid-19 cases, of which 3.47 lakh have recovered. The Covid death toll in the district stands at 7,743 with 13,267 active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals, or in home isolation. Pune city reported 328 fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the total count to 1,89,039. Six deaths put the death toll at 4,393. PCMC reported 134 new cases taking the final count to 92,656 with no deaths reported on Wednesday. Its death toll stands at 1,264. Pune rural reported 159 new cases taking the final count to 86,752. Three deaths put the rural death toll at 2,051, according to the state health department. The department reported that 7,620 patients were discharged on Wednesday, taking the final count of such cases to 18.01 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 94.51%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.57%. Currently 4,88,723 people are in home quarantine and 3,420 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-621-fresh-covid-19-cases-9-deaths-in-24-hours/story-sIzE4AoASgX42tKMR8Fr3M.html
24-12-2020||Pune||Pune records its third warmest Dec of the decade||While the city saw a dip in mercury with 8.3 degrees Celsius on Wednesday night, December has also been the third warmest month in the last decade. Over the years, there is a steady rise in night temperature with December 2019 reporting the warmest in the decade with 13.7 degrees Celsius as the season’s lowest. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at the India Meteorological Department (IMD), said that such types of variations happen from year to year. “It is called inter-annual variability. This happens every year. This year, the weather was hotter due to climate change. For Pune, the local orography contributes to the local phenomenon. There will be no more drop in temperature for December. There will be temperature drop further in January. Month to month and from place to place, the meteorological parameters vary,” said Kashyapi. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president of private weather forecasting agency Skymet, said that there are cold wave conditions across India, but the intensity and frequency of cold waves is reducing. “If we see in the last decade or so, the severity of cold waves are increasing. Duration of cold wave is reducing due to climate change. Every New Year is hotter than colder. All extreme weather events are increasing for rain, heat wave and cold wave. There is an increase in extreme weather. We can see a steadily rising graph of overall temperatures,” said Palawat. He said that there will be an increase in case there is not any immediate measure taken to tackle climate change. “If the greenhouse gases are reduced then we can see a downward trend. But even for that, we need to dedicatedly work for the next decade before the global average temperature is maintained or reduced,” said Palawat. Pleasant day and night ahead of Christmas After two days of cold weather in the city, IMD has forecasted a relief with normal day and temperature for the next few days. “The day temperature will be around 28 degrees Celsius and the night temperature will be around 9 degrees to 10 degrees Celsius in the next few days. The weather in the state will also continue to remain dry with no drop in temperature,” said IMD officials. The chill factor *Year--lowest minimum temperature for December for Pune (in degrees Celsius) *2010--6.5 *2011--7.6 *2012--7.4 *2013--6.8 *2014--7.8 *2015--6.6 *2016--8.3 *2017--8.7 *2018--5.9 *2019--13.7 *2020--8.1 *Source: IMD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-records-its-third-warmest-dec-of-the-decade/story-OJl5G9shZaVYaQ9ahwa5AO.html
24-12-2020||Pune||Tourists spots outside Pune limits in demand for bookings due to night curfew||With seven-hour night curfew in place across municipal corporation areas till January 6, Punekars are making plans at various tourist spots across the district for the New Year celebrations. Lonavla and Mulshi within the district, and Mahabaleshwar and Konkan are their top destinations. “We have booked a resort in Lonavla for the weekend starting from December 25 to 27. As we cannot celebrate Christmas with the family this year because of the night curfew, plan is to go out of Pune,” said Sandeep Ovhal, an IT engineer from Hadapsar. Rohit Mehta and his friends plan to travel to Mahabaleshwar for the year-end. “For the last eight months, we are at home studying for our exams and other entrance tests. Now we want to celebrate the New Year and forget all the tensions due to Covid-19 pandemic as we have already suffered a lot. We have booked a studio apartment for four days at Mahabaleshwar. We college friends are going to enjoy as there won’t be any restrictions of night curfew and other rules on our celebrations.” Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh had said that considering the possibility that revellers may attend parties outside municipal limits, the administration will take appropriate steps. “We have considered all these aspects and necessary steps will be taken. We also discussed the issue on Tuesday during a video conferencing with the chief minister,” said Deshmukh. Ashok Chaudhary, a tourist hotel owner in Lonavla, said, “We are getting many enquiries daily from Pune and Mumbai for bookings during Christmas and year- end days. Half of our rooms are already booked for the season like other hotels and resorts in the hill station. Tourists won’t be able to go out in the night for celebrations if the night curfew is imposed in Lonavla.” Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “I already had meeting with senior police officials from Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad areas and today again we met with the task force team. We are thinking about extending night curfew to tourist places in the district, but a decision is yet to be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/tourists-spots-outside-pune-limits-in-demand-for-bookings-due-to-night-curfew/story-4MsB8mIp6NiGicMgEBCbXM.html
24-12-2020||Pune||Early screening key to cure cervical, breast cancer: experts||As per the National Health Survey (NHS), only 3.8 per cent women between the ages of 30-49 years in Pune district have undergone screening for cervical cancer. The figure for breast cancer screening in the district for the same age group is 2.3 per cent. Experts note that early screening and detection is vital in reducing the mortality rate for cancer. Speaking about breast and cervical cancer, Pune-based surgical oncologist Dr Snita Sinukumar said that early cervical and breast cancer detection help patients to beat the ailment. “If a patient comes to us at advanced stages, the treatment modality is chemotherapy and radiation. We advise that every woman above the age of 21 years should get screened for cervical cancer. As cervical cancer has a higher rate of mortality, early detection definitely helps. At early stages we can offer a cure to the patients,” said Dr Sinukumar. She emphasised that screening is an important tool. “The whole idea of screening is to test healthy individuals. Routine health check-ups only help identify any abnormalities in the report,” said Dr Sinukumar. She said that breast cancer has a lower mortality as there are a variety of treatment modalities for it. Dr Rakesh Neve, surgical oncologist with city-based Columbia Asia hospital, said that breast cancer accounted for 31.4 per cent of all cancers in women in Pune and cervical cancer 10.6 per cent. “The mortality rates for cancer remains high. For breast cancer, it is around 50 per cent and for cervical cancer, it is around 60 per cent. Early detection ensures diagnosis in stage one or two where cure rates are over 95 per cent,” said Dr Neve. He said that screening helps identify cancers early and early detection gives possibility of cure. “So, it is important to ensure screening covers maximum population,” said Dr Neve. As per NHS, women undergoing screening for cervical cancer is as low as 2.3 per cent in Maharashtra. The screening for breast cancer is also on a lower end with only 1.3 per cent women undergoing screening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/early-screening-key-to-cure-cervical-breast-cancer-experts/story-SpmELBN47oqE9megCxNZfL.html
24-12-2020||Pune||No plans for night curfew in Lonavla, other tourist destinations: Rural SP||The Pune rural police are undecided and presently have no plans to impose “night curfew” in their jurisdiction under which Lonavala hill station and other party destinations are situated. Pune Rural SP Abhinav Deshmukh said, “We do not have any such plans as of now. Currently, there is no restriction of movement in the rural parts of the district.” Social media and online discussion forums were abuzz with the likely move of the rural police to stop residents from mass partying at the popular holiday destination which comes under the rural police jurisdiction. A number of revellers from Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Mumbai find Lonavla an apt party destination for the New Year. The hill station also sees visitors from other states, including Gujarat, during this period.According to local residents, family bookings, including those of party destinations like villas and bungalows, have started in advance. Hoteliers who were looking forward to welcome visitors after a dull eight-month season are apprehensive about the possible night curfew and restrictions.Sakshi Kumar, a youngster from Baner, said, “We have already booked a place in Lonavla for New Year celebrations for seven of us. The news of party restrictions on social media and WhatsApp is a dampener. We don’t want restrictions to be imposed just because a section of people want it and the police must not act under pressure from different quarters.” The representatives of a few three and five star hotels in Lonavla said that New Year celebrations will not take place at their properties.Manas Garg, a software professional who has booked a private place in Lonavla said, “We have received a positive response from the owner of the place, but with the imposition of night curfew in corporation areas, citizens are demanding the same be implemented in rural areas which is likely to spoil our yearend plans.” The Maharashtra government has announced that a seven-hour night curfew would be put in place across all cities and municipal corporation areas in the state from December 22 from 11pm to 6am for 15 days until January 5, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-plans-for-night-curfew-in-lonavla-other-tourist-destinations-rural-sp/story-Q6DCXq2dx97J7ZvMHPfa7M.html
24-12-2020||Pune||Waiter gives child caustic soda instead of sugar; puts him in ICU||A case was registered against the owner and waiter of a restaurant on Tuesday after a four-year-old child had to spend two days in an intensive care unit (ICU) as the waiter handed him a bottle of caustic soda instead of sugar as mouth freshener.The police are yet to identify the waiter but have registered a case under Section 337 of Indian Penal Code“We are checking the CCTV camera footage of the restaurant to identify the waiter as the child does not remember. We are awaiting reports from the hospital regarding the child’s case. An arrest is imminent. Even if it is an act done by mistake, the child developed ulcers,” said senior inspector Krishna Indalkar of Dattawadi police station.The child, along with his elder brother and grandfather, had visited a restaurant in Sadashiv peth on Sunday where the incident took place.“They had gone to Sarasbaug and around 6:30-6:45pm went to the restaurant. While leaving, the child asked for sugar as mouth freshener and a waiter handed him a bottle. As soon as he ate it, he started screaming. His grandfather tasted what he ate and found it to be washing soda,” said the mother of the injured.The parents claim that the owner of the restaurant asked for the matter to be settled without the police getting involved, but the former refused.“My child couldn’t eat. It is not a minor issue that could be settled,” the child’s parent said.The child was admitted to Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital where he was subjected to endoscopy to check whether he had swallowed any of the soda, according to the mother. “Superficial corrosive injury in mid and distal oesophagus with few exudates,” reads a report from Mangeshkar hospital.The police are investigating the matter while the restaurant contact lines remained unreachable after many attempts to reach the owner for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/4-yr-old-lands-in-icu-after-waiter-offers-him-washing-soda-instead-of-sugar-in-pune/story-GbOuDsr7UDIvPGlbi6xl0I.html
24-12-2020||Pune||Smuggled sand boa snake seized in Pune; two held||The police arrested two men late on Sunday for smuggling a sand boa serpent, an endangered species for sale in the city at Rs 9lakh.The arrested men have been identified as Saurabh Jadhav (21), a resident of Pisoli in Haveli and Kalidas Chavan, according to the police. One other person is on the run in the case.Hawaldar Mahesh Mandalik of Sahakarnagar police station had received information that two people arriving with a rare kind of sand boa snake for sale in the city.A trap was set around 10pm on Sunday near an open ground in Dhankawadi where the two were expected.Forest official Ganesh Sarode was called for assistance and the reptile was seized from the arrested man’s possession.Jadhav arrived at the spot around 10pm on a two-wheeler registered in Pune.“Upon inspection of the storage of the vehicle, a white bag was found. In the bag was a black coloured serpent around three feet long and 2kg weight. Upon questioning Saurabh Jadhav, he revealed that he intended to sell the sand boa for Rs 9,00,000 in Pune,” read a statement from Arun Vaykar, senior police inspector of Sahakarnagar police station.Based on Jadhav’s interrogation, Chavan was arrested.A case under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 was registered at Sahkarnagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/smuggled-sand-boa-snake-seized-in-pune-two-arrested/story-h9nlI9zdfN1u1BY3hd92OL.html
24-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai students gift smartphones to underprivileged kids||In keeping with the spirit of Christmas, a group of five students have launched an initiative asking people to donate or sponsor smartphones for students belonging to economically weaker sections.‘Be someone’s Santa’ is an extension of Project Pahunch, an initiative launched by five students from Mumbai in August, to help provide smart devices to students of Classes 10 and 12. Smart devices, old and new, have been distributed to students from municipal schools and government schools in Mumbai, Palghar, Karjat and Pune.“Christmas is the season of gifting our loved ones. With the help of social media, we are asking people to gift a device and be a Santa to the student,” said Malaika Shivalkar, 20, co-founder of the project.“So far we have provided 215 devices and reached out to over 1,000 students through the initiative. Over the past four months, we have realised that the number of students, who require a smart device to attend online classes, is far greater than the number of devices we have distributed,” said Shivalkar who is pursuing her undergraduate law degree at National Law University, Jodhpur. She launched the initiative along with her younger brother Ishaan and friends Anoushka Jaipuria, Natalia Mistry and Malini Dasgupta.Read more: Thane teachers go the extra mile to help their studentsThe students used social media to crowdsource the devices. “In case anybody wants to donate an old device, we arrange for pick up and drop. For those who want to sponsor a new device, we ask the donor to make the payment to our vendor. The devices are then distributed every week,” said Shivalkar.Following the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, schools and colleges adopted an online mode of instruction, for the safety of students. However, access to smartphones and internet connectivity, particularly in areas around the city, has been a concern.While the number of requests for these devices is swelling, Project Pahunch has restricted the distribution to Class 10 and 12 students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-students-gift-smartphones-to-underprivileged-kids/story-RxJXkHXqfjHkeWY3DwP90K.html
24-12-2020||World||EU’s Ursula von der Leyen says Brexit deal ‘fair, balanced and right’||The trade deal clinched by Britain and the European Union on Thursday is “fair, balanced and right” and worth fighting for, the bloc’s chief executive said.“It was a long and winding road. But we have got a good deal to show for it. It is fair, it is a balanced deal, and it is the right and responsible thing to do for both sides,” Ursula von der Leyen told a news conference.“The negotiations were very difficult. A lot was at stake for so many people, so this was an agreement that we absolutely had to fight for,” she added.“I believe, also, that this agreement is in the United Kingdom’s interest. It will set solid foundations for a new start with a long-term friend. And it means that we can finally put Brexit behind us, and Europe is continuing to move forward.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-s-ursula-von-der-leyen-says-brexit-deal-fair-balanced-and-right/story-wsKKyC2zUlfdzPdn8QBIGP.html
24-12-2020||World||US lawmakers block Trump’s requested changes on Covid-19 relief bill||Republicans and Democrats in the US House of Representatives on Thursday blocked attempts to alter a $2.3 trillion coronavirus aid and government spending package, leaving its status in doubt after President Donald Trump demanded extensive changes to the legislation.Democrats sought to increase direct payments to Americans included in the bill from $600 to $2,000 per person as part of a coronavirus economic relief initiative, acting on one of Trump’s requests. Trump’s fellow Republicans, who oppose the higher amount, blocked that effort.Republicans then moved to change the amount of foreign aid included in the package, seeking to address another one of Trump’s complaints. Democrats blocked that request. The House then adjourned for the day.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the chamber will hold a recorded vote on the stimulus-check increase on Monday.The flurry of activity on the House floor did nothing to break a standoff that threatens desperately needed assistance for millions of Americans and raises the prospect of a partial government shutdown at a time when officials are trying to distribute two coronavirus vaccines.Congress could keep operations running by passing a fourth stopgap funding bill before midnight on Monday. To successfully do that, lawmakers would need Trump’s cooperation at a time when he is still consumed by his November loss to Democrat Joe Biden, who is set to take office on Jan. 20.Trump was in Florida, where he was due to play golf on Thursday. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The stopgap bill would not include coronavirus aid, however.Embittered by his defeat to Biden, Trump is pressing Congress to dramatically alter the package, which passed by wide, bipartisan margins on Monday.The 5,500-page bill took months to negotiate and was supported by Trump’s administration.With the status quo unchanged, it was unclear whether Trump would sign the package into law or hold out for further action.Without his signature, unemployment benefits for those thrown out of work by the pandemic are due to expire as soon as Saturday, and the U.S. government would be forced into a partial shutdown starting on Tuesday.The House is due to return on Monday to attempt to override Trump’s veto of an unrelated defense-policy bill which, like the coronavirus package, passed Congress by wide, bipartisan margins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-lawmakers-block-trump-s-requested-changes-on-covid-19-relief-bill/story-HryadkfMHVA29lZon1KvgN.html
24-12-2020||World||UK, EU reach post-Brexit trade deal to avert chaotic New Year’s split||Britain and the European Union have struck a provisional free-trade agreement that should avert New Year’s chaos for cross-border commerce and bring a measure of certainty to businesses after years of Brexit turmoil. The breakthrough came Thursday with just over a week to go until the UK’s split is completed. Now comes the race to approve and ratify the deal before the UK leaves the EU’s economic structures at the end of the year. The British and European parliaments both must hold votes on the agreement.Months of tense and often testy negotiations gradually whittled differences between the two sides down to three key issues: fair-competition rules, mechanisms for resolving future disputes and fishing rights. The rights of EU boats to trawl in British waters remained the last obstacle before it was resolved. However, key aspects of the future relationship between the 27-nation bloc and its former member remain unresolved.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson had insisted the UK would “prosper mightily” even if no deal were reached and the UK had to trade with the EU on World Trade Organization terms. But his government has acknowledged that a chaotic exit was likely to bring gridlock at Britain’s ports, temporary shortages of some goods and price increases for staple foods.Britain withdrew from the EU’s political institutions on January 31, and an economic transition period expires on December 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-eu-reach-post-brexit-trade-deal-to-avert-a-chaotic-new-year-s-split/story-lOy9XzwICRfiQTMqhWkLNI.html
24-12-2020||World||Pak court sentences JuD chief Hafiz Saeed to over 15 years in jail in one more terror financing case||Mumbai terror attack mastermind and banned Jamat-ud-Dawa (JuD) chief Hafiz Saeed was on Thursday sentenced to 15 and a half years in jail by an anti-terrorism court in Pakistan in one more terror financing case.The Anti-Terrorism Court (ATC) of Lahore also imposed a 200,000 Pakistani rupees (PKR) fine on Saeed. The 70-year-old radical cleric has already been convicted for 21 years imprisonment in four terror financing cases of late.“On Thursday an Anti-Terrorism Court (ATC) of Lahore sentenced five leaders of Jamat-ud-Dawa, including its chief Hafiz Saeed, in another terror financing case...for 15 and a half years,” a court official told PTI.Now, Saeed will have to undergo collective imprisonment of over 36 years in five terror financing cases at the Kot Lakhpat Jail in Lahore. His punishment will run concurrently in these cases. There are reports that he is given “VIP protocol” in jail.Saeed, a UN-designated terrorist on whom the US has placed a USD 10 million bounty, was arrested on July 17 last year in the terror financing cases. He was sentenced to 11 years in jail by an anti-terrorism court in February this year in two terror financing cases.In November, Saeed was sentenced to another 10 years in jail by an anti-terrorism court in two more terror financing cases.The other four JuD leaders convicted by the court on Thursday are Hafiz Abdus Salam, Zafar Iqbal, JuD spokesperson Yahya Mujahid and Muhammad Ashraf.Each convicted person has also been fined a PKR 200,000.The ATC also handed down six-month imprisonment to Saeed’s brother-in-law Abdul Rehman Makki in this case and imposed a fine of PKR 200,000 on him, the official said.“Judge Ijaz Ahmed of ATC Court No 3 heard the case no 32/19 filed by the Counter Terrorism Department (CTD) in which the verdict has been announced after the statements of witnesses were cross-examined by Saeed and others’ counsels -- Naseeruddin Nayyar and Mohammad Imran Fazal Gul Advocate,” the official said.He said that the JuD leaders including Saeed were brought to the court amid high security and the media was not allowed to cover the proceedings.A total of 41 cases have been registered by the CTD against the JuD leaders, out of which 28 have been decided while the rest are pending in the ATC courts. Five cases have been decided against Saeed so far.Saeed-led JuD is the front organisation for the Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) which is responsible for carrying out the 2008 Mumbai attack that killed 166 people, including six Americans.The US Department of the Treasury has designated Saeed as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist. He was listed under the UN Security Council Resolution 1267 in December 2008.The global terror financing watchdog Financial Action Task Force (FATF) is instrumental in pushing Pakistan to take measures against terrorists roaming freely in Pakistan and using its territory to carry out attacks in India.The FATF had placed Pakistan on the grey list in June 2018 and asked Islamabad to implement a plan of action to curb money laundering and terror financing by the end of 2019 but the deadline was extended later on due to COVID-19 pandemic.With Pakistan’s continuation in the ‘grey list’, the country may find it difficult to get financial aid from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the European Union, thus further enhancing problems for the cash-strapped nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-court-sentences-jud-chief-hafiz-saeed-to-over-15-years-in-jail-in-one-more-terror-financing-case/story-FEJ3tQHzOIAS0s352ELbXP.html
24-12-2020||World||UK’s new coronavirus strain more contagious, likely to cause more deaths: Study||The mutated coronavirus strain that’s been spreading in the U.K. appears to be more contagious and will likely lead to higher levels of hospitalizations and deaths next year, a new study showed.The variant is 56% more transmissible than other strains, according to the study by the Centre for Mathematical Modelling of Infectious Diseases at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. There’s no clear evidence that it results in more or less severe disease.The U.K. government had previously said the mutated variant appears to be as much as 70% more transmissible than other circulating strains. Additionally, it has almost two dozen mutations that may affect proteins made by the coronavirus, Patrick Vallance, the U.K.’s chief scientific adviser, said on Dec. 19.That has raised concern that tests, treatments and vaccines that just started rolling out might be less effective, though Europe’s health regulator said the variant probably isn’t different enough from earlier ones to elude Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE’s shot. Countries including Australia, Denmark and Singapore have also discovered the strain.Measures like England’s national lockdown in November are unlikely to reduce the reproduction number -- the new infections estimated to stem from a single case -- to less than 1 unless schools and universities are also closed, the report said. It also said vaccine rollouts may need to be accelerated to contain its spread, to a rate of 2 million people a week from the current pace of 200,000.For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-s-new-coronavirus-strain-more-contagious-likely-to-cause-more-deaths-study/story-c2yrZVytDUXNIFfAYqM46H.html
24-12-2020||World||Covid-19: Timeline of a pandemic that disrupted lives across the world||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which is believed to have originated from a wildlife market in China’s Wuhan, turned into a pandemic within weeks as rapid virus transmission occurred across the world. The novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, emerged as a new strain in the large family of coronaviruses (CoV) which was previously not identified in humans. The epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak shifted from China to Italy as the European nation started witnessing a relatively higher mortality rate.The virus soon spiralled out in all the major European nations, including France and Germany, prompting countries around the world to announce strict lockdowns. The United States has remained the worst-hit nation in terms of the number of Covid-19 cases and related deaths. India is a distant second with over 10 million cases, followed by Brazil, Russia, and France. According to Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center, nearly 79 million Covid-19 cases and more than 1.7 million related deaths have been recorded across the globe so far. Several biotech firms have now developed their vaccine candidates to provide immunity against Covid-19, and some countries, including the US and Britain, have started their immunisation drive. Vaccines developed by Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, and AstraZeneca have shown impressive efficacy rate. However, new variants of Covid-19, with higher transmission rate, have caused concerns for governments around the world.Also Read | New Covid-19 mutant found in South Africa: What we know so farHere’s the timeline of the coronavirus pandemic:2019 December 31 - The World Health Organisation (WHO) picked up a media report about a cluster of cases of pneumonia of unknown cause.2020January 7 - The virus outbreak was identified as a new coronavirus.January 11 - China reported its first death due to the new virus and shared its genetic sequence with the WHO.January 23 - China ordered a lockdown in Wuhan to contain the spread of the virus.January 30 - India reported its first three cases of coronavirus but didn’t cause an outbreak.February 11 - The coronavirus disease is named Covid-19 as the UN health agency avoids naming it after group, people, or geographical location.February 24 - Italy and Iran emerge as the new epicentre of the outbreak.March 3 - Official start of the Indian outbreak with one case each in Delhi and Hyderabad.March 11 - WHO declared Covid-19 as a pandemic, urging countries to take immediate and aggressive action.March 18 - The UN agency launched international randomised trials for Covid-19 treatments, termed it Solidarity Trial.March 25 - India imposed a nationwide lockdown.April 2 - Over a million cases reported worldwide with more than 51,000 related deaths.May 2 - Pfizer-BioNTech started Phase 1/2 trial to test immune response and safety.May 17 - India extended nationwide lockdown to May 31.May 19 - India overtook China in total Covid-19 cases as it crossed the sombre milestone of 100,000 cases.June 1 - Several countries eased coronavirus restrictions.June 11 - India surpassed Britain as the fourth worst affected country in terms of total Covid-19 cases.July 3 - The WHO announced that Covid-19 is airborne, advised everyone to wear a facemask.July 16 - India crossed one million cases.July 21 - The interim results of AstraZeneca’s Phase 1/2 trials of its vaccine candidate showed promise.July 27 - Moderna started Phase 3 trials.August 15 - India reported a total of over 50,000 Covid-19 related deaths.September 7 - India surpassed Brazil to become the second worst-hit nation in terms of total Covid-19 cases.September 29 - A total of over a million Covid-19 related deaths recorded.October 2 - India recorded 100,000 deaths, US President Donald Trump tested positive for Covid-19.November 16 - Moderna announced its Covid-19 vaccine candidate has 94.5% efficacy rate.November 18 - Pfizer announced 95% efficacy in the final trial results.November 23 - AstraZeneca announced its vaccine candidate can be around 90% effective.December 2 - The UK became the first country to formally approve Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine.December 8 - Margaret Keenan, 90, became the first person in the world to receive a clinically approved vaccine.December 14 - The vaccine rollout started across the US after approval from the Food and Drug Administration.December 18 - India crossed 10 million Covid-19 cases.December 19 - London entered lockdown due to a new variant of Covid-19.December 22 - India joined dozens of countries to ban travel from the UK amid concerns over the new virus strain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-timeline-of-a-pandemic-which-disrupted-lives-across-the-world/story-R6bWcTh4YVS3O596p9uLaM.html
24-12-2020||World||Sri Lanka locks down 3 towns as coronavirus spread persists||Sri Lankan authorities on Thursday imposed lockdown on three towns on the outskirts of the capital to contain the spread of Covid-19 during the festive season.Kosgama, Awissawella and Ruwanwella, about 60 kilometers (37 miles) east of Colombo, were locked down from Thursday noon.Lockdowns have been applied in dozens of towns and villages since a resurgence of the coronavirus in the Indian Ocean island nation in October. Schools and key public offices have been closed, public gatherings banned and restrictions imposed on public transport.The two clusters that emerged in October — one centered on a garment factory and other on a fish market — account for most of Sri Lanka’s outbreak. The confirmed cases from the two clusters have grown to 34,959 on Thursday. Sri Lanka’s total since March is about 38,600.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lanka-locks-down-3-towns-as-coronavirus-spread-persists/story-ISjqriAj8wJYV2DQhRGWsM.html
24-12-2020||World||Covid-19 rising in England again, 1-in-85 people infected: Survey||The prevalence of COVID-19 cases in England jumped again in the week to Dec. 18, with around 645,800 people, or 1-in-85, estimated to be infected, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) said on Thursday.“The percentage of people testing positive has continued to increase sharply in London, the East of England, and the South East; London now has the highest percentage of people testing positive,” the ONS said.Prevalence in the preceding week was 1-in-95, the ONS had estimated.Separately on Thursday, England’s Test and Trace service said it had recorded a 58% week-on-week increase in the number of positive COVID-19 cases detected.It said during the week Dec. 10-16, 139,332 positive cases were transferred to its contact tracers, 88.1% of whom were reached and told to self-isolate, a slight rise on 87.5% recorded in the previous week.The proportion of the contacts of positive cases reached remained consistent at 92.6%, it said. (Reporting by Paul Sandle; Editing by William Schomberg and Alex Richardson)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-rising-in-england-again-1-in-85-people-infected-survey/story-aLddepqmhjJhjpqWDVTyTP.html
24-12-2020||World||US condemns killing of Afghan independent election watchdog Yousuf Rasheed||The US Department of State Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs on Wednesday condemned the “barbaric and senseless assassination” of Yousuf Rasheed, CEO of the Free and Fair Election Forum of Afghanistan (FEFA).“We join the Afghan people in condemning this barbaric and senseless assassination of Yousuf Rasheed, who was a tireless advocate for democracy. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family and friends,” tweeted the bureau as quoted by Tolo News.“The United States has repeatedly made clear that our vision for peace is of a sovereign, unified, and democratic Afghanistan. Yousuf Rasheed was a courageous advocate for that vision. His voice will not be silenced,” it continued, “The future of Afghanistan cannot be foreclosed by murder but must be resolved at the negotiating table.”Rasheed was killed by unknown gunmen in Kabul city on Wednesday morning, his brother confirmed, as reported by Tolo News. No group, including the Taliban, has immediately claimed responsibility for the attack.Tolo News further reported that the incident comes after a dramatic surge in a targeted killing in Afghanistan over the past two months.On Sunday, a journalist in Ghazni, Rahmatullah Nikzad, was killed in an attack by armed men outside his home in Ghazni, to which the Taliban denied involvement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-condemns-killing-of-afghan-independent-election-watchdog-yousuf-rasheed/story-hcenFkAhg1Zo0UVQvvrqyH.html
24-12-2020||World||Kremlin says new US sanctions could complicate Nord Stream 2’s completion||The Kremlin said on Thursday that new US sanctions targeting Nord Stream 2 could complicate the completion of the stalled Russian gas pipeline to Germany, but that Moscow and European nations had an interest in it being built.Senior Trump administration officials said on Wednesday that Washington was urging European allies and private companies to halt work that could help build the pipeline and was preparing wider sanctions on the Russian project in coming weeks.The Nord Stream 2 resumed laying pipes in the German zone of the Baltic Sea this month and is expected to start work in Danish waters from Jan 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kremlin-says-new-us-sanctions-could-complicate-nord-stream-2-s-completion/story-FWUyQbLqP718frQJu5UekM.html
24-12-2020||World||Khalistan supporter’s nomination to UK House of Lords delayed, says Sikh group||The controversial nomination of a Khalistan supporter to the House of Lords has been delayed and its announcement is expected in January, campaign group Sikh Federation UK said on Wednesday, following reports that Labour Party has dropped his nomination.Dabinderjit Singh Sidhu, principal adviser to the group, was to be one of the new political peers, but his name was missing when the list was released by Downing Street on Monday. His potential appointment raised hackles in sections of the Indian community in the UK and New Delhi.The group said in a statement, “Our understanding is (Labour leader) Keir Starmer recommended Dabinderjit to fill one of the nominations given to the Labour Party by the prime minister.“The House of Lords appointments commission carried out all the necessary checks and concluded weeks ago Dabinderjit was of good standing in the community and had no concerns on his past conduct that would call into question his appointment to the House of Lords as a Labour peer.”“Dabinderjit’s name then went to the prime minister and Buckingham Palace for formal sign-off. Formal sign-off had been obtained and the only matter outstanding was a public announcement,” it added.The statement noted that minutes before the list was released on Monday, Labour decided to delay Singh Sidhu’s announcement.“Much has been made in the Indian media of Dabinderjit’s support for the re-establishment of an independent Sikh state. This should not be a matter of concern for Labour as there are many MPs and Lords who have strong personal views in relation to Kashmir, Palestine and the establishment of other independent states,” the statement added.According to the group, Singh Sidhu was never a member of the International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF), which is banned in India. The UK had banned it in 2001, but the ban was lifted in 2016. The statement added that he has not held any official position in the Sikh Federation UK that was set up in September 2003, but has been one of its volunteer advisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/khalistan-supporter-s-nomination-to-uk-house-of-lords-delayed-says-sikh-group/story-QMKERoucjFrumV9CfGMb4H.html
24-12-2020||World||French President Emmanuel Macron, who tested Covid-19 positive, to leave isolation||French President Emmanuel Macron no longer has virus symptoms and was leaving isolation Thursday after a week with COVID-19, but is urging the French public to limit their contacts and remain vigilant to keep infections under control during the Christmas holidays.Macron’s office said that he is finishing a week of isolation at a presidential retreat in Versailles based on French health protocols, which recommend seven days of confinement following the appearance of symptoms or a positive virus test.In an apparently self-shot video from the presidential retreat last week, a tired-looking Macron said he was suffering from a dry cough, headaches and fatigue, and said negligence and bad luck led to him getting infected.French authorities lifted virus restrictions for the holidays but infections remain high, and some doctors are urging new lockdown measures.As families prepare to gather for traditional Christmas Eve dinners on Thursday, Karine Lacombe, head of the infectious disease department at Paris’ Saint-Antoine Hospital, warned: “It’s a risky evening, the meal is one of the most risky situations for transmitting the virus.”But after an emotionally trying year, “it’s important to take into account the need to have some conviviality, it’s a balance between the benefit and the risk,” she said on France-Info radio.France recorded nearly 15,000 new infections Wednesday and has seen nearly 62,000 confirmed virus-related deaths overall.___Follow AP’s coverage of the coronavirus pandemic at https://apnews.com/hub/coronavirus -pandemic, https://apnews.com/hub/coronavirus-vaccine and https://apnews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-president-emmanuel-macron-who-tested-covid-19-positive-to-leave-isolation/story-SnF3VNUAnIVbuwKAnSp9eL.html
24-12-2020||World||Seven-year-old boy who adores Elon Musk is sensation on Ugandan aviation scene||A 7-year-old Ugandan boy has become a sensation in his country with his precocious display of aircraft knowledge and budding flying skills.Graham Shema has been interviewed on local television and his name is prefixed in newspapers and on social media with “Captain”. Germany’s ambassador and the country’s transport minister have invited him for meetings.A lover of math and science, the student has flown as a trainee three times on a Cessna 172.He says he wants to be a pilot and an astronaut, and someday travel to Mars. “My role model is Elon Musk,” said the boy, a pilot’s white shirt and black slacks hugging his small frame.“I like Elon Musk because I want to learn with him about space, to go with him in space and also to get a handshake.”Musk founded SpaceX and the private rocket company recently launched two Americans into orbit and hopes to one day send humans to Mars.One recent morning at Uganda’s Entebbe International Airport, his instructor asked him to explain how the engines worked on a Bombardier CRJ9000 plane parked on the tarmac. His voice struggling to rise above the roar of a plane’s running engines, Shema rattled off the answer: “The inlet tubes suck in the air and inject it into the compressor, the compressor squeezes it with the fans, after squeezing it with the fans, it becomes hot,” Shema said, playfully gesturing and proceeding to detail how an engine creates thrust.Shema’s curiosity for flight was piqued by a freak incident.When he was 3 years old, a police helicopter flew so low to the ground that it blew off the roof of his grandmother’s house on the outskirts of the Ugandan capital Kampala while he was playing outside.“It triggered something in his mind,” said his mother, travel agent Shamim Mwanaisha, 29. Her son began peppering her with endless questions about how planes work, she said.Last year, she contacted a local aviation academy and Shema began lessons at home on aircraft parts and aviation vocabulary. After five months of coursework, Mwanaisha paid for practical flying lessons for her son.“I felt like a bird flying up,” Shema said of his first flight. He had never flown on a plane before.He flew three times as co-pilot between January and March before the pandemic stopped his practice.He has since been focusing on aviation theory, and immersing himself in videos about aviation and space exploration on his virtual reality viewer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/seven-year-old-boy-who-adores-elon-musk-is-sensation-on-ugandan-aviation-scene/story-d2Uty4J6ET9vicTrZQgQlN.html
24-12-2020||World||Another new virus variant appears to emerge in Nigeria: Africa CDC||Another new variant of the coronavirus appears to have emerged in Nigeria, Africa’s top public health official said Thursday, but further investigation is needed.“It’s a separate lineage from the UK and South Africa,” the head of the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, John Nkengasong, told reporters. He said the Nigeria CDC and the African Center of Excellence for Genomics of Infectious Diseases in that country — Africa’s most populous — will be analyzing more samples.“Give us some time ... It’s still very early,” he said.The alert about the apparent new variant was based on two or three genetic sequences, he said, but that and South Africa’s alert late last week were enough to prompt an emergency meeting of the Africa CDC this week.The news comes as infections surge again in parts of the African continent.The new variant in South Africa is now the predominant one there, Nkengasong said, as confirmed infections in the country approach 1 million. While the variant transmits quickly and viral loads are higher, it is not yet clear whether it leads to a more severe disease, he said.“We believe this mutation will not have an effect” on the deployment of COVID-19 vaccines to the continent, he said of the South Africa variant.South Africa’s health minister late Wednesday announced an “alarming rate of spread” in that country, with more than 14,000 new cases confirmed in the past day, including more than 400 deaths. The country has more than 950,000 infections and COVID-19 is “unrelenting,” Zwelini Mkhize said in a statement.The African continent now has more than 2.5 million confirmed cases, or 3.3% of global cases. Infections across the continent have risen 10.9% over the past four weeks, Nkengasong said, including a 52% increase in Nigeria and 40% increase in South Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/another-new-virus-variant-appears-to-emerge-in-nigeria-africa-cdc/story-Bo8T3uDwnn1gTw9S7FhlwJ.html
24-12-2020||World||Frequency of allergic reactions to Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine greater than expected: US official||While the United States on Wednesday secured a deal with Pfizer Inc. for an additional 100 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine, the cases of allergic reactions have reportedly prompted discussions between vaccine makers and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to run clinical trials in very allergic populations. According to a CNN report, US President Donald Trump’s Covid-19 vaccine czar said that the frequency of allergic reactions to Pfizer’s vaccine is greater than expected.“That frequency, as it stood yesterday (December 22), is superior to what one would expect with other vaccines,” Dr Moncef Slaoui, chief scientific adviser for Operation Warp Speed, was quoted as saying by the US media network.The UK regulators have already issued an advisory regarding the issue, urging people who have a history of “significant” allergic reactions to not get the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) issued precautionary advice to the National Health Service (NHS) after two health care staff members experienced allergic reactions. Dr June Raine, chief executive of the MHRA, had testified to a parliamentary committee where she acknowledged that the cases of allergic reactions didn’t feature in the extensive clinical trials.ALSO WATCH | ‘Nothing to worry about’: Joe Biden gets his first dose of Pfizer Covid vaccine “We know from the very extensive clinical trials that this wasn’t a feature. But if we need to strengthen our advice, now that we’ve had this experience in the vulnerable populations – the groups have been selected as a priority – we get that advice to the field immediately,” said Dr Raine.The United States has started the immunisation drive against the coronavirus disease after the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) granted emergency use authorisation to Pfizer-BioNTech, followed by Moderna. Under the new agreement for additional doses of Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine, the US drugmaker and its German partner BioNTech will deliver at least 70 million doses by June 30, with the remaining doses to be delivered no later than July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/frequency-of-allergic-reactions-to-pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-greater-than-expected-us-official/story-JehL6v5WeUyrVYPwf1sqgM.html
24-12-2020||World||All decisions in Afghan peace process made after consulting Taliban leaders in Pakistan: Mullah Baradar||Video footage has emerged of Taliban deputy leader Abdul Ghani Baradar acknowledging that the group makes all decisions related to the Afghan peace talks after consulting its leadership and clerics’ council based in Pakistan. The footage was recorded when Baradar met wounded Taliban fighters being treated in Karachi during his visit to Pakistan last week as the head of a “political commission” for talks with the leadership in Islamabad. Video footage has also emerged of Taliban leader Mullah Fazal Akhund, a member of the group’s team for negotiations being held in Doha, meeting Taliban fighters being trained in a camp in Pakistani territory. These videos were widely shared on social media this week, including by pro-Taliban accounts. Also Read: Daniel Pearl case: Pakistan court orders immediate release of terrorist Omar Saeed SheikhDuring a meeting with Taliban fighters in Karachi, including those being treated for their injuries, Baradar, the head of the Taliban’s political office in Doha, can be heard saying that the wounded men have been sent to Pakistan because they cannot be treated in Afghanistan. Baradar also makes it clear that all of the Taliban’s decisions on the Afghan peace process are made only after consulting the group’s “shura” or leadership and the “ulema” or clerics based in Pakistan. “Though everything has passed us by, we are compelled to come (to Pakistan) because there are not a few people here, our entire leadership is present here in this place,” he is heard saying in the video, addressing a large group of men. “When we conduct partial or general negotiations (in Doha), we share the whole process with the ulema council and the shura here. We then receive their guidance and act upon it,” he added. Another video shows Baradar meeting with a senior Taliban leader from Daikundi in Afghanistan. A third video shows Mullah Fazal Akhund meeting masked men clad in fatigues at a Taliban training camp at an undisclosed location in Pakistan. The men can be seen embracing him and kissing his hand. The meetings depicted in the videos were reportedly held after the Taliban delegation led by Baradar met Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and Prime Minister Imran Khan in Islamabad during a three-day visit that began on December 16. The Twitter handle of the Pakistani prime minister’s office had said that Khan, during his meeting with the Taliban delegation on December 18, had expressed concern over the “high level of violence” in Afghanistan and called on all sides for “reduction in violence leading to ceasefire”. Pakistan has for long sought to deny reports about the Taliban’s top leadership being based in Quetta and Karachi and said that it has little influence over the group. However, Indian and US officials believe Pakistan’s military establishment has close ties to the Taliban leadership and is backing the group to reduce India’s influence in Afghanistan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/all-decisions-in-afghan-peace-process-made-after-consulting-taliban-leaders-in-pakistan-mullah-baradar/story-0TFeWrq9DEFkw8i2mXD4RK.html
24-12-2020||World||Why Thai King’s mistress Sineenat Wongvajirapakdi is in news. All you need to know||Sineenat Wongvajirapakdi, the mistress of Thailand King Maha Vajiralongkorn, is again in news as part of an alleged scandal where her over 1,000 sexually explicit photographs, mostly nude, were anonymously leaked to anti-monarchy activists outside the country.Though it has created a ripple now, the leak took place in August, as claimed by British journalist Andrew MacGregor Marshall who received the photos. Apart from him, the photos were sent to academic Pavin Chachavalpongpun who is living in Japan and faces criminal prosecution in Thailand for critiquing the monarchy.Marshall in November took to Facebook and said, “Thailand’s royal family is facing another embarrassing scandal following the leak of hundreds of intimate photographs of King Vajiralongkorn’s official consort Sineenat ‘Koi’ Wongvajirapakdi amid savage infighting among competing palace factions. Three months ago, in August, a letter was sent to an address where I used to live and was forwarded to me. Inside was an SD card with 1,443 photographs that had apparently been extracted from three iPhones that Koi used to own.”In the post, he added that the photos were sent to him shortly before Koi was released from Lat Yao women’s prison in Bangkok and returned to Munich to be with Vajiralongkorn on August 29, with all her royal titles and privileges back.Also Read | Thailand considers more lockdowns as seafood workers hit by virusHer return was opposed by supporters of Queen Suthida and Princess Bajrakitiyabha, he said, speculating that it is highly probable that the leak is an act of vengeance to sabotage her return to the King as her consort.Such leaks have happened multiple times in the past as per the journalist, who in his post gave examples of similar incidents. “In 2007, a video was leaked showing Vajiralongkorn’s third wife Srirasmi semi-naked at her birthday party in 2001, and many naked photographs of Srirasmi have been leaked over the years,” he wrote.“They show there is an ugly power struggle in the palace due to Vajiralongkorn’s chronically complicated sex life, and the royal civil war is likely to get progressively worse as Suthida and Koi compete for status and attention,” he said.Suthida is the Queen consort of Thailand as the fourth wife of King Vajiralongkorn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-thai-king-s-mistress-sineenat-wongvajirapakdi-is-in-news-all-you-need-to-know/story-Wbi7YEDvJKiIyYmUwNTpKO.html
24-12-2020||World||South African health minister urges review of Covid-19 restrictions||South Africa’s health minister urged a review of current restrictions and called for further measures to curb the spread of Covid-19 after a record surge in the number of infections.The virus continues to spread “exponentially,” Health Minister Zweli Mkhize said in a statement late Wednesday. “The rate of spread is much faster than the first wave and we will surpass the peak of the first wave in the coming days.”The country recorded 14,046 new cases in one day, bringing the cumulative number of cases 954,258. That’s the highest one-day jump on record, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University.A further 411 coronavirus-related deaths were reported, taking the total to 25,657 since the start of the pandemic in the country, according to the statement.The government will evaluate the situation in the provinces, identify hotspots in these areas and make recommendations based on the findings of what has to be implemented, Mkhize said.Private hospital operators have warned that they are facing severe capacity constraints due to the resurgence in coronavirus cases.Virus Surge Puts South African Hospitals Under Severe StrainThe government on Dec. 18 said that the spread of a new variant of the virus, called SARS-CoV2, a lineage with multiple spike mutations, which may be driving new infections. It has spread faster than other variants, with smaller amounts of this strain needed to infect people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-african-health-minister-urges-review-of-covid-19-restrictions/story-GfQxNI2AtmPwuLAMaKS1FM.html
24-12-2020||World||Months after Beirut blast, victims await answers||Tracy and Paul Najjar believe their daughter Alexandra could have survived the August 4 explosion at Beirut port if the authorities had raised the alarm on that fateful day.As they mourn the loss of their three-year-old, one question continues to haunt them: why did no one warn residents or evacuate them as fire raged for more than half an hour close to a huge store of ammonium nitrate?“They had 40 minutes to tell us ‘Leave Beirut! Go hide! Get away from the windows!’. They didn’t do it,” said Tracy Najjar, 34, who was at home with her family in the Gemmayzeh district when the blast at the nearby port tore through Beirut.“They had 40 minutes to prepare for the post-blast. To prepare hospitals, to open the roads, to send doctors, to send the army, and they didn’t do it.”Security officials reached by Reuters declined to comment on the families’ grievances and questions over why they were not prepared and did not raise the alarm.The August 4 tragedy was one of the biggest non-nuclear explosions ever recorded. It killed some 200 people, wounded thousands and devastated swathes of the Lebanese capital.More than four months later, victims are still awaiting the result of the investigation into why 2,750 tonnes of potentially explosive material were stored unsafely at the port, which is surrounded by residential areas, for more than six years.Lebanese leaders had promised it would come within days.“Instead of grieving and trying to continue with life, we are fighting today for something that is actually our right. To find the truth. To get justice,” Najjar said.“We didn’t give up and we will not give up.”Their only child, Alexandra, died from her wounds five days after the blast. It took an hour to get her to hospital because of traffic.“If they had opened the roads, then many people would have survived, maybe Alexandra would have survived,” Najjar said.She recalled how she could not find members of the security services to assist in the immediate aftermath and how ordinary people helped each other. Her husband, Paul, eventually made it to hospital with Alexandra on the back of a stranger’s scooter.Weeks passed before the Najjars heard from a state official.The first to get in touch was an army officer who asked them to take part in a commemoration to be attended by the army commander. They declined.“For us, the president, the government, the army are all part of it and it’s a way of washing their hands,” said Paul Najjar, 36, his face scarred from the blast. Many casualties could have been avoided if the alarm had been raised, he said.For some, the explosion and the state’s handling of its aftermath are an indictment of politicians who have led Lebanon as it lurches from crisis to crisis.Several senior officials have been detained, including the port’s general manager and head of customs. The judge investigating has also charged Lebanon’s caretaker Prime Minister Hassan Diab and three former ministers with negligence.Diab, whose cabinet resigned over the August blast after taking office in early 2020, said his conscience was clear and accused the judge of breaching the constitution.Security officials warned the prime minister and president in July that the ammonium nitrate stored at the port posed a security risk and could destroy the capital if it exploded, according to documents seen by Reuters and senior security sources.A high-ranking security official told Reuters in August that the fire spread due to sparks from welding.The US Federal Bureau of Investigation, which sent investigators to Beirut to help, said in October it had reached no firm conclusion about what caused the explosion.Other US and European government agencies closely following the investigations strongly believe that the blast was accidental.Families of some of the victims marked the four-month anniversary with a protest at the entrance to the port. “We want the results of the investigation and transparency before our patience runs out,” declared a banner.Since the blast, and the resignation of the government shortly afterwards, powerful politicians have failed to form a new one as they haggle over who gets what position.The familiar bickering has hampered Lebanon’s efforts to rebuild after the blast, and with longer term problems like the deepening economic crisis that has plunged millions of people into poverty.“We have no leaders, there are a mafia,” said Rita Hitti, whose firefighter son Najib was killed along with two other family members as they battled the flames that ignited the explosives at the port.“Those at the top should have resigned and gone home. They are still dividing up the pie, they still haven’t had enough.” The firefighting trio - Najib Hitti, 27, his brother-in-law Charbel Karam, 37, and cousin Charbel Hitti, 21 - always did their shifts together. In his last call home, Karam told his wife Karlin they were going to the port to put out a fire.After the explosion, the families went from hospital to hospital searching for the men, said Karlin, who must now raise their two daughters, Angelina and Catherina, alone.Karlin said: “When asked what gift does she want Santa to bring her for Christmas, Angelina replied: ‘I want Santa to bring my dad’.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/months-after-beirut-blast-victims-await-answers/story-LjzhhPUQleoZHXsxaPrK5H.html
24-12-2020||World||Covid-19 UK variant: How scientists discovered the new strain||British epidemiologists found the new mutation in coronavirus when they were investigating the reason for the surge of cases in the southeast part of England despite the imposed restrictions that controlled the spread in other parts of the country. Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The public health officials who were out searching the reason for the surge initially presumed that a superspreader event or negligent behavioral patterns like disregarding social distancing norms, illegal house parties etc, had caused the rapid rise of cases in the area, as per the Wall Street Journal.It was on December 8 when the group of scientists, Covid-19 Genomics UK Consortium(COG-UK) that collects, monitors and researches on the virus discovered the new variant with 23 mutations, in a test of a patient from Kent, near the centre of outbreak in late September, that consequently led to the world isolating the UK. The same variant was also found in a sample tested in London a day after, WSJ reported. These new mutations were found to have increased the communicability of the virus. While researchers have said that the virus has mutated numerous times since the inception of the spread in 2019, WSJ said the variant has caused global worries specifically because of the greater number of mutations that affected the code of the amino acid responsible for producing proteins constituting the virus.The new variant can help the virus in infecting the people more efficiently as two of the mutations affect the spike protein of the virus that makes it easy to stick to the human cell wall and enter the body.The mutation had caused global worries at a time when the vaccines are being rolled out for emergency use in many parts of the world as scientists say that the nature and number of mutations are unprecedented.The British officials in recent weeks have been clandestinely looking for patient zero. They have been through the contacts of two people identified early carrying the variant, neither of whom was sick including others infected earlier. The hypothesis around patient zero is that the variant must have born out of its weak immune system. Compromised and deficient immune system is mostly the best place for the virus to evolve with high mutations as it is able to survive in that environment for a longer period of time, WSJ reported.Also Read | New Covid-19 mutant found in South Africa: What we know so far“In an ideal situation you would know who the index case was,” Sharon Peacock, microbiologist leading the genomics team at the University of Cambridge was quoted by WSJ “We don’t know at all, if this has arisen in a patient in the UK or if it has been introduced, we categorically can’t tell at the moment.”The concerns about the new-found virus were made public on December 14 when the Health Secretary Matt Hancock informed the lawmakers that the new variant was accountable for 1000 cases in London and southeast England. Hancock had said, “Initial analysis suggests this variant is growing faster than the existing variants,” reported Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-uk-variant-how-scientists-discovered-the-new-strain/story-wKzzMWF9vQ3IDzQZ2bHz1I.html
24-12-2020||World||UK bans entries from South Africa after new Covid-19 strain different to UK variant found||The United Kingdom on Thursday has banned the entry of passengers travelling from South Africa after a second new variant of the coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, allegedly originating from South Africa was found in the country, said the Department of Transport.According to Sputnik, UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock said on Wednesday that the UK had identified a second new variant of the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 responsible for the Covid-19 disease in two patients who had been in contact with people that arrived from South Africa.“From 9 am Thursday 24 December 2020, visitors arriving into England who have been in or transited through South Africa in the previous 10 days will not be permitted entry and direct flights will be banned,” the statement read as quoted by Sputnik.”This excludes cargo and freight without passengers. This does not include British and Irish Nationals, visa holders and permanent residents, who will be able to enter but are required to self-isolate for 10 days along with their household,” the statement added.According to the UK Department of Health and Social Care, the new strain of Covid-19 was first discovered at Nelson Mandela Bay in South Africa in early October, however, specialists believe that the new mutation could have started spreading as early as late August.Sputnik reported that the news comes after the UK identified over the weekend a mutated coronavirus strain that is 70 percent more transmissible than other SARS-CoV-2 virus strains.Many countries, including France, Russia and the Netherlands, have since suspended passenger travel to and from the UK in a bid to prevent the import of the new virus strain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-bans-entries-from-south-africa-after-new-covid-19-strain-different-to-uk-variant-found/story-ki65tyyaj4PfcObeqoK7hJ.html
24-12-2020||World||Facebook bans Australian celebrity chef over coronavirus misinformation||Facebook has banned Australian celebrity chef and conspiracy theorist Pete Evans for repeatedly spreading misinformation about the coronavirus. With more than a million social media followers, Evans had been an influential promoter of conspiracy theories about the pandemic and vaccines.Facebook said Thursday it would not “allow anyone to share misinformation about Covid-19 that could lead to imminent physical harm” or falsehoods about Covid-19 vaccines. “We have clear policies against this type of content and we’ve removed Chef Pete Evans’ Facebook Page for repeated violations of these policies,” the company said in a statement. The former chef’s page on Instagram -- a Facebook-owned platform -- with 278,000 followers is still active, however, and includes posts that encourage Sydney residents to defy public health officials and refuse to get tested for the virus. Australia’s largest city is currently battling to contain a cluster of more 100 cases that ended months of low community transmission. Evans said on Instagram Thursday that he was glad to be “one of the catalysts for a conversation” about freedom of speech and described the science around the pandemic as “BS”.Facebook has previously banned some high profile accounts that peddled misinformation and hate speech, most notably those of conspiracist Alex Jones and far-right figure Milo Yiannopoulos.Under fierce scrutiny and criticism that the platform is debasing public debate, Facebook has also announced a ban on accounts linked to the QAnon conspiracy group. Evans was previously known for promoting pseudoscientific dieting ideas -- often linked to his own commercial enterprises -- such as the palaeolithic diet, earning him the nickname “Paleo” Pete.Several companies recently ditched Evans and his books were pulled from the shelves after he posted a “black sun” Nazi symbol on social media.Evans denies trafficking in lies, and denounces what he calls “fear-based propaganda.”“The pandemic is a hoax. It is as simple as that” he told AFP earlier this year, without offering any credible evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-bans-australian-celebrity-chef-over-coronavirus-misinformation/story-I88iui6iDQ5LtGigdvUgtL.html
24-12-2020||World||China to suspend direct flights to and from the United Kingdom||China will suspend direct flights to and from the United Kingdom indefinitely over fears of a new strain of the coronavirus, Wang Wenbin, a foreign ministry spokesman said on Thursday.“After much consideration, China has decided to take reference from other countries and suspend flights to and from UK,” Wang told reporters at a daily briefing.“China will closely monitor relevant developments and dynamically adjust control measures depending on the situation,” Wang said.Countries across the globe are shutting their borders to Britain after the emergence of a highly infectious new coronavirus strain.There are currently eight weekly flights between mainland China and the United Kingdom, according to aviation data provider Variflight, including one each by Air China , China Eastern Airlines and China Southern Airlines.British Airways operates two flights a week from London to Shanghai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-suspend-direct-flights-to-and-from-the-united-kingdom/story-eRvl82rkUtYa7bBa43RywL.html
24-12-2020||World||Sinovac Covid-19 shot more than 50% effective, but data withheld||A Covid-19 vaccine developed by Chinese pharmaceutical firm Sinovac Biotech Ltd. was found to be more than 50% effective in a Brazilian clinical trial, though researchers delayed releasing more information at the request of the company.A 50% efficacy rate is a minimum standard set by US regulators for emergency authorization of Covid vaccines. Messenger RNA vaccines from Moderna Inc. and Pfizer Inc. have produced far better results, reducing symptomatic Covid cases by well over 90% in giant trials.Chinese vaccine developers have been slow compared with their western peers in releasing efficacy data on their shots. As millions of healthy people count on transparency in trials before taking a shot, the lack of more specific results from Sinovac’s trial risks eroding confidence in Chinese vaccines. Hong Kong on Wednesday said residents will be allowed to choose which shot they want to take among several candidates that will likely include Sinovac’s.The lack of transparency in reporting the Brazil trial results “is totally unacceptable,” and wouldn’t pass muster in the US, Eric Topol, a clinical trials expert and director of the Scripps Research Translational Institute, said in a phone interview. “This doesn’t have a good look to it at all.”Sinovac didn’t respond to repeated calls seeking a comment. State-backed newspaper Global Times said in response to what it called western media “hyping up questions about transparency” that the delay had nothing to do with “fake data.” It said the company will gather and analyze data from trials in other countries like Turkey and Indonesia before finalizing a complete picture.‘Cause for Celebration’The late-stage trial of Sinovac’s vaccine in Brazil, involving about 13,000 participants, suggested the shot is “safe and effective,” authorities at the Butantan Institute and from the state of Sao Paulo said. They were asked to not disseminate the information until it was thoroughly reviewed in China as part of a contractual agreement, they said.“Our goal was for the shot to be more than 50% effective,” state Health Secretary Jean Gorinchteyn said at a press conference. “A vaccine that reaches at least that is already cause for celebration.”The group that received the vaccine in Brazil’s trial had no severe cases of Covid-19, and the main side effect reported was mild pain at the injection site, said Dimas Covas, head of Butantan. Efficacy is above the threshold needed for a vaccine to be registered by Brazil health regulator known as Anvisa, which still has to approve the shot, he said.The trial produced efficacy data that differed from tests carried out in other countries, Gorinchteyn said, without elaborating. He added that Sinovac’s review of the data is slated to take 15 days but could take less than that, and shouldn’t delay the planned Jan. 25 start of inoculations with the Sinovac shot.Data Consistency“Sinovac has several ongoing trials, and it’s important it gives the data consistency,” Covas said. “The company can’t analyze data from the same vaccine using different criteria, and can’t have three different efficacy rates for the same vaccine.”It is routine for trials of a drug or vaccine conducted in different groups of patients or locations to produce slightly different results, and research groups typically report results of independent trials separately.Yet while Butantan and state authorities reiterated their optimism for the shot, Topol said the fact that Brazilian authorities would only say that the vaccine is more than 50% effective, but not provide any more detail, suggests that Sinovac efficacy results may not be as good as those achieved by Pfizer and Moderna.Saving LivesSinovac is betting on a successful vaccine to inoculate more people around the world and save lives, especially in developing countries like Brazil that will have limited access to the Pfizer and Moderna shots. Vaccines from Sinovac and other Chinese companies could also help their home country win geopolitical influence and restore an image tarnished by the criticism of its initial response to the virus.Sinovac’s shot is potentially more suited to developing countries because it can be kept at normal refrigerator temperatures. By contrast, the mRNA vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna require deep-freeze conditions for storage and transportation, making distribution more complicated.China has allowed emergency use of its frontrunner vaccines since mid-year and plans to inoculate 50 million people in frontline industries by early February, Bloomberg News has reported. A shot developed by state-owned China National Biotec Group Co., a unit of Sinopharm, protected 86% of people against Covid-19, according to a statement from the health ministry in the United Arab Emirates. Neither CNBG nor Sinopharm has commented on the UAE announcement, nor released interim efficacy data directly.China’s drug regulator will review an application by a Sinopharm unit that developed one of the company’s two inactivated vaccines, according to local Chinese news website Jiemian, citing a screen shot of the regulator’s Center for Drug Evaluation website. In Hong Kong, the government has agreed to receive 7.5 million doses of Sinovac’s vaccine.The data delay on the Sinovac shot is a blow to Sao Paulo Governor Joao Doria’s plan to obtain swift approval and begin vaccinating the state of some 45 million people in January. He’s attempting to move quickly while the central government drags its feet on supply agreements and concrete vaccination dates. Millions of doses of Sinovac’s vaccine, called CoronaVac, have already been shipped to Sao Paulo.The Sinovac vaccine has been at the center of a political dispute between Doria and President Jair Bolsonaro, who says a vaccine from China can’t be trusted.In addition to Brazil’s central government, Butantan is in talks to sell the vaccine to Argentina, Uruguay, Peru, Ecuador and Honduras. Chile is in talks directly with the Chinese company, according to Covas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sinovac-covid-19-shot-more-than-50-effective-but-data-withheld/story-4gqgbUjuFc4JNpDYg2I7RO.html
24-12-2020||World||Daniel Pearl case: Pakistan court orders immediate release of terrorist Omar Saeed Sheikh||A Pakistani court on Thursday ordered the immediate release of Omar Saeed Sheikh, one of the three terrorists freed by India in 1999 in exchange for the passengers of a hijacked airliner, declaring his detention in connection with the abduction and murder of journalist Daniel Pearl null and void. The Sindh high court said the detention orders for Sheikh and three other accused in the case were null and void. While ordering their release, the court said their names should be put on a no-fly list so that they couldn’t leave Pakistan. “These men have been rotting in jail for 18 years without committing any crime,” the presiding judge observed. Also Read: Maryam Nawaz lashes at Pak PM, asks why he assumed office when wasn’t preparedIn April, the high court had heard the appeals of Sheikh, Fahad Naseem, Sheikh Adil and Salman Saqib 18 years after they were sentenced and acquitted Sheikh, Saqib and Naseem. It commuted Sheikh’s death sentence to seven years in prison and fined him Rs2 million. Sheikh has spent 18 years on death row and his seven-year sentence for kidnapping was counted in the time already served. However, the federal government issued a preventive detention order for a period of 90 days under which the four men continued to remain in custody. The first notification was issued the day the men were acquitted and a second three months after they completed their initial detention period. It is not clear what line of action the federal government will take now, but it has opposed the release of Sheikh and the other accused in the past. Daniel Pearl, 38, was South Asia bureau chief for The Wall Street Journal when he was abducted in Karachi in January 2002 while researching links between militants in Pakistan and Richard C Reid, known as the “shoe bomber” for trying to detonate a bomb while on a flight from Paris to Miami in 2001. Pearl was later killed by his captors in Karachi. Sheikh, a British citizen of Pakistani origin, was freed by India along with Jaish-e-Mohammed founder Masood Azhar and terrorist Mushtaq Ahmad Zargar in exchange for passengers of Indian Airlines flight IC-814, which was hijacked by a group of Pakistani terrorists from Kathmandu to Kandahar in December 1999.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistani-court-orders-immediate-release-of-terrorist-omar-saeed-sheikh/story-s1eD7dwtIPmGMTKvzPiFhJ.html
24-12-2020||World||UK, EU on cusp of striking Brexit trade deal at last||European Union and British negotiators worked through the night and right into Christmas Eve to put the finishing touches on a trade deal that should avert a chaotic economic break between the two sides on New Year’s Day.After resolving the remaining fair-competition and fisheries issues on Wednesday, negotiators combed through hundreds of pages of legal text that should become the provisional deal for a post-Brexit relationship after nine months of talks.Sources on both sides said the long and difficult negotiations were on the cusp of being wrapped up as negotiators, holed up at EU headquarters in Brussels with a stack of pizzas, worked to deliver the text to their leaders at dawn on Thursday.Everyone awaited early morning appearances by Prime Minister Boris Johnson and EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen to announce the deal. The agreement then goes to the 27 EU capitals seeking unanimous approval, as well as the blessing of the EU and British parliaments.Despite the breakthrough, key aspects of the future relationship between the 27-nation bloc and its former member remain uncertain. But it leaves the mutually dependent but often fractious UK-EU relationship on a much more solid footing than a disruptive no-deal split.Johnson will now claim to have delivered on the promise that won him a resounding election victory a year ago: Get Brexit Done.Even with a deal, trade between Britain and the EU will face customs checks and some other barriers on January 1, when the UK leaves the bloc’s single market and customs union. A trade deal would avert the imposition of tariffs and duties that could cost both sides billions in trade and hundreds of thousands of jobs. Britain withdrew from the EU on January 31, and an economic transition period expires on December 31.Johnson has always insisted the UK will “prosper mightily” even if no deal is reached and the UK has to trade with the EU on World Trade Organization terms from January 1.But his government has acknowledged that a chaotic exit is likely to bring gridlock at Britain’s ports, temporary shortages of some goods and price increases for staple foods. Tariffs will be applied to many UK exports, including 10% on cars and more than 40% on lamb, battering the UK economy as it struggles to rebound from the impact of the coronavirus pandemic.Over the past few days, Johnson and von der Leyen have been drawn more and more into the talks, speaking by phone in a bid to unblock negotiations that have dragged on for months, hampered by the coronavirus pandemic and by the two sides’ opposing views of what Brexit entails.Rumors of a pre-Christmas trade deal surfaced in recent days based on progress on the main outstanding issues: fair competition, resolution of future disputes and fishing.The EU has long feared that Britain would undercut the bloc’s social, environmental and state aid rules to be able to gain an unfair edge with its exports to the EU. Britain has said that having to meet EU rules would undercut its sovereignty.Compromise was finally reached on those “level playing field” issues, leaving the economically minor but hugely symbolic issue of fish came to be the final sticking point, Maritime EU nations are seeking to retain access to UK waters where they have long fished, and Britain insisting it must exercise control as an “independent coastal state,”A huge gap between the two sides on fishing was gradually narrowed until it appeared, at last, bridgeable.Johnson’s large majority in Parliament should ensure the agreement passes, but any compromises will be criticized by hard-line Brexit supporters in his Conservative Party. The party’s euroskeptic European Research Group said it would carefully scrutinize any deal “to ensure that its provisions genuinely protect the sovereignty of the United Kingdom after we exit the transition period at the end of this year.”The European Parliament has warned it’s now too late for it to approve the deal before January 1, but an agreement could provisionally be put in place and approved by EU legislators in January.Businesses on both sides are clamouring for a deal that would save tens of billions in costs.While both sides would suffer economically from a failure to secure a trade deal, most economists think Britain would take a greater hit, because it is smaller and more reliant on trade with the EU than the other way around.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-eu-on-cusp-of-striking-brexit-trade-deal-at-last/story-3NvaR5tiCbrcO5Gth52BkN.html
24-12-2020||World||Anti-Myanmar hate speech flares in Thailand after virus spread||“Wherever you see Myanmar people, shoot them down,” read one Thai comment on YouTube after a surge of coronavirus cases among workers from Myanmar.The outbreak, first detected at a seafood market near Bangkok, has prompted a flare-up in such online hate speech as well as questions over the treatment of millions of migrant workers in traditionally tolerant Thailand.“Myanmar people are being labelled for transmitting Covid-19, but the virus doesn’t discriminate,” said Sompong Srakaew of the Labor Protection Network, a Thai group helping migrant workers.Shifting sentiment had real consequences, he said, with workers from Myanmar, previously known as Burma, being blocked from buses, motorcycle taxis and offices.One of the many incendiary comments on social media seen by Reuters called for infected migrant workers to remain untreated and punishment for people that brought them into Thailand.The rhetoric reflects a global pattern since the start of the pandemic of foreigners being blamed for spreading the virus.Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha this week said illegal immigration was behind the outbreak in a country that had brought Covid-19 under control, although Thailand’s virus task force appealed for sympathy for immigrants.The independent Social Media Monitoring for Peace group told Reuters it found hundreds of comments classified as hate speech on YouTube with others on Facebook and Twitter.“The comments included racist language aimed at triggering discrimination and promoting nationalism,” said the group’s Saijai Liangpunsakul. “We’re concerned that online discrimination could translate into further discrimination and even lead to real-world violence.”After Reuters flagged some posts, Facebook said it had removed several for violating hate speech policies.“We know that hate speech targeted towards vulnerable communities can be the most harmful,” a Facebook spokesperson said, saying its technology detected 95% of hate speech.Facebook came under heavy criticism for the role it played in spreading hate speech that fuelled violence against Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar in 2017 and has since invested in systems that can rapidly detect and remove such content.Twitter said it was looking into the issue. YouTube did not respond to requests for comment.Not all the social media traffic has been negative, with some Thais defending the Myanmar workers.Government spokespeople in Thailand and Myanmar did not respond immediately to requests for comment on hate speech.The outbreak was first detected last week at a shrimp market at Samut Sakhon, barely 35 km (20 miles) from central Bangkok. Since then nearly 1,300 infections linked to the market have been found while thousands of people have been quarantined.“We feel really sad that we Myanmar workers are being blamed,” said Nay Lin Thu, a 35-year-old worker from Myanmar who has now volunteered to help others.“We are told ‘this happened because of you Myanmar’. Mostly we do not respond but some of us couldn’t contain their anger.”Officially, Thailand has nearly 1.6 million workers from Myanmar, almost two-thirds of all migrant workers, but the real figure is higher because of illegal immigration. Most migrants are labourers or work in service industries.“Thai people won’t take the jobs they are doing,” Taweesin Wisanuyothin, of Thailand’s Covid-19 task force said as he pleaded for tolerance in a televised broadcast. “Today they are our family... Both Myanmar and Thai people are Buddhists.” Thailand has traditionally been seen as tolerant of foreigners, but a historic enmity has been revived on social media with references to the 18th century destruction by Burmese forces of Ayutthaya, capital of what was then known as Siam.Myanmar has suffered a much more severe outbreak of coronavirus, with over 2,500 dead from nearly 120,000 confirmed cases compared with 60 fatalities from over 5,800 cases in Thailand.How the new cases first appeared in Thailand is unclear.Similar outbreaks among migrant workers living close together in Malaysia and Singapore showed how the virus can spread undetected among healthy young people who show few symptoms. It was first detected in a 67-year-old woman.Although Thailand reported few local transmissions in recent months, Myanmar had detected cases in citizens returning form Thailand.“Our judgement is that silent carriers have been present in Thailand,” said Sein Htay of the Yangon-based Migrant Worker Rights Network. “Living conditions for Myanmar workers are difficult for social distancing with three or four to a room.”Despite the accusations against Myanmar workers of crossing the border illegally, Thais have done so too.A previous coronavirus scare flared recently when several Thai women returned home, some using illegal border crossings, after an outbreak at the nightlife spot where they worked in Myanmar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anti-myanmar-hate-speech-flares-in-thailand-after-virus-spread/story-NeQddU03sGD733yfuLyrRM.html
24-12-2020||World||Iran minister rubbishes Trump’s accusation of US Embassy attack in Baghdad||Iran’s foreign minister on Thursday dismissed US President Donald Trump’s allegations that Iran was behind the recent rocket attack on the US Embassy in Baghdad.“Putting your own citizens at risk abroad won’t divert attention from catastrophic failures at home,” Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif tweeted.Trump, without giving evidence, said on Twitter on Wednesday that the rockets that landed in Baghdad’s heavily fortified Green Zone on Sunday, in an attack targeting the US Embassy, were from Iran and “we hear chatter of additional attacks against Americans in Iraq.”“Some friendly health advice to Iran: If one American is killed, I will hold Iran responsible. Think it over,” Trump said.The Iraqi military blamed the attack, which caused some minor damage, on an “outlaw group.”Top US national security officials agreed on Wednesday on a proposed range of options to present to Trump aimed at deterring any attack on US military or diplomatic personnel in Iraq, a senior administration official told Reuters without describing the content of the options or say whether they included military action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-minister-rubbishes-trump-s-accusation-of-us-embassy-attack-in-baghdad/story-NEfLzr4LjXGUaGzEprlHRJ.html
24-12-2020||World||Trump pardons more allies and Kushner’s father, sparking fresh outrage||US President Donald Trump issued new pardons Wednesday for allies including the father of his son-in-law Jared Kushner and two confidants caught up in the probe into Russian meddling in the 2016 election that brought him to power. The pardons added to a long list he has granted in his waning days in office and sparked fresh outrage.Among those pardoned were Charles Kushner, who pleaded guilty to charges including tax evasion and witness tampering in 2004, as well as former campaign manager Paul Manafort and longtime adviser Roger Stone.The trio were among 26 people pardoned and three who had all or part of their sentences commuted by Trump on Wednesday.They come only a day after Trump pardoned another 15 people and commuted sentences for five, including corrupt Republican congressmen and security guards convicted of killing 14 civilians in a 2007 Baghdad massacre. Trump’s pardon of Manafort, who was at the heart of the investigation by special prosecutor Robert Mueller into allegations of Russian interference in the election four years ago, triggered fury that Trump was trying to erase the probe he has always described as a “witch hunt.”Democratic congressman Adam Schiff, who heads the House intelligence committee, said in a tweet that “during the Mueller investigation, Trump’s lawyer floated a pardon to Manafort. Manafort withdrew his cooperation with prosecutors, lied, was convicted and then Trump praised him for not ‘ratting.’ Trump’s pardon now completes the corrupt scheme.”Manafort himself took to Twitter, saying, “You truly did ‘Make America Great Again.’ God Bless you & your family. I wish you a Merry Christmas & many good wishes for the coming years.”David Axelrod, a political commentator and former aide to president Barack Obama, said of the move, “Everyone saw this raw sewage dump of pardons and commutations for @realDonaldTrump apparatchiks and loyalists coming ... Yet the spectacle is still appalling.”Republican Senator Ben Sasse, who has publicly spoken out against Trump, said simply, “This is rotten to the core.”Earlier in the day, Iraqis had expressed outrage and sadness after Trump delivered pardons for the four Blackwater security contractors who were convicted of murder and manslaughter six years ago for the Nisur Square massacre.The four, all former US servicemen, opened fire unprovoked on the crowded square in 2007, leaving at least 14 civilians dead -- though Iraqi authorities put the toll as high as 17 -- while wounding dozens more and deeply souring US-Iraqi relations. “I knew we’d never get justice,” Fares Saadi, the Iraqi police officer who led the investigations, told AFP.Retired US general Mark Hertling, who served in Iraq, called the Blackwater pardon “egregious and disgusting.”“This was a craven war crime that resulted in the death of 17 Iraqi civilians. Shame on you Mr President,” Hertling tweeted, using the higher death toll.Trump had also extended pardons to two more minor figures in the 2016 Russia election meddling investigation, and granted clemency to three former Republican lawmakers that watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington called “three of the most corrupt members of Congress in recent history.” All five have been vocal supporters of Trump.Trump also stunned prosecutors in Florida Tuesday when he commuted the prison sentence of Philip Esformes, a health care tycoon sentenced in 2019 to 20 years in prison for bilking the federal Medicare program of $44 million, the largest-ever Medicare fraud case. While Esformes had no evident links to Trump, he was backed by several influential former Republican attorneys general and prosecutors who have supported the president.Trump is believed to be weighing other pardons including members of his family, his personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani, and potentially himself, to protect from potential litigation after he steps down on January 20.That could spark even greater uproar, though would likely be difficult to reverse.Trump is also being pressed by libertarian and civil rights groups to pardon three people involved in leaks of national security information -- WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden, and another ex-NSA employee Reality Winner.Others known to have requested pardons include former US soldier Robert Bale, convicted of murdering 16 Afghan civilians in 2012, and Joseph Maldonado-Passage, better known as Joe Exotic, the star of the hit Netflix documentary “Tiger King”, convicted of trying to hire a man to murder a rival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-pardons-more-allies-and-kushner-s-father-sparking-fresh-outrage/story-T9QE4MQbZX9zhFFSHLtglO.html
24-12-2020||World||Democrats face a turnout test in Georgia’s Senate runoffs||In the first week of early voting for Georgia’s Senate runoff election, Casie Yoder parked at a polling location in Cobb County and loaded miniature hand sanitizer bottles, knitted hats, hand warmers and face masks into a collapsible wagon cart.Her goal: to help voters stay in line in frigid temperatures and cast their ballots in a pair of high-stakes runoff contests that will determine which political party controls the Senate next year. The runoffs will also test whether Democrats can again pull together the diverse coalition that propelled President-elect Joe Biden to victory in Georgia in November and cemented the state’s status as a political battleground.“We’ve never had an election happen like this in December,” said Yoder, the Georgia state captain for the Frontline, a nonpartisan electoral justice project of the Movement for Black Lives and other partner organizations.For Democrats to win control of the Senate, Georgia’s Black communities, as well as the state’s smaller Hispanic and Asian communities, likely need to vote in the January 5 runoff election by history-making margins. There is hope that the candidacy of the Rev. Raphael Warnock, the Black senior pastor of the church where Martin Luther King Jr. once preached, might help spur Black votes for both him and fellow Democratic candidate Jon Ossoff over the Republican incumbents, Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue.An Associated Press VoteCast survey of Georgia voters in November found that 22% of white voters chose Warnock and 28% chose Ossoff, compared to the 90% of Black voters who chose Ossoff and 73% who chose Warnock. Democrats also have an opportunity to capture the 15% of Black voters who chose Matt Lieberman, another Democratic candidate who competed against Warnock in last month’s race.There are signs that turnout in Georgia could indeed be high in the runoffs. Through Wednesday, early voting data released by the office of Georgia’s secretary of state show nearly 1.9 million voters have already cast in-person or mail-in ballots since voting opened last week. That’s almost half of the total early votes cast in the November general election, with less than two weeks left before the Senate runoff concludes.Roughly 75,000 people in Georgia have also registered to vote ahead of the runoff, with less than half of those self-identifying as white.“The old way of just thinking that white voters will determine statewide elections in Deep South states is rapidly fading,” said Ben Jealous, president of People For the American Way, a progressive advocacy organization that encourages civic participation.Black, Hispanic and Asian American Georgians make up increasing segments of the state’s registered voters rolls. According to a new Pew Research Center analysis, Black registered voters here increased by about 130,000 between the 2016 presidential election and last month’s contest, which was the largest increase of all major racial and ethnic groups in the state. Although far fewer in number, Hispanic and Asian American residents have increased their registration every year for the last three presidential cycles, the Pew analysis shows.Dolores Huerta, the American labor movement icon and civil rights activist, said the growing size of the Hispanic voting population, particularly among younger voters, has already shifted the organizing strategy for races like the Georgia runoff.For weeks, several Black and multiracial social justice groups, many of them flush with resources, have been canvassing Georgia communities and airwaves to drive the needed turnout. They’re phone banking, sending texts, door knocking, and crisscrossing the state in tour buses and personal vehicles to reach Black and Hispanic Georgians. Many of them said they’ll continue outreach through the holidays, putting their own Christmas and New Year’s traditions on hold.Last weekend, Grammy, Oscar and Emmy award-winning hip-hop artist and activist Common was among celebrities who made several stops throughout Georgia, including at a rally for Warnock and Ossoff.Jealous’s organization last week launched a six-figure radio ad buy with the goal of reaching more than one million Black Georgia voters — and especially Black men, who haven’t voted in the same margins that Black women have, he said. Similarly, the recently formed Black Lives Matter PAC this week began airing its first TV ad targeting Georgia voters on major broadcast network affiliates and a handful of cable channels.The ad depicts a Black man out for a jog seeming to overcome the obstacles that might disenfranchise him. It evokes Ahmaud Arbery, a young Black man killed by white men in the coastal Georgia community of Brunswick last February, whose death helped spur this year’s national reckoning on systemic racism.The Rev. James Woodall, the Georgia NAACP president, said he appreciates the resources pouring in from outside of the state. However, he believes victory would come down to homegrown turnout efforts.“Georgians are organizing Georgians,” Woodall said.In a statement to the AP, Abigail Sigler, spokeswoman for the Georgia Republican Party, said the party was “working tirelessly to ensure all Georgians understand they have a clear choice” in the runoff.Republicans have focused their efforts on whiter, more rural parts of the state and smaller, more conservative cities, including Valdosta, where Trump held a rally earlier this month. Trump succeeded in the 2020 election in ramping up turnout in similar areas across the country, though it wasn’t enough to offset Biden’s advantages with minority voters and in large urban centers.The Working Families Party, a national progressive political movement that has endorsed Warnock, dispatched more than a dozen organizers and several more volunteers to Georgia. A group of them have set up shop at a home garage in a subdivision in Lawrenceville. Last Wednesday, some of them canvassed several neighborhoods that varied along the socioeconomic scale.“In less affluent neighborhoods, you can see the disparities clearly,” said Robert Campbell, a 29-year-old volunteer from the nonpartisan Chicago-based group Social Change, which is helping the Working Families Party with voter outreach.“It makes you wonder, when’s the last time a politician came out here door knocking? Every time they look out their door, they’re reminded of their conditions. No wonder they are infrequent voters,” Campbell said.Stephanie Lopez-Burgos, a field director for the Working Families Party for the Gwinnett area, led a group of canvassers in a more affluent Lawrenceville neighborhood. Nearly every home along a pristinely kept cul-de-sac was adorned with Christmas decorations.“Do you have a plan to vote in the runoff election?” another canvasser, Graco Hernandez Valenezuela, asked Tyrone Vereen, a 62-year-old Black retired police officer who answered the door.Vereen, who had already mailed in his ballot a week prior, said the events of the last year convinced him it was “time for a change.”At another home in the same neighborhood, 18-year-old Delano Jordan answered the door and told the canvassers that he would be voting for the first time at the polls on January 5.An aspiring lawyer who currently makes $11 per hour at a sporting goods store, Jordan, who is Black, said he’ll support candidates who favor raising the federal minimum wage to $15. Both Ossoff and Warnock have said they support a “livable wage.”“It’s going to be hard, but people need the change,” Jordan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democrats-face-a-turnout-test-in-georgia-s-senate-runoffs/story-9ApxctkqdOFXl4lKduhSSM.html
24-12-2020||World||Moderna anticipates its Covid-19 vaccine to safeguard against new mutated virus||US-based pharma company Moderna on Wednesday said that it expects its Covid-19 vaccine to be protective against the new mutated coronavirus reported in Britain.“Moderna expects that the immunity induced by its Covid-19 vaccine would be protective against coronavirus variants reported in the United Kingdom (UK),” read the statement released by Moderna.It also confirmed to perform additional tests of its vaccine in the coming weeks to check the effectiveness against the new strain of the virus.“We plan to run tests to confirm the activity of the vaccine against any strain,” added the release.Based on the data to date, Moderna expects that the vaccine-induced immunity from the Moderna Covid-19 vaccine would be protective against the variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus recently discovered in the UK.The forward-looking statements made by Moderna are based on current expectations and does not guarantee the success of the vaccine against the new mutated coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-anticipates-its-covid-19-vaccine-to-safeguard-against-new-mutated-virus/story-QMAvv7q6o424IfmX8nBa3H.html
24-12-2020||World||Families of Italian Covid-19 victims seek $122 million from government||About 500 relatives of people who died of Covid-19 in Italy said on Wednesday they had begun legal action against regional and national authorities, seeking 100 million euros ($122 million) in damages.The civil lawsuit, which the plaintiffs presented to a Rome court, is against Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte, Health Minister Roberto Speranza and the governor of the northerly Lombardy region, Attilio Fontana.The spokespeople of all three politicians did not respond to a request for comment.Italy, the first Western country hit by the coronavirus, has reported seen more than 70,000 deaths from Covid-19 since the outbreak emerged in February, the highest toll in Europe and the fifth-highest in the world. The hardest-hit region is Lombardy, where the first Covid-19 patient was detected on February 20.The lawsuit is being brought by members of a committee called “Noi Denunceremo” (we will go to court), set up in April to represent the relatives of people who died in Bergamo, one of Lombardy’s worst-affected cities.“This case is our Christmas gift to those who should have done what they were supposed to do, but didn’t,” the group’s president, Luca Fusco, said in statement.Concern about Italy’s management of the crisis was rekindled last week when prosecutors in Bergamo questioned Francesco Zambon, a World Health Organization (WHO)official who co-authored a report on Italy’s response to Covid-19.The report said the response of Italy’s hospitals had been “improvised, chaotic and creative” and “it took some time before formal guidance became available.” It was published by the WHO on May 13 but was quickly removed from its website.The WHO said it had been removed because of “factual inaccuracies”, but declined to say what these were.The Noi Denunceremo committee said when the outbreak erupted in Lombardy local authorities and the central government failed to take rapid action which could have avoided the need for a national lockdown and the economic damage it has brought.They also decried an alleged lack of preparedness, with neither Rome nor the Lombardy region having an updated plan in place to deal with a possible pandemic.“The authorities will be asked for an average compensation of 259,000 euros per person for a total outlay of around 100 million euros,” the group’s statement said.In June, “Noi Denunceremo” asked prosecutors in Bergamo to investigate possible criminal responsibility in the management of the pandemic.Conte was questioned by the prosecutors during the summer as a witness but is not under criminal investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/families-of-italian-covid-19-victims-seek-122-million-from-government/story-FKyibXcNZUSTeExnyIYfyN.html
24-12-2020||World||Donald Trump pardons a relative and more Russia probe convicts||US President Donald Trump on Wednesday pardoned two more aides convicted in the Russia meddling probe - Paul Manafort and Roger Stone - and for the first time extended the extraordinary pardon powers of his office to benefit a family member, Charles Kushner, the father of his son-in-law and senior adviser Jared Kushner.The outgoing president, who has refused to acknowledge his defeat to President-elect Joe Biden and has continued efforts to overturn the election’s outcome, had pardoned George Papadopoulos and Alex Van Der Zwaan, the first convicted in the Russia probe, on Tuesday. Earlier this month, he had pardoned Michael Flynn, his national security adviser.Trump granted 26 pardons and three commutations on Wednesday to add to 15 pardons and 5 commutations on Tuesday. Manafort had headed Trump’s 2016 election campaign before being fired just weeks before polling because of his business dealings with the former Soviet Union. He had been sentenced to seven and a half years for financial fraud in a case prosecuted by special counsel Robert Muller.Stone, meanwhile, was given 40 months’ jail time for lying to congress, essentially to protect Trump. The president had commuted his sentence earlier, saving him from serving in jail.The outgoing president’s pardon to Charles Kushner, however, received a lot of comments and criticism as a development that was taken to preview Trump’s larger plan to pardon his immediate family, especially his adult children who are already under investigation by state and local authorities, and possibly himself.Charles Kushner, a real estate magnate in New Jersey, pleaded guilty in 2016 to 16 counts of tax evasion and other charges that included using a sex worker to influence his sister’s husband to force him to not testify against him. He served two years in prison and got out in 2016.Charles Kushner, whose son Jared is married to the president’s eldest daughter Ivanka Trump, was prosecuted by Chris Christie, the then US attorney who went on to win two terms as governor of New Jersey and became a close ally of President Trump.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-pardons-a-relative-and-more-russia-probe-convicts/story-WDePIGEe2UhmZPY7W0052J.html
24-12-2020||World||Meghan Markle, Prince Harry’s Christmas card featuring son Archie revealed||Ahead of the Christmas festival, the royal duo Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s Christmas card was shared on social media on Thursday (local time).According to Fox News, the Christmas card was shared by an animal welfare charity Mayhew on Twitter. The original picture of the family which was clicked at their home, features Markle, Harry, their one-year-old son Archie and their two puppies seated in front of a white and blue playhouse.“Wishing you a very merry Christmas and a happy new year,” reads the text on the card above the illustration.The charity also tweeted to inform that the royal duo is their Patron and that they have made a personal donation to help dogs, cats, and our community. “We’re thrilled to receive wonderful Christmas wishes from our Patron, The Duchess of Sussex, who also made a personal donation, helping dogs, cats, and our community. From all of us at Mayhew, thank you and Merry Christmas.” the charity tweeted. “The original photo of the family was taken at their home earlier this month by The Duchess’s mother,” Fox News quoted a spokesperson for the Duke and Duchess as saying. “The small Christmas tree, including the homemade ornaments and other decorations, were selected by Archie, and the tree will be replanted after the holidays,” the spokesperson added.Mayhew’s official website also confirmed that the Sussexes has made a donation to the organisation this year.As per Fox News, the family will spend the holiday in California due to concerns around coronavirus and will hence, not be travelling to the UK to visit the rest of the Royal family.(The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/meghan-markle-prince-harry-s-christmas-card-featuring-son-archie-revealed/story-xMeVj1gQ9HQChjNlLxj3QO.html
24-12-2020||World||US preparing new sanctions to impede Russia’s Nord Stream 2 pipeline||The United States is urging European allies and private companies to halt work that could help build the Nord Stream 2 natural gas pipeline and is preparing wider sanctions on the Russian project in coming weeks, senior Trump administration officials said on Wednesday.The outgoing Trump administration is readying a fresh round of congressionally mandated sanctions “in the very near future” that it believes could deal a fatal blow to the Russia-to-Germany project led by state gas company Gazprom , three officials said.“We’ve been getting body blow on body blow to this, and now we’re in the process of driving a stake through the project heart,” said one of the officials, who spoke to Reuters on the condition of anonymity.Russia this month resumed building the $11.6 billion (9.5 billion euro) pipeline, which is 90% complete, after a one-year pause prompted by existing US sanctions. New work has been centered on a 2.6 kilometer (1.6 mile) stretch in shallow waters of Germany’s Exclusive Economic Zone but not yet in the deep-water sections off Denmark that comprise most of the unfinished 100-km stretch. Washington says the project, which will increase European reliance on Russian gas, will compromise European energy security. Russia says the sanctions amount to “unfair competition” aimed at helping U.S. liquefied natural gas producers, and insists it will finish the pipeline.The feud may not die down once President-elect Joe Biden takes office on Jan. 20, foreign diplomats say. The U.S. pressure campaign on Nord Stream 2 is backed by both Democratic and Republican lawmakers who fear it will bypass Ukraine, robbing it of lucrative transit fees. Biden described the pipeline as a “bad deal” for Europe in 2016, and has criticized Moscow for its alleged role in a massive cyber attack on US government agencies that was discovered last week. Nord Stream 2 did not immediately comment on the possibility of new sanctions. Last month it told Reuters that existing sanctions and new ones in the defense policy bill would, if imposed, directly or indirectly hit more than 120 companies from more than 12 European countries.SHIP IN CANARY ISLANDSGazprom has had to retool its ships to do the delicate deepwater pipelaying and may need the help of companies from other countries to finish the project quickly.Washington has what it considers “reliable information” about modifications being carried out to the Oceanic 5000, a crane ship, in Spain’s Canary Islands, upgrades that U.S. officials say will equip the ship to lay pipe in deep water.The officials declined to identify which entities could face sanctions for the previously unreported work, but said they were not targeting specific governments or government officials. Several European entities were involved, but some were “unwitting” of the implications for the pipeline, said one official, adding they could still escape sanctions if they made “a good faith effort to unwind their involvement.”A Danish regulator on Tuesday said a Gazprom vessel called Fortuna would start work off Denmark from Jan. 15 with the assistance of other supply vessels.The project is grappling with financial pressures and the departure of key participants, including Norway’s risk management and quality assurance firm DNV last month. The State Department is due to issue an overdue report to Congress in the next weeks on companies that could be at risk for helping the project, another official said.DNV said new U.S. guidelines meant it could face sanctions. The scope of the sanctions were expanded further in a veto-proof bipartisan defense policy bill passed this month.That measure would also target individuals or companies assisting Gazprom with “pipelaying activities,” insurance, and verification of construction equipment. US sanctions have already added $1 billion in extra cost to the project, said one of the US officials.Initially slated to become operational in late 2020 or early 2021, Nord Stream 2 would double the capacity of Russia to carry gas directly to Germany.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-preparing-new-sanctions-to-impede-russia-s-nord-stream-2-pipeline/story-OvcwZFVgrIMiN6rPmiCIAL.html
24-12-2020||World||Over 100 killed in Ethiopia by gunmen in dawn attack||Gunmen killed more than 100 people in a dawn attack in the western Benishangul-Gumuz region of Ethiopia on Wednesday, the human rights commission said, as residents described fleeing the latest deadly assault in an area bedevilled by ethnic violence.The attack occurred in the village of Bekoji in Bulen county in the Metekel zone, the state-run Ethiopian Human Rights Commission said in a statement, an area where multiple ethnic groups are living. Africa’s second-most populous nation has been grappling with regular outbreaks of deadly violence since Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed was appointed in 2018 and accelerated democratic reforms that loosened the state’s iron grip on regional rivalries.Elections due next year have further inflamed simmering tensions over land, power and resources. In a separate part of the country, Ethiopia’s military has been fighting rebels in the northern Tigray region for over six weeks in a conflict that has displaced close to 950,000 people. The deployment of federal troops there has raised fears of a security vacuum in other restive regions.Ethiopia is also fighting an insurgency in the Oromiya region and faces long-running security threats from Somali Islamist militants along its porous eastern border. Gashu Dugaz, a senior regional security official, said authorities were aware of the Benishangul-Gumuz attack and were verifying the identities of the attackers and the victims, but did not give further information.The region is home to several ethnic groups including the Gumuz people. But in recent years farmers and businessmen from the neighbouring Amhara region have begun moving into the area, prompting some Gumuz to complain that fertile land has been taken. Some Amhara leaders are now saying that some of the land in the region - especially in the Metekel zone - rightfully belongs to them, claims that have angered Gumuz people. “In previous attacks it was people who came from ‘the forest’ who were involved but, in this case, victims said they knew the people involved in the attack,” the rights commission said in its statement.Belay Wajera, a farmer in the western town of Bulen, told Reuters he counted 82 dead bodies in a field near his home after Wednesday’s raid. He and his family awoke to the sound of gunshots and ran out of their home as men shouted “catch them”, he said. His wife and five of his children were shot dead, he was shot in the buttocks while four other children escaped and are now missing, Wajera told Reuters by phone late on Wednesday.Another resident of the town, Hassen Yimama, said armed men stormed the area around 6 a.m. (0300 GMT). He told Reuters that he counted 20 bodies in a different location. He grabbed his own weapon but assailants shot him in the stomach. A local medic said he and colleagues treated 38 injured people, most suffering from gunshot wounds. Patients told him of relatives who were killed with knives and told him that gunmen set houses on fire and shot at people trying to escape, he said.“We weren’t prepared for this and we are out of medicine,” a nurse at the same facility told Reuters, adding that a five-year-old child died while being transferred to the clinic. The attack came a day after Abiy, the military chief of staff and other senior federal officials visited the region to urge calm after several deadly incidents in recent months, such as a Nov. 14 assault in which gunmen targeted a bus and killed 34 people.“The desire by enemies to divide Ethiopia along ethnic and religious lines still exists. This desire will remain unfulfilled,” Abiy tweeted on Tuesday along with photos of his meetings that day in the town of Metekel, near where the November 14 attack occurred. He said residents’ wish for peace “outweighs any divisive agenda”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-100-killed-in-ethiopia-by-gunmen-in-dawn-attack/story-rPt12sVBPsR5AdIosklTXK.html
24-12-2020||World||Donald Trump vetoes defence bill that also slams Chinese aggression along India’s border||US President Donald Trump on Wednesday vetoed a $740 billion defence policy bill that also expresses concern over Chinese aggression on the border with India. Trump vetoed the National Defense Authorization Act, saying it failed to repeal a law — Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act — that protects social media platforms from liability for content published by them; provides for renaming military installations named after confederate figures against his administration’s policy; and prevents him from moving troops from Germany and South Korea, among other things.Trump said in a note announcing his veto, “The Act fails to include critical national security measures, includes provisions that fail to respect our veterans and our military’s history, and contradicts efforts by my administration to put America first in our national security and foreign policy actions. It is a ‘gift’ to China and Russia.”Trump had threatened to veto the bill before it landed on his desk. His position sets up a confrontation with US congress that he is expected to lose. The bill had been passed with enough votes in both chambers to override Trump’s veto; it requires the support of two-thirds of the members. Both Republicans, who control the Senate, and Democrats, who dominate the House of Representatives, are determined to see the legislation go through despite Trump’s objection to it. The House is scheduled to hold its override vote on Monday and the Senate is set to follow on Tuesday.The legislation includes, with bipartisan and bicameral support, a section that seeks to convey congress’s “significant concern” with Chinese aggression along the northern border with India and calls upon Beijing to de-escalate tensions by working through existing diplomatic channels. The US president, however, has not cited this particular section among the grievances that he has aired while announcing the bill’s veto.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-vetoes-defence-bill-that-also-slams-chinese-aggression-along-india-s-border/story-Sfl3s5EbATcr3ufukYDrRI.html
24-12-2020||World||AstraZeneca submitted date for vaccine approval, says UK’s Hancock||British Health Minister Matt Hancock said on Wednesday that AstraZeneca had submitted a full data package about its Covid-19 vaccine to the medicines regulator, the next step in its journey to approval for use.“I’m delighted to be able to tell you that the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine developed here in the UK has submitted its full data package to the MHRA for approval,” Hancock said.“This is the next step towards a decision on the deployment of the vaccine, which is already being manufactured, including here in the UK.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-submitted-date-for-vaccine-approval-uk-s-hancock-says/story-aStXmhtOVuQq1vhttdw6sJ.html
24-12-2020||World||Singapore detects one case of more contagious Covid-19 strain||Singapore has detected one case of the more contagious Covid-19 strain that first emerged in the UK and is now leading to tougher restrictions in many parts of the world.Further tests of Covid-19 cases who had arrived in Singapore from Europe over the month through Dec. 17 show that a 17 year-old Singaporean girl has the so called B117 strain, and 11 others are preliminarily positive for it, the Ministry of Health said in a statement Wednesday. The girl, who had been studying in the UK , arrived in Singapore on Dec. 6 and was confirmed to have an infection Dec. 8. Her case was included in that day’s case count.“As she had been isolated upon arrival in Singapore, we were able to ringfence this case so that there was no further transmission arising from her,” the ministry said. “There is currently no evidence that the B117 strain is circulating in the community.”The presence of a more contagious Covid-19 strain could pose a challenge to Singapore, which has been lauded for its success in quelling the pace of infections in the community. The nation has imposed tougher border restrictions to stop travelers from the UK , including barring entry and transit for those who have traveled there in the past 14 days.UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has imposed tougher regulations across a swath of England to rein in the more contagious strain, which is spreading quickly across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-detects-one-case-of-more-contagious-covid-19-strain/story-gF5TNCJj3Dwd57WK68ZNJI.html
24-12-2020||World||Hong Kong to let residents choose between Covid-19 vaccines||Hong Kong said residents will be allowed to choose which Covid-19 vaccine they want to take, as the city added a third candidate to its arsenal with an agreement to buy shots from AstraZeneca Plc.The city reached an agreement with AstraZeneca for 7.5 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine, Chief Executive Carrie Lam said at a media briefing Wednesday. The deal joins similar agreements with Pfizer Inc.-BioNTech SE and Chinese developer Sinovac Biotech Ltd., giving the city a total of 22.5 million potential doses of vaccines. Hong Kong is seeking a further 7.5 million doses and residents will be offered a choice of which vaccine they will take, according to Lam.While the move will address concerns from residents anxious about taking a Chinese vaccine, it also raises the prospect of a run on particular shots. The three candidates are widely different and none of them have been approved for use in the city yet, which is enduring its fourth wave of the pandemic. In a bid to encourage take-up of the vaccines, Lam said on Wednesday the government will set up a fund to provide financial support for patients that experience side effects.Pfizer’s vaccine, which data indicate has a 95% protection rate against Covid-19, uses a new technology called messenger RNA that turns the body’s own cells into vaccine-producing factories to fight the coronavirus. While the shot is considered to be safe, there have been some reports of serious allergic reactions.Sinovac’s shot is made using an inactivated version of the coronavirus that is said to prime human immune systems to fight it. The vaccine was found to be more than 50% effective in a Brazilian clinical trial, though researchers delayed releasing more information at the request of the company. AstraZeneca’s vaccine has the most supply deals around the world, but initial clinical results were mixed.Lam said Wednesday the government has appointed a committee to approve the emergency use of the vaccines, signaling the city is moving closer to authorizing the candidates.Countries lacking the capacity to independently validate experimental drug therapies often rely on reviews of global leading drug authorities like the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Pfizer-BioNTech’s shot has so far been approved in the U.S. and the European Union, while Singapore approved it last week.Bloomberg reported earlier this month that Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical Group Co., the Chinese company with the rights to market the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine in Hong Kong, was preparing to seek approval of the shot soon after the U.S. cleared it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-to-let-residents-choose-between-covid-19-vaccines/story-cLJdhZaLytgrCiLZrnxV6J.html
24-12-2020||World||Britain, Swiss firm Roche say Covid-19 tests can detect mutant virus||Britain and drugmaker Roche on Wednesday offered reassurances that the accuracy of diagnostic tests used to detect Covid-19 was unlikely to be affected by a fast-spreading mutant strain of the virus. Public Health England said that rapid lateral flow tests being deployed in the country’s mass-testing programme can identify the variant. Separately, Roche said neither its molecular test for Covid-19 nor a combination Covid-19/Influenza molecular test used on its high-throughput diagnostic machines was likely to be impacted by the mutations.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe reason, the Swiss company said, was that the mutations occurred on different regions of the new coronavirus than the regions that are targeted for the tests. Roche also said that five other tests it sells - Elecsys Anti-SARS-CoV-2 Test, Elecsys SARS-CoV-2 Antigen Test and Elecsys Anti-SARS-CoV-2 S Test as well as its SARS-CoV-2 Rapid Antigen Test and SARS-CoV-2 Rapid Antibody Test - were also unlikely to be eluded by the variant. Roche said that it would conduct further tests on the rapid antibody test that it makes in partnership with South Korea’s SD Biosensor, just to make sure.“We will share our findings, as soon as these indications have concluded,” the Basel-based company said. Also Read: Top scientist Anthony Fauci says US could see return to normal by next summerThe rapidly spreading mutation has prompted deep concerns in Britain and beyond that it will make fighting the pandemic even more difficult as infections accelerate. Nations including Switzerland have announced a series of travel bans and restrictions aimed at helping limit the spread of the strain outside Britain. Vaccine makers including Pfizer and BioNTech are also investigating whether the mutant virus that emerged in Britain could elude their shots, and say they need about two weeks to make a determination. They say they expect them to still work, but said the data needs to bear that out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-swiss-firm-roche-say-covid-19-tests-can-detect-mutant-virus/story-h27peM5KGlGWWR5gKGUsKN.html
24-12-2020||World||New Covid-19 mutant found in South Africa: What we know so far||Amid concerns over new Coronavirus mutant found in the UK and the rest of the world subsequently rushing to shut their doors to Britain, another variant has now been found, which has links to South Africa.Here is what we know so far about the South African variant1. Two cases belonging to this new category have been detected in the United Kingdom, British health secretary Matt Hancock has confirmed.2. Both of them have come in contact of those who have travelled from South Africa over the past few weeks.ALSO WATCH | Covid update: 2nd new virus variant reaches UK; India-Russia summit cancelled 3. South Africa had detected the mutation earlier. It reported last week that scientists have found a new genetic mutation which might be responsible for the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in South Africa.4. This South African variant is more transmissible than the UK variant, British health secretary has said, as this variant has mutated further than the UK variant.5. The variant has been named as 501.V2, South African Health Minister Zweli Mkhize announced on Twitter. We have convened this public briefing today to announce that a variant of the SARS-COV-2 Virus- currently termed 501.V2 Variant has been identified by our genomics scientists here in South Africa.#SARSCOV2MediaBriefing6. Younger people with no co-morbidities are being infected by the new variant, South Africa has found. “Clinicians have been providing anecdotal evidence of a shift in the clinical epidemiological picture- in particular noting that they are seeing a larger proportion of younger patients with no co-morbidities presenting with critical illness,” Zweli Mkhize said.7. The new variant was discovered through routine surveillance by the laboratories in South Africa. Initially, the variant was confined to coastal regions, but has now entered inland.8. Britain, Germany, Switzerland, Turkey, Israel and Mauritius have banned flights from South Africa. URGENT UPDATE: I’ve taken the decision to temporarily stop flights and arrivals entering England from SOUTH AFRICA from 9am tomorrow following an outbreak of a new strain of coronavirus. 1/39. The South African variant may allow the virus to better bind to and enter cells than previous variants, which is why transmission rate is higher, scientists told The Guardian.10. South Africa reported a sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in January. the new variant is believed to be the reason behind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-coronavirus-mutant-found-in-south-africa-what-we-know-so-far/story-3PCx4lLRuGKunFXv1OHO1K.html
24-12-2020||World||Trump warns Iran over rocket strike on embassy in Iraq||US President Donald Trump warned Wednesday he would hold “Iran responsible” in the event of a fatal attack on Americans in Iraq, as the first anniversary of the killing of a top Iranian general in a US air strike approaches.“Our embassy in Baghdad got hit Sunday by several rockets,” Trump said on Twitter, referring to an attack that caused damage but no deaths. “Guess where they came from: IRAN,” he added. “Now we hear chatter of additional attacks against Americans in Iraq,” he added, before offering “some friendly health advice to Iran: if one American is killed, I will hold Iran responsible. Think it over,” he said. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo had already pointed the finger at Tehran, while the US military command that covers the region said that the rocket attack “was almost certainly conducted by an Iranian-backed rogue militia group.”It said in a statement that while it “caused no US injuries or casualties, the attack did damage buildings in the US embassy compound, and was clearly NOT intended to avoid casualties.” “The United States will hold Iran accountable for the deaths of any Americans that result from the work of these Iranian-backed rogue militia groups,” it added. Iran responded by calling on US authorities on Monday not to provoke “tensions”. Trump ordered the drone attack on January 3, 2020 to kill the powerful Iranian general while he was in Baghdad. The air strike came after Iranian-backed militias had fired rockets at US targets in Iraq, in a scenario echoed by the latest strikes against the US embassy.After Soleimani’s killing, the entire region held its breath in anticipation of an uncontrolled escalation which ultimately did not materialize. But tensions are rising again as the first anniversary of the strike nears and the US leader -- in his final weeks in office -- is sticking to his “maximum pressure” approach toward the Iranian regime.Washington has recently reduced its diplomatic staff in the Iraqi capital amid speculations that it could close the mission altogether.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-warns-iran-over-rocket-strike-on-embassy-in-iraq/story-vHmUwFj3JFK5PJg9egAaEI.html
24-12-2020||World||‘Good riddance,’ China says as Germany leaves UN Security Council||Germany’s UN envoy, during his last scheduled UN Security Council meeting, appealed to China to free two detained Canadians for Christmas, prompting China’s deputy UN envoy to respond: “Out of the bottom of my heart: Good riddance.”Germany finishes a two-year term on the 15-member council at the end of this month and Ambassador Christoph Heusgen plans to retire after more than 40 years as a diplomat. “Let me end my tenure on the Security Council by appealing to my Chinese colleagues to ask Beijing for the release of Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor. Christmas is the right moment for such a gesture,” Heusgen told the council session, whose official agenda topic was Iran. Kovrig, a former Canadian diplomat who was working as an adviser for the International Crisis Group think tank, and businessman Spavor were detained by Beijing in 2018 shortly after Canadian police picked up Huawei Technologies Co Ltd Chief Financial Officer Meng Wanzhou on a US warrant.China’s deputy UN ambassador, Geng Shuang, accused Heusgen of abusing the Security Council to launch “malicious” attacks on other members “in an attempt to poison the working atmosphere”.“I wish to say something out of the bottom of my heart: Good riddance, Ambassador Heusgen,” Geng said. “I am hoping that the council in your absence in the year 2021 will be in a better position to fulfil the responsibilities...for maintaining international peace and security.”Heusgen also used the Security Council meeting to advise Russia’s deputy UN ambassador, Dmitry Polyanskiy, to read certain articles about Russian opposition politician Alexei Navalny, who said he had tricked a Russian secret agent into disclosing details of a botched plot to kill him. Russia’s FSB security service dismissed the recording as a fake.Polyanskiy replied: “It seems he’s developed a certain dependency on the council, there’s never a meeting without criticism of Russia even if that’s not suitable for the subject matter. I hope that after Jan. 1 that Christoph’s symptoms will improve.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/good-riddance-china-says-as-germany-leaves-un-security-council/story-56vfJnHQXDzv4hVi0dwCrL.html
24-12-2020||World||Top scientist Anthony Fauci says US could see return to normal by next summer||If the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines proceeds smoothly, it might be possible to achieve widespread population immunity in the United States by next summer, top scientist Anthony Fauci has said.In an interview with WebMD that was posted Wednesday, the infectious disease official suggested people could host weddings as early as June or July.Fauci said he believed priority populations, such as nursing home residents, health care workers, critical workers, the elderly, people at high risk etc. should receive their shots by March or early April.“We could start in April doing what I call ‘open season’ on vaccinations -- namely anybody in the general population who wants to get vaccinated will get vaccinated.”He continued: “By the time we get into the middle or end of the summer, I believe we will have, if we do it correctly, we could have 70 to 85 percent of the population vaccinated. “When that occurs, there will be an umbrella of protection over the entire country.”Asked whether people who had postponed their weddings until March or April of 2021 would need to postpone again, he replied: “You know, they should have done it till June, July.”Fauci’s comments come after the US authorized two vaccines for emergency use, one by Pfizer and BioNTech and the other by Moderna and the National Institutes for Health.Also Tuesday, the Trump administration announced it had purchased an additional 100 million doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, with the shots set to be delivered by July.That brings the current US supply of Covid-19 vaccine to 400 million doses -- half from Pfizer and half from Moderna -- allowing it to immunize 200 million people under the two-shot regimens.“Under the terms of the agreement, Pfizer will deliver at least 70 million doses by June 30, 2021, with the balance of the 100 million doses to be delivered no later than July 31, 2021,” the defense department said in a statement.The agreement includes options for an additional 400 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine. The US is hoping to immunize 20 million people this month, with long-term care residents and health workers at the front of the line.On Sunday, an expert committee said that people 75 and older should be the next vaccinated along with 30 million “frontline essential workers,” including teachers, grocery store employees and police.Governments are also hoping for more vaccine makers’ products to be approved, with Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca thought to be next along the line.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-scientist-anthony-fauci-says-us-could-see-return-to-normal-by-next-summer/story-jXvZ7nWpZWyS7WeisUT7zM.html
24-12-2020||World||Trump pardons former campaign chairman Paul Manafort, associate Roger Stone||US President Donald Trump on Wednesday issued full pardons to his former campaign chairman Paul Manafort, associate Roger Stone, and Charles Kushner, a real estate developer and the father of Trump’s son-in-law and adviser Jared Kushner.Manafort was convicted as part of the special counsel probe into Russian meddling in the 2016 US election. Trump had earlier commuted the criminal sentence of Stone, who was convicted of lying under oath to lawmakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-pardons-former-campaign-chairman-paul-manafort-associate-roger-stone/story-t8xUiQMlK7BXcpVClYdjwN.html
24-12-2020||World||1 million Americans vaccinated against Covid-19: Official||More than a million people have received their first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine in the United States, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) director Robert Redfield said Wednesday.“The United States achieved an early but important milestone today -- jurisdictions have now reported that more than one million people have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine since administration began 10 days ago,” said Redfield.In a call with reporters, Moncef Slaoui, chief advisor of the government’s Operation Warp Speed, said that the objective of immunizing 20 million people this month was “unlikely to be met.”But he said the US was still aiming for 100 million people immunized by the end of the first quarter of 2021, and another 100 million by the second quarter.Three million doses were delivered last week across the United States, with the first authorized vaccine, developed by Pfizer and BioNTech, administered on December 14.This week, the target was to distribute six million vaccine doses by Moderna this week and another two million of Pfizer’s.The US is the world’s hardest-hit country and is in the middle of an extreme winter surge.More than 320,000 people have succumbed to the virus, and it will likely be the leading cause of death in 2020 behind heart disease and cancer.Residents of long-term care facilities and health care workers were at the front of the line, while the next phase is set to target people aged over-75 and critical workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/1-million-americans-vaccinated-against-covid-19-official/story-9ewLvXMjM6fNIJUOBSXIbI.html
24-12-2020||World||Maryam Nawaz lashes at Pak PM, asks why he assumed office when wasn’t prepared||Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) President Maryam Nawaz on Wednesday ripped into the government, asking why Prime Minister Imran Khan assumed office when he was not prepared for the challenges.Addressing the Pakistan Democratic Movement’s (PDM) ‘Mehangai March’ in Mardan here, she said: “Before the election, [the prime minister] used to say that he has a team of 200 fantastic individuals. Where is that 200-person team now?” Dawn reported. “Ministers in his cabinet play musical chairs with each other [...] but that 200 person team is nowhere to be seen in Pakistan,” she said.“He says that he was unaware about the country’s power issues, external debt, the current account deficit, and didn’t know how to run the government and was not prepared.” However, you were prepared for the sugar, wheat and LNG scams through which you stole from the people’s pockets, she said.Maryam’s comments come a day after Prime Minister Khan said that never should a new government come to power without doing its homework and getting briefings.During today’s rally, Maryam said that coronavirus patients had died at Khyber Teaching Hospital after there was a delay in procuring oxygen cylinders. “You were not prepared to provide medical services, but you were prepared to raise the prices of medicines?”She added that the premier was prepared to throw the sisters and daughters of his opponents in jail but was prepared to give an NRO to his sister.You were not prepared to work on our foreign policy but were prepared to surrender Kashmir to India, she said. “You had zero preparation to run the government but were fully prepared to be obedient. After two-and-a-half years, you still don’t know how to govern but you know how to be obedient very well.”The PDM held a rally in Mardan against Prime Minister Khan-led government, threatening him to quit by January 31 or face intensified movements by opposition parties such as a long march to Islamabad.In the past months, Khan has stepped up his efforts to silence the voice of the PDM, along with thousands of people, who criticised the government.Despite such attempts, the PDM has held five such rallies in Multan, Peshawar, Gujranwala, Karachi, and Quetta since October 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/maryam-nawaz-lashes-at-pak-pm-asks-why-he-assumed-office-when-wasn-t-prepared/story-7hoyPYfXFFQp13huz1foJI.html
24-12-2020||World||Baltimore building explosion injures 23, traps workers||An explosion in a high-rise building in Baltimore injured 23 people Wednesday and temporarily trapped a window-washing crew on dangling scaffolding.Twenty-one of the victims — all construction workers — were brought to area hospitals following the explosion, which caused a partial roof collapse. The city’s fire department tweeted that at least nine of the victims were in critical condition, while another was in serious condition.The trapped workers were rescued through a window.The firefighters’ union tweeted that evidence points to an explosion on the 16th floor of the downtown building, where the offices of Baltimore Gas and Electric Company are located.The fire department said the cause of the explosion remains under investigation. Utility spokeswoman Stephanie Anne Weaver said work on the building’s “air handling and boiler system” likely caused the accident.“Window washing scaffolding was compromised because of the incident and a window washing crew was pulled to safety by the fire department,” Weaver said in a statement.Weaver said no utility employees were injured. The building was largely empty because of the holidays and the coronavirus pandemic. Its gas service was not active because of the construction work.Weaver said the building has been deemed structurally sound following an inspection and repairs are planned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/baltimore-building-explosion-injures-23-traps-workers/story-98pmSpVadPBNv4rtEgge1H.html
24-12-2020||World||More than 100 killed in latest ethnic massacre in Ethiopia||The Ethiopian Human Rights Commission says more than 100 people have been killed in the latest massacre along ethnic lines in the western part of the country.The Amhara Mass Media Agency, affiliated with the country’s Amhara region, in a separate report cited witnesses as saying the attack occurred early Wednesday in the Metekel zone of the Benishangul-Gumuz region.The attack occurred a day after Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed visited the region and spoke about the need to bring those responsible for recent attacks to justice. Ethnic tensions are a major challenge as Abiy tries to promote national unity in a country with more than 80 ethnic groups.Some people in remote villages remained encircled and under threat on Wednesday evening, with the overall death toll above 200, asserted Belete Molla, head of the National Movement of Amhara political party. He said he had spoken by phone with some residents.It was not immediately clear who the attackers were, though Belete asserted that they were Gumuz militia members. The ruling party in the region, the Benishangul-Gumuz Prosperity Party, said in a statement that “armed bandits” had committed a “horrifying crime.”Amharas are the second most populous ethnic group in Ethiopia. Amharas in the region have been targeted repeatedly in recent weeks.One rebel attack on Nov. 1 in the far western Oromia region killed at least 54 people, according to Amnesty International.An attack in the Benishangul-Gumuz region in early October killed at least 14 civilians, according to a security official. It followed similar deadly attacks in September that also displaced over 300 people, leading the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission to say it was deeply alarmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-than-100-killed-in-latest-ethnic-massacre-in-ethiopia/story-j0vMPad5wk49jm9kRiLSsM.html
24-12-2020||World||UN rights office criticizes Donald Trump pardons of ex-contractors||The United Nations’ human rights office said on Wednesday that it’s “deeply concerned” by US President Donald Trump’s pardons of four former government contractors convicted in a 2007 massacre in Baghdad that left more a dozen Iraqi civilians dead.The four men’s pardons were among 15 that were announced on Tuesday.Supporters of the former contractors at Blackwater Worldwide had lobbied for pardons, arguing that the men had been excessively punished in an investigation and prosecution they said was tainted by problems and in which exculpatory evidence was withheld.“These four individuals were given sentences ranging from 12 years to life imprisonment, including on charges of first-degree murder,” UN human rights office spokeswoman Marta Hurtado said in a statement released in Geneva. “Pardoning them contributes to impunity and has the effect of emboldening others to commit such crimes in the future.”She said that “victims of gross human rights violations and serious violations of international humanitarian law also have the right to a remedy,” which includes a right to “see perpetrators serve punishments proportionate to the seriousness of their conduct.”The case caused an international uproar over the use of private security guards in a war zone.It followed a complicated legal path since the killings at Baghdad’s Nisoor Square in September 2007, when the men — former veterans working as contractors for the State Department — opened fire at the crowded traffic circle.Prosecutors asserted the heavily armed Blackwater convoy launched an unprovoked attack using sniper fire, machine guns and grenade launchers. Defense lawyers argued their clients returned fire after being ambushed by Iraqi insurgents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-rights-office-criticizes-donald-trump-pardons-of-ex-contractors/story-tvYD5bsZTKRfZ8J9PsTrqJ.html
24-12-2020||World||Gunman kills 3 French police in domestic abuse standoff||A heavily armed gunman in southern France killed three police officers responding to a domestic violence call at his house and then fled, and he was found dead nearby Wednesday after an apparent suicide, the regional prosecutor said.The unusual killing of three on-duty officers prompted a broad search and drew national concern, notably from French leaders who are under pressure from police to do more to protect them. President Emmanuel Macron tweeted: “They are our heroes.”The bloodshed started when a woman called a friend for help Tuesday night and reported her partner had beaten her at the couple’s home in the mountainside village of Ambert southwest of Lyon, regional Prosecutor Eric Maillaud told reporters.The friend called police, and when gendarmes arrived, they found the woman on the roof, where she had taken refuge after the man apparently set the house on fire, the prosecutor said.“It was a real scene of war that we confronted overnight,” he said. “An over-armed individual. A house in flames.”In the ensuing standoff, three police officers were killed and another injured, and the gunman fled. Some 300 police were sent to the area to search for the assailant, according to a spokesman for the national gendarme service.The man was found Wednesday morning in his car, crashed on a mountainside, Maillaud said. He had an unregistered semi-automatic rifle that the prosecutor described as a “weapon of war,” as well as a Glock pistol, a hunting rifle and four knives. The woman was taken into police care and given medical treatment.Preliminary investigation suggested the assailant had undergone brief military training, held “extremist” Catholic views and was known as a survivalist who “was apparently convinced that the end of the world was approaching,” the prosecutor said. The assailant had been in a custody battle with his former partner, but police had no record of problems with the woman who was targeted Tuesday, Maillaud said.France’s Interior Ministry reported that 146 women were killed by their partners last year, which prompted a nationwide campaign against domestic violence.French Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin went to the scene of the killings Wednesday and praised the actions of police.Even as law enforcement officers are seeking greater protections, activists are increasingly speaking out about brutality by some police officers, notably against minorities in low-income neighborhoods.In one recent case, four officers were charged over the violent beating of a Black music producer that was caught on camera in images that shocked the French public. Two were held in custody but were released this week pending further investigation.The producer, Michel Zecler, said Wednesday that the officers were being “coddled” instead of punished. Speaking on BFM television, he said, “I can’t understand what prompts such benevolence from the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gunman-kills-3-french-police-in-domestic-abuse-standoff/story-Nn2aMSoDq6fnK2CaErQQVK.html
24-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand police to deploy additional force to stop farmers’ march to Delhi||US Nagar police are all set to stop farmers’ march to Delhi to join the farmers’ agitation on the call of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Friday. A significant number of police personnel will be deployed on all routes along the Uttar Pradesh border, said an official. Daleep Singh Kunwar, senior superintendent of police (SSP), US Nagar said, “Elaborate arrangements are being made at the state border so that farmers of our district cannot go to Delhi to join the farmers’ stir. This exercise is being undertaken to check the spread of Covid-19 and to co-operate with the UP government in maintaining law and order.” Several farmers’ unions have decided to attend the Delhi march on the call of BKU on Friday. They are getting ready with their tractors and ration as well as daily needs. On the other hand, police of the district are preparing to stop them at any cost, said a senior police officer. Authorities in Uttar Pradesh have requested US Nagar police to stop farmers leaving for Delhi as farmers are creating a ruckus on the way resulting in law-and-order problems. Kunwar said, “We have been requested by our counterparts in UP not to allow farmers of the district to enter UP to take part in the agitation in Delhi. Therefore, no farmer will be allowed to cross the border to join the stir.” The police on Wednesday held meetings with farmers in some gurudwaras and requested them to persuade the farmers to co-operate with the police. Tajendra Singh Virk, president, Terai Kisan Sanghthan said, “Police’s act is absolutely illegal and against democracy. Farmers must not be stopped from raising their voice in a democratic manner. It is the police’s autocratic behaviour if they stop farmers forcibly.” Baba Anoop Singh of Nawabganj gurudwara in Gadarpur has issued an appeal advising farmers not to take any such step which creates law and order problem. He has requested them to avoid confrontation with the police and not to damage government property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-police-to-deploy-additional-force-to-stop-farmers-march-to-delhi/story-Igwd5Lbmtx03UPAjhnLbiN.html
24-12-2020||India||To build urban infrastructure, Odisha starts 1st land pooling scheme in Bhubaneswar||To manage urban expansion and improve socio-economic activities through a structured process, the Bhubaneswar Development Authority started state’s first ever Town Planning Scheme through land pooling.Inaugurating the scheme by distributing Record of Rights to 11 landowners of Sahajpur village on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said the scheme would usher in a new era of planned development in the state. “This is a fair, transparent and practical way of expanding the cities in a planned manner. I hope that we implement this scheme in a time-bound manner and create a model for the rest of our cities to emulate. We have to plan our cities in a sustainable manner and enable an organic growth while ensuring safety nets for the vulnerable sections,” said Patnaik.Under the scheme, the landowners would give 40 per cent of their area to BDA, but the Development Authority would not give any compensation but will ensure infrastructure such as roads, hospitals, schools, parks, electricity lines, water and sewerage facilities on the remaining 60 per cent area. The BDA has already prepared the plan of action to implement the first Town Planning Scheme covering parts of Mouzas of Sahajpur, Naragoda, Sijuput and Paikarapur over an area of 746.70 acres – a first of its kind project in the state.In the first phase, 358 numbers of Record of Rights (RoR) will be distributed to the land owners of Sahajpur village.“The Town Planning scheme is a win-win for both – land owners and the authority. The land owner usually gets a percentage of his holding back in rectangular shape nearby his or her original holding. One may also get additional Floor Space Index due to which the value of the returned land will be a multiple of the worth of his original holding, even though the plot size has shrunk,” said BDA vice-chairman Prem Chandra Chaudhury.Chaudhury said the BDA will now adopt the land pooling method instead of the traditional land acquisition for infrastructure development and urban growth in Bhubaneswar and its outskirts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-build-urban-infrastructure-odisha-starts-1st-land-pooling-scheme-in-bhubaneswar/story-EYdrc50i0C8zywMRQa9aTL.html
24-12-2020||India||Trinamool Congress worker, supporter found dead in Bengal||A Trinamool Congress worker and a supporter were found dead in two different districts in West Bengal on Thursday. The body of a TMC supporter was recovered from the banks of a canal at Khanakul in Hooghly district in south Bengal, while the body of a TMC worker was found at Cooch Behar in north Bengal. The body of 70-year-old Khalek Mia was recovered from a field by the roadside at Toofanganj in Cooch Behar. He was missing on Wednesday night. A knife and a BJP flag were also found from the spot. Local TMC leaders have claimed that Mia was murdered by BJP workers, but the BJP refuted the allegations saying that it was the result of TMC infighting. “He was a TMC worker and had refused to attend a BJP rally. That’s why he was murdered by the BJP,” said Rabindranath Ghosh, state minister and a senior TMC leader. “It was the result of TMC infighting. BJP is being false implicated. We want an independent investigation,” said Malati Rabha, local BJP leader. The victim’s son Jahir Mia, however, said that his father was a TMC worker and that he was clueless about who had murdered his father. “We have initiated a case. Further investigation is on,” said a senior police officer of Cooch Behar. Meanwhile in Hooghly, 35-year-old Suchand Jana was found dead on the banks of a canal with bruises on his face. “The body was sent for post-mortem examination. We are treating this as an unnatural death case till the autopsy hints at some foul play,” said a senior police officer in Hooghly district. Neither the TMC nor the BJP raised any allegations of foul play.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-congress-worker-supporter-found-dead-in-bengal/story-sSms7VlHbE1Qrd1Q21DnTI.html
24-12-2020||India||Bitter cold persists in north India, light snowfall likely in Kashmir over weekend||Bitter cold conditions persisted in most parts of north India on Thursday as the minimum temperatures hovered well below the normal limits at several places in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan.There was slight improvement in cold conditions in Kashmir as the minimum temperature rose across the valley, even as the Meteorological office forecast the possibility of light snowfall over two days from Saturday.In the national capital, the minimum temperature remained below five degrees Celsius for the second consecutive day, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 4.5 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, and a maximum of 23.1 degrees Celsius. Cold wave conditions are likely in parts of Delhi over the next two days and the mercury is expected to drop to three Celsius on Friday. “Moderate to dense” fog is also expected during the period, the IMD said. Earlier in the day, “dense” fog reduced visibility in parts of the city, affecting traffic movement. In Haryana and Punjab, the minimum temperatures hovered well below the normal limits.Adampur in Punjab reeled under intense chill recording a low of 1.6 degrees Celsius, while biting cold prevailed in Ludhiana too at 2.1 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Ambala, Karnal, Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa also registered below normal minimums at 5.7, 2.9, 4.6, 4.6, 5.2 and 6.3 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 4.7 degrees Celsius.Himachal Pradesh’s Keylong, Kalpa and Mandi shivered at sub-zero temperature. The tribal district Lahaul-Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong remained the coldest place in the state at minus 8.4 degrees Celsius, Met centre Shimla director Manmohan Singh said. Kalpa in Kinnaur district and Mandi recorded a low of minus 2.2 and minus 1 degrees Celsius, he added. Manali, Dalhousie and Kufri recorded a low of zero, 4.3 and 4.5 degrees Celsius respectively. The minimum temperature in Shimla was recorded at 4.1 degrees Celsius, he added. The Met centre has forecast rain and snowfall in isolated places of the state on December 27 and 28. In Jammu and Kashmir, the night temperature marked an improvement but continued to settle below the freezing point, the Met officials said.The weather has remained dry and cold across Kashmir since the snowfall on December 12, with the night temperature staying several degrees below the freezing point, they said.The officials said Srinagar — the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir — recorded a low of minus 3.8 degrees Celsius –up from the previous night’s minus 5 degrees Celsius.Gulmarg was the coldest recorded place in the valley.Kashmir is currently under the grip of ‘Chillai-Kalan’ -- the 40-day harshest winter period when the chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum.‘Chillai-Kalan’, which began on December 21, is considered the harshest winter period in Kashmir as a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley.While ‘Chillai-Kalan’ will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long ‘Chillai-Khurd’ (small cold) and a 10-day-long ‘Chillai-Bachha’ (baby cold).The Met office has said the weather is likely to remain mainly dry till December 25, but there is a possibility of light in the valley for two days from Saturday.There is no forecast of any major snowfall activity till the end of this month, it added.In Uttar Pradesh, a blanket of very dense fog enveloped isolated places.According to the weather office in Lucknow, there was no major change in the night temperatures across the divisions of the state.The night temperature was appreciably below normal in Gorakhpur, Bareilly and Moradabad divisions, below normal in Ayodhya, Lucknow, Prayagraj and Kanpur divisions and normal in the rest, it said.The lowest minimum temperature in the state was recorded in Muzaffarnagar at 2.5 degrees Celsius, while Jhansi, with 26.1 degrees Celsius, recorded the highest temperature.The Met forecast said the weather would most likely remain dry in the state and dense fog was very likely at isolated places on Friday morning. Most parts of Rajasthan too reeled under intense cold conditionsand Churu was the coldest place in the state with a minimum temperature of 4.8 degrees Celsius followed by Pilani where the night temperature was 4.9 degrees Celsius. The weather conditions would remain the same during the next 24 hours, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bitter-cold-persists-in-north-india-light-snowfall-likely-in-kashmir-over-weekend/story-2FZmT2K6KQqewBXGaGCKGJ.html
24-12-2020||India||Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee announces agro-industrial-park in Singur||With an eye on the crucial 2021 West Bengal assembly polls, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that the state government is coming up with an agro-industrial park at Singur in Hooghly district. “The West Bengal Small Industries Development Corporation will develop the park on 11 acres of land. The work of putting up a boundary wall has already been started,” she said while speaking to media persons at the state secretariat on Thursday. Industrialists and entrepreneurs would be given plots varying from 10 to 30 cottahs in size depending on their business proposal. Banerjee had led an agitation at Singur against alleged forcible land acquisition for a car factory project, which ultimately contributed to ending the Left parties’ sway over Bengal in the 2011 assembly elections. The TMC faced its first setback in Singur when the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) got a lead in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Banerjee, on Thursday, also announced that the state government is ready with the Expression-of-Interest for the state’s first deep-sea port. “We are ready with the Expression of Interest for the deep-sea port which is being developed by the state government at Tajpur in East Midnapore district. The EoI would be floated on December 28. We would request all big names in the port building industry in the world to participate. No land would be acquisitioned in this Rs 4200 crore project,” she said. She said that the port is expected to attract an investment of Rs 15,000 crore and generate at least 25,000 jobs and if need arises the state would think of coming up with an export centre in the district. “This would be a huge boost for trade in the two districts of East Midnapore and West Midnapore. At present, West Bengal accounts for 13% of the export of iron and steel. This would get a major boost. The iron and steel export from around five districts including East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Jhargram, Puruli, Bankura and Burdwan would get a boost. The sea food export from Midnpaore to Japan and south-east Asia would also increase,” she added. East Midnapore is considered to be the home-turf of former TMC heavyweight and former state transport minister Suvendu Adhikari, who recently defected to the BJP. Banerjee is expected to hold a rally in the district in the first week of January. The state is also planning to come up with another industrial park at Hashimara in north Bengal, the details of which are being chalked out, she added. The state has also received an investment proposal of Rs 400 crore at the Panagarh industrial park and land is being provided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-announces-agro-industrial-park-in-singur/story-ydyCIZtSsmpvYIAK17fbBN.html
24-12-2020||India||Farm law protests: Govt invites farmers for talks, Rahul Gandhi meets President Kovind | 10 points||Protests against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws continued for the 29th straight day on Thursday. As the deadlock continued, the government reached out to the farm unions, once again inviting them for talks at a date and time of their choice. Earlier in the day, a three-member Congress delegation, including Rahul Gandhi, met President Ram Nath Kovind to seek his intervention to repeal the farm laws.Here are key developments from day 29 of anti-farm law protests:1. Vivek Aggarwal, joint secretary in the Union agriculture ministry wrote to farm unions, again requesting them to hold the sixth round of talks as per a date and time convenient to them. The farmers had on Wednesday rejected the government’s initial proposal in this regard, which it sent on Sunday.2. In the letter, Aggarwal stressed that it was “crucial” for the government to keep negotiations open with various farm unions. He also reiterated the government’s commitment to arrive at “logical solutions” for issues raised by the farm unions.3. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar met two groups of farmers, both of whom, he claimed, were in support of the reforms. 60 members of the Kisaan Majdoor Sangh and 21 from the Kisan Sena met Tomar separately, and expressed their support. He also showed a letter of support from the Kisan Majdoor Sangh.4. Tomar lashed out at Rahul Gandhi for meeting President Kovind and submitting a memorandum seeking a repeal of the laws. Remarking that even the Congress doesn’t take Gandhi seriously, Tomar said that the farmers told him that no one from the party came to get their signatures.5. The minister was referring to claims made by the Congress that its memorandum to the President had signatures of two crore people against the laws. “If Rahul Gandhi was so worried, he could’ve done something when his government was in power. Congress has always been anti-farmer,” Tomar said.6. 11 Opposition parties, including the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Samajwadi Party (SP), issued a joint statement, condemning prime minister Narendra Modi for his “baseless allegations” that the Opposition was lying to farmers about the new laws. “PM’s accusations are a “complete travesty of truth,” the statement said.7. The parties further demanded a repeal of the three laws and that of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The government should hold discussions with the farmers and all stakeholders, the statement said.8. Earlier in the day, Rahul Gandhi, interacting with the media after meeting President Kovind, called PM Modi “incompetent.” Targeting the government, he said that Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, too, would be called a “terrorist” if he too “stood up” against the PM.9. The Delhi Police detained several Congress leaders, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, for trying to march to the Rashtarapati Bhavan, despite not being given permission to take out a march. Only Rahul Gandhi, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had an appointment with the President, the police said.10. Continuing his outreach, PM Modi will on Friday transfer Rs 18,000 crore to the bank accounts of nine crore farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-law-protests-govt-invites-farmers-for-talks-rahul-gandhi-meets-president-kovind-10-points/story-u3mf7w1pf5L4hpdNSPvdHI.html
24-12-2020||India||India sends warship to deliver aid to Vietnam, conduct exercise in South China Sea||An Indian warship reached Ho Chi Minh City on Thursday with 15 tonnes of humanitarian relief supplies for people affected by floods in central Vietnam as part of New Delhi’s efforts to assist countries in the region amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The visit by the corvette INS Kiltan is also aimed at enhancing maritime cooperation between the two navies and contributing to regional security and stability. On its departure from Ho Chi Minh City, the warship will undertake a “passing exercise” with the Vietnam People’s Navy in South China Sea during December 26-27. INS Kiltan arrived at Nha Rong port under “Mission Sagar-III”, part of India’s humanitarian assistance and disaster relief assistance to friendly foreign countries during the pandemic, the defence ministry said. The relief materials will be handed over to Vietnam’s central steering committee for national disaster prevention and control. “This assistance is reflective of the deep people-to-people connect between the two friendly countries,” the ministry said. Mission Sagar-III was launched in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of SAGAR or security and growth for all in the region, and “reiterates India’s position as a dependable partner and the Indian Navy as the preferred security partner and first responder”, it added. On Monday, India and Vietnam signed seven agreements in areas ranging from defence to petrochemicals and unveiled a joint vision for enhanced security cooperation to ensure stability in the Indo-Pacific during a summit between Modi and his counterpart Nguyen Xuan Phuc. The developments came against the backdrop of concerns in both countries about China’s aggressive actions. India also handed over one of 12 patrol boats being made for Vietnam under a $100-million line of credit, and Modi described Vietnam as “an important pillar of India’s Act East policy and an important ally of our Indo-Pacific vision”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sends-warship-with-aid-for-flood-hit-in-vietnam-and-to-conduct-exercise-in-south-china-sea/story-2pJFzUdjbDcVmPtunaZKjK.html
24-12-2020||India||Pak activist Karima Baloch’s family seeks investigation into her death: MEA||The ministry of external affairs pointed out on Thursday that the family of Karima Baloch, a noted Pakistani human rights activist found dead in the Canadian city of Toronto, had sought an investigation into the circumstances surrounding her death. Karima, 37, was reported missing in Toronto’s waterfront area on December 20 and her body was found by police a day later. Local police said they have no reason to suspect foul play, but Karima’s husband Hammal Haidar and brother Sameer Mehrab pointed out she had been receiving death threats and sought an investigation. Asked about the Baloch activist’s death during a weekly news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “We have also seen the reports about the death of Ms Karima Baloch, a noted Baloch activist. Our condolences to the family. Also Watch | ‘Probe death of Karima Baloch’: Husband of Pakistan critic found dead in Canada “It is not for us to comment on this matter but I understand her family has sought an investigation,” he added. Amnesty International has described Karima’s death as “deeply shocking” and said it must be “immediately and effectively investigated” by Canadian authorities. Karima fled Pakistan in 2016, saying she feared for her life due to threats from the army and intelligence agencies, and sought refuge in Canada, where she was later granted asylum. She was included in BBC’s list of 100 inspirational and influential women for 2016, in which she was described as a campaigner “for independence for Balochistan from Pakistan”. The same year, she had recorded a video message on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan, in which she called Prime Minister Narendra Modi a “brother” and asked him to become the voice of the Baloch movement. At an event held by Baloch Canadians in Toronto in 2018 to mark what they claimed to be the 70th anniversary of the illegal occupation of Balochistan by Pakistan, Karima said India had the reach to raise what she described as the “genocide” of Baloch people. Karima’s death came about eight months after Baloch journalist Sajid Hussain Baloch, who wrote about human rights abuses in Balochistan, was found dead in Sweden. His family and friends alleged he was murdered. Reporters Without Borders (RSF) said his mysterious disappearance and death could have been organised by Pakistani intelligence agencies because of his work as a journalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-activist-karima-baloch-s-family-seeks-investigation-into-her-death-mea/story-aXtSU8sUq6lXl5I7CwCu5I.html
24-12-2020||India||Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s 96th birth anniversary: Iconic poems penned by late former prime minister||December 25 marks the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stalwart, who passed away in August 2018, besides being the country’s first BJP prime minister, was also known for his remarkable oratory and poetry skills. Born in Gwalior on December 25, 1924, Vajpayee had immense affection for his native language, Hindi, and became the first person to deliver a speech in the language at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), in 1977, as India’s external affairs minister.It is, therefore, hardly a matter of surprise that despite passing away more than two years ago, Vajpayee’s poems remain as popular as ever. Some of these have, in fact, achieved an iconic status. Here are some of Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s most famous poems:1. ‘Geet naya gata hun’: The poem is the second of Vajpayee’s ‘Do Anubhutiyan.’ It contains two four-line stanzas and two couplets, in which a couplet follows a stanza. It is the last two lines of the second stanza, which have arguably become Vajpayee’s most iconic lines and also synonymous with him. ‘Haar nahi manunga, rar nahi thanunga’ (rough translation: I will not give up) have become almost as famous as Vajpayee himself.2. ‘Dudh main darar’: The poem, whose title literally translates to a ‘crack in the milk,’ was penned by Vajpayee during the raging Khalistan insurgency in Punjab. Alternatively, it is also known by its opening line of ‘khoon kyon safed ho gaya? (how did the blood turn white?)’.3. ‘Kadam milakar chalna hoga’: There are numerous obstacles in life, but these can be crossed if all of us come together - this is the central theme of this poem, whose title literally translates to ‘we will have to walk together.’Some other famous poems penned by Vajpayee, the country’s three-term prime minister and the first non-Congress prime minister to complete a full five-year term, include ‘Manali mat jaiyo,’ ‘Ek baras beet gaya,’ ‘Maut se than gayi, ’Aaj Sindhu main jwar utha hai’ etc. His poems have been collated in his book ‘Meri Iqyavan Kavitayein’ (My 51 Poems).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atal-bihari-vajpayee-s-96th-birth-anniversary-iconic-poems-penned-by-late-former-prime-minister/story-gGzmS2Ktzrswvn253P4FEM.html
24-12-2020||India||Former CEO of rating agency BARC arrested in TRP scam||The crime branch of Mumbai Police on Thursday arrested a former CEO of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) from Pune district in the fake TRP scam, an official said.Partho Dasgupta, the accused, is the fifteenth person to be arrested in the case related to alleged rigging of Television Rating Points (TRP) by some TV channels.He was arrested by Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) from the jurisdiction of Rajgad Police Station in Pune district and will be produced before a court here on Friday, the official said. Earlier, the CIU had arrested former chief operating officer (COO) of BARC Ramil Ramgarhia in the case, among others.Mumbai police began the probe after the BARC, a rating agency, filed a complaint about rigging of TRP by some channels.TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial as it helps TV channels attract advertisers.It was alleged that some of these households were being bribed to tune into certain channels to ramp up their TRP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-ceo-of-rating-agency-barc-arrested-in-trp-scam/story-6BwBqSaHgWEvgpzM4j9W4L.html
24-12-2020||India||Look forward to welcoming UK prime minister Boris Johnson, says India||India on Thursday said there has been no change with regard to the invitation to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson to be the chief guest at next year’s Republic Day celebrations in the wake of the detection of a new and more infectious Covid-19 variant in the UK. UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab had announced the acceptance of India’s invitation to Johnson during a recent visit to New Delhi. Asked whether the spread of the new variant of coronavirus in the UK, which has already resulted in several countries restricting the entry of travellers from Britain, would affect the invitation to Johnson, ministry of external affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said there had been no change. “We had invited the prime minister of the UK as chief guest of the Republic Day parade in 2021. And when UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab was here, he had publicly confirmed his acceptance,” Srivatava told a weekly news briefing. “So we look forward to welcoming the prime minister here,” he said. During Raab’s visit, India and the UK agreed on key elements of a 10-year roadmap to enhance the bilateral relationship and pledged to fast track talks on a free trade agreement. Raab also said Britain’s upcoming integrated strategic review, to be published in 2021, will contain an “Indo-Pacific tilt” that will be as much about managing the challenges arising from China’s assertive actions as it is about taking advantage of opportunities across the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/look-forward-to-welcoming-uk-prime-minister-boris-johnson-says-india/story-QcIrrCI1jIo6QyOJdoOkvM.html
24-12-2020||India||PM Modi to address farmers, release Rs 18,000 crore under PM-Kisan scheme on Friday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday virtually interact with farmers from six different states on the birth anniversary of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee.He will also release Rs 18,000 crore as next instalment under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme to 80 million farmers. The money transfer will be done through the push of a button.“Tomorrow’s day is very important for the country’s annadatas. Will get the opportunity to release the next installment of PM-Kisan for more than 9 crores farmer families through video conferencing at 12 pm. Will also interact with farmers of many states on this occasion,” PM Modi tweeted in Hindi on Thursday. कल का दिन देश के अन्नदाताओं के लिए बेहद अहम है। दोपहर 12 बजे वीडियो कॉन्फ्रेंसिंग के जरिए 9 करोड़ से अधिक किसान परिवारों को पीएम-किसान की अगली किस्त जारी करने का सौभाग्य मिलेगा। इस अवसर पर कई राज्यों के किसान भाई-बहनों के साथ बातचीत भी करूंगा। #PMKisan https://t.co/MFVWDc63XaMany Union ministers, MPs, MLAs and BJP office bearers are expected to be present in various parts of the country to listen to the Prime Minister’s address with the people.While home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh will listen to PM Modi’s speech in Delhi, road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari will be in Assam, according to news agency PTI.Union minister of consumer affairs, food and public distribution Piyush Goyal will be in Uttar Pradesh’s Hapur, textiles minister Smriti Irani will be in her constituency Amethi while Union minister for petroleum, natural gas and steel Dharmendra Pradhan will be in Jagatsinghpur in Odisha, PTI further reported.PM Modi released the first tranche of cash-transfer scheme under PM-Kisan in 2019. This year, he is doing so at a time when thousands of farmers, largely from Punjab, are protesting three agricultural laws they say will hurt their livelihoods. The government says the reforms will give farmers more market access and boost investment in the farm sector.Under PM-Kisan, the government provides income support of Rs 6,000 a year to farmers with a valid enrolment, paid in three equal cash transfers of Rs 2,000 - one every four months. It was launched on February 24, 2019.Durign his interaction with farmers, the Prime Minister will most likely ask them impromptu questions on how they have benefited from the scheme and “take a briefing from them on what they are growing and what else they want to see done for them ahead of the budget”, an official said, requesting anonymity.The is the part of government outreach in the wake of ongoing farmer protest near national capital Delhi. PM Modi has been frequently explaining the benefits of farm reforms and often assured farmers that the existing government support mechanism, including minimum support price and agriculture mandis, will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-farmers-release-rs-18-000-crore-under-pm-kisan-scheme-on-friday/story-MLrWavmuanbAXE6UrjutZI.html
24-12-2020||India||Nepal PM’s move to dissolve Parliament is ‘internal matter’, says India||India on Thursday reacted in a guarded manner to Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s decision to dissolve Parliament and call snap elections, saying it was an internal matter that should be handled in keeping with the country’s democratic processes. Oli’s detractors have described the move as a “constitutional coup”, and media reports have pointed to the role played by the Chinese ambassador to Nepal, Hou Yanqi, in efforts to engineer a patch up between Oli and Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda”, the premier’s main rival in the ruling Nepal Communist Party. Asked about India’s position on the dissolution of Parliament and political uncertainty in Nepal, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “We have noted the recent political developments in Nepal. These are internal matters for Nepal to decide as per its democratic processes.” He added, “As a neighbour and well-wisher, India will continue to support Nepal and its people in moving forward on the path of peace prosperity and development.” This was the first foreign reaction to the developments in Nepal. One of the fallouts of the political turmoil in Kathmandu was the cancellation of a planned visit to New Delhi this week by Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali to take forward the normalisation of bilateral relations after a border row earlier this year. Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and Research and Analysis Wing chief Samant Goel visited Kathmandu in recent weeks as part of efforts to put ties back on an even keel after Nepal published a new map that included Indian territories such as Kalapani. The map was issued in retaliation for India opening a new strategic road to the Kalapani region in May. On Sunday, Oli recommended that the president dissolve the House of Representatives and hold elections in April-May next year. Since then, Chinese envoy Hou Yanqi has held a string of meetings in an apparent bid to mend fences between Oli and Prachanda, who merged their parties in 2018 to form the Nepal Communist Party. Hou met Prachanda on Thursday, two days after she called on President Bidya Devi Bhandari, who dissolved the House of Representatives and announced fresh elections. Prachanda has claimed control over the Nepal Communist Party after removing Oli from the posts of party parliamentary leader and chair. This isn’t the first time Hou has intervened in Nepal’s politics amid a crisis. In May, she met with Bhandari, Oli and senior ruling party leaders, including Prachanda, when the prime minister was facing pressure to step down over poor governance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-pm-s-move-to-dissolve-parliament-is-internal-matter-says-india/story-0KAkpmLvLdNsutx9gcdEbN.html
24-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Others can offload cargo, but not Indian-crewed ships at China’s ports and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Others can offload cargo, but not Indian-crewed ships at Chinese ports: MEAIndia on Thursday said foreign vessels had been allowed to enter Chinese ports and discharge their cargo in the months during which two ships with dozens of Indian crew members were prevented from doing so on the grounds of Covid-19-related restrictions. Read more‘Will talk to airport authorities’: Delhi health minister on Covid-19 positive UK flyers slipping outDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government in the national capital will speak to airport authorities amid reports that two Covid-19-infected flyers from the United Kingdom had fled from the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘We need to start strongly and build pressure on Rahane’, Justin Langer reveals how Australia plan to take advantage of Kohli’s absenceAfter crushing the Indians in the Adelaide Test by 8 wickets, Australia are now looking to capitalize on the absence of Virat Kohli when they face India in the Boxing Day Test in Melbourne. Read moreThe Midnight Sky movie review: There’s no dawn at the end of George Clooney’s disastrously dull Netflix filmFancy spending two hours wondering if George Clooney’s beard has grown longer before your eyes? Well, it’s your lucky day. The Midnight Sky is the movie for you. Read moreYou might control Apple’s next AirPods earbuds with your tongueUntil now Apple’s AirPods wireless earbuds came with a click gesture to control the music playback, incoming calls among other features. However, the company has now been granted a new patent that suggests future AirPods to feature new set of gestures, none of which include touching it directly. Read moreSara Ali Khan, Sonam Kapoor, Malaika Arora, Hina Khan: Your fashion guide for Christmas and New Year’s amid the pandemicIt seems this year has reduced our outings to grocery runs and our dressing up to putting on a jacket over our pyjamas, and with the number of coronavirus cases on the rise it seems Christmas and New Year’s will also be spent at home. Read moreJugalbandi of classical Instruments and Jingle Bells impresses Anand MahindraChristmas is just a few hours away. People across the world have already started celebrating the big day but in ways that ensure safety. There are certain things without which this holiday seems incomplete. Read moreRaghav Chadha alleges BJP workers vandalised his office; tweets videosAam Aadmi Party MLA and Delhi Jal Board Vice-Chairman Raghav Chadha alleged that his office was vandalised by goons from the BJP. The AAP leader also posted several videos of the attack on social media and said that the BJP goons warned him over his party’s support to protesting farmers. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-others-can-offload-cargo-but-not-indian-crewed-ships-at-china-s-ports-and-all-the-latest-news/story-axqUVuociopS8PTZl4u1jK.html
24-12-2020||India||Man, 23, lynched for sexually assaulting 4-year-old girl: Police||A 23-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death by a girl’s family for sexually assaulting a four-year-old, the police said on Thursday. The alleged sexual assault is said to have taken place at Kabar village under Bhabua police station area of Kaimur district on Wednesday nightA police case was filed by the lynched man’s sister against the girl’s family under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). One of the accused has also been arrested in this connection.In counter complaint, the girl’s mother has also filed a case against the deceased and his sister, superintendent of police (SP), Dilnawaz Ahmad said. The case was registered under Sections 376 (rape) of the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act with woman police station at Bhabua.Police said the deceased allegedly lured the girl on the pretext of giving her money and took her to the village school where he assaulted her. Later, the injured girl informed her family about the incident, following which, the angry family members barged into the man’s house, brutally assaulted and killed him, police said.The 23-year-old’s body, which bore multiple signs of assault, has been sent for autopsy, said police. The girl victim was admitted to district hospital for medical test and treatment, SP Ahmad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-23-lynched-for-sexually-assaulting-4-year-old-girl-police/story-kgpNfeN8mE7l6xTgdwDbEK.html
24-12-2020||India||For total disengagement, India wants military commanders’ meet with China at ‘early date’||India on Thursday again called for the holding of the next meeting of Indian and Chinese military commanders at an “early date” so that the two sides can work towards the complete disengagement of troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The two sides have been unable to make a breakthrough in the nearly eight-month standoff in Ladakh sector of the LAC despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks, though external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said these discussions had resulted in better understanding of each other’s positions. He said a meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs was held on December 18 and the two sides had agreed the next or ninth round of talks between senior military commanders “should be held at an early date so that both sides can work towards an early and complete disengagement of troops along the LAC”. The disengagement should be in line with existing bilateral agreements and protocols and “fully restore peace and tranquillity”, Srivastava said. He added that India and China continue to maintain communications through diplomatic and military channels. Tens of thousands of troops from both countries have dug in for the winter at key friction points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh after the two sides were unable to agree on modalities for disengagement and de-escalation. On Wednesday, Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane visited forward areas in eastern Ladakh, including sites on the south bank of Pangong Lake where Indian troops have occupied strategic heights, and reviewed the prepared of forces. Among the areas visited by Naravane was Rechin La, where Indian troops occupied strategic heights during August 29-30 to pre-empt moves by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC. Last week, defence minister Rajnath Singh said India has the strength for an appropriate response to any transgression or unilateral action on the borders but believes in finding a peaceful solution to conflicts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-total-disengagement-india-wants-military-commanders-meet-with-china-at-early-date/story-MUfO0R4vSjNMzN2FfgeI4I.html
24-12-2020||India||Others can offload cargo, but not Indian-crewed ships at Chinese ports: MEA||India on Thursday said foreign vessels had been allowed to enter Chinese ports and discharge their cargo in the months during which two ships with dozens of Indian crew members were prevented from doing so on the grounds of Covid-19-related restrictions. According to the ministry of external affairs, a total of 39 Indian crew members of two cargo vessels have been stranded in waters off the Chinese ports of Jingtang and Caofeidian for weeks as authorities haven’t allowed the ships to discharge their cargo. Other reports have said there are more Indian crew members on some 20 vessels stuck outside Chinese ports. The situation is believed to be the outcome of the China-Australia trade row as most of these vessels are carrying Australian coal. Reports have said some 400 seafarers and about two million tons of Australian coal are stuck on vessels outside Chinese ports. “We understand that some other ships, which arrived after the Indian ships arrived, have actually managed to discharge cargo and leave. The reasons for this are not clear,” ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. He said there were 23 Indian crew members on the bulk cargo vessel MV Jag Anand, in anchorage near Jingtang port in Hebei province since June 13. Another 16 Indian crew members were on the MV Anastasia, in anchorage near Caofeidian port since September 20. Both vessels are waiting to discharge cargo. Both Jag Anand and Anastasia are carrying Australian coal. Chinese customs haven’t cleared Jag Anand’s cargo and local authorities haven’t allowed the crew to leave the vessel, citing Covid-19-related restrictions. The vessel’s charterer has refused to allow it to sail to another port to relieve the crew. Anastasia’s second officer, Gaurav Singh, told Australia’s ABC News that mental health issues, lack of medical support and a decline in drinking water quality had compounded the problems of the crew. Srivastava said: “This unprecedented situation has caused a considerable amount of stress among the crew. Our embassy in Beijing has been in constant touch with provincial and central government authorities in China. They are requesting that the ships be allowed to discharge their cargos and the crew members be allowed to be changed.” The Chinese have said crew change is not permitted at Jintang and Caofeidian ports because of Covid-19-related restrictions imposed by local authorities, he added. China’s foreign ministry said on Wednesday necessary assistance is being provided to the Indian crew members. Srivastava said the Indian mission in Beijing will remain in touch with Chinese authorities to “seek their facilitation and assistance which can lead to an early resolution of the issue and help ameliorate the situation of the crew”. This development also comes against the backdrop of the India-China border standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh sector, which has taken bilateral ties to an all-time low. Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said on Wednesday that local authorities are in communication with the Indian side and provided assistance “while meeting certain quarantine and epidemic prevention requirements”. However, there was no indication when the Indian seafarers will be allowed to leave their vessels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/others-can-offload-cargo-but-not-indian-crewed-ships-at-chinese-ports-mea/story-KNcghfD6TwJZwc58XEF5PM.html
24-12-2020||India||PM Modi to flag off India’s first-ever driverless train on Dec 28; launch NCMC for Airport Line||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is slated to flag off the country’s first ever fully-automated driverless train service which will be on the Magenta Line of Delhi Metro on December 28, the DMRC said on Thursday. The 37-km Magenta Line connects Janakpuri West and Botanical Garden metro stations.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be flagging off the country’s first ever fully-automated driverless train service on the 37 km-Magenta Line (Janakpuri West to Botanical Garden) and will also be launching the fully operational National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) for travel on the 23-km Airport Express Line (New Delhi to Dwarka Sector 21) on December 28, 2020,” the DMRC said in a statement.Dubbed as ‘One Nation One Card’, the NCMC is an inter-operable transport card that allows holders to pay multiple kinds of transport charges, including using metro and bus services across the country, toll, parking and even for retail shopping and withdrawing money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-flag-off-india-s-first-ever-driverless-train-on-dec-28-launch-ncmc-for-airport-line/story-ntXUbEaGiC2h5TbyqYZ0TO.html
24-12-2020||India||Day after announcing night curfew, Karnataka govt withdraws order||In yet another U-turn, the BS Yediyurappa-led BJP government in the state has decided to withdraw the night curfew order it had announced just yesterday. On Tuesday, the CM had said that there was no curfew planned but a day later on Wednesday went ahead and announced the same only to reverse the decision on Thursday.The CM’s office said that the decision was taken after public feedback as well as taking into consideration the opinion of senior administration officials as well as cabinet colleagues. Yesterday the CM had announced night curfew from 10 pm to 6 am but later it was amended to 11 pm to 5 am after traders protested. Later, the implementation of the curfew was deferred from Wednesday to Thursday to enable travellers on the road to reach their destinations safely.After voices from the Christian community pointed out that on Christman eve they would require permission to offer prayers, the order was amended again. As bus, auto and taxi sector employees protested the night curfew order, they were permitted to ply at night too. On Thursday, after much confusion the government decided to do away with the night curfew.However, the CM appealed to people to limit their travel as well as take necessary precautions to ensure Covid-19 doesn’t spread. KPCC president DK Shivakumar mocked the flip-flops of the government saying, “What was the justification for night curfew? Do they mean to say that viruses travel only during the night and not during the day? Shows how hollow the entire decision-making process in the government has become.”JDS leader HD Kumaraswamy too criticised the government for its rapid reversals with the decision saying that there was no need for night curfew. Congress, however, reiterated its demand for the resignation of CM Yediyurappa following adverse remarks by the state High Court on Tuesday in an old corruption case. Leader of opposition in the Karnataka assembly Siddaramaiah said that Yediyurappa should resign and allow a free and fair investigation in the land identification case.Siddaramaiah also criticised the flip-flops on curfew saying, “This is the decision of a mad government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-announcing-night-curfew-karnataka-govt-withdraws-order/story-UcLfOTWfRVv49DM0Io6LNI.html
24-12-2020||India||Rs 4,000 crore attached in Agri Gold scam that cheated 32 lakh in 3 states||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday announced attachment of properties worth Rs 4,109 crore and spread across three states in a money laundering case linked to an alleged ponzi scam involving Agri Gold group, a day after the arrest of its three promoters. The promoters of the Agri Gold group were accused of cheating 32 lakh investors to the extent of Rs 6,380 crore in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. The accused – chairman Avva Venkata Rama Rao and directors Avva Venkata Seshu Narayana Rao and Avva Hema Sundara Vara Prasad - were produced before the ED special court, which granted their 10-day custody to the agency from December 27 to January 5 for questioning. The ED attached assets include 2,809 landed properties, Haailand Amusement Park in the name of Arka Leisure and Entertainments Private Limited near Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district spread over 48 acres and shares of various companies, plants and machinery. These attached properties are located in different districts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, besides Bengaluru, Kolar, Yadgir and Mandya in Karnataka, Khurda in Odisha and Krishnagiri in Tamil Nadu. According to an official release from the ED, investigation has been taken up under PMLA based on multiple FIRs lodged in Andhra, Telangana and Karnataka. The scam was perpetrated by Avva Venkata Rama Rao through Agri Gold group of companies in collusion with his seven brothers and other associates. They set up more than 150 companies and started collecting deposits from the public with a promise of providing developed plots and farm lands or returning money at a high rate of return on maturity or pre-term. Agri Gold had employed thousands of commission agents to lure people with various schemes for hefty commission and collected Rs 6380 crore from 32.02 lakh investor accounts. In the end, the gullible investors neither got plots nor could recover their deposits. Investigation under PMLA further revealed that the promoters of Agri Gold group siphoned huge amounts of these deposits and invested them in myriad verticals and in private companies which were directly owned by their family. Investments were made in various sectors including power infrastructure, entertainment, food industry, travel agencies, chemicals, insurance, data processing, timber, software and other sectors. The names of Agri Gold promoters also figured in the Paradise Papers leaks, where global data on offshore holdings of various entities was revealed in 2017. They had incorporated companies with the help of the infamous Mossack Fonseca in Cayman Islands, the ED said. “Investigation conducted so far led to ED identifying assets worth Rs 4109 crore which have been provisionally attached under the PMLA. Further investigation is under process,” the ED release said. While the promoters are in jail, their lawyers could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-4-000-crore-attached-in-agri-gold-scam-that-cheated-32-lakh-in-3-states/story-iPXiC90gaXrhpvcbLzcbTL.html
24-12-2020||India||Covid-19: List of terms people learnt during the pandemic||Covid-19, the illness caused by the novel coronavirus (nCov), has caused extensive damage to human life and strained the healthcare system across the world. Millions of people have been confined to their homes in an effort to avoid contracting the virus, which spreads rapidly. Google’s year in search 2020 shows that search terms related to Covid-19 were in the top spots in almost all categories mentioned. From the symptoms of the disease to steps to it, a wide range of information has been trending through the year.Governments around the world have been creating awareness about the disease and about safety and hygiene practices to reduce the infections. Here is a list of a few terms related to Covid-19 that have become more familiar in the recent past: CFRThe case fatality ratio (CFR) is an important measure of the severity of a disease among identified confirmed cases. The World Health Organization defines CFR as “the proportion of individuals diagnosed with a disease who die from that disease and is therefore a measure of severity among detected cases.” Also read: Timeline of a pandemic that disrupted lives across the worldContact Tracing For diseases that are highly communicable through physical contact, contact tracing is essential to curb the spread of the infections. The WHO says contact tracing is “the process of identifying, assessing, and managing people who have been exposed to a disease to prevent onward transmission” and calls it an essential public health tool.Flattening the curveIn terms of Covid-19, flattening the curve implies a gradual increase in the number of infections and a gradual decrease, rather than a steep increase or decrease. When represented as a graph, the number of cases over a period of time should remain under the healthcare system’s capacity of a region/country. Non pharmacological interventionsNon pharmacological refers to treatments and interventions that do not involve medicines, rather tools like travel restrictions, lockdowns and curfews by which the spread of the virus is reduced significantly. While some vaccines have been developed for Covid-19, availability is a concern for many governments and hence, measures to control the spread are vital in their efforts.PandemicA pandemic is a disease or an illness that has affected a large number of people usually across multiple countries by crossing international boundaries.Watch: 51 lakh people in priority list, says Delhi CM Arvind KejriwalPersonal protective equipmentMedical workers and health care workers are regularly exposed to the virus and hence use protective suits, gloves, masks, eye gear and face covers to protect themselves while on duty, collectively known as Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Positivity rateThe ratio of the number of positive cases tested over a specific time period is called the positivity rate. High positivity rate is an indicator of a large outbreak of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/health/covid-19-list-of-terms-people-learnt-during-the-pandemic/story-QivlpNvQbuTxUBwfPUZUPM.html
24-12-2020||India||PM Modi to launch Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme for residents of Jammu and Kashmir on Dec 26||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch a Ayushman Bharat scheme for all residents of Jammu and Kashmir on December 26 (Saturday). The Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana Sehat (PM-JAY SEHAT) will provide free insurance cover to all residents of the union territory (UT), the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said. The PMO further said in the statement that the scheme would provide financial cover of up to Rs 5 lakh per family on a floater basis.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch Ayushman Bharat ‘PM-JAY SEHAT’ to extend coverage to all the residents of the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir on 26th December, via video conferencing,” the PMO statement said. Union home minister Amit Shah and Jammu and Kashmir’s Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha will be participating in the virtual event.The statement added the scheme would operate on insurance mode in convergence with Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY). The PM-JAY, which was launched on September 23, 2018 is the world’s largest health insurance/ assurance scheme fully financed by the Centre. It provides a cover of Rs 5 lakh per family annually for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation for public and private enlisted hospitals in the country. More than 10.74 crore poor and vulnerable entitled families are eligible for benefits.‘PM-JAY SEHAT’ would also ensure universal health coverage along with focus on providing financial risk protection and ensuring quality and affordable essential health services to all individuals and communities.The benefits of the scheme would be portable across India and hospitals enlisted under PM-JAY would provide services under the new scheme as well, it added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-ayushman-bharat-health-insurance-scheme-for-residents-of-j-k-on-dec-26/story-W5tvJBES6MqyldUP3o2pOO.html
24-12-2020||India||Congress seals alliance with Left for West Bengal assembly polls||The Congress on Thursday formally approved a tie-up with the Left parties for the upcoming assembly election in West Bengal, the state’s Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury told the media in Delhi. “Today the Congress high command has formally approved the electoral alliance with the Left parties in the impending election of West Bengal,” he tweeted. West Bengal, along with Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry, will go to polls in March-April next year. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Congress and the Left suffered badly while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 18 of the state’s 42 seats. The Left parties won nine while the Congress tally came down from four to two. “Now that the Congress leadership has given a formal approval to the tie-up, we have to discuss seat sharing with Left leaders in Bengal. This will be done at the state level. We will fight against both the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the BJP. There will be no demarcation here,” Chowdhury said. Asked whether the alliance will project anyone as its chief ministerial candidate, Chowdhury said, “There has been no discussion on this issue. Contesting the polls as one is the only priority,” he said. Sujan Chakraborty, CPI(M) legislator and leader of the Left parties in the assembly, said, “We have to discuss our strategy for the polls now that the Congress has formally approved the proposed tie-up.” In October, the central committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), the party’s highest decision-making body, approved the Bengal unit’s decision to have an electoral understanding with all secular parties, including the Congress. In the 2016 elections, the CPI(M) leadership did not give its approval to the Bengal unit’s move to share seats with the Congress. The Congress won 44 seats and the Left Front ended up with 32 but the strength of both parties has eroded since then because of defections to the TMC and the BJP. For example, Dipali Biswas, the CPI(M) candidate who won the Gazole seat in Malda in 2016, joined the TMC in 2018. On December 19, she joined the BJP along with the TMC’s former minister and heavyweight leader Suvendu Adhikari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-seals-alliance-with-left-for-west-bengal-assembly-polls/story-EIDCUDBLBfNBFovSYKbXRK.html
24-12-2020||India||Sonal Mansingh moves breach of privilege motion in Rajya Sabha against Arvind Kejriwal||Rajya Sabha member Sonal Mansingh on Thursday moved a breach of privilege motion in the Upper House against Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. The motion comes in the wake of Kejriwal’s statement in the Delhi Assembly on December 17 where he said that the three farm bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha in September without voting. The motion, which was filed on Wednesday, will be taken up by the chairperson and sent to the Delhi Assembly for further action said a person aware of the details.The Rajya Sabha in September passed the essential commodities (amendment) bill; the Farmers’ produce trade and commerce (promotion and facilitation) Bill and the farmers’ (empowerment and protection) agreement on price assurance and farm services Bill through a voice vote. The proceedings of the House were conducted amid a din as opposition parties protested against the three bills.Expressing support for a section of farmers who are protesting against the farm laws, Kejriwal on December 17 had torn the farm laws on the floor of the assembly and said, “What was the hurry to get farm laws passed in Parliament during the pandemic? It has perhaps happened for the first time that the three laws were passed without voting in Rajya Sabha…”Mansingh, who is a nominated member of the Upper House in her letter to the Rajya Sabha chairperson has said, the Delhi chief minister’s statement that the three bills were passed without voting “is not only a serious breach of privilege but also a blatant contempt of the House, which was a mischievous attempt to denigrate the character of the chairman, Rajya Sabha and the prestige of the Upper House of the Parliament of India.”She further said the speech delivered on December 17, cast serious aspersions on the overall working of the Rajya Sabha and made “unwarranted and unsubstantiated allegations against the chairman”.In her complaint, Mansingh has said, “Since this criticism on the integrity of chairman, Rajya Sabha and the prudence of the Council of States is a reflection on the Members and the House itself, it is contempt of the House, and thus, constitutes a breach of privilege of the House.”The letter goes on to say, Arvind Kejriwal, a member of the legislative assembly of Delhi and the CM has “criticised Rajya Sabha in the legislative assembly of Delhi and questioned the sagacity of Rajya Sabha, in general, and the Chairman of Rajya Sabha in particular. His actions were thus, to obstruct and denigrate the Upper House of Parliament in the performance of its function.”According to a person aware of parliamentary procedure, a member of Parliament can move a breach of privilege motion against the Delhi CM. “In 1955 during a speaker’s conference it was decided that a motion of breach of privilege can be moved against another house,” the person quoted above said.To buttress her point Mansingh has cited portions from the Practice and Procedure of Parliament by Kaul and Shakdher that stipulates —“It is breach of privilege and contempt of the House to make speeches reflecting on the character or proceedings of the House or its committees or any member of the house or relating to his character or contact as member. Speeches or writings reflecting on the House or its committees or members are punished by the House as contempt on the privilege that such acts tend to obstruct the House in the performance of their functions by diminishing the respect due to them.”Constitutional expert PDT Achary, however, said merely tearing up a law that has been passed is not breach of privilege. “The questions arises is the act of tearing a law that has been passed in Parliament and received the President’s accent a breach of privilege. And if the chairperson finds it so, then it is not for the RS to take action; it has to be dealt with by the Delhi Assembly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonal-mansingh-moves-breach-of-privilege-motion-in-rajya-sabha-against-arvind-kejriwal/story-A6Ni8RLqe8fge0tjGnhtNL.html
24-12-2020||India||Months after cancelling deal with China, India acquires heavy cranes for Chabahar port||India’s operations at Iran’s strategic Chabahar port are set to get a boost with the delivery in January of four heavy cranes, months after a deal with a Chinese state-run firm for the equipment was cancelled amid the border standoff. In September, India had cancelled a contract with Shanghai Zhenhua Heavy Industries worth almost $30 million for four rail-mounted quay cranes, required for moving heavy cargo, citing delays by the Chinese company in supplying the equipment ordered in 2017. Following a fresh tender for cranes with 65-tonne capacity, the equipment was procured from a Western company and is now expected to reach Chabahar by next month, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. They declined to give further details in view of sensitivities linked to US sanctions on Iran, though Chabahar port has been granted a waiver. The people further said the Iranian side had made a request to the Indian government for railway equipment, including locomotives, signalling gear and equipment for railway stations, to bolster operations on both Chabahar-Zahedan and Khaf-Herat railway lines. The Iranian side has suggested this equipment can be provided by India under a $150 line of credit that was proposed some years ago, the people said. These developments come in the wake of the opening on December 10 of a major section of the 220-km Khaf-Herat railway link, which will ultimately connect Khaf in Iran and Roznak in Afghanistan’s Herat province, and a decision by Tehran in November to complete the 628-km Chabahar-Zahedan rail line, which runs from the port to near the Afghan border, with its own funds instead of waiting for the participation of the Indian Railway Construction Limited (IRCON). “Iran has decided to complete all the infrastructure on its side and India is welcome to join in all the projects. For example, they can supply the railway equipment and develop other facilities such as refineries and petro-chemical industries in the Chabahar free trade zone,” one of the people cited above said, adding the Chabahar-Zahedan rail link is expected to be completed by July 2021. The external affairs ministry said recently that IRCON had completed a feasibility study and was awaiting a decision from the Iranian side to name a nodal authority. However, it is believed that there was hesitation on the part of private firms to deal with a company linked to the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Committee (IRGC), which has been sanctioned by the US. Amid reports that some quarters are calling for the Khaf-Herat rail link to be extended south towards the Pakistan border, the people noted that there is interest in taking the line northwards to Uzbekistan and suggested India could play a key role in such a venture. India, Iran and Uzbekistan held their first trilateral meeting focused on Chabahar port on December 14 and the people said this body is now expected to meet every three months to push forward the joint use of the strategic trade and transit facility on the Gulf of Oman to enhance regional connectivity. “Given its extensive presence in Afghanistan, India can play a role in helping to develop the Khaf-Herat rail route and extend it to Uzbekistan. Despite the sanctions and the Covid-19 pandemic, the Khaf-Herat line was opened and it will help boost landlocked Afghanistan,” the person cited above said. In May 2016, India Ports Global and Iran’s Aria Banader Iranian Port and Marine Services Company signed a deal to equip and operate the Shahid Beheshti terminal at Chabahar port, with a capital investment of $85.21 million and annual revenue expenditure of $22.95 million, on a 10-year lease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/months-after-cancelling-deal-with-china-india-acquires-heavy-cranes-for-chabahar-port/story-sCYBVqiApRtqvqNWMu558O.html
24-12-2020||India||FASTag to be mandatory for vehicles from Jan 1, says Nitin Gadkari||FASTags will be mandatory for vehicles from January 1, 2021, Union minister Nitin Gakdari said on Thursday. FASTags, which facilitate electronic payment of fee at toll plazas, was introduced in 2016. Making the tags compulsory would also help in ensuring that vehicles pass seamlessly through the toll plazas as fee payment would be done electronically. Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Nitin Gadkari has announced that FASTag is being made mandatory for all vehicles in the country from the new year, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said in a statement. Addressing a virtual function on Thursday, he also said that FASTag will be useful for commuters as they will not have to stop at toll plazas for cash payments. Besides, it will also help save time and fuel, he added. FASTag was launched in 2016 and four banks together issued nearly a lakh of them. By 2017, their numbers went up to seven lakh and more than 34 lakh FASTags were issued in 2018. In November this year, the ministry issued a notification also making FASTag mandatory from January 1, 2021 for old vehicles or that were sold before December 1, 2017. As per the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, since December 1, 2017, FASTag had been made mandatory for registration of new four-wheelers. It was also mandated that the renewal of fitness certificate of a transport vehicle will be done only after the vehicle concerned has a FASTag. For National Permit vehicles, the fitment of FASTag was mandated since October 1, 2019. A valid FASTag would be made compulsory for getting a new third party insurance. This would come into force from April 1, 2021. The ministry said that steps for ensuring availablity of FASTag through multiple channels are being taken. They would be available at physical locations as well as online, The National Toll Collection (NETC) programme has been implemented on a pan-India basis in order to remove bottlenecks and ensure seamless movement of traffic and collection of user fee as per the notified rates using passive Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fastag-to-be-mandatory-for-vehicles-from-jan-1-says-nitin-gadkari/story-ur8xdwTuP1fhG9v4dR9WPK.html
24-12-2020||India||Suvendu Adhikari’s show of strength day after Trinamool rally. And a boast||Suvendu Adhikari, BJP’s new acquisition from the Trinamool Congress, thundered on Thursday at a roadshow, reported to be several times bigger than his former party’s rally the day earlier, “is baar, do sau paar”, a reference to BJP crossing 200 seats in upcoming West Bengal state polls and ending Mamata Banerjee’s decadal rule in the state.Adhikari, who was welcomed into the BJP by Union home minister Amit Shah on December 19, was called a traitor at the Trinamool roadshow and rally at Kanthi at his hometown in Bengal’s East Midnapore district on Wednesday.So massive was the turnout at Adhikari’s roadshow a day later that the tableau carrying him and some state BJP leaders could move only a few inches a minute and the party’s workers said it might take hours to cover the five-kilometre route leading to the rally ground. “She [Mamata Banerjee] will come second in the race. Is baar, do sau paar (this time around we will score more than 200),” Adhikari told the local media on his way to the rally ground, repeating Amit Shah and the BJP’s declared goal. “The TMC need not hold rallies in my district to stop me from going elsewhere in Bengal. The more they attack me the more will be the losses they suffer in East and West Midnapore districts. I will address a rally in West Midnapore on Sunday. My home is Bengal. My country is India,” said Adhikari. Incidentally, chief minister Mamata Banerjee will soon address a rally at Nandigram, the constituency Adhikari represented till he resigned from the state assembly. Adhikari’s followers raised a unique slogan, “Hare Krishna Hare Hare, BJP ghare ghare,” implying that the BJP has entered every home with the chant Shri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, the 15th Century Hindu saint, introduced for disciples of Lord Krishna. “Sri Chaitanya spread the message of universal love, hence this slogan. We are paying homage to Purushottam Ram and Sri Chaitanya at the same time,” Adhikari quipped. The TMC’s rally on Wednesday, which was addressed by Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy and urban development minister Firhad Hakim, was the first the ruling party held in Kanthi town after Adhikari’s defection.That the TMC has targeted Adhikari as its prime political enemy became evident on Wednesday when clashes took place between BJP and TMC workers in the district’s Ramnagar area. The rally was organised by Akhil Giri, the TMC lawmaker from Ramnagar and a known detractor of Adhikari. On Tuesday, Adhikari addressed his first rally as a BJP leader alongside the party’s state president Dilip Ghosh in Burdwan district. Accusing the TMC of being involved in smuggling of cows, coal and sand, he said, “If the TMC returns to power it will start an illegal kidney trade as well.” The Triamool hit back at Adhikari on his home turf. “Suvendu is no strongman in Bengal politics. He lost the first assembly and Lok Sabha polls. He won his first assembly election from Kanthi South in 2006 but only after his father, the incumbent, vacated the seat. He was given two important portfolios in the cabinet. What more did he want? He is a traitor. Kanthi is not the kingdom of any family,” Saugata Roy had said at the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suvendu-adhikari-s-show-of-strength-day-after-trinamool-rally-and-a-boast/story-YWHfK7jy21OzNYznByttPK.html
24-12-2020||India||‘Even Congress doesn’t take him seriously’: Narendra Singh Tomar takes jibe at Rahul Gandhi||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday met a delegation of farmers from Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat. Interacting with the media after the meeting, Tomar claimed that the delegation had submitted to him a letter supporting the three farm laws. He also lashed out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who earlier in the day met President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking his intervention to repeal the three laws.“Farmers from Baghpat have given me a letter in support of Centre’s farm laws. They’ve told me the government shouldn’t buckle under any pressure to make amendments to farm bills,” news agency ANI quoted Tomar as saying after he met a delegation of 60 farmers belonging to the Kisaan Mazdoor Sangh.As protests against the farm laws have gathered steam, Tomar has, over the past few days, met several delegations of “farm leaders,” who, he claims, are supportive of the reforms. “Whatever Rahul Gandhi says, even Congress doesn’t take it seriously. Today when he went to register his protest with President with signatures, these farmers told me that no one from Congress came to get their signature,” Tomar was further quoted as saying. Whatever Rahul Gandhi says, even Congress doesn't take it seriously. Today when he went to register his protest with President with signatures, these farmers told me that no one from Congress came to them to get their signature: Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar https://t.co/V5fWXLGOec pic.twitter.com/rpWbA1XwRrThe agriculture minister was referring to a memorandum submitted by Gandhi to the President, which, the Congress claims, has two crore signatures against the farm laws. “If Rahul Gandhi was so worried, then he could have done something for farmers. Congress’ character has always been anti-farmer,” Tomar added. If Rahul Gandhi was so worried, then he could have done something for farmers, when his govt was in power. Congress' character has always been anti-farmer: Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi meeting President today over Farm Laws https://t.co/v4ZT271Ycz pic.twitter.com/0co7sBvk0DGandhi had met Kovind along with fellow Congress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. Several other Congress leaders, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, were detained by the Delhi Police as they tried to march towards the Rashtrapati Bhavan. This, the police said, was done as only Gandhi, Azad and Chowdhury had permission to meet Kovind.The anti-farm law protests, taking place at several borders of Delhi, entered day 29 on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-congress-doesn-t-take-him-seriously-narendra-singh-tomar-takes-jibe-at-rahul-gandhi/story-Y2leI43zsw2LyJDAOP2YnI.html
24-12-2020||India||Karnataka government withdraws night curfew order||The Karnataka government on Thursday withdrew the night curfew order, hours before it was scheduled to be implemented. In a statement, chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s office said that the decision has been taken after feedback from public.“In view of the public opinion that there was no need for night curfew, the decision was reviewed and after consulting with cabinet colleagues and senior officials it has been decided to withdraw the night curfew,” the statement from the CMO said.Yediyurappa appealed to the people to exercise self-restraint by wearing face masks, hand hygiene and social distancing to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.The night curfew was meant to be imposed in the state between 11 pm and 5 am, effective from December 24. It was supposed to be in place till January 2. The decision to impose it was taken on Wednesday and withdrawn today.The government decided to imposed the night curfew in the light of a new variant of Sars-CoV-2 virus detected in the United Kingdom. The government had even issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for the night curfew.Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar had said earlier in the day that the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) had advised the government about imposing a night curfew after which the decision was taken.On the possibility of a new variant of coronavirus coming to Karnataka, the minister said the lab test reports of about 300 to 400 people was likely to arrive on Thursday.Some other states are going ahead with their decision to impose a night curfew to check the spread of the disease. Maharashtra was one of the first states to do so after the news of the new strain of the virus surfaced.Iqbal Singh Chahal, the commissioner of Mumbai’s civic body BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said, “This is not a normal new year which is why we cannot have normal celebrations. The curfew is being imposed to ensure that such violations are not repeated”.Punjab, Manipur, Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh are the other states where night curfew and other measures are being implemented to ensure the people of the state remain safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-government-withdraws-night-curfew-order/story-Gg93xB6hMsra1XYLXnTY9N.html
24-12-2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat: Patna high court quashes case against 18 foreigners||The Patna high court has quashed the criminal prosecution against 18 foreign nationals associated with Tablighi congregation. It its decision on Tuesday, the court cited absence of any material that could prima facie suggest that these people were involved in religious work.The order came on a petition filed by 11 foreign nationals who came to West Bengal from Bangladesh by road on tourist visa. The petitioners said that they visited the ‘Nizamuddin Markaz’ in Delhi before the Tablighi event, reached Araria in Bihar on March 11 and were residing in ‘Rawahi markaz’ since March 15. Then, a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24 for 21 days, leaving them stranded, the petitioners said.Further, the local administration put them in quarantine post screening. Later, a local claimed that these foreigners were involved in the spread of religious ideologies, and did not report their stay to the local administration which led to the registering of an FIR, the court was told.The bench of Justice Rajeev Ranjan Prasad in its observation said that the government of India is aware of the fact that the foreign nationals from some of the countries in course of their stay in India are being accommodated in mosque or markaz.The court further said that the allegations in this case of not reporting their stay to the local police station is “misconceived”.The court concluded by saying, “so far as the foreign nationals (petitioner nos. 1 to 9 of Cr.W.J.C. No. 367 of 2020 and petitioner nos. 2 to 10 of Cr.W.J.C. No. 369 of 20200) are concerned, their prosecution for the offences alleged under Section 14 and 14-C of the Act of 1946 has no basis to proceed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-jamaat-patna-high-court-quashes-case-against-18-foreigners/story-wUQNZRzPxDnHX5meq4e8dI.html
24-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times:Office attacked by BJP workers over AAP’s stand against agriculture reforms, says Raghav Chadha and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Office attacked by BJP workers over AAP’s stand against farm laws’: Raghav ChadhaAam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha said that the attack carried out by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers at Delhi Jal Board (DJB) office was meant to threaten the party and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.  Read moreWest Bengal Assembly Election 2021: Congress to ally with Left partiesThe Congress on Thursday formally announced its tie-up with the Left parties for the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal. West Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury tweeted the announcement. Read moreNo postal ballot pilot planned for non-Gulf NRIs: Election CommissionClarifying its position on the introduction of postal ballots in non-Gulf countries, the Election Commission of India said that it has made no such proposal. Read moreGovt writes to farmers’ unions, again invites them for talks as per their ‘convenience’The Union agriculture ministry on Thursday wrote to farmers’ unions, once again inviting them for the sixth round of talks at a “date and time of your choosing,” news agency ANI reported. Read moreCriminal Justice Behind Closed Doors review: Kirti Kulhari, Pankaj Tripathi deliver another Thappad on the face of misogyny with superlative showCan a perfect father to a teenage daughterrape his wife behind closed doors? Can a professional and powerful woman fall prey to misogyny in the confines of her home? Read moreBCCI approves 10-team IPL from 2022 edition, board to back ICC bid for cricket’s inclusion in 2028 OlympicsIn a big decision that would see the world’s most popular T20 league expand, the Board of Control for Cricket in India’ general body on Thursday approved a 10-team IPL from the 2022 edition at its Annual General Meeting in Ahmedabad. Read moreChristmas 2020: History, significance and celebrationsAfter the rough year that 2020 has been, we are all looking forward to the most wonderful time of the year when people across the world come together to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ on December 25. Read more Dad-daughter duo dishes out dhamakedar dance on Ghungroo from War, Esha Gupta hearts Insta videoA dad-daughter duo from Washington has left people thoroughly entertained with their smashing performance on the song Ghungroo from the film War. Read moreWatch: ‘Incompetent man’: Rahul Gandhi attacks PM Modi over farmer protests||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-office-attacked-by-bjp-workers-over-aap-s-stand-against-agriculture-reforms-says-raghav-chadha-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2pRbEmsP7i9GFgI9jqjtLK.html
24-12-2020||India||3 men kidnapped by militants in Tripura freed after 2 weeks||Almost a fortnight after three border fencing workers were abducted nearly 100 metres away from the India-Bangladesh international border by banned militant group National Liberation Front of Tripura (NLFT-BM) ultras, the men were released on Wednesday, said police. Assistant Inspector General of Tripura police Subrata Chakraborty told the reporters on Thursday that the abducted persons were released due to police and security forces’ continuous operations on the overground members of the militant outfit in the state.Though some sources claimed that family members of the victims paid ransom to the militants to get them released, the police said these reports were not verified. The three workers are: Subhash Bhowmik (48), Subal Debnath (37) and Gana Mohan Tripura (37). They were abducted on December 7 from Malda Kumar Para and Hariamoni Para in Ambassa sub division of Dhalai district. The location is nearly 100 metres away from the Indo-Bangla international border.Two days after their abduction, police arrested three facilitators of the insurgent outfit who belonged to Malda Para, the place where the incident took place. The police earlier informed that extensive coordinated operations were conducted on both sides of the Indo-Bangla border to trace the three kidnapped persons.Four days after the abduction, chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb said that his government would not compromise with extremists.The NLFT was formed on March 12 in 1989 keeping an agenda of sovereign Tripura. It was banned in 1997 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and then under the Prevention of Terrorism Act (POTA).According to the Union ministry of home affairs, the NLFT was responsible for violent activities including 317 insurgency incidents in which 28 security forces and 62 civilians lost their lives during the period 2005-2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-men-kidnapped-by-militants-in-tripura-freed-after-2-weeks/story-IAoL08ieBMHJ77lWEuU03L.html
24-12-2020||India||CRPF jawan comes home, found dead days later; father blames wife||A Central Reserve Police Force jawan, on leave from work, allegedly died by suicide on Thursday, days after his return to his home in Bihar’s Aurangabad district. He was 31. The police have not found any suicide note in the house. The jawan, Kshatramani alias Gunjan, was posted in Odisha and had come home on leave for a month on December 19.According to the police, the jawan had dinner with his family on Wednesday. When his wife woke-up around 5.30 am the following day, said police, she found the door of the room was locked from outside. She tried to call Gunjan, but there was no response. Following this, she raised an alarm, said SHO Arvind Kumar Gautam of Daudnagar police station. A neighbour rushed to the jawan’s home on hearing the wife’s cry for help. When he broke the front door, he found Gunjan’s lifeless body. He rushed the jawan to a nearby hospital, where he was declared dead. The jawan’s father, Ashok Singh, has told the police that his son took the extreme step because of constant quarrel and torture by his wife, Anita Devi. In a written statement, Singh alleged that a quarrel between wife and husband at around 12.30 pm (Wednesday) led to the suicide. “Prima facie, it seems Gunjan took his life. While the police are investigating the allegation made by the deceased’s father,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-jawan-comes-home-found-dead-days-later-father-blames-wife/story-soZ4d8htWr8YszArCPaVgK.html
24-12-2020||India||Trinamool pick holes in PM’s Tagore comments at Visva-Bharati; BJP hits back||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, addressing Bengal’s Visva-Bharati University on its centenary day on Thursday, said its founder and Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore’s vision was the essence of “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” or a self reliant India. The PM spoke at length on the pivotal role Visva-Bharati played in India’s freedom movement and how it spread the message of universal brotherhood encapsulated in Tagore’s philosophy and works. “Gurudev’s vision for Visva-Bharati is the essence of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Atmanirbhar Bharat is the path to India’s development for the development of the world. It’s a campaign for India’s empowerment and prosperity, and through it, the prosperity of the word,” he told the gathering through video conferencing from New Delhi.From the “Vedas to Vivekananda”, the PM continued, Tagore’s thoughts reflected the collective thought of India, which was never introverted or exclusive.“His vision was that what is best in India the world should benefit from it, and India should learn from the good things they have. Now look at the very name of your university, Visva-Bharati....coordination and cooperation of India with the world,” he said.Visva-Bharati was declared a Central University and an Institution of National Importance by an Act of Parliament in 1951. Tagore founded it in 1921.Praising the institution for its remarkable achievements in numerous fields ranging from art and literature to science and innovation, PM Modi urged the students to reach out to the artisans in the region and explore ways to find national and international markets for their produce. “That will make them self-reliant. Atmanirbhar Bharat is the initiative for India’s prosperity which will aid in global prosperity,” said Modi. Recalling India’s freedom struggle, Modi said, “Long before our great freedom fighters took up the cause in the 19th and 20th century, the Bhakti Movement united us. The movement for learning gave us intellectual strength and the movement of karma exemplified by the likes of Shivaji, Maharana Pratap and Rani Laxmibai of Jhansi gave us the courage to fight for our rights.” Visva-Bharati, he said, is the embodiment of philosophy, vision and hard work of Tagore. The PM’s comments come right in the middle of a heated political campaign for next year’s polls that has seen the ruling Trinamool and the BJP, its main challenger, fighting over the state’s icons and its legacy.Shortly after PM Modi delivered his speech, the Trinamool Congress hit back, saying the PM mentioned all universities in the country for their contribution to the freedom movement but left out Calcutta University, the nation’s first university set up in 1857 and to which all colleges were affiliated to at that time. Accusing Modi and the BJP of showing Bengal and Bengalis in poor light, the TMC also alleged that chief minister Mamata Banerjee was not even invited to the programme. Minister Bratya Basu and TMC’s leader in the Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien, held a press conference at the party’s headquarters in Kolkata. When it was pointed out that the Visva Bharati authorities had claimed that an invitation was sent on Wednesday night, Basu said, “Is that how a chief minister is invited?” “I could not understand why there were repeated references to Gujarat when he (Modi) was talking about Tagore. And, some of the things he said were factually wrong. For example, Satyendranath Tagore was not the poet’s eldest brother. Also, it was not from Gujarati women alone that Satyendranath’s wife Gyanadanandini Devi learnt to wear the traditional saree in a different way. She was inspired by Parsi women as well but the Prime Minister will not name Parsees for the same reasons that stops him from mentioning Dalits,” said Basu. Reading out from Tagore’s writings against communal violence, Basu said, “The migratory politicians should have a deep understanding of Tagore and his philosophy before talking about him.”Addressing a press conference in the afternoon, Mamata Banerjee said, “Who invited me and when? I did not receive any invitation or phone call as far as the centenary celebration is concerned.” She also sounded a veiled warning to the vice-chancellor without taking names. “I congratulate those who are associated with this century-old institution. The legacy of Visva-Bharati is not bound by time. Those who are running it now will be here for a few days only. Their days are numbered.” Earlier, the chief minister called upon the people to preserve the vision and philosophy of Tagore. “Visva Bharati University turns 100. This temple of learning was Rabindranath Tagore’s greatest experiment on creating the ideal human being. We must preserve the vision and philosophy of this great visionary,” tweeted CM Banerjee. The BJP Bengal unit and its leaders targeted Banerjee on Twitter, alleging that she insulted the legacy of Tagore by not attending the ceremony. The party even circulated the image of an invitation letter dated December 4. It was signed by Bidyut Chakrabarty, the vice-chancellor. “Dirty politics everywhere, @MamataOfficial? She has insulted the legacy of Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore, by not attending the Visva-Bharati celebrations even after receiving the invitation! She is slowly strangulating everything “Sonar Bangla” stood for!” tweeted the Bengal BJP. Amit Malviya, head of the BJP’s national information technology cell, posted an image of the December 4 letter. “Visva Bharati had sent invite to WB CM on 4 Dec 2020. But for Pishi, politics is more important than the legacy of Gurudev Tagore! Never ever has a CM insulted Tagore’s Visva-Bharati like this! Pishi is impersonation of narrow mindedness that is pushing Bengal to utter darkness!” tweeted Malvilya, who always refers to the chief minister as pishi (aunt in Bengali) and refers to her nephew, Abhishek Banerjee as bhaipo (nephew). Asked about the letter, minister Bratya Basu said, “You have the letter but was it sent and received by the government? Do you have a copy which is stamped ‘received’? The vice-chancellor wrote a letter to himself thinking he is the chief minister and received it too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-pick-holes-in-pm-s-tagore-comments-at-visva-bharati-bjp-hits-back/story-IKxtYSiQkGZ6FBFcE2Ko6J.html
24-12-2020||India||Govt writes to farmers’ unions, again invites them for talks as per their ‘convenience’||The Union agriculture ministry on Thursday wrote to farmers’ unions, once again inviting them for the sixth round of talks at a “date and time of your choosing,” news agency ANI reported. The ministry’s letter came a day after the protesting farmers rejected its earlier proposal in this regard, saying that no negotiations will take place till the government “draws up a new agenda.” Govt writes to agitating farmers, asking them to decide the date and time for the next round of talks. "Govt is committed to reaching logical solutions of the issues raised by you," it reads. pic.twitter.com/tBglPwi8fsThe letter, signed by Vivek Aggarwal, joint secretary in the agriculture ministry, referred to the letter sent by the farmers’ unions to the government on Wednesday, rejecting its earlier proposal. The letter reiterated the government’s commitment to reach “logical solutions” to all the issues raised by the protesting farmers. adding that it was crucial for the government to keep negotiations open with various farmers’ organisations of the country. “The government has, respectfully and with open mind, held several rounds of talks and has also proposed to hold the next round of talks at your convenience,” the letter further stated.It also talked about various objections raised by the farmers’ unions, including on the Minimum Support Price (MSP), and the points discussed between the two sides in five rounds of meetings thus far, including one each on December 1, 3 and 5. “I would once again like to stress that the government has spoken to you with open mind on the issues raised by you and is ready to do so in future as well. Please let us know the date and time, as convenient to you, for the next round. The discussion will take place at Vigyan Bhavan, New Delhi, with a ministerial-level committee,” the letter concluded, quoting Aggarwal as saying.The government had earlier written to the farmers’ unions on Sunday, inviting them for the sixth round of talks as per their convenience. The anti-farm law protests entered day 29 on Thursday.Earlier in the day, a delegation of three Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, met President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking his intervention to repeal the three laws. Several other Congress leaders, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, were detained by the Delhi Police as they tried to march to the Rashtrapati Bhavan despite permission being granted to only three party leaders to meet the President.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-writes-to-farmers-unions-again-invites-them-for-talks-as-per-their-convenience/story-WRhl8cLisqE4zKXHXoVCCL.html
24-12-2020||India||IMA Manipur warns against large gatherings after night curfew relaxed for Christmas, New Year||Close on the heels of Manipur government’s move to relax night curfew for a couple of hours to allow Christmas and New Year celebrations, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Manipur chapter, has said that a surge in Covid-19 cases cannot be ruled out following the festive season.Urging against large gatherings at all cost apart from avoidance of crowded places, IMA Manipur president Dr Shyamkumar Laishram and state secretary Dr Ng Arunkumar Singh, said, “Individuals over 60 yrs in age and with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 should stay at home. Social distancing protocol should be followed strictly.” The officials also advised frequent hand washing and use of hand sanitizer. Regional IMA branch also broadcast a Facebook live program in collaboration with SHIJA Foundation on “Emerging Trend of COVID-19 and Precautions for Christmas and New Year”.On Tuesday, the state authorities relaxed the night curfew, imposed since November 27, for a few hours on the twin occasions of Christmas and New Year. The night curfew shall be imposed from 10pm to 4am on all days except the intervening nights of 23rd and 24th December, 24th and 25th December and 31st December and 1st January, when curfew hours would begin from 12 midnight and last till 4am, the government order said.Also Read: 133 new recoveries in Manipur, no fresh deaths recordedAs per the government order, issued on December 22, the gatherings have been restricted to 50% of the hall capacity with a ceiling of 200 persons in closed spaces with strict adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour. It also said that community feasting shall be avoided.As on Wednesday, the total number of recovered Covid-19 cases in Manipur reached 26,030 with 102 new recoveries, officials said. Manipur’s Covid-19 recovery rate has risen to 93.54%. The cumulative number of positive cases in the state stands at 27,827, including 1,459 active cases, they added. The cumulative number of Covid-19 deaths stands at 338.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-manipur-warns-against-large-gatherings-after-night-curfew-relaxed-for-christmas-new-year/story-6UW15ZFNe5Lqc8Lfo6x4iN.html
24-12-2020||India||No postal ballot pilot planned for non-Gulf NRIs: Election Commission||Clarifying its position on the introduction of postal ballots in non-Gulf countries, the Election Commission of India said that it has made no such proposal. In its reply to a Member of Parliament’s query, dated December 23, the commission has unequivocally denied reports that postal ballot facilities will be extended to select non-Gulf countries first. “At the outset it is made clear that the commission has not made any pilot proposal,” the EC said in its reply, a copy of which has been seen by the Hindustan Times. “The current proposal to extend the ETPBS voting option in favour of overseas electors is an extension of the continuing efforts of the commission to facilitate voting to the overseas electors, notwithstanding the amendment in the Act in 2011, which is yet to be materialised in the true sense.”Also Read: Govt for wider consultations before allowing postal ballots for NRIsThe commission added that the logistics of the same are being worked out in consultation with the ministry of external affairs. “The proposal, which is still to be approved by the law ministry, will be implemented across the globe, not launched selectively,” said a person familiar with the matter. The EC wrote to the law ministry on November 27 to expedite the amendment of the People’s Representation Act, 1951, to extend the postal ballot facility to overseas electors. Of the 12.6 million Indians residing overseas, only little over a hundred thousand are registered as voters with the Election Commission of India, people familiar with the matter said. According to official estimates, at least 60-65% of the 12.6 million people residing overseas are likely to be eligible to vote in the Indian elections.It has proposed that voting be done via Electronically Transmitted Postal Ballot System (ETPBS), which was tested in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections for service voters. “One needs to understand how the ETPBS works,” said a person familiar with the matter. “A designated officer is appointed in the regiment of the service voter to whom postal ballots are sent electronically. The officer gives this to the voter and then posts the ballot to the Returning Officer (RO).” The commission, in its letter to the Law Ministry, has similarly proposed the appointment of a designated officer by the diplomatic or consular representative of India. The modalities for how the postal ballot process will be conducted, however, are yet to be finalised. The commission has asked that the facility be extended before the upcoming polls next year in the states of Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry. The proposed amendment faced backlash from political parties that alleged that they had not been consulted in the process. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury had said that the amendment may be open to large-scale manipulation, with ballots being sold for profits. Countering Yechury’s claim that political parties had not been consulted, the commission on December 19 wrote to veteran political leader, stating that the postal ballot facility was only an “extension of the continuing efforts of the Commission to facilitate voting for overseas electors”. The commission added that detailed consultations were held with various stakeholders in 2015, including political parties, wherein a committee was set up by the EC to look into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-postal-ballot-pilot-planned-for-non-gulf-nris-election-commission/story-ILEsxoaoqYsHwfDp3OIILL.html
24-12-2020||India||Woman dodges Delhi officials, reaches Andhra after testing +ve on arrival from UK||A 47-year old Anglo-Indian woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 after landing in New Delhi from the United Kingdom on Monday, gave a slip to the authorities to reach Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district by train, in the wee hours of Thursday. According to an official bulletin from the Andhra health department, Mary Winfred Ann Parrie, a private school teacher at Rajahmundry, tested Covid-19 positive at the Delhi airport health centre after landing from the UK on Monday night. The airport authorities handed her over to Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday for treatment. Since she was asymptomatic, she was asked to be in quarantine for seven days. After getting her out-patient card, she quietly left the place without informing the authorities, who could not find out her whereabouts. On Wednesday evening, East Godavari district authorities received a communication from the additional district magistrate of Delhi (North-East) Shubhankar Ghosh, stating that Parrie, along with her 22 year old son Riyan, who received her at the airport, might be travelling to her home town Rajahmundry aboard Andhra Pradesh Express train. “Since she is Corona positive, there is an apprehension of transmission of the infection to other persons from her. As per the protocol, she has to be isolated in institutional quarantine,” Ghosh said in the letter, requesting the East Godavari district authorities to get her admitted to any institutional quarantine facility. The state health authorities sounded a high alert and informed both the railway police and the local police authorities. “As soon as the train arrived in Rajahmundry railway station in the early hours of Thursday, they managed to locate Parrie and her son getting down from a first class compartment. The authorities made the duo wear PPE kits and drove them straight to the Rajahmundry government hospital,” the bulletin said. In the morning, both Parrie and Riyan were subject to different Covid-19 tests again. “The mother was found positive and Riyan negative in the Rapid Antigen Test. The hospital authorities have also conducted RT-PCR and VLM (Viral Lysis Medium) tests on both of them and the results are awaited,” the health department said. Also Read: Stalker strangles teenager, sets body on fire in Andhra PradeshParrie, a resident of Ramakrishna Nagar in Rajahmundry, has been working as a teacher in a local school. She, along with her husband and daughter, had gone to London a few months ago after the lifting of travel restrictions. She returned to India to see her son. State minister for health, Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas alias Nani, said the Anglo-Indian woman and her son were in the isolation ward of the Rajahmundry hospital, where all precautions were being taken. “The test samples are also being sent to the National Institute of Virology to find out if she had been infected with the new strain of Coronavirus,” the minister said. He said two separate isolation wards had been created in the hospital for admission of any fresh Covid-19 cases arriving from Europe and to conduct special tests on them. “We shall not take chances with the woman who came from the UK. There is nothing for the people to panic, as the government is on high alert,” Nani said. The minister said authorities have been asked to trace the passengers and railway crew who might have come in contact with Parrie and her son during their travel from New Delhi to Rajahmundry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-dodges-delhi-officials-reaches-andhra-after-testing-ve-on-arrival-from-uk/story-c1ablNfsW83MSWNXNeBSbJ.html
24-12-2020||India||Delhi HC asks Libgen, Sci-Hub to stop uploading articles as they face copyright infringement charges||The Delhi high court on Thursday restrained Sci-Hub and Libgen from uploading, publishing, and making available any article till January 6 when it will next hear a plea by publishing houses Elsevier Ltd, Wiley India Pvt Ltd, and American Chemical Society against the online repositories over alleged copyright infringement. The publishing houses have sought to block Sci-Hub, which has published nearly 84 million articles and papers, and Libgen that claims to host nearly 80 million research pieces. The repositories provide free access to paywalled research material.Elsevier publishes The Lancet and Cell journals among 2,500 others. Wiley publishes 1,700 journals. The American Chemical Society is one of the world’s largest scientific societies and publishes the prestigious Journal of the American Chemical Society.Also Read: Petition in Delhi HC to block Libgen, Sci-HubSci-Hub’s lawyer, Nilesh Jain, said they would not put out anything new and sought time to file a response to the petitioners. He said they need time to go through the suit which runs into 2,169 pages. No representative of Libgen attended the hearing on Thursday.“...given the stand of the counsel for Defendant no 1 (Sci-Hub), no new articles will be uploaded or made available... statement of Nilesh Jain is taken on record,” the court said.It sought the reply of the defendants and sought their physical addresses after senior advocate Amit Sibal, who represented the publishing houses, told the court that they do not even know the addresses of the defendants.Sibal said the defence has no case as it involved open infringing of copyright. He sought a direction to internet service providers, the department of telecom and the ministry of electronics and information technology for blocking Sci-Hub and Libgen. Sibal said he would give the links which have to be removed.The court said the defendants have been around since 2011. “Where were your clients for so many years? These sites are known by everyone.”Sibal said litigation in the other countries took time and the publishing houses have been able to move the court in India now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-asks-libgen-sci-hub-to-stop-uploading-articles-as-they-face-copyright-infringement-charges/story-cRWCB1sGs1yMqR3TCpuvmL.html
24-12-2020||India||NGT directs Power, Coal ministries to undertake safety audit of thermal power stations||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed secretaries of ministries of Power and Coal to undertake safety audit of thermal power stations throughout the country expeditiously, preferably within six months, to avoid recurrence of incidents like Tamil Nadu Neyveli boiler blast in future.The NGT bench headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed remedial measures to be adopted for future.“We also direct the Secretaries, ministries of Power and Coal, Government of India, in coordination with such other Departments/Institutions as may be necessary, to undertake safety audit of similarly placed thermal power stations, throughout the country expeditiously, preferably within six months, to avoid recurrence of such incidents in future,” the NGT said.The Tribunal remark came after observing a report filed before it where it was stated that the cause of the incident in Tamil Nadu Neyveli boiler blast was the failure of the staff handling the situation who did not have the knowledge of the 28 SOPs and of the process and the staff was not given due training and requisite work permits.The NGT was also informed that the compensation has been paid to the victims as per direction. However, the NGT refrained from directing retirement of the unit but said that all safety measures may be duly adopted which may be regularly monitored and audited by teams of experts on the subject and also by the Regulators.Proceedings in the matter were initiated on the basis of a news report relating to Tamil Nadu Neyveli boiler blast, which killed 6 people and 17 injured in July this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-directs-power-coal-ministries-to-undertake-safety-audit-of-thermal-power-stations/story-m9tIdRyGaX48ONeULpQTQO.html
24-12-2020||India||How Delhi will vaccinate 51 lakh people against Covid-19. All you need to know||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the Capital which was reeling under the second wave of Covid-19 in November is now fully prepared to start the vaccination drive. The Covid-19 situation of the Capital is also under control, the CM said. “All eyes are on vaccine now that when it will come and people will get rid of Covid-19,” Kejriwal said adding the Delhi is completely prepared to start the vaccination drive — to receive from the Centre, to store and to administer people with doses.Here is all you need to know about the drive:> The vaccination will proceed on the lines mandated by the Centre. Three groups of people will receive the doses in the first phase. > The first group comprises healthcare workers which in Delhi will cover 3 lakh people.> The second group will be 6 lakh frontline workers, which includes police, municipal workers, civil defence volunteers etc.> The third group of 42 lakh people will be of people above 50 years and below 50 years with co-morbidities. In total, Delhi will vaccinate 51 lakh people> All these people have been identified. Some work is left which will be wrapped up in the next week, Kejriwal said.> Every vaccination consists of two doses. One crore two lakh doses are required to vaccinate 51 lakh people.> Delhi has the capacity to store 74 lakh doses at present. But work is being done to ramp up the capacity to store one crore 15 lakh vaccine doses.> Registration of these people is being done. These people will get a notification through SMS or any other medium about the date, time, place of their vaccination.> There are sufficient locations in Delhi which will be turned into vaccine booths. All training has also been done. Delhi’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital is arranging for addition freezers to store Covid-19 vaccines. The hospital authorities have said infrastructure is ready for two cold chain equipment and 90 freezers in the hospital. Delhi airport, too, has completed preparation for vaccine distribution. The mission has been named ‘Project Sanjivani’. The airport has a storage capacity of 2.7 million vials of Covid-19 vaccine at any given point of time. It also has two cargo terminals with cool chambers where temperature can be set anywhere between -20 degrees Celsius to 25 degrees Celsius. The Delhi airport has also made arrangements for dry ice supply so that the vaccine can be kept stable for a longer period. A separate entrance for trucks carrying vaccines has been made. (With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-delhi-will-vaccinate-51-lakh-people-against-covid-19-all-you-need-to-know/story-vrQM4aNvKhSbRs9Y9RWSAN.html
24-12-2020||India||Delhi govt all set for Covid-19 vaccination: CM Kejriwal||Delhi is prepared for vaccination, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday after chairing a meeting with Union health minister Dr Harash Vardhan. There are around 51 lakh people including healthcare and frontline workers who will be vaccinated in the first phase of vaccination drive, he also said. “The process of identification of all such people is almost complete,” Kejriwal “There are a total of 51 lakh priority category persons in Delhi -- three lakh health workers, six lakh frontline workers, and 42 lakh of those aged above 50 and those below 50 but having co-morbidities,” the chief minister said at a virtual press briefing.In the first phase, each person will be given two doses. A total of 1.02 crore doses will be required in the first phase of vaccination in Delhi, he also informed. Currently, there is storage capacity for 74 lakh doses. It will be scaled up to 1.15 crore within a week, he also said.Each person in priority categories is being registered to receive the vaccine. They will be informed through SMS and other means whenever their turn for vaccination arrives, the chief minister said.This comes as state governments across the country are gearing up to inoculate people once the vaccines for Covid-19 gets due approval from the regulatory body. So far, Pfizer vaccine developed by the US company and its German partner BioNTech and another candidate developed by Moderna have sought emergency authorisation approval form the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO).The Serum Institute of India (SII), which is manufacturing and testing the Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine in India, has also submitted its application for an emergency use licence.As of Wednesday evening, the city has 6,19,618 total cases of Covid-19 infections. The total recoveries are 6,01,268. While the death toll due to the virus is 10,347.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-completed-all-preparations-ready-for-covid-19-vaccination-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-O07CBPhSaM0Gc0Zl0ATDIM.html
24-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Tagore’s vision for Visva-Bharati University essence of self-reliant India,’ says PM Modi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Tagore’s vision for Visva-Bharati University essence of self-reliant India’: PM Modi Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that Rabindranath Tagore’s vision for the Visva-Bharati University is the basis for the call for a self reliant India, adding that the call was made for the world’s benefit too. Read moreDelhi CM to chair meeting with health minister to review Covid-19 vaccination preparednessDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will chair a meeting to review preparations for the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the city, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. Read more Covid-19 and resultant lockdown majorly impacted senior citizens: SurveyThe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the resultant lockdown had a major impact on seniors, with one in three of the seniors spoken to fearing they would contract the disease, shows a survey. Read more New Covid-19 mutant found in South Africa: What we know so farAmid concerns over new Coronavirus mutant found in the UK and the rest of the world subsequently rushing to shut their doors to Britain, another variant has now been found, which has links to South Africa. Read more MCG pitch will suit Indian batsmen more: Darren Lehmann feels India can turn things around against AustraliaAgreeing that it will be hard task after lows of Adelaide, former Australia batsman and head coach Darren Lehmann backed India to turn things around in the remaining three Test of the four-match Border-Gavaskar Trophy. Read more Paralympic medalist Blake Leeper cheers on 2-year-old kid learning to walk with prosthetic leg. WatchAn incredibly special moment between a toddler and Paralympic medalist Blake Leeper has now tugged at the heartstrings of many. Read more Wonder Woman 1984 movie review: Gal Gadot’s goddess-like charm barely saves a wonderless sequelJudging from the title, there are two things that should have been the focus of Wonder Woman 1984: the Amazonian goddess and the ‘80’s nostalgia that the film most likely wanted to cash on. Read more Watch: ‘Mamata Banerjee welcomed BJP to Bengal’: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-tagore-s-vision-for-visva-bharati-university-essence-of-self-reliant-india-says-pm-modi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-MoXtozN7b59jkXz1pMhknK.html
24-12-2020||India||No possibility of dialogue with India in prevailing situation, says Pakistan foreign minister||Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi has said that there is no possibility of a diplomatic dialogue with India in the prevailing situation, according to a media report on Thursday.New Delhi has already been maintaining its stand that “talks and terror” cannot go together as it continues to ask Islamabad to take demonstrable steps against terror groups responsible for launching various attacks on India.“There is no possibility of a backdoor or diplomatic dialogue with India in the prevailing situation...The circumstances are not suitable for any dialogue at the moment,” Qureshi was quoted as saying by Dawn newspaper.Qureshi made the comments while talking to reporters in his hometown Multan on Wednesday, the paper said.Ties between India and Pakistan nosedived after a terror attack on the Pathankot Air Force base in 2016 by terror groups based in the neighbouring country. Subsequent attacks, including one on Indian Army camp in Uri, further deteriorated the relationship.The relationship further dipped after India’s war planes pounded a Jaish-e-Mohammed terorrist training camp deep inside Pakistan on February 26 last year in response to the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed.Withdrawal of Jammu and Kashmir’s special powers and bifurcating the state into two union territories in August last year also evoked a strong reaction from Pakistan, which has been unsuccessfully trying to rally international support against India on the Kashmir issue.India has categorically told the international community that the scrapping of Article 370 was its internal matter. It also advised Pakistan to accept the reality and stop all anti-India propaganda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-possibility-of-dialogue-with-india-in-prevailing-situation-says-pakistan-foreign-minister/story-GXOIoUartP51oMJugPk0LI.html
24-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi meets Prez over farm laws, says India an ‘imaginary democracy’||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday alleged that India is now an “imaginary democracy” as he attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying anyone “trying to take power from him will be dubbed as terrorist and anti-national” even if it is Rashrtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat. Leading a Congress delegation to meet President Ram Nath Kovind, Rahul Gandhi demanded a joint session of Parliament to repeal the three “anti-farmers, anti-agriculture, anti-poor and black” laws. “Democracy…. which country are you talking about? There is no democracy in India. It is in your imagination but not in reality,” he told reporters after handing over to the President a memorandum signed by 20 million farmers seeking withdrawal of the three legislations. However, the government dismissed the remark and recalled the emergency imposed by former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. “The country hasn’t forgotten what happened during emergency days. Democracy has flourished in Prime Minister Modi’s term,” union minister Kailash Choudhary said. Also Read: Congress march to President stopped, Priyanka Gandhi taken into custodyBut launching his fiercest attack yet on Modi on the farm laws, Rahul Gandhi alleged that the Prime Minister will ensure that wealth of people is transferred to crony capitalists. “Whoever will try to stand against him will be called terrorist - be it farmers, labourers and even if (RSS chief) Mohan Bhagwat stands against him, he too will be called a terrorist. Anyone trying to take power from him will be dubbed anti-national,” he said. Apart from him, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad and party’s leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury were the other two members of the delegation that met the President.  India is now an imaginary democracy. pic.twitter.com/4WZJiJ9XelSoon after the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 were enacted, the Congress launched a three-month-long “mass movement” against the government. Rahul Gandhi also undertook a ‘tractor yatra’ across Punjab and Haryana as part of the campaign. “You have an incompetent man who does not understand anything and is running a system on behalf of three or four other people who understand everything,” he said. The former Congress president said if the Prime Minister does not repeal these laws, the country will suffer. “We told the President that these laws are anti-farmer and anti-farm labourers. The government claims the laws are in favour of farmers, but they are standing up against these,” he added. “I want to tell the Prime Minister that farmers are not going back home until the laws are taken back. The government should convene a joint session of Parliament and repeal them,” he said. The former Congress chief said all opposition parties are standing with farmers. “The way these laws were passed in Parliament without any discussion and consultations, they need to be withdrawn,” he said. “The farmers are in pain and dying, the Prime Minister will have to listen to them,” Rahul Gandhi added. Earlier, Delhi police detained Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other leaders and took them to Mandir Marg police station for violating prohibitory orders after they held a sit-in protest outside the party office at 24, Akbar Road. “It is an assault on the idea of India. The government is stopping our MPs from moving out of our office. PM needs to realise that there is limit to this,” Rahul Gandhi said. “China is sitting at the border and has snatched thousands of kilometres our land. But why does the PM not speak up on it? Why is he silent? He is making the country weak and outside forces are seeing it as an opportunity. The country is moving on a dangerous path and it will suffer,” he claimed. In the memorandum, the Congress claimed that 44 of them have so far lost their lives in the ongoing protests at various Delhi borders. For her part, Priyanka Gandhi said the government was not ready to listen to farmers. “It is a sin to brand farmers as anti-nationals. If the government is terming farmers protest as sedition, it is a sin,” she told reporters. “Any dissent against this government is classified as terror. The government is arrogant and has no respect for farmers or jawans, who are the sons of farmers,” she alleged. But union minister Choudhary maintained that the new agri-laws are good for farmers. “Rahul Gandhi doesn’t want the agitation to stop. Congress cadre won’t stop agitating but farmers will. We are interacting with farmers while Congress and other political parties are inciting them,” he said. On Priyanka Gandhi’s remark that it is a “sin” to label farmers as terrorists, Choudhary said some elements are trying to vitiate the atmosphere. “This can’t be overlooked,” he said. “We saw which flags were hoisted there. Even Maoists and communists and likes of Rahul Gandhi are trying to hijack the protest but they won’t be successful,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leaders-meet-president-seek-repeal-of-farm-laws/story-QZ5KmTdQXfrE2pfqaWA7RL.html
24-12-2020||India||Congress march to President stopped, Priyanka Gandhi taken into custody||Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other senior party leaders were taken into preventive custody by the Delhi Police after they tried to march to the Rashtrapati Bhawan to meet President Ram Nath Kovind. The detained leaders were part of a delegation, led by former party president Rahul Gandhi comprising Congress Working Committee (CWC) members and Members of Parliament, that was going to meet the President with 20 million signatures collected in the past three months against the three new farm laws enacted in September this year. “We are living in a democracy and these are elected MPs. They have the right to meet the President and they should be allowed. What is the problem with that? The government is not ready to listen to the voices of lakhs of farmers camping at borders,” Priyanka Gandhi told reporters. Also Read: Farmer unions say no date for talks until govt redraws terms“Any dissent against this government is classified as having elements of terror. We are undertaking this march to voice our support for the farmers,” she added. Apart from Priyanka Gandhi, the other leaders detained at Mandir Marg police station are party general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja, CWC member Kuldeep Bishnoi and Maharashtra in-charge HK Patil. “Sometimes they say we (Congress) are so weak that we don’t qualify to be the opposition and sometimes they say that we are so powerful that we have forced lakhs of farmers to camp at Delhi borders for a month. They should first decide what we are,” Priyanka Gandhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-march-to-president-stopped-priyanka-gandhi-taken-into-custody/story-cZmGWAKVkcPpP4p0gB0YAI.html
24-12-2020||India||‘Even Mohan Bhagwat would be called terrorist...’: Rahul Gandhi targets PM||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday slammed the Modi government and said anyone can be labelled as a terrorist by if they come in the way of the crony capitalists. Farmers, labourers and even Mohan Bhagwat can be bracketed in the same term, Rahul Gandhi said after submitting a memorandum containing 20 million signatures against the farm laws to the President Ram Nath Kovind. “I want to tell the PM that these farmers are not going to go back home until these farm laws are repealed. The government should convene a joint session of Parliament and take back these laws. Opposition parties stand with farmers and labourers,” Rahul Gandhi said on the ongoing farmers’ protest. The farmers on Wednesday took objection to the way the government is dealing them like a “political rival”. In their letter to the Centre, they denounced the government’s attempt to link the protest with “Maoists and anti-social elements”.“I told the President that these farm laws are anti-farmer. The country has seen that farmers have stood up against these laws,” Rahul Gandhi said.“There is no democracy in India. It can be in your imagination, but not in reality. PM Modi is making money for the crony capitalists. Whoever will try to stand against him will be called terrorist - be it farmers, labourers and even Mohan Bhagwat,” he said.“You have an incompetent man who is controlled by certain other people. This is what India has to understand. This is what all youngsters have to understand. You have an incompetent man who does not understand anything and running a system on the behalf of 3 or 4 other people who understand everything. And their aim is to take huge amount of money from the poor people of India and put it in their pockets. And that’s what we are fighting. Frankly, it doesn’t matter what you think right now. Because all of you will face this. There is not going to be a single person who will not face it. If you are a farmer, you are going to face it. If you are a small businessman, you will face it. You are a journalist, you will face it,” Rahul Gandhi said.As the government sticks to its ground that the laws are pro-farmer and will not be repealed but can be amended to accommodate the demand of the protesting farmers after consultation, Congress collected signatures of two crore farmers, labourers and other stakeholders who are against the farm laws from across the country.The meeting on Thursday comes a day before the ongoing protest of the farmers to march towards Delhi completes a month on December 25. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address farmers from six states and will release Rs 18,000 crore as part of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme. While Thursday’s march was only by Congress, opposition leaders met President before seeking his intervention to resolve the deadlock.Though both the Centre and farmers are ready to proceed with further talks, the situation is far from any solution as the farmers in their latest move have refused to fix the next date for talks unless the Centre modifies its proposals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-tell-pm-farmers-won-t-go-back-unless-laws-are-repealed-says-rahul-gandhi/story-LzVKPf4wIPJG5GJC2wusmO.html
24-12-2020||India||PM Modi on Tagore’s Gujarat link, Srimati Hutteesingh and Jnanadanandini Devi||Addressing the centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati University through video conferencing on Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Tagore family had a long-cherished connection with Gujarat which shows how states can learn from each other and prosper.“When I speak about Gurudev, I can’t stop. When I came here last time, I talked about this. This time too, I will remind you of the connection between Gurudev and Gujarat,” PM Modi said.“We need to remember this because this enshrines the idea of ‘Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat’. This connection shows despite being fragmented by difference in language, food, clothes, our country is united in soul. This shows India’s culture of unity in diversity,” PM Modi added.Satyendranath Tagore, who was in Indian Civil Service, was posted in Ahmedabad, PM Modi said. “Rabindranath Tagore used to visit Gujarat frequently. He stayed in Ahmedabad for a long time. During such a period, he wrote his two popular poems. He wrote a portion of Khudito Pashan (Kshudhita Pashan) in Gujarat,” he said.“Not only this, Gujarat’s daughter Srimati Hutteesingh was married to the Tagore family. When Satyendranath Tagore’s wife Jnanadanandini Devi was in Gujarat, she saw women draping the pallu of saree on their right shoulders, which she felt cumbersome and improvised the style bringing the pallu on the left shoulder. Women empowerment organisations can do some more research on this,” PM Modi said.Srimati Hutteesingh, belonging to the Hutheesingh family of Ahmedabad, was married to Saumyendranath Ragore, grand-nephew of Rabindranath Tagore. She had studied in Visva Bharati and remained associated with the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-on-tagore-s-gujarat-link-srimati-hutteesingh-and-jnanadanandini-devi/story-zPxAoTVdkAIunTAbHbwyRL.html
24-12-2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi, on her way to meet President with 20mn signatures against farm laws, detained||The Delhi Police on Friday took Priyanka Gandhi and other Congress leaders into custody while they were on their way to meet President Ram Nath Kovind with 20 million signatures against the farm laws. The leaders have been taken to Mandir Marg Police Station, according to news agency ANI.Deepak Yadav, additional DCP (New Delhi), said that some Congress leaders marching towards Rashtrapati Bhavan were detained and confirmed that Priyanka Gandhi was among them. However, it would take some time to ascertain the identities of the other detained leaders, he said.“We are living in a democracy and these are elected MPs. They have the right to meet the President and they should be allowed. What is the problem with that? The government is not ready to listen to the voices of lakhs of farmers camping at borders,” Priyanka Gandhi said. “Any dissent against this government is classified as having elements of terror. We are undertaking this march to voice our support for the farmers,” she added.After the demonstration, that started at 10:45 am from Vijay Chowk, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other senior leaders met President Kovind and submitted the memorandum containing 2 million signatures.“I told the President that these farm laws are anti-farmer. The country has seen that farmers have stood up against these laws,” Rahul Gandhi said after the meeting.“I want to tell the PM that these farmers are not going to go back home until these farm laws are repealed. The government should convene a joint session of Parliament and take back these laws. Opposition parties stand with farmers and labourers,” he added.According to a letter written by Congress MP KC Venugopal to the personal secretary to the President, only three leaders, Rahul Gandhi, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chaudhary were permitted to meet President Kovind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-other-cong-leaders-on-their-way-to-meet-president-with-20mn-signatures-against-farm-laws-taken-into-police-custody/story-ft73UWvO3CI5ShzB5XmKmK.html
24-12-2020||India||Delhi CM to chair meeting with health minister to review Covid-19 vaccination preparedness||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will chair a meeting to review preparations for the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the city, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and health secretary will also participate in the meeting, ANI also reported.The meeting comes as state governments across the country are gearing up to inoculate people once the vaccines for Covid-19 gets due approval from the regulatory body. So far, Pfizer vaccine developed by the US company and its German partner BioNTech and another candidate developed by Moderna have sought emergency authorisation approval form the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO).Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe Serum Institute of India (SII), which is manufacturing and testing the Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine in India, has also submitted its application for an emergency use licence.Meanwhile, Delhi health minister on Wednesday asserted that the Covid-19 situation in the city was under control with the positivity rate plummeting to below one per cent.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also tweeted on Wednesday that the number of Covid-19 deaths has come down a lot which is “quite satisfactory”. “This is the result of hardwork of people of Delhi. Congratulations to all the people of Delhi, but don’t lower guard, maintain caution,” the CM said.As of Wednesday evening, the city has 6,19,618 total cases of Covid-19 infections. The total recoveries are 6,01,268. While the death toll due to the virus is 10,347.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-to-chair-meeting-with-health-minister-to-review-covid-19-vaccination-preparedness/story-YvQ5qhu2SnaVirRSBPblbI.html
24-12-2020||India||UK returned man tests positive in Odisha, being tested for new Covid strain||Amid the rising scare over the more contagious strain of Coronavirus found in the United Kingdom, a 34-year-old man from Bhubaneswar, who had recently flown in from the UK, has been admitted to a hospital here after testing positive for the virus.Bhubaneswar municipal corporation commissioner Prem Chandra Choudhury said the man had returned from the UK on December 18. “The man has been kept in a Covid hospital as per central guidelines for institutional isolation. His family members too would be tested,” said the commissioner.Officials said the sample of UK-returned man will be subjected to sequencing of the S gene or whole genome at Institute of Life Sciences in Bhubaneswar. ILS has been chosen among the 5 institutions in the country for genome sequencing.Last week, the new SARS-CoV-2 variant was found to be the reason behind the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases in South and East England. Referred to as VUI (Variant Under Investigation) year 2020, month 12, variant 01, or the B.1.1.7 lineage, the variant is the result of multiple mutations in the spike protein of the novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, as well as mutations in other genomic regions of the RNA virus.Initial analysis indicates that the variant may spread more readily between people. Investigations are ongoing to determine if this variant is associated with any changes in the severity of symptoms, antibody response or vaccine efficacy.Also Read: Odisha minor’s murder case: Plea in court for lie-detector test of SIT chief, doctorMeanwhile, the Biju Patnaik International Airport in Bhubaneswar has issued standard operating procedure (SoP) for all the airlines. The carriers have been asked to inform the airport authorities about the passengers returning from the UK. A help desk and a Rapid Antigen Test camp are already functioning for the passengers. As per the new guidelines, passengers having a travel history of the UK, within 14 days, need to go for a RT PCR test if not having a negative RT PCR test report after arriving India, in any other domestic airport. So from tomorrow, RT PCR Test facility will be made available along with the RAT facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-returned-man-tests-positive-in-odisha-being-tested-for-new-covid-strain/story-81qXbsFfSa2xMUosSx85vJ.html
24-12-2020||India||‘To avoid such tragedy,’ Rahul Gandhi tweets in support of farmers’ protest, will meet President today||Quoting a news report that claims that a Delhi-based company has refused to buy paddy from Madhya Pradesh farmers under the agreement of contract farming, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said this is the reason why the protest is going on. “Farmers of India are agitating against the anti-agricultural laws to avoid such a tragedy. In this satyagraha, all of us will give to support our annadatas,” he said. भारत के किसान ऐसी त्रासदी से बचने के लिए कृषि-विरोधी क़ानूनों के ख़िलाफ़ आंदोलन कर रहे हैं।इस सत्याग्रह में हम सबको देश के अन्नदाता का साथ देना होगा।https://t.co/iZ6HgnunzwAddressing the farmers of Madhya Pradesh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has recently said contract farming will benefit farmers. The contracts will be only on the produce, not on land. Under the agriculture reforms, farmers can approach the administration if contract provisions are not kept. Farmers have also been empowered in the new laws to opt out of contracts at any time they want.However, the report the Congress leader shared claimed that the contract did not have any sign or seal of the company.The ongoing protests of the farmers will complete a month on December 25, coinciding with Prime Minister Narendra Modi releasing Rs 18,000 crore aid for farmers.Rahul Gandhi on Thursday will lead a protest march of Congress MPs from Vijay Chowk to Rashtrapati Bhavan and will submit a memorandum containing two crore signatures to President Ram Nath Kovind. Farmers’ protest at Delhi borders demanding an immediate withdrawal of the three agriculture laws entered the 29th day on Thursday — with no solution at sight. The agriculture ministry had invited the farmers for further talks which did not proceed after 5th round. But no date has been decided yet. Farmers have sought a new proposal from the ministry as fresh talks can’t happen on proposals which they already nixed. In their reply, they have demanded higher MSPs from the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-avoid-such-tragedy-rahul-gandhi-tweets-in-support-of-farmers-protest-will-meet-president-today/story-LFiG0Fjha6tkFwTGLP9RjP.html
24-12-2020||India||Aurobindo Pharma to make COVAXX’s potential Covid-19 vaccine for India, UNICEF||Aurobindo Pharma Ltd said on Thursday it would make and sell US-based COVAXX’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate for supply in India and to the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) under a licensing deal.The Indian drugmaker also has non-exclusive rights to sell the shot — which is currently undergoing an early-stage trial — in certain other emerging markets, the Hyderabad-based company said in an exchange filing.COVAXX, a unit of privately-owned United Biomedical Inc, plans to pursue mid- and late-stage trials for the vaccine candidate from early 2021 in Asia, Latin America and the United States.The companies said the shot uses normal refrigeration as opposed to the freezing temperatures required for some vaccines, seen as beneficial for developing countries.Shares of Aurobindo Pharma rose as much as 2.3% and were trading up 1.4% as of 0403 GMT in an upbeat Mumbai market. Aurobindo said it could currently produce 220 million doses, but is ramping up its facilities to reach a capacity of nearly 480 million by June 2021.Its licensing deal comes as Covid-19 infections in India continue to rise after crossing 10 million last week. It’s the second worst-hit nation by the pandemic after the United States.Reuters reported on Tuesday that the country is likely to approve Oxford/AstraZeneca’s coronavirus vaccine for emergency use by next week. India, the world’s biggest vaccine producing country, is also considering emergency use authorization applications for vaccines made by Pfizer and local company Bharat Biotech.Last month, COVAXX said it had received purchase commitments totaling $2.8 billion to deliver more than 140 million doses of its potential Covid-19 vaccine to developing countries, including Brazil, Peru and Ecuador.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aurobindo-pharma-to-make-covaxx-s-potential-covid-19-vaccine-for-india-unicef/story-8aiwmjAIolrZNMInI0ZxjM.html
24-12-2020||India||Why no function on 100 years of Nagpur session, ask Congress leaders as party plans ‘selfie with Tiranga’ on its foundation day||The Congress will organise Tiranga (tricolour) yatras and a “selfie with the tricolour” campaign on social media to mark the party’s foundation day on Monday to showcase its version of nationalism. But a section of the leaders, particularly from Maharashta, is upset that no programme has been planned to celebrate the 100 years of the party’s Nagpur session that was held from December 26 to 30, 1920.The Congress at the session debated and adopted a resolution steered by Mahatma Gandhi for Poorna Swaraj (complete independence) from the British through non-violence and non-cooperation.“No programme has so far been planned to mark the historic event [Nagpur session]. Even the Maharashtra unit appears to have completely forgotten the session that changed the course of our freedom struggle and culminated in India gaining independence in 1947,” said a Congress leader from Nagpur, who did not wish to be named.Also Read: Final decision on forming non-BJP DDC in J&K to be taken by high command: CongressAnother functionary lamented that Congress general secretary K C Venugopal’s circular on the events for the party’s foundation day made no mention of the completion of 100 years of the Nagpur session. “It is strange. Have we forgotten our history?”In a circular on celebration related to Congress’s 136th foundation day on December 28, Venugopal asked state units and leaders to organise and participate in Tiranga yatras across the country besides joining the party’s social media campaign by taking a “selfie with Tiranga”.The Nagpur session, chaired by the then Congress president C Vijayaraghavachariar, also gave the go-ahead to the changes in the party constitution to open the organisation for the common people by reducing its membership fee. A resolution was passed at the session to promote Hindi and the formation of linguistic provinces was also discussed.Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)’s first chief Keshav Baliram Hedgewar also attended the session. A group of volunteers known as Bharat Swayamsevak Mandal Hedgewar formed helped the Congress workers in managing the event.Hedgewar’s proposed resolution that said the “goal of the Congress is to establish a republic in India and free the countries of the world from exploitation by capitalist countries” was rejected. He went on to found the RSS in September 1925.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-no-function-on-100-years-of-nagpur-session-ask-congress-leaders-as-party-plans-selfie-with-tiranga-on-its-foundation-day/story-UpIaimxCcydazwgQtzkGkI.html
24-12-2020||India||Magnitude 3.0 earthquake hits Assam||A low-intensity earthquake of 3.0 magnitude on the Richter scale hits Nagaon in Assam on Thursday morning.As per the National Centre for Seismology (NCS), the tremors were felt around 6:56 am at a depth of 5 kilometres.“Earthquake of Magnitude: 3.0, Occurred on 24-12-2020, 06:56:06 IST, Lat: 26.10 and Long: 93.01, Depth: 5 Km, Location: 65km SSE of Tezpur, Assam, India,: NCS tweeted.No damage or casualty has been reported yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magnitude-3-0-earthquake-hits-assam/story-RwgDOK3YwM3lTRSvQN4QSP.html
24-12-2020||India||3 decades of legal battle: 2 men sentenced to imprisonment for failing to hand over house to landlord||The Supreme Court has sentenced two men to three months in jail last week for failing to hand over a rented house to its owner despite an undertaking before the court. Holding them guilty for contempt, the bench, headed by justice Sanjay K Kaul, has also ordered the local police in Sultan Bazar, Hyderabad, to break open any lock and hand over possession of the premises to its owner. The legal battle spanning almost three decades began in 1992 when the owner of the house in Hyderabad, Saraswati P Singh, asked tenant Abdul Rehman to vacate the property. Rehman paid no heed to the request and stopped paying rent. Singh went to the principal rent controller, who passed a decree in favour of the landlord in April 1998, and directed Rehman to move out of the house. But Rehman chose to file an appeal against this order before the rent tribunal. The tribunal also directed Rehman to vacate in 2003. Also Read: Stalker strangles teenager, sets body on fire in Andhra PradeshHowever, Rehman’s next move paid off. The Andhra Pradesh high court decided in Rehman’s favour on the ground that the relationship of landlord and tenant could not be proved since Singh himself was in Canada and someone with a power of attorney was fighting this case for him. Singh then moved the Supreme Court, which found the high court order completely fallacious in raising a new dispute when Rehman had admitted paying rent to the holder of the power of attorney, apart from signing a lease deed in 1983. While the matter was pending before the apex court, Rehman passed away and two of his sons continued the legal wrangle from 2017. In February, the top court affirmed the eviction orders of the rent controller and the tribunal. This prompted Rehman’s sons to give an undertaking that they would hand over the possession of the house peacefully to Singh’s representatives. They, however, pleaded for some time to make alternative arrangements. Accepting their request, the bench gave the duo time till June 30 to vacate the premises and also ordered for clearing the dues towards rent immediately. But the sons not only breached their promise to pay but also let out the house to a third party. This compelled Singh to approach the court yet again, seeking contempt proceedings. The duo’s conduct infuriated the bench. It said: “There is thus, undoubtedly a wilful and deliberate disobedience of the orders of the court and there is no doubt that the conduct of the respondents is contumacious.” On December 16, the court held the sons guilty of contempt of court and gave them 24 hours to comply with the orders of moving out as well as making the payment. “That can be the only redeeming feature for consideration of sentence,” it added. When the bench took up the matter on December 18, it learned that the premises were yet to be handed over to the owner. “We thus consider it appropriate to sentence the two contemnors to three months’ simple imprisonment and a fine of Rs2,000 each, and on failing to pay the fine, a further sentence of 15 days,” ordered the bench on Friday last.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-decades-of-legal-battle-2-men-sentenced-to-imprisonment-for-failing-to-hand-over-house-to-landlord/story-8fleFCWaH23Us1bH9iVEaP.html
24-12-2020||India||With 24,712 new infections in 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 10.12 million||India reported 24,712 fresh Covid-19 cases, while 29,791 people were discharged in the last 24 hours, taking the number of active cases to 2,83,849, which accounts for only 2.86 per cent of the total tally. The total tally on Thursday reached to 10,123,778. The number of today’s fresh infections register 3 per cent rise from Wednesday’s figure of 23,950.A total of 312 people died of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the total toll to 1,46,756 with a mortality rate of 1.45 per cent.Kerala is still reporting the highest number of fresh daily infections. On Wednesday, Kerala reported 6,169 new cases taking the total tally of the state to 7,21,510. Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 3,913 fresh cases, taking the tally to 19,06,371.In a sharp improvement of the situation, Delhi’s fresh cases have dropped below 1,000 in the last few days. On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 871 fresh Covid-19 cases and 18 new fatalities.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said people who have arrived here from the UK are being rigorously traced and those showing even the slightest of Covid-19 symptoms are being tested.“We are alert and watchful at our end. People who have arrived here from the UK in the last several days are being rigorously traced, and tested if anyone is showing slightest of Covid-like symptoms. A team had been made and house-to-house tracing is being done, and they are being advised self-isolation too,” the minister said.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Wednesday reviewed the status of passengers coming from the UK to India and found positive in the states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Goa, Punjab, Gujarat and Kerala. All the states have been asked to access the details of passengers from the UK to India from he online portal AIR-SUVIDHA and Bureau of Immigration. States have also been asked to send the samples of those found positive to the laboratories identified for genome sequencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-24-712-new-infections-in-24-hours-india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-10-12-million/story-7hsMbkl3Zxk6QgXWGWx57J.html
24-12-2020||India||Top 10 coldest places in India right now||India is commonly known to the world as a country with high temperatures all year round. Despite that being true for some places, India’s weather cycle has proper seasons all around the calender, and during winters in some places, especially towards the north of the country, it becomes unbearably cold, so much so that the place is sometimes devoid of people during that time. Here are the top 10 coldest places in India at the moment:1. Leh: The largest town and the joint capital of the newly formed Union Territory Ladakh reported the lowest minimum temperature in the country at - 13 degrees Celsius. Ladakh was made a UT in 2019 after the Centre scrapped Article 370 which had given special status to the former state of Jammu and Kashmir. 2. Keylong: Keylong, or Kyelang, is located in the northern part of state of Himachal Pradesh and is located along the Manali-Leh highway close to the intersection of the Chandra Valley, the Bhaga Valley, and the Chenab Valley. The town reported a minimum temperature of -7.7 degrees Celsius. 3. Pahalgam: Located in the Anantnag district of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, Pahalgam is one of the most popular tourist destinations of the country and also one of the coldest cities. It is currently reporting a minimum temperature of -6.6 degrees Celsius.4. Gulmarg: Another popular tourist destination located in Jammu and Kashmir, and one of the coldest places in the country all year round, Gulmarg is enveloped by snow covered mountains during the winters with temperatures dropping below zero on a regular basis. The city reported a minimum temperature of -6 degrees Celsius. 5. Srinagar: The summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, home to the iconic Dal Lake, and a tourist hub, Srinagar has also made its name as one of those cities that stays chilly throughout the year. The city reported a minimum temperature of -5 degrees Celsius.  6. Kupwara: The remote town of Kupwara is located in the west of Jammu and Kashmir, close to the country’s border. It recorded a minimum temperature of -4.5 degrees Celsius.7. Kokernag: Kokernag is a sub district town located in Jammu and Kashmir in the Breng valley of the Anantnag district. The town reported a minimum temperature of -4 degrees Celsius.8. Qazigund: Qazigund, also located in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag district, stands at an elevation of 1670 metres above the mean sea level. The town also reported a minimum temperature of -4 degrees Celsius.9. Kalpa: The village of Kalpa, located in the Sutlej river valley in Himachal Pradesh, recorded a minimum temperature of -0.6 degrees Celsius. The village is also a popular tourist destination in the state. 10. Banihal: Located 35 km away from Qazigund in Jammu and Kashmir, Banihal is a rural area which reported a minimum temperature of -0.4 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-10-coldest-places-in-india-right-now/story-KmVGDZEXPUQm56B5XUEJ6H.html
24-12-2020||India||Covid-19 and resultant lockdown majorly impacted senior citizens: Survey||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the resultant lockdown had a major impact on seniors, with one in three of the seniors spoken to fearing they would contract the disease, and 29% impacted by social isolation due to imposed restrictions, shows a survey among senior citizens from the north, south and west of India on challenges they had to face.The survey was conducted by Antara, an integrated service provider for senior care needs.“However, over 20.3% of the respondents noted that they were not overly worried about the pandemic or getting infected,” according to the survey. At least half of those surveyed applauded the government’s pandemic response. Also Read: New Coronavirus mutant found in South Africa: What we know so farAs high as 55% of the seniors praised the government of India’s efforts to contain the pandemic on all or some aspects, despite the widespread disruptions it caused in India and around the world. However, 24% of seniors still expressed concern, stating that India had failed to manage the healthcare crisis. Close to 80% seniors preferred living independently. As Covid-19 continues to spread, seniors remain the most vulnerable and high-risk demographic segment who might need regular support for their daily activities. The survey found 77% of seniors across the three survey regions lived independently either in their own or rented houses. Only 16% seniors said that they lived with their children or grandchildren.“The ‘State of Seniors’ survey is highly relevant for a country like India that is expected to witness major demographic shifts. Over the next few years, the senior population will constitute a significantly important consumer segment and will need specialised services and products for a hassle-free ageing experience,” said Rajit Mehta, MD and CEO, Antara, about the survey findings.“Through this survey, we aim to highlight the mindsets, attitudes, social preferences and purchasing behaviours of seniors in India so that we are able to cater to their age-specific needs with the right products and services. This, I believe, will be a major step towards unlocking the economic and social potential of this segment,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-and-resultant-lockdown-majorly-impacted-senior-citizens-survey/story-0tkjykPcgujl2J3wN7qEhJ.html
24-12-2020||India||Odisha minor’s murder case: Plea in court for lie-detector test of SIT chief, doctor||A social organisation on Wednesday filed a petition in the Orissa high court requesting the Odisha government be directed to conduct polygraph tests of special investigation team (SIT) chief Arun Bothra and doctors who conducted the post-mortem of the 5-year-old girl, allegedly killed by a teenager in July this year.On Tuesday, SIT chief Arun Bothra had claimed that an 18-year-old youth of Nayagarh district had strangulated the 5-year-old after failing to sexually assault her. Bothra claimed that the youth even tried to have sex with the body.In his petition, Surendra Panigrahi of Bharatiya Bikash Parishad, prayed for an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the murder case and sought lie-detection tests on the doctors, who initially found no signs of rape on the minor girl during post-mortem. The SIT later claimed that the girl was sexually assaulted and semen stains were found on the frock of the deceased girl.“SIT chief Arun Bothra should undergo polygraph test in order to ascertain whether some evidence is being concealed or there are loopholes in his version. Doctors should also undergo polygraph tests so that it is known if proper examinations have been carried out during the post-mortem,” Panigrahi said in his plea.The petition says Bothra has not said why the body of the minor girl was not found within 10 days after she went missing even as local police personnel and dog squad had been pressed into service.Also Read: Odisha makes 14-day home quarantine mandatory for people arriving from UKOpposition BJP also raised serious questions on the probe by the SIT and accused Bothra of shielding BJD minister Arun Sahoo by arresting the youth as a scapegoat.“When home minister Dibya Shankar Mishra had admitted in the Assembly that there was no evidence of the minor girl being raped, Arun Bothra’s statements contradicting Mishra’s admittance made us doubt SIT’s integrity. We do not know whom to believe now. The government and the SIT’s statements do not match, making us believe that the government, police and now Arun Bothra, all are trying to shield minister Sahoo, who has been named many times by the family of the minor girl as an accomplice in the case,” said Golak Mohapatra, BJP spokesman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-minor-s-murder-case-plea-in-court-for-lie-detector-test-of-sit-chief-doctor/story-KB2Km5mEkSVfS6hEJmexuK.html
24-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mercury in Delhi to drop further, air quality in ‘severe’ category and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi’s air quality stays ‘severe’, IMD forecasts further drop in temperature this weekAir quality in the national capital continued to remain in the ‘severe’ zone for the second consecutive day on Wednesday as low winds and falling temperatures kept pollution levels high. Read more‘Virtual summits’: PM Modi set the template, then nudged the world | AnalysisPrime Minister Narendra Modi is known to have a busy calendar of engagements with global leaders, both at home and abroad. Read morePrice cap on Covid tests could be affecting diagnosis, skewing dataCapping the price of coronavirus tests at Rs 800 has forced some private labs to use inexpensive and less sensitive kits with lower limit of detection to keep the cost of testing low, which raises the risk of false negatives and compromises data coming out of India, say experts. Read moreIndian sailors stuck in ships getting necessary aid: ChinaChina on Wednesday said it was in touch with Indian authorities on the circumstances of the 23 Indian sailors stranded on a ship anchored off a northern Chinese port since June, but did not specify when they will be allowed to leave the vessel. Read moreIndia’s women cricketers have nothing to play forNine months and counting, that’s how long India’s women team has not played international cricket. Read moreiPhone 12 user? You may get better internet speed on 4G LTE than 5GApple’s iPhone recently became one of the most sold 5G smartphones in the world in 2020, as per Counterpoint. Although being touted as the first 5G smartphone by Apple, it looks like the iPhone 12 model is delivering faster speeds in 4G LTE network as compared to 5G. Read moreAre you ready to ‘unwrap’ NASA’s latest present? It has a melodious twistNASA’s Instagram profile is nothing short of a treasure trove for those who enjoy the videos and images that give a peek of the world outside our Blue Planet. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mercury-in-delhi-to-drop-further-air-quality-in-severe-category-and-all-the-latest-news/story-oruziPcqnXAg0TdxDr8KcM.html
24-12-2020||India||‘Severe’ air and ‘cold wave’ over many parts of northwest India||Many towns and cities in northwest India continued to record "severe" air quality on Thursday, including Delhi Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Noida and Greater Noida in the national capital region.They recorded an air quality index (AQI) reading between 400 to 500. Severe air “affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases,” according to Central Pollution Control Board. The air quality early warning system for Delhi under the ministry of earth sciences said surface winds are likely to remain light and ventilation will be poor, resulting in deterioration in air quality for the next two days. Scientists said the drop in air quality was mainly due to a drop in wind speed over northwest India.Also Read: Noida, Ghaziabad among 5 UP cities with worst air quality in country "Cold wave" to "severe cold wave" conditions are likely in parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on Thursday and Friday according to India Meteorological Department. "Cold wave" conditions are also likely over several pockets of Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh on Christmas day. A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees Celsius in the plains. IMD released a geospatial map on Tuesday for people to track cold wave and severe cold wave conditions over the entire country.Minimum temperature over northwest India is likely to rise by 2-4 degrees Celsius on December 26 and 27 due to an approaching western disturbance, IMD scientists said. Dense to very dense fog in the morning hours is likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during the next three days. Dense fog is also likely in the northern parts of Uttar Pradesh, over Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the next two days. Ground frost conditions are likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during the next two days, IMD said in its bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/severe-air-and-cold-wave-over-many-parts-of-northwest-india/story-2MFqtCcLNiHThk2uOu3d0L.html
24-12-2020||India||J&K Congress has a plan to checkmate BJP, deny it power in 15 district councils||The Jammu and Kashmir Congress says it will do everything possible to checkmate the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and keep it away from power in district development councils by possibly aligning with anti-BJP parties and independents in around 15 districts of the Union Territory where the saffron party doesn’t have a clear majority. JKPCC chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma said the BJP had clear majority only in five out of the 20 districts and Congress could keep BJP at bay in the remaining 15 DDCs with an anti-BJP coalition. However, he added that the party leadership had not taken any formal position on the issue.“Other non BJP parties and independents, opposed to BJP’s policies, have to work simultaneously in that direction, to prevent any horse trading or use of party and government machinery by the ruling party,” said JKPCC chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma. The Congress contested the recently concluded DDC elections in the UT on its own symbol, although, it had a tacit seat sharing arrangement on the majority of seats with the National Conference led Gupkar alliance. “In several places we were (fighting) against each other too, but there existed an arrangement between the parties against BJP,” Sharma clarified. Trying to dispel the dominant narrative of BJP performing strongly in the first electoral exercise in J&K after revocation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two Union Territories, Sharma said the BJP lost many DDCs in several assembly segments, which were earlier with the saffron party since 2014. He added that some of the saffron party stalwarts, including those in contention for the DDC chairmanship, lost, which, he claims, showed significant disenchantment with the party. “Since these elections were held for the first time, a large number of independent aspirants joined the fray, leading to a division of votes of dissent against the ruling party, working to its advantage,” he said, and claimed that the BJP’s vote share had decreased to a great extent. Also Read: The Number Theory: Understanding the DDC election results in Jammu and KashmirHitting out further, he said the BJP had deployed a heavy contingent of its central leaders to campaign for the local elections. These leaders, he says, did not mention a word about any developmental achievements but instead engaged in an emotional exploitation of voters on the issue of Gupkar alliance without even once explaining their continued alliance with them in Kargil hill council, he said. Out of the 278 DDC seats for which results have been declared by the J&K election commission so far, the Congress party bagged 26 seats. The BJP won 75, NC bagged 67 seats, Independents won on 50 seats, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) won 27 seats, Apni Party bagged 12 seats, Peoples Conference won 8 seats, JKPM won 3 seats, CPI(M) gained 5 seats while JKNPP and PDF won 2 seats each and BSP bagged 1 seat.The results of two constituencies--one each in Bandipora and Kupwara districts-- are still awaited as counting of votes has been deferred there till further orders, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-congress-has-a-plan-to-checkmate-bjp-deny-it-power-in-15-district-councils/story-se6tWgxwgP54eu53FIZ1FM.html
24-12-2020||India||Pro-Khalistan terrorist Nijjar is wanted in terror case in Punjab||Arrested by the national investigation agency (NIA) on his arrival from Cyprus, Khalistani terrorist Gurdeep Singh Nijjar is wanted in Punjab in a case of supply of weapons for terrorism in Fatehgarh Sahib district. After the NIA investigations are over, the Punjab Police is planning to take him on a production warrant as the police believe Nijjar is one of the key players involved in spreading venom against India among the Sikh youth and indoctrinating them into participating in pro-Khalistan activities. Punjab intelligence officials claim that Nijjar used to run many social media accounts and pages on Facebook and was actively involved in Referendum-2020 activities from Cyprus. Intelligence officials also claim to have strong leads signalling Nijjar’s closeness to Pakistan’s ISI officials handling Khalistan affairs. Nijjar’s name appeared in the arm supply case registered in Sirhind police station of Fatehgarh Sahib in 2018 with the busting of a pro-Khalistan module after the arrest of an accused, Mohiuddin Siddique alias Mohin Khan, a resident of Delhi. Khan was arrested from Railway Road in Humayunpur area of Sirhind following intelligence inputs that a person was going to visit Fatehgarh Sahib to supply weapons to someone in Sirhind. A 38mm pistol and five rounds were recovered from him after which he was booked under sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and 25/54/59 of the Arms Act. As per the FIR, Khan had come in contact with one Harpal Singh, another pro-Khalistan operative and a native of Mughal Majri village in Ropar district. He was arrested by Pune ATS with a pistol and five rounds from Bengaluru. Harpal introduced Khan to Nijjer on Facebook, police said. Nijjer asked Khan to work for Referendum 2020, claim police. After Khan became a member of ‘Khalistan Zindabad Khalistan’ social media group, he also came into contact with some Pakistan-based agents. “He came to Fatehgarh Sahib on the direction of Nijjer to supply weapons to contacts to execute terror activities in Punjab. On the instructions of Nijjer, Khan visited Bengaluru three times to meet Harpal. Khan has admitted that he has supplied weapons to some persons in the past on the instructions of Nijjer and has handed it over to some persons near a religious place in Fatehgarh Sahib city,” police said. Harpal too had admitted that he had received a gun from Khan in Fatehgarh Sahib in October. The NIA had registered a case in January last year against Harpal Singh under the Arms Act, the Maharashtra Police Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.Also Read: NIA arrests Khalistani terrorist at Delhi airport upon his deportation from CyprusThe trio were also involved in posting videos and images in praise of militant Jagtar Singh Hawara, a convict in the assassination of former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh, the Operation Blue Star of 1984, besides pro-Khalistani posts related to the proscribed organisation, Babbar Khalsa International (BKI), with the sole intention to motivate like-minded Sikh youngsters and others to join the so-called Khalistan movement, the NIA official said.The agency arrested Nijjar, after he was deported from Cyprus, for allegedly hatching a criminal conspiracy to revive Sikh militancy in India for a separate state of Khalistan, an NIA official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pro-khalistan-terrorist-nijjar-is-wanted-in-terror-case-in-punjab/story-oOXzkE2evShXJM0UIWTTJL.html
24-12-2020||India||‘Virtual summits’: PM Modi set the template, then nudged the world | Analysis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is known to have a busy calendar of engagements with global leaders, both at home and abroad.Indeed, 2020 started out with PM Modi dialling a number of world leaders to extend new year greetings to them. He spoke to as many as 11 world leaders in the first two weeks of January 2020, including not only the leaders of neighbouring countries, but also those of Australia, the US, France and Russia.The visits of Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro as the Chief Guest on Republic Day, and US President Donald Trump in February showed that 2020 might shape up to be yet another year of hectic global engagements for PM Modi. Then the Covid-19 pandemic struck the world . Also Watch | ‘India has a rich legacy in science & innovation’: PM Modi at IISF inaugurationNot only did the pandemic make it almost impossible for world leaders to travel, it also meant that most leaders shifted their focus to domestic efforts to contain the pandemic. Prime Minister Modi, however, had other ideas. Conscious of the important role India’s pharmaceutical industry could play during a global pandemic, PM Modi was keen to stay deeply engaged with the world. But how?India commercially supplied 560 million tablets of Hydroxychloroquine and 53.13 metric tonnes of active pharmaceutical ingredient of HCQ to 82 countries. It also commercially supplied 154 million units of paracetamol and 1605 metric tonnes of API to 96 countries to counter the coronavirus.Way back in 2016, PM Modi told his foreign policy team that he did not want Indian projects to be kept waiting for high profile inaugurations during VVIP visits. The solution PM Modi suggested was to use video conferences to engage with foreign leaders, without any foreign travel. Of course, this would help in keeping expenses down too. An initially sceptical South Block came around after some of these video inaugurations caught the public’s imagination and eased the pressure on leaders to travel. A number of such video conferencing events were done by PM Modi in the years that followed.Even in 2020, before the pandemic hit, PM Modi participated in a virtual event with Prime Minister of Nepal K P Sharma Oli on 21 January. So, PM Modi was not only comfortable, but also very keen for Indian diplomacy to switch gears and go digital.The first such virtual summit in the pandemic era took place with SAARC leaders on 15 March. Some behind-the-scenes contacts with the Saudi leadership and suggestions in all the right capitals around the world ensured that a G-20 Virtual Summit soon followed on 26 March.That opened the flood gates.NAM, SCO, ASEAN, East Asia Summit, BRICS and G-20 were all held in virtual formats during the year.PM Modi himself held a total of 17 such Virtual Summits, with leaders of Australia, European Union, Sri Lanka, Denmark, Italy, Luxembourg, Uzbekistan, Bangladesh, and most recently, Vietnam. These bilateral Virtual Summits were in addition to all the multilateral engagements of the Prime Minister.PM Modi also made extensive use of phone calls to keep in touch with world leaders – expressing condolences to some, assuring medical supplies to many, and congratulating those who assumed office in the middle of the pandemic. He made and fielded more than 90 phone calls from world leaders.A year that saw only five incoming visits of Heads of State and Government – all before the pandemic – is still ending as one in which India’s international engagement and international profile has been elevated multi-fold.Whether the vaccines make the world safer or not in 2021, one thing is for sure – PM Modi is likely to stay deeply immersed and engaged in the world of geopolitics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virtual-summits-pm-modi-set-the-template-then-nudged-the-world-analysis/story-pUCusfoAyksoy6y9WAFkaI.html
24-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest day 29: ‘Will take two steps if Centre takes one,’ say protesters, demand higher MSP | 10 points||The Centre had invited the protesting farmers for the sixth round of talks and asked them to fix a date according to their convenience. The farmers, in their meeting on Wednesday, decided that they won’t fix a date as they didn’t agree with the proposals that the agriculture minister sent. With this, the ongoing protest enters its 29th day on Thursday with no immediate solution at sight. However, for the first time, the farmers have raised the demand for a higher minimum support price than the existing one as the Centre has been reiterating its commitment to the system of MSP.Here are the latest updates of the protest1. No date for further talks has been decided, but the farmers have said that they are not averse to talks. They are waiting for the government to the table with an open mind. “If the Centre takes one step, farmers will take two,” they said.2. The protesters have raised the demand of higher MSP in their letter to the Centre. “We request the government that instead of repeating your proposals and amendments, you should offer something concrete in writing so that we can make that the basis of our agenda to resume the dialogue process,” the letter stated.Also Read: Farmer unions say no date for talks until govt redraws terms3. The issue of MSP is at the heart of the present crisis. The new agriculture laws do not mention the MSP system in which the government buys farmers’ produce at a minimum price which provides a cushion to farmers. The Centre reiterated that the system is not being done away with. The ministry also agreed to amend the laws to clarify on MSP. But the farmers have said they don’t want amendments, they want a complete withdrawal of the laws.4. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his recent virtual address to Madhya Pradesh farmers said how the government increased the MSP from what it was before 2014. However, protesting farmers are not agreeing to the government’s MSP claim. Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait had earlier said farmers are not getting their prices which is leading to the incidents of suicide. Senior farmer leader Darshan Pal on Tuesday said though the government sets MSP for 23 commodities, it mainly buys wheat and rice at these prices. 5. The farmers, in its letter, has also mentioned that they don’t deserve to be treated like political rivals. Several Union ministers claimed that the protest has been hijacked by Maoists. Farmers will have to intensify their agitation if the government continues to treat them in that manner, the letter said.6. As far as the ongoing protests are concerned, more and more farmers are likely to join the protest sites on the Delhi border in the coming days. Farmer union Kisan Sena said thousands of its members from western Uttar Pradesh will march to Delhi on Thursday.7. The social media cell of the farmers’ collective earlier announced that they would hold a webinar on Thursday where veteran farmers will answer to queries related to the ongoing protest.8. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release the next instalment of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi on December 25. The PM will also interact with farmers from six states.9. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said solution can be reached only through dialogue. “History is witness to this fact. However old and strong the protest is, the end and the solution to a protest are reached through dialogue only,” he said.10. Meanwhile, Haryana Police has registered a case against 13 farmers on various charges including attempt to murder and rioting after Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s convoy was allegedly blocked and attacked on Tuesday in Ambala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-day-29-will-take-two-steps-if-centre-takes-one-say-protesters-demand-higher-msp-10-points/story-pinnHUTi9TV2E6899HvBpK.html
24-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest LIVE: Changes need to be made in farm laws, says Dushyant Chautala||The farmers protest entered day 29 on Thursday as a stalemate between the government and the farmers continued. On Wednesday, a meeting was held with nearly 100 farm leaders, during which they decided to continue their protests until the government repeals the contentious farm laws that aim to liberalise the agricultural economy. They also decided to not resume the negotiations until the Centre draws up a new agenda.Meanwhile, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said farm unions should come for talks and that thousands of farmers sleeping out in the bitter cold was a “matter of deep concern” for the government.The farm unions also sent a letter to the agriculture ministry in which they asked the government to come up with “something concrete in writing” instead of “just repeating proposals and amendments.” “you should offer something concrete in writing so that we can make that the basis of our agenda to resume the dialogue process,” it stated.Experts said this pretty much squashes hopes of negotiations restarting anytime soon.The standoff between the Union government and farmers continues over the passage of new legislation to open up the country’s agricultural sector to private investment, a move the government says will enable farmers better incomes and modernise the farm sector. Farmers say the reforms will leave them at the mercy of private corporations.Follow all live updates here:Changes need to be made in farm laws: Dushyant Chautala“Changes need to be made in the agriculture laws and in this regard, written suggestions have been made to the central government and the Centre has also agreed to the same,” says Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala.Agriculture minister meets Kisan Sena, thanks them for supporting farm laws21-member delegation of Kisan Sena meets Union agriculture minister Tomar. “I want to thank you all for supporting three farm laws and coming here for a direct dialogue with us. I got to know that Kisan Sena farmers were coming to Delhi to protest in support of farm Laws, but then upon intervention, you decided to come here and talk to us,” says Tomar.Demand repeal of agricultural laws: OppositionWe demand that the present Agri Laws be repealed along with the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020. Following this, discussions on agrarian reforms must be held by the Central government with the farmers and all stakeholders: Opposition partiesIn joint statement, Opposition lashes out at PM ModiOpposition parties issue joint statement on farm law protests. “We register our strong protest against baseless allegations being made by PM accusing opposition parties of “repeatedly lying” to farmers about new farm laws and “using them for their politics”. PM’s accusations are a complete travesty of truth,” the statement says.Even Congress doesn’t take Rahul Gandhi seriously: Narendra Singh Tomar“Watever Rahul Gandhi says, even Congress doesn’t take it seriously. Today when he went to register his protest with President with signatures, these farmers told me that no one from Congress came to them to get their signature,” says Tomar.Farmers from Baghpat have given letter supporting farm laws, says agriculture minister Tomar“Farmers from Baghpat have given me a letter in support of Centre’s farm laws. They’ve told me that government shouldn’t buckle under any pressure to make amendments to farm bills,” says agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Delegation of 60 farmers from Kisan Mazdoor Sangh meet agriculture ministerA delegation of 60 farmers belonging to Kisaan Majdoor Sangh, Baghpat meets Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar at Krishi Bhawan. Delhi: A delegation of 60 farmers belonging to Kisaan Majdoor Sangh, Baghpat meets Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar at Krishi Bhawan pic.twitter.com/v1KWxShAKZGovt again urges farmers to decide date of next round of talksGovernment writes to protesting farmers again, urges them to decide date and time for next round of talks. Govt writes to agitating farmers, asking them to decide the date and time for the next round of talks. "Govt is committed to reaching logical solutions of the issues raised by you," it reads. pic.twitter.com/tBglPwi8fs‘There is no democracy in India’: Rahul Gandhi“There is no democracy in India. It can be in your imagination, but not in reality,” says Congress leader Rahul Gandhi after Delhi Police detains party leaders during their march to Rashtrapati Bhavan.PM Modi is making money for the crony capitalists: Rahul Gandhi“PM Modi is making money for the crony capitalists. Whoever will try to stand against him will be called terrorist - be it farmers, labourers and even Mohan Bhagwat,” said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.Farmers won’t go back until govt repeals farm laws: Rahul Gandhi“I want to tell the PM that these farmers are not going to go back home until these farm laws are repealed. Govt should convene a joint session of Parliament and take back these laws. Opposition parties stand with farmers and labourers,” said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.Police take Priyanka Gandhi and other party leaders to Mandir Marg Police StationSin to use the kind of names BJP leaders used for farmers: Priyanka Gandhi“It is a sin to use the kind of names they (BJP leaders and supporters) used for farmers. If government is calling them anti-nationals, then the government is a sinner,” said Priyanka Gandhi.In democracy, we have right to meet the President: Priyanka Gandhi“We’re living in democracy and they are elected MPs. They have the right to meet the President and they should be allowed. What is problem with that? Government is not ready to listen to voices of lakhs of farmers camping at borders,” says Priyanka Gandhi after being stopped by police.Police detain Congress leadersDelhi Police take Priyanka Gandhi and other Congress leaders into custody. They were taking out a march to Rashtrapati Bhavan to submit to the President a memorandum containing 2 crore signatures seeking his intervention in farm laws issue.Police stop Congress leaders as they march to Rashtrapati BhavanPoloce stopped Congress leaders as they were marching towards Rashtrapati Bhavan. “Any dissent against this govt is classified as having elements of terror. We are undertaking this march to voice our support for the farmers,” says Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi.Rahul Gandhi meets party leaders ahead of marchCongress leader Rahul Gandhi met senior party leaders ahead of his scheduled march from Vijay Chowk to Rashtrapati Bhavan to submit to the President a memorandum containing 2 crore signatures seeking his intervention in farm laws issues.Delhi’s Chilla, Gazipur borders are closed for traffic comingDelhi’s Chilla and Gazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida and Gaziabad to Delhi due to farmer protests. People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra and Loni borders: Delhi traffic police advisoryHaryana police register case against farmers Haryana police register cases against farmers for allegedly blocking CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s convoy in Ambala . “We have registered cases against 13 farmers under various sections of Indian Penal Code & have initiated a probe into the matter,” news agency ANI reported quoting DSP Ambala Madan Lal.Sikh body donates 700 geysers to protesting farmersThe Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) donates 700 water geysers to the farmers. “We are doing everything to help the farmers in their struggle. In view of the severe cold, DSGMC distributed 700 geysers among the protesting farmers at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders,” said DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa.Vice President urge farmers to resume dialogueInteracting with a group of progressive farmers on the occasion of Kisan Diwas at his residence in Hyderabad, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said that any issue could be resolved through talks and added that the government has already declared that they are always ready to hold a dialogue with the farmers’ organizations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-december-24-2020/story-1kvicVlZr8Qx8PDu2lA79M.html
24-12-2020||India||Final decision on forming non-BJP DDC in J&K to be taken by high command: Congress||The Congress party on Wednesday said that the final decision on forming the non-BJP DDC (district development council) in Jammu and Kashmir, at places where Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is not in majority, will be taken by the party’s high command.Out of the 278 seats for which results have been declared by the J&K Election Commission so far, the Congress party bagged 26 seats in DDC polls, which were held in eight phases on 280 seats across Jammu and Kashmir.Post the results of DDC polls, Ravinder Sharma, Spokesperson, Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee told ANI, “We contested DDC elections with National Conference (NC)-led alliance on seat sharing basis. We can consider forming a non-BJP district council, at places where BJP is not in majority. The final decision will be taken by Congress High Command.” “Only five out of twenty districts, BJP got majority, while in rest it is either Congress or other non-BJP parties. We will think of supporting non-BJP parties where BJP is not in majority but the final decision will be taken by High Command,” he added.Jammu and Kashmir Election Commissioner KK Sharma declared the result for DDC Elections on Wednesday, according to which BJP won 75, NC bagged 67 seats Independent registered victory on 50 seats, PDP won 27 seats, Congress got 26 seats, JKAP bagged 12 seats, JKPC won 8 seats, JKPM won 3 seats, CPI(M) gained 5 seats while JKNPP and PDF won 2 seats each and BSP bagged 1 seat.The results of two constituencies--one each in Bandipora and Kupwara districts-- are still awaited as counting of votes has been deferred there till further orders, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/final-decision-on-forming-non-bjp-ddc-in-j-k-to-be-taken-by-high-command-congress/story-9iI8ufR5pIRtXwczjAE2WP.html
24-12-2020||India||Delhiwale: Jolly’s yummy X-mas cake||One way to salvage this cursed year from becoming a complete annus horribilis is to make Jolly Sabherwal’s super yummy Christmas cake for Christmas Eve. “I have already made it 4-5 times since the last week for friends,” she says, beaming, on the WhatsApp video chat from her first floor flat in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj.At 70, the Kerala native is a familiar figure in the city for having been a long-time manager of a much-loved bookstore. She would be always in one of her gorgeous saris (she has 100 saris!).This year too Ms Sabherwal is determined to dress in one of her “christmassy saris” for the midnight mass, though it will be held online due to the coronavirus pandemic. She will attend it with her husband, Anil. They have a love story going back to Bombay in 1974, when Anil, a lieutenant in the Indian Navy, broke his right leg and was admitted to INHS Asvini, the naval hospital, where he was looked after by a “sister-in-charge”, a lieutenant in the Indian Army, who was Jolly (then Thomas), a fresh graduate from the College of Nursing at Armed Forces Medical College in Pune.“It was as a nursing student that I learnt how to bake this cake in the hostel mess with other girls.” The next decade was spent perfecting the recipe. It’s now here for you to bake.Recipe — For 2.5kg cakeIngredients Plain flour – 500gmButter – 500gmSugar – 500gmEggs – 1 dozenCurrants – 250gmSultanas, raisins, figs, cherries, orange peel – 100gm each (cleaned and chopped finely; ideally soaked for a month in rum/sherry)Candied ginger – 50gmAlmonds, cashews – 100gm eachChopped mixed spices (cloves, cardamom, cinnamon, nutmeg) and shahjeera – 2 teaspoons eachGrated orange and lemon rinds – 1 teaspoon eachCaramel syrup of 250gm sugarVanilla essence – 2 teaspoonsBaking powder – 2 teaspoonsMethodSieve flour with mixed spices and baking powder. Whisk butter and sugar till creamy. Add eggs one at a time, beat well. Add flour and mix well. Stir in the caramel and all the other ingredients. Line the baking tin with butter paper. Bake at 180 degrees Celsius for one hour. Then reduce to 150 degrees and bake for another half hour. Cake’s ready.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-jolly-s-yummy-x-mas-cake/story-onCcbEM4PJjPtmle89Pm4K.html
24-12-2020||India||Indian sailors stuck in ships getting necessary aid: China||China on Wednesday said it was in touch with Indian authorities on the circumstances of the 23 Indian sailors stranded on a ship anchored off a northern Chinese port since June, but did not specify when they will be allowed to leave the vessel.The sailors are stuck on bulk carrier MV Jag Anand, which has been anchored off the Jingtang port on the Bohai Sea in China’s Hebei province.In a separate instance, at least 16 more Indian seafarers have not been allowed to leave their ship MV Anastasia, stranded off the Caofeidian port in the same province. Beijing has not allowed the 23 sailors to get off the vessel in the backdrop of an increasing number of imported Covid-19 cases in the country, putting the physical and mental health of the sailors at risk.There’s been no report of any positive Covid-19 case on the ship in the past six months on Jag Anand. But that hasn’t stopped the Chinese port authorities from implementing strict anti-epidemic protocols, preventing the sailors from disembarking. “China has explicit stipulations on the epidemic control measures and quarantine of seafarers at ports,” Zhao Lijian, the Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson. “The local authorities of China have been in close communication with Indian side and replied to their requests in a timely manner. We also provide necessary facilitation and assistance while meeting certain quarantine and epidemic prevention requirements,” Zhao said. The ship sailed from the port of Gladstone in Australia on May 26 – carrying coal – and reached Jingtang port on June 13. Since then, the ship has been anchored 2-3 km away from the port. HT reported in November that while the local port authorities have not allowed the “crew change” – whereby a ship’s crew can disembark and head back to their country of origin – it has been communicated to them that anyone needing treatment could be allowed to come ashore temporarily. However, at least 16 more Indians are stuck on MV Anastasia off the Caofeidian port in Hebei. “Onboard the Anastasia are 18 seafarers - 16 of them Indian, one Russian and one Filipino - forced to work at sea for far longer than their current anchorage, with crew clocking up to 20 months as ports refuse to let them disembark for fear of spreading contagion,” a report in The Sydney Morning Herald said Tuesday, adding that at least four them were on “suicide watch”.On December 17, an MEA spokesperson told a briefing: “The Chinese authorities have conveyed that on account of various Covid-19 related restrictions imposed by local authorities, crew change is not being permitted from these ports. The government continues to be in regular touch with the Chinese authorities to seek a resolution of these issues,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-sailors-stuck-in-ships-getting-necessary-aid-china/story-G2UFpBhI14JRJ8nblxKGIO.html
24-12-2020||India||Price cap on Covid tests could be affecting diagnosis, skewing data||Capping the price of coronavirus tests at ₹800 has forced some private labs to use inexpensive and less sensitive kits with lower limit of detection to keep the cost of testing low, which raises the risk of false negatives and compromises data coming out of India, say experts. The issue has come into focus now because it has emerged that RT-PCR tests of one kind can be used as a proxy for identifying the new variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which is raging though the UK, and has panicked the rest of the world. The ORF-1a, RdRp, E, N, and S genes are most frequently targeted for Sars-CoV-2 detection by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing, which is the standard test for Covid-19 diagnosis in India. The test that can successfully identify the variant is a three-gene test, where one of the genes doesn’t show up in the result because of a mutation in the virus.  “The four coronavirus-specific genes include a screening gene for (E) protein, which is found in all bat coronaviruses, and four confirmatory genes specific to Sars-CoV2, which include ORF-1a, RdRp, nucleocapsid (N), and spike (S) proteins. Various test kits approved by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) test for the E protein, along with one or more confirmatory genes to confirm Covid-19 diagnosis. While we use three-gene PCR test kits, a few labs use two-gene kits,” said Dr Navin Dang, consultant microbiologist and founder of Dr Dang’s Labsin New Delhi. The new UK variant Sars-CoV-2 VOC 202012/01 has a mutation in the receptor binding domain (RBD) of the spike protein (S) at position 501, where amino acid asparagine (N) has been replaced with tyrosine (Y). This variant carries many other mutations, including a double deletion at positions 69 and 70. “With standard kits, testing for two genes is usually enough. Sequencing, however, is most conclusive,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative BioIogy (CSIR-IGIB). His reference is to the fact that sequencing the viral genome is the surest way to identify the variant. “Most labs use three gene test in India that test for E, RdRp and N gene, but with mutations found in the S protein in Sars-CoV2 in the UK, RT-PCR tests that rely on the S gene alone for confirmatory diagnosis can fail. All kits testing for other confirmatory genes will still give accurate results, but kits that test only for E and S genes will need to be reconfirmed against a kit testing for other confirmatory genes,” said Dr Vidur Mahajan, head of research at the Delhi-based Centre for Advanced Research in Imaging, Neurosciences and Genomics (Caring), which collaborated with CSIR-IGIB for the world’s first successful run of Covid-Seq, a sequencing-based test for Covid-19 in India that can also diagnose the UK strain. Beyond RT-PCR testingA positive RT-PCR test for Covid-19 has more weight than a negative test because of the test’s high specificity but moderate sensitivity of around 70%.“Unfortunately, with the price capping, some very substandard kits that cost as little as ₹100 are available, which can give misleading results,” said Dang.And, of course, many of these tests do not check for three genes. On March 21, 2020, ministry of health and family welfare capped for RT-PCR Covid-19 tests at ₹4,500 per test, which Delhi government lowered to ₹2,400 per test on June 18 for samples collected by government, on November 11, lowered it further to ₹800 per test. Karnataka, which allow differential pricing depending on the type test being used, began using the Abbott ID Now express RT-PCR method, which gives positive in less than five minutes and negative within 13 minutes at Bengaluru’s Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). The RT-PCR Express test will cost ₹2,400, compared to the commonly used open-system RT-PCR test that cost ₹800 and gives results in around six hours. Karnataka also has differential pricing for samples collected by Government and sent to private labs and those collected by private labs themselves at their collection centres. In Delhi, prices for home collection are ₹1,200 at home collection compared to ₹800 at labs. Scaling up sequencing“While there is obvious concern over a mutated strain that spreads faster at a time when things are looking better, there is no reason to be afraid. As far as we know, it (the infection caused by the new strain) is not more severe. In some ways, the situation is similar to when D 614G mutation first spread. Right now, with high community spread followed by recovery, the only thing to be concerned about is whether it will escape immunity. At this point, there is no reason to believe that, so I would advise caution but not worry,” said Dr Agrawal. What we need is more sequencing, he said. “We need to sequence at scale to truly know that it (the new strain) has not entered India. In any case, it may appear on its own as well. IGIB had identified this site earlier for likely mutation,” said Agrawal. Tony Cox, CEO, UK’s National Biosample Centre and Milton Keynes “Lighthouse” Coronavirus Testing Mega-Lab tweeted recently: “MK LHL testing data showing increasing prevalence of H69/V70 variant in positive test data -- which is detected incidentally by the commonly used 3-gene PCR test. Numerous other mutations are circulating but are invisible to this PCR test. So genome sequencing of viral samples is very important.”India has sequenced around 5,000 Sars-CoV2 genomes since March, according to Agrawal, and shared at least 4,338 in the public domain for analysis. India has also stepped up sequencing following the possibility of the faster-spreading UK variant reaching India. Over the past 24 hours, the government has stepped up surveillance and reached out to public and private labs for samples of extracted RNA of patients who tested positive for Covid-19 and have a travel history to the UK, for sequencing to identify if the UK variant was already present in India.Delhi government has asked all labs to store and not discard all positive samples collected since November 25. “The government has stepped up analysis of past positive cases who have had a history of travel to UK for genomic sequencing since December 18. Today, we have collected 70 samples for people who have arrived from the UK on Wednesday,” said Dr Mahajan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/price-cap-on-covid-tests-could-be-affecting-diagnosis-skewing-data/story-ItTR0ynFpasIVj1pBn5UrJ.html
24-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Learning to beat a virus||On January 11, 2020, authorities in China announced the first death due to a new coronavirus. At the time, the virus had only infected 59 people, spreading out, it was suspected, from a seafood market in the city of Wuhan. The same day, Chinese researchers made public the genetic sequence of the virus, then called the novel coronavirus nCov-2019. Running into roughly 30,000 characters, this code would allow scientists to design within three days one of the leading vaccine candidates against the infection.In some ways then, January 11 — the day the world heard of the death of Mr Zhang from Wuhan (the man is identified only by his last name) — also marked the arrival of a small but significant breakthrough that would ultimately lead to the beginning of the end of the pandemic. Within two months, a 76-year-old man from Karnataka with multiple co-morbidities became the first Indian to die of the virus, and five days later, on March 15, India declared the outbreak a disaster.Scientists, doctors, public health officials and pharmaceutical companies around the world have since embarked on a race against time, redirecting their collective focus and energies in a manner that has paralleled some of history’s greatest collaborative efforts such as the Manhattan Project or the Apollo programme.This race has largely been centered on trying to understand the virus and the disease it causes, and to find ways in which lives can be saved and the virus stopped. In the past year, PubMed Central, the largest database for free, open-access research literature in biomedical sciences, has carried 89,000 submissions on Covid-19. THE FIRST SIGNSIt would not be until January 20 that the world would find out that the virus spread between humans, and January 26, that it could also spread among and by asymptomatic individuals. By this time, the number of confirmed infections in China had reached 2,000, and these two crucial facts were the first indicators of the coronavirus’s potential to cause a pandemic.As the world entered the spring of 2020, the virus took hold in more Asian regions — Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong — and its first cases emerged in Europe and the United States. By now, researchers were able to determine that the Sars-CoV-2, as it officially came to be called starting February 11, had a basic reproduction number (R0, or R naught) of 2.4 to 2.6. This meant that, on average, two infected people would pass on the virus to five more, and those five to at least 31 more people. These figures projected an exponential explosion in cases. On March 16, five days after World Health Organization (WHO) declared Covid-19 a pandemic, researchers from Imperial College London predicted that if nothing was done to control the epidemic, at least 510,000 people would die in the United Kingdom and 2.2 million in the United States. The need was clear: lock down to flatten the curve of infections so that hospitals could be spared a surge of cases.Over the rest of the year, the need to flatten the curve would drive countries around the world to turn to lock down in a reluctant game of cat and mouse to contain the spread of the virus. Among populous nations, India was one of the few that locked down at the beginning of the outbreak, an approach criticised for having caused widespread economic damage, but one that may have also bought the nation time to improve its capacities to test and treat.COURSE CORRECTIONThe need for locking down cities has been one of the approaches government, public health authorities and experts have largely agreed upon through the course of the pandemic. The early stage of the pandemic was marked by conflicting evidence and recommendations, most notably on whether people should wear masks. After initially saying that masks did not help the uninfected, WHO on June 6 — almost three months after declaring the pandemic — updated its guidance to advise people to wear masks in regions with community transmission. By this time, total global infections were at 6.6 million, and fatalities close to 400,000. At this point, it also became clear that sharing the same air posed the biggest risk, but painstaking contact tracing would later show that not everyone in an enclosed space would contract the virus: how the air flowed in such spaces played a role, but so did the duration of contact. Some activities, such as singing or speaking loudly, shoe-leather epidemiologists discovered, heightened the likelihood of infections.The understanding of how to treat Covid-19 patients too evolved. As the virus tore through the elderly populations of Italy, Spain and France in April, clinicians began using re-purposed drugs, including those that showed promise in treating HIV/Aids, broad-spectrum antivirals such as remdesivir, and plasma-rich antibodies from recovered patients. Over the course of the year, there have been hardly any major breakthroughs in treatment. Remdesivir and favipiravir have shown mixed outcomes, anti-HIV drugs lopinavir and ritonavir were proven to be ineffective; even benefits of convalescent plasma therapy have been unclear. One drug appeared to have clear benefits in saving lives: dexamethasone.WORRYING DISCOVERIESThat dexamethasone worked was linked to a worrying new facet of the Sars-CoV-2: it did not only cause respiratory disease. People who developed severe symptoms or succumbed to the virus showed signs of widespread organ damage. Blood tests and autopsies revealed the disease would often put the body on a warpath with itself, confusing people’s immune systems into going into an overdrive. This led to damage to organs such as lungs, kidneys and the heart, scans and autopsies revealed. Some people also developed blood clots that could trigger strokes, while a worryingly large number suffered from persistent “long Covid” symptoms, often unable to regain energy, concentration or their sense of smell for months after an infection.In December, virologists and geneticists in the UK discovered a new strain of the virus, with more genetic tweaks than seen in the 12 months since it began spreading. The strain appeared to be more infectious, steadily becoming more prevalent than other strains. Already, countries around the world have begun to respond to this: London declared a complete lockdown barely days before the Christmas holidays and several Latin American and European countries have imposed flight bans to the UK. So has India. More research will be required to determine whether the new strain poses a threat to current efforts to contain the disease, which in themselves have struggled to slow down the march of the pandemic. It is also an unknown if the mutation, or any that might yet take place, could render current vaccine candidates ineffective. Vaccines are usually broad-spectrum — they target multiple viral proteins to avoid an eventuality such as this — but there is always a possibility that a virus could mutate enough to dodge them. UNRELENTING EFFORTSThe sheer volume of research now out in open-source repositories like PubMed Central represents a relentless mission by scientists around the world to not just uncover the secrets of the virus, but also the millions of factors that are at play in its spread.This mission has brought together not just biomedical researchers, but also mathematicians, computer modelers and artificial intelligence experts. Their frenetic efforts capitalised on decades of advances in medical sciences. Scientists are now able to inspect its structural secrets. They have even been able to visualise how its protruding spike proteins— the component that it uses to latch on to and infect cells — combines in groups of three and can swivel as if mounted on a hinge, enhancing its ability to infect targets. Frontline biotechnology, such as gene editing, have been repurposed to add to the arsenal of tools the world has deployed against Covid-19. Pharmaceutical companies have created lab-grown antibodies, which are akin to building your own army of specialised coronavirus hunters. Even the bleeding edge of computation promises to bolster the human race’s ability to fight such threats. Take, for instance, the breakthrough in November by artificial intelligence company DeepMind, which was able to accurately determine the shape of proteins. Such technology can help take a closer look at the Sars-Cov-2, helping tailor therapies and drugs. But the most watched among these breakthroughs is the rapid development of a vaccine — the candidate mentioned at the beginning of this essay, for example, was approved a little over 11 months later, while normally, the process (development, testing, and approvals of vaccines) can typically take close to a decade. MILESTONE MOMENTSThis vaccine was developed by Moderna, in collaboration with the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, and used a platform that in itself has been hailed as groundbreaking. Another American company, with a German partner, uses the same platform and both have shown high efficacy. Several other vaccine makers are racing against time to complete the testing process. These include old platforms, such as the many candidates that use a weakened or an inactivated virus to elicit an immune response and new ones, like Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Trojan horse-like strategy known as a viral vector.To be sure, many unknowns still remain: can vaccines leave lasting immunity? Will the virus mutate to beat it (and our immune systems)? Are there more long-term effects we have not yet identified? It is uncertain when these mysteries will be unravelled by modern science. But if the year 2020 is any indication, chances are scientists and doctors will find a way for the world to live with the virus, if not eradicate it completely.It is also certain that the world, scientifically and technologically, has never been better prepared to deal with a virus of its nature than it is right now. The scientific legacy of battling this virus is likely to further this preparedness and help achieve what experts have always sought: more focus and funding on health and science.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/learning-to-beat-a-virus/story-GCSzKLATGtI7TSDvcn1QKL.html
24-12-2020||India||Six more UK returnees test positive, 50 quarantined||Six more passengers who returned to India from the UK, late on Tuesday night, tested positive for Covid-19 after more than 500 underwent testing at Delhi airport on Wednesday. Officials said 50 of over 950 passengers tested at the airport on Tuesday and Wednesday have also been quarantined for coming in direct contact with those who tested positive.On Tuesday, two flights landed at the Delhi airport from the UK, one at 11.30pm with 240 passengers and another with 274 at 11.55 pm. All the 514 passengers were subject to RT-PCR tests at the Delhi airport as mandated by the central government in order to stop the spread of a new strain of the Sars-Cov-2 that emerged in the UK and is believed to spread faster.Since Monday, after India suspended all flights to and from the UK between December 23 and December 31, four flights have landed in Delhi from UK. While on Tuesday, five passengers were tested positive out of more than 470 who took the test, six more were found to be infected out of 514 passengers tested on Wednesday.Dr. Gauri Agarwal, founder and director of Genestrings diagnostics that is conducting the RT-PCR tests at the Delhi airport, on Wednesday, said, “Since Monday night, close to 1,000 passengers who arrived in Delhi, 11 passengers were found positive. These 11 samples are duly stored in cold storage and sent to National Centre for Disease Control in Delhi for genome sequencing. We do not know yet if any of those found positive are infected with the new UK strain,” Agarwal said.Flyers complain of mismanagement at IGIAA number of passengers, who arrived from the UK at the Delhi airport close to midnight on Tuesday, said they had to spend more than 15 hours to be able to exit the airport.Kamini Saraswat, 28, an IT professional working in London, said she deboarded the aircraft around 12.15am on Wednesday but her RT-PCR test could only be conducted after more than nine hours at 9.30am. “Before our immigration clearance, we were made to sit in a room and our details were noted down. For hours, there was no proper communication. The seating arrangements were very poor. We spent 4-5 hours sitting on the floor. After immigration clearance at 6.30am, we waited for our turn to get the test done. We again waited for at least four hours with no tea or refreshment. After the test that was conducted at 9.30 am, we were told to wait again for five hours for the report,” said Saraswat.Many passengers also complained of missing their connecting flights due to the “unexpected delay”. Haze Souza, 25, who had to take a connecting flight to Goa, said she landed in Delhi at 11.55pm on Tuesday but her test was conducted only by 10 am on Wednesday. “That is 10 hours of delay. I missed my flight to Goa. At the airport, the management was very poor. There was no communication, lack of basic services like refreshments, drinking water and even place to sit. Many of us sat on the floors near the conveyor belts as the lounge was full and there was no place to sit,” said Souza, who was travelling home for Christmas.Another tweeted, “Where is social distancing? No one is telling these people to maintain.” Videos of passengers sitting on the floor and near baggage collection area also were widely shared on social media on Wednesday.When asked about the allegations over poor arrangements, Delhi airport operator DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd) did not offer a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-more-uk-returnees-test-positive-50-quarantined/story-cpC6FPbplXrCe1BxIanbBN.html
24-12-2020||India||UK avoids nomination of Khalistan supporter to the House of Lords||A potentially major diplomatic row between India and the UK was averted on Tuesday when the nomination of a Khalistan supporter as a member of the House of Lords by Labour was either put on hold or withdrawn by the party leader Keir Starmer.Dabinderjit Singh Sidhu, who is a principal adviser to the Sikh Federation UK, was proposed as one of the nominees by the Labour party for peerage for life to the House of Lords Appointments Commission, but when the list of ‘Political Peerages’ was released by Downing Street, his name was missing.Indian quarters were watching the developments closely, but the list eventually included seven names recommended by the Conservative party, five by Labour and four individuals appointed as cross-bench (independent) members of the House.Had Singh Sidhu’s nomination gone through, security officials insist it would have damaged relations just when PM Boris Johnson is due to travel to India on a defining visit to chart the next decade of bilateral ties and be the chief guest at Republic Day celebrations on January 26.A senior official said on condition of anonymity: “If Starmer had not acted, the appointment would have not only damaged India-UK relationship and soured the visit of Prime Minister Johnson, but also raised questions over the new Labour leader seeking to make amends with the Indian community in UK after the downturn (in relationship) under (former leader) Jeremy Corbyn.”“It would have undermined the foundations of India-UK cooperation, especially on its commitment to not allow its soil to be used against India and its integrity, and shaken the framework of cooperation on the matters of terrorism, which includes not legitimising the political faces of terrorism directed against each other,” another official added.Singh Sidhu, a former member of the International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF), which is banned in India but whose ban in the UK was lifted in 2016, is an official of the UK’s National Audit Office. He is not considered a civil servant since the body is independent of the UK government. He and the Sikh Federation have been in the forefront in articulating pro-Khalistan claims. The group had campaigned for lifting the ban on ISYF in the UK, which was de-proscribed in 2016. The Officials quoted above believe the group includes several former members of ISYF.The appointments commission says on its website it “plays no part in assessing the suitability of those nominated by the political parties, which is a matter for the parties themselves. Its role is to advise the Prime Minister if it has any concerns about the propriety of a nominee”. “The Commission takes the view that in this context, propriety means: i) the individual should be in good standing in the community in general and with the public regulatory authorities in particular; and ii) the past conduct of the nominee would not reasonably be regarded as bringing the House of Lords into disrepute”, it adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-avoids-nomination-of-khalistan-supporter-to-the-house-of-lords/story-wj2aKhlBGETvkttrV30VMI.html
24-12-2020||India||Green Light: TN govt allows Jallikattu with Covid restrictions||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday decided to let Jallikattu, the traditional bull taming sport and a symbol of Tamil culture, albeit one denounced as barbaric by animal rights activists, go ahead during the harvest festival of Pongal in January provided participants adhere to restrictions imposed to curtail the spread of Covid-19.All participants must undergo a Covid-19 test at a government laboratory and produce a negative certificate, said a statement by the government. The number of participants, or bull tamers, will be limited to 150 at an event. Spectators cannot exceed 50% of the capacity of the venue so that social distancing norms are followed and all of them will have to wear masks. All entrants will be screened using a thermal scanner to check their body temperature, the statement said. Jallikattu has been controversial and been banned temporarily several times in the past. In 2014, the Supreme Court banned the sport on a plea filed by the Animal Welfare Board of India and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. The ban was lifted in 2017 with an amendment to the law after protests across the state. Animal welfare groups have called the sport barbaric. Tamil Nadu’s political parties and supporters of the sport say it is a part of the state’s tradition.The decision to allow the sport even amid the pandemic comes ahead of assembly elections due to take place in Tamil Nadu in early 2021 and some see political overtones to the move by the state’s All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) government. “We are disappointed. It is a political decision with elections around the corner,” said Chennai-based Dr Chinni Krishna, former vice-chairman, Animal Welfare Board of India. “We want a total ban on Jallikattu from the point of view of humans and animals involved.” Tamil Nadu Jallikattu Peravai, a body representing the participants in the sport, welcomed the decision“Every year during December we get our bulls and trainers ready, but we were doubtful if Jallikattu will happen this year due to the pandemic so we are happy that the government has taken a good decision,” said PR Rajasekaran, president of Tamil Nadu Jallikattu Peravai. “A fitness test with doctors is usually done for bull tamers about three days before the event; this year we will put them through a Covid-19 test as well.” Jallikattu is particularly popular in Madurai, Dindigul, Theni, Thanjavur and Perambalur districts.In 2017, protests erupted across the state for the ban against Jallikattu to be lifted. But the Tamil Nadu government unanimously enacted a legislation to amend the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 to preserve the state’s cultural heritage and ensure survival of native breeds of bulls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/green-light-tn-govt-allows-jallikattu-with-covid-restrictions/story-Ssk3CsjqhTAFkvgfLAiDGK.html
24-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||At the end of a year that’s been defined by the coronavirus disease pandemic, it is strange that governments around the world need to be reminded of this: the coronavirus does not follow their rules. For instance, it has no working hours, geographical boundaries, or preferred venues. I say this because of the rush by countries, including India, to bar flights to and from the UK, parts of which (including London) are being ravaged by a new strain of the coronavirus believed to be far more infective (how much more? 70%, if UK authorities are to be believed). It might have helped if this travel ban had been enforced back in September, when the new strain was first sequenced in the UK; it is likely too late now.In Dispatch 231 (on Wednesday), I bemoaned the fact that India does not sequence enough viral genomes. After all, the UK discovery was the result of one of the world’s largest and most comprehensive viral genome sequencing efforts (Covid-19 Genomics UK; I wrote about it in Dispatch 230). But India isn’t the only laggard. The world may have seen over 70 million cases of the coronavirus disease but only around 275,000 of the cases have been genetically sequenced (according to sequencing data available publicly). Of this, the UK alone accounts for around 125,000. Since December 1, for instance, according to the New York Times, the UK has sequenced 3,700 viral genomes, and the US “fewer than 40”. According to a note on the new variant put out by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the US has sequenced the viral genome in “about 51,000 of the 17 million” cases.India hasn’t put out in the public domain details of the number of viral genomes it has sequenced from Covid patients, but this writer learns that this number is just around a few thousand, and also that the number of cases sequenced since October is next to nothing. And while the one kind of RT-PCR test that serves as an easy proxy to identify the mutant strain (as compared to more complex and time-consuming genome sequencing; Dispatch 231 explained how this particular RT-PCR test helped) is approved for use in India, it costs more than other molecular tests, and the cap on test pricing has meant that almost no laboratory here uses it.Partly over concern about the new strain, and partly to prevent large-scale celebrations and partying of the sort seen around this time of the year, many Indian states have imposed a night curfew, which is a very good move because the Sars-CoV-2 virus has clearly defined working hours. Other states have restricted some activities, but allowed others to continue – also an equally good move because the virus is selective about whom it targets and where it attacks. In truth, there’s as much risk of the farm protest outside Delhi becoming a superspreader event as there is of political rallies in West Bengal.So, what should India do?For one, it should assume that the new strain is already here and tighten social distancing protocols, enforce the wearing of masks, and completely ban public gatherings for the next few weeks – irrespective of whether these are religious, cultural, or political in nature. It should also tighten screening in airports (the instant it did so on Monday, only for travellers from the UK, it uncovered a handful of cases). For another, it should simply do what the US plans to. The US recently announced a surveillance programme (details of this are also in the CDC note) that will sequence 10 samples from each state every two weeks to check for the new variant. The Indian Council of Medical Research should, on a war footing, sequence viral genomes from every district that has new cases – and do this at a regular frequency, say, every week. It wouldn’t need to sequence too many from each district – a sample of even five or six would do. Sars-CoV-2 VOC 202012/01, as the variant has been named (some are also calling it B.1.1.7 because the alternative is a mouthful), is probably already here (the CDC note admits that “given the small fraction of US infections that have been sequenced, the variant could already be in the US without having been detected”, and the same applies to India). It is time to accept that and move on to doing what needs doing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-UfTygx5XMWq7M5f6NoE6KL.html
24-12-2020||India||Farmer unions say no date for talks until govt redraws terms||Farm unions protesting against three recent laws that aim to liberalise the agricultural economy said on Wednesday that they will not restart negotiations until the Centre draws up a new agenda, presenting an increasingly difficult challenge to a Union government trying to find a way to end a month-long agitation on the Capital’s borders. After a large meeting of nearly 100 farm leaders, the protesters also reiterated that they would remain at the protest sites, where thousands have gathered over 29 days, until their demand — a repeal of the laws — was met. A senior farm leader, who wrote to the government on Tuesday informing it of the farmers’ decision not to set a date for resuming talks, for the first time spelt out a demand for an expansive system of guaranteed prices, rather than the government’s mere assurance on continuing the current system of minimum support prices (MSPs). Farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said farm unions should come for talks and that thousands of farmers sleeping out in the bitter cold was a “matter of deep concern” for the government. While the farm minister has been at pains to explain the benefits of the reforms, the farmers say they won’t budge until they are scrapped. On Wednesday, a farm union leader representing the unions responded to the government’s December 9 letter that offered to restart dialogue on a set of proposals and concessions it had sent out to the farmers. In it, the government asked the unions to suggest a date to meet again. Darshan Pal, a senior leader representing the farm unions, told HT that the unions were not averse to talking but they could not “set a fresh date” for the talks because the proposals the government had presented to them were “not acceptable”. “The government has to revise them because we had rejected these proposals on December 5 during our meeting,” he said. The farm unions also sent a letter to the agriculture ministry on Wednesday, signed by Pal. “We request the government that instead of repeating your proposals and amendments, you should offer something concrete in writing so that we can make that the basis of our agenda to resume the dialogue process,” it stated. Experts said this pretty much squashes hopes of negotiations restarting anytime soon. The standoff between the Union government and farmers continues over the passage of new legislation to open up the country’s agricultural sector to private investment, a move the government says will enable farmers better incomes and modernise the farm sector. Farmers say the reforms will leave them at the mercy of private corporations. The government earlier this month sent a set of written proposals to amend several provisions of the laws for greater oversight on deregulated markets, sparing farmers penalties for stubble burning, which causes pollution, and promising to keep providing farmers subsidised power instead of direct cash transfer. The government also promised to give a written assurance to continue its mechanism of setting minimum crop prices and procuring food produce, mainly staples, but did not offer to write it in law. Farmers have spurned these proposals, which the government is banking on to find a solution. On Wednesday, Pal spelt out why, according to the unions, the assurance on minimum prices was not enough. The government sets minimum prices for 23 commodities but mainly buys wheat and rice at these floor prices. The MSP is calculated using a measure of cultivation cost known as A2+FL, which is a narrower measure of costs of farming that takes into account all expenses of farming a particular crop plus the value of family labour. Pal said the farm unions want the government to adopt a comprehensive measure of cultivation costs that include the imputed cost of capital and the rent on the land, called ‘C2’ in economic parlance. Farmers also want the government to buy all 23 commodities, which would bloat its food subsidy bill hugely. Farmers have demanded that government continue its policy of continuing power subsidy to farmers, rather than switch to providing cash instead. “Your proposal on continuing the subsidy is vague. Unless you say that you will shelve all plans to switch from subsidy to cash, we cannot reply to your proposal on this,” the letter said. By rejecting the proposals made by the government, the farmers have sought to put the onus on the government to draw up a revised agenda that is geared towards what the farmers are still adamant on — a roll-back of the reforms. Analysts say expanding the threshold of crop quantities procured by the government at MSP could help reassure farmers. “Instead of MSP as a price guarantee that farmers are demanding, the government could insert a quantity guarantee clause for a minimum period of five years,” said Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser of SBI, the largest state-owned lender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-unions-say-no-date-for-talks-until-govt-redraws-terms/story-ltxhq5TrRfdrrRw2c8EkDP.html
24-12-2020||India||In a first, Uttarakhand govt, IIRS to study urban flooding in Dehradun||The Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority (USDMA) in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS) is planning to undertake the first of its kind study of urban flood patterns in the state capital. Riddhim Aggarwal, additional chief executive officer USDMA said that it is the first time such a study is being undertaken in any city of Uttarakhand. “Under this study, maps with high-resolution of around 1 cm, of the flood-prone areas will be developed by using high tech drones. Based on these maps which also capture land undulations on a very high resolution, we will understand the drainage and passageways for rainwater and flooding patters around Rispana (a tributary of the Song River that drains central Dehradun) and Bindal (which also flows through Dehradun and is fed by a number of springs at the base of Mussoorie ridge) rivers in Dehradun,” she said Aggarwal said USDMA has been in negotiations with the experts from IIRS in this regard for quite sometime “We held a meeting with the experts from IIRS on Wednesday in which we discussed various technicalities and modalities for this survey,” she said The USDMA additional CEO said soon they will sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with IIRS in this regard. “The high-resolution maps of the city will give us a fair idea about the areas where severe flooding is possible due to severe rainfall and blockages (in the form of encroachments and debris) in the drainage and nullahs. The high-resolution maps will also help us in identifying those low-lying areas around rivers where flooding is possible,” she said Aggarwal said they have a lot of data from existing snow and rain gauges. “IIRS also has good data. But this data has never been integrated with regard to understanding the pattern of urban flooding. Integrating these data and having high-resolution maps will help us in saving lives and properties due to flooding and severe water-logging in the urban landscape. After undertaking this study in Dehradun, and based on the results, we have plans to take up such studies in other cities of the state in the future,” she said. Last year a PIL had been filed in Uttarakhand high court alleging that a large number of trees had been cut and encroachments had been made around the nullahs/storm water drains in Dehradun that flow into Rispana and Bindal rivers. The state government through an affidavit by the district magistrate Dehradun had informed the court that around 270 acres of land had been encroached on riverbeds, nullahs and seasonal streams across Doon Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-uttarakhand-govt-iirs-to-study-urban-flooding-in-dehradun/story-P61VA0DuFlvDXnP3uIBHEK.html
24-12-2020||India||The Number Theory: Understanding the DDC election results in Jammu and Kashmir||The District Development Council (DDC) polls were the first major elections held in the Union territory (UT) of Jammu and Kashmir after the Narendra Modi government last year scrapped the erstwhile state’s semi-autonomous status and divided it into two separate UTs: J&K and Ladakh.After the results for 278 of the 280 segments were declared (counting has halted in the remaining two), both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of seven political parties that came together with a common objective of restoring the state’s special constitutional provisions, have claimed victory. While the BJP is celebrating the fact that it is the single largest party with 75 wins, the PAGD has finished as the largest pre-poll alliance with 110 wins. Independents have won 50. Here are five charts that explain what the DDC results mean for Jammu and Kashmir’s politics.BJP’s high seat share needs to be read with its poor strike rate While the BJP has ended up with the largest seat share in these elections, this needs to be read along with the fact that it also contested the maximum number of seats. This is because the two major regional parties in Kashmir, the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) joined the PAGD with five other smaller parties in the state. A comparison of strike rates (seats won as a share of seats contested) shows that the BJP is behind four constituents of the PAGD.  This explains why PAGD has ended up with more seats than the BJP. The NC contested 168 seats, which is much more than the 68 seats contested by the PDP, but their strikes rates are largely similar. The Congress, which used to be a major political force in the state, is behind the BJP in terms of strike rate.But the BJP does have a higher contested vote share than the NC-PDP The BJP is ahead of the NC-PDP even in terms of the vote share in contested seats. While its contested vote share is marginally higher than the NC’s, it is significantly higher than that of the PDP. This picture changes when one looks at the Kashmir and Jammu divisions separately.  The BJP has the highest contested vote share in the Jammu region and the lowest among big parties in the Kashmir region. This statistic is crucial for understanding the fault lines in Jammu and Kashmir’s politics.The religious divide between Jammu and Kashmir persists Among all states and Union territories, Jammu and Kashmir is the only one where the Muslim population comprises a majority. However, the Muslim population in the territory is not equally distributed across its regions. Muslims comprised 96.4% of the population in 10 districts of the Kashmir region, according to the 2011 Census, while Hindus comprise 62.6% of Jammu’s population. The 20 districts can largely be divided into three groups – 11 entirely Muslim districts (where Muslims comprise more than 90% population), four entirely Hindu districts (where Hindus comprise more than 90% population) and five mixed districts (where Muslims comprise 50% to 70% of the population). The DDC poll results have once again highlighted the communal polarisation in Jammu and Kashmir. The BJP has won 86% of the 56 seats in the entirely Hindu districts while it has won only 2% of the 152 seats in the entirely Muslim districts. The PAGD has won 57% seats in the entirely Muslim districts compared to just 4% in the entirely Hindu districts.Has the BJP made gains in the Kashmir region after the nullification of Article 370? That Jammu and Kashmir’s politics has been polarised around its religious geography is known. With the NC-PDP and other smaller parties coming together against the BJP, the overall outcome in these elections was not surprising. The only question worth asking is: has the BJP been able to gain political ground in the Kashmir region by championing the Union government’s decision to take away the erstwhile state’s autonomy and making it into a UT, which it has said will lead to more development? While the BJP is highlighting the fact that it has won three seats in these elections in the Kashmir region, this cannot be compared to a win in assembly or Lok Sabha elections because DDC segments are much smaller. Because the DDC polls have been held for the first time, no comparisons can be made with previous elections.  A vote-share comparison with the 2014 assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha elections shows that the BJP continues to be an insignificant player in the Kashmir region. Because local body elections are fought in a very different manner compared to national or even state elections, not much should be read into small variations in vote share.Voter turnout still a cause for concern One important factor in every election in Jammu and Kashmir has been voter turnout. Voter participation dropped significantly in the erstwhile state, particularly in the Kashmir region, after militancy erupted in the late 1980s. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the voter turnout in Kashmir was its lowest in two decades. The Union territory saw 51% voter turnout in the DDC elections this year but this was skewed towards the Jammu region. About 68% registered electors voted in the Jammu regions, while only 34% voted in the Kashmir region.  The turnout in the Kashmir region this time was 15 percentage points more than it was in the 2019 Lok Sabha election but 22.5 percentage points less than that in the 2014 assembly election. This means only a third of the registered electors in Kashmir voted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-number-theory-understanding-the-ddc-election-results-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-JjJ6fMjzP2DXcn0LTMpM6H.html
24-12-2020||India||Army veterans, activists embark on ‘Ganga Parikrama’ to map pollution||A group of 11 people, including retired army officers, a farmer, an adventurist and Ganga activists, have embarked on ‘Atuylya Ganga Parikrama’ for pollution mapping of Ganga from Gomukh to Gangasagar. They will also ensure afforestation on either side of the river and sensitise locals about the role they can play in keeping Ganga clean. The group members are Major General (retd) Vinod Bhatt, Lt Col (retd) Hem Lohumi, Col (Retd) Manoj Keshwar, Military Engineer (Retd) Gopal Sharma, farmer Hiren Patel, adventurer Indu (goes by her first name), lensman Rohit Umrao, Rohit Jat, Shagun Tyagi, and Kirti Kumar. They started from Prayagraj on December 16 and aim to complete the process in the next 250 days. The group members walk along Ganga from dawn to dusk and stay along it during the night. Col Manoj Keshwar, member of the group, said, “We walk along Ganga, planting saplings of indigenous species like Peepal, Banyan, Pakar, Neem, and Indigo along the river and appeal to the locals to take care of the plants and move forward.” Also read: Jaw-dropping video shows driver reversing bus on narrow roadHiren Patel, a farmer from Gujarat, drops seed of mangoes, mahua, and indigo on the river bank as part of the group’s plan to promote green cover on either side of the river. The group members are also doing pollution mapping of the river by recording details of the untreated drains vacating in the river. Major General Bhatt, with the help of group members, collects samples of Ganga water from its stretches which are being polluted by the untreated drains. Equipped with a portable pollution testing kit, the group members test the samples and record the level of Biological oxygen demand (BOD) and Dissolved Oxygen (DO), Ph, among other pollutants. The group also records complete details of every drain discharging in the river by collecting information about it from the locals. Col Manoj Keshwar said, “The group will walk to the Bay of Bengal where Ganga meets the sea. The team will walk back to Gomukh, the place of the origin of Ganga in Uttarakhand, and will return to Prayagraj where they have planned to conclude the journey.” The Col said it would take around 250 days in their journey. Team will walk around 6,000 kilometres to complete the Parikrama of Ganga. Col Manoj said, “Along with the pollution mapping of the river Ganga, we are also planning to create an Atulya Ganga App which will have the complete information about the drains polluting river Ganga.” He said that the union ministry of water resources and tourism ministry are supporting the circumambulation. He said that along with pollution mapping, efforts are being made for the geo-mapping of the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-veterans-activists-embark-on-ganga-parikrama-to-map-pollution/story-nMwjtgg4QakegxUZoNjuBN.html
24-12-2020||India||Gupkar sees Jammu and Kashmir’s verdict against 370; BJP says for it||The seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) both declared victory in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K)’s District Development Council (DDC) elections on Wednesday, interpreting differently what the verdict meant in the backdrop of the Centre’s controversial decision to scrap the erstwhile state’s special status last year.As a high-octane war of words played out, PAGD partners said the people rejected the Union government’s decision to scrap Article 370, which accorded special status to J&K, while the BJP contended that the results showed voters said no to “terrorism and separatism” and took the path of nationalism.In the eight-phase DDC elections — the first such exercise in J&K and also the first major voting in the region since Article 370 was scrapped on August 5, 2019 — the PAGD, a two-month-old bloc featuring regional powerhouses National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), took the pole position by winning an impressive 110 seats of the total 280 on offer across the Union Territory’s 20 districts (14 seats each). The BJP grabbed 75 seats and emerged as the single-largest party on the back of its performance in the Hindu-dominated Jammu region, where it won 72 of the 140 seats.NC leader and former chief minister Omar Abdullah praised the performance of the PAGD, which won 84 seats in Kashmir and 26 in Jammu, and attacked the Centre’s ruling BJP. “If you really say that democracy has won, then you will have to listen to the voices of the people. And the people of Jammu and Kashmir have said it with a huge majority that they do not accept (the decisions of) August 5, 2019,” he said, addressing party workers at the NC headquarters, Nawa-i-Subah, in Srinagar.At the victory celebrations, Abdullah said there might not be any assembly elections in the Union territory anytime soon. “The next elections in J&K are very far because of the defeat of the BJP in this election...If they believed in democracy, they would have sounded the bugle of the assembly elections,” he said.“We could have many more seats had we not contested in the alliance. But for achieving a bigger goal, small or big sacrifices have to be made… It was our duty to keep aside our differences and to come on a single platform for our identity,” he added, referring to the alliance that took shape in October 2020 to demand the restoration of J&K’s special status.Farooq Abdullah, his farther and another former chief minister, said NC workers proved again that “anti-Kashmir forces cannot wipe out our party”, which won the most seats (67) among the seven coalition partners. “It was the BJP that made the DDC elections look like a referendum (on the Article 370 move)...now the people of J&K have made their aversion to the August 5 measures known,” he said.Former chief minister and PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti, too, hit out at the BJP. “People have voted en masse for the alliance...Article 370 still lives in our hearts and minds and we will fight for it until our last breath,” she told NDTV news channel. Mufti also said she would not contest elections until the decision to nullify of Article 370 was reversed.On August 5, 2019, the central government nullified Article 370 and bifurcated J&K into two Union Territories – J&K with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one — triggering widespread protests. The BJP and the Centre maintain that the decision will eventually help the region, deal a blow to terrorism and usher in development. Facing a volley of criticism, the BJP fielded a host of its top leaders to counter the PAGD’s narrative. Speaking to reporters in New Delhi, Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad rejected the contention that the results were a win for the alliance, stressing that it was the BJP that emerged as the single-largest party. “This is a victory for India, democracy, hope, development and people of Jammu and Kashmir. This is a victory for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s larger narrative...,” he told a press conference.On Twitter, Union home minister Amit Shah thanked “sisters and brothers” of J&K and said the BJP will continue to “work relentlessly towards the prosperity and development of the region” under the leadership of PM Modi.“Modi government is doing everything possible to restore the grass root democracy in Jammu & Kashmir. The recently held DDC polls for the first time in the history of J&K is the testimony of the same. The mass participation in these elections reflects people’s faith in democracy,” he added.His colleague, Anurag Thakur, countered the PAGD’s contention that people voted against the nullification of Article 370, and asserted the BJP and Independents together got over 52% votes.“This shows J&K people have rejected the Gupkar Gang,” he told reporters in Jammu. The people have spoken out against “terrorism and separatism” and voted in favour of democracy and nationalism, added Thakur, who was actively involved in the campaign.The BJP’s vote share in the DDC elections stood at 24.5%. This number was 27.9% for Independents, who won a total of 50 seats and could play kingmakers in at least two districts. The combined vote share of the PAGD camp — also comprising the Peoples Conference, the Communist Party of India-Marxist, the Peoples Movement, the Awami National Conference, and the Jammu and Kashmir People Democratic Front — stood at 22.9%.In terms of strike rate, the BJP won 75 of the total 230 seats it contested (32.6%). The strike rate for the NC and the PDP, two major constituents of the PAGD, stood at 40.9% (67 seats of the 164 contested) and 39.7% (27 seats of the 68 contested).Overall, the PAGD had a clear majority in six districts (all in Kashmir) while it was close to majority in three others. The BJP had a clear majority in five districts (all in Jammu) and was close to majority in one other district. In the remaining five districts, no single party had a majority.Held under the shadow of Covid-19, the elections witnessed a turnout of 51.76% over the eight phases from November 29 to December 19.The BJP says the results showed that the party is acceptable to both the regions of the Union Territory, underscoring that three of its candidates won from the Kashmir Valley (Khanmoh-II in Srinagar district, Kakapora-II in Pulwama district and Tulail in Bandipora district), apart from the 72 wins in Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gupkar-sees-j-k-s-verdict-against-370-bjp-says-for-it/story-inr91zmF1ZCi469ElL9pxM.html
24-12-2020||India||Sugathakumari: Activist whose poems gave voice to the weak dies after Covid at 86||Malayalam poet and activist Sugathakumari, who devoted her life to espousing the cause of the environment and upholding the rights of women and the deprived, died on Wednesday of post-Covid-19 complications at the Government Medical College Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram, her family members said. She was 86.One of the pioneers of green activism in Kerala, Sugathakumari’s poetry championed the causes she believed in. She warned people against exploiting nature and counselled them to think about future generations. Her poems also gave a voice to the weak and suffering. Sugathakumari was at the vanguard of a campaign against the Silent Valley hydel power project in the late 1980s that forced Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to form a panel of scientists to decide if the dam should be built. The panel submitted a report against the construction of the project, which was eventually scrapped.The last habitat of the lion-tailed macaque, the Silent Valley National Park on the picturesque Nilgiri hills is one of the richest biospheres in the southern part of the Western Ghats.The poet-activist was born in a family of freedom fighters and social reformers. Her father Bodeswaran was a Gandhian and mother Karthuyani a Sanskrit scholar. She started writing poetry at a young age under a pseudonym before she became an established poet and writer. Her sisters Hridayakumari and Sujatha were also writers. Sugathakumari died on the day a court in the Kerala capital awarded a life term in prison to a priest and a nun for murdering 19-year-old Sister Abhaya and dumping her body into a well in a case that dated back 22 years. . Whether it was the Abhaya murder or the Suryanelli scandal, which involved the exploitation of a minor girl enticed into the sex trade, she was always at the forefront demanding justice for the victims. Her activist friends said Teacher, as she was fondly known, would have been the happiest to hear the verdict. Two years ago, when a sit-in was organised before the state secretariat in a gesture of solidarity with five nuns who were protesting in Kochi for against former bishop Franco Mullakal, who allegedly raped a nun multiple times, she was at the venue on a wheel chair. “Poems were her favourite weapon to enlighten people. Her ‘Marathinu Stuti” (Hymn to a Tree) and other poems tell all,” said famous writer M T Vasudevan Nair in a condolence message. “A born fighter she interacted with people through her literary works and actions,” said poet and move director Sreekumaran Thampi. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote in a message: “Deeply saddened to learn of the passing away of poet Sugathakumari. As a doyenne of Malayalam literature and with a career that spans decades, she has left an indelible mark on Kerala’s cultural life. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family and join them in sorrow.”“Don’t bring flowers to me when I am dead. If you want to remember me, plant a banyan tree,” she said once when asked how she wanted to be remembered. She set aside space for people to plant saplings on the lawns of Abhaya, a home she set up for destitute and mentally challenged women in 1992. After she was cremated in the evening on Wednesday, many of her friends planted sapling in the space to fulfil her wish. A recipient of many honours, Sugathakumari was conferred the Padma Shri in 2006, and received the Saraswati Samman 2012, instituted by the KK Birla Foundation, for her collection of 27 poems Manalezhuthu (writings on the sand). She leaves behind her daughter Lakshmi, who manages the Abhaya home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sugathakumariactivist-whose-poems-gave-voice-to-the-weak-dies-after-covid-at-86/story-DcI8NDG5MorFGE63SOvAzH.html
24-12-2020||India||Amid protests, Tomar stresses need for more reforms in farm sector||Farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said he hoped a solution to the ongoing farmers’ agitation would only come from dialogue and more reforms were needed in the agriculture sector.Though Tomar did not elaborate, his stand signals the Modi government’s intent for a full spectrum of reforms in the country’s farm sector, despite a pushback from farmers to three farm-reform laws.“In the last six years, efforts have been made to initiate reforms in the farm sector. There are still areas where reforms are due and can benefit our farmer brothers, who are the backbone of our country,” Tomar told members of the Confederation of NGOs of Rural India (CNRI), an outfit that has pledged support to the three recent laws farmers say will hurt their livelihoods.“There are two situations. A majority of the country has supported the three laws. The media have also seen this and (there are) some who are opposing the laws. We have received 300,000 signatures of farmers who have welcomed the laws,” he said.The government’s intention to undertake more reforms in future comes against a massive agitation of farmers against its move to ease restrictions in farm trade.Separately, Tomar told reporters that the government was open to discussing and solving “each and every problems” of protesting farmers.“I’m hopeful that farmers’ unions will discuss our proposals. Whatever they want to add and subtract from the government’s proposal, they should tell us. We’re ready for a discussion at the time and date of their convenience. I’m hopeful for a solution,” the minister said.The minister’s statements came on a day farm unions said they were not inclined to hold further talks with the government until the government draws up a fresh agenda, deepening a stalemate.“Through various schemes, we will fill all gaps in agriculture sector, which will benefit farmers and ensure that they get the right price. We have made reforms like the scheme to have 10,000 farmer producer organisations at a cost of Rs 6500 crore and offered an agri infrastructure fund of Rs 1 lakh crore so that farmers get the right price,” the minister said.Tens of thousands of farmers are protesting the passage of new legislation to open up the agricultural sector to private buyers and enable farmers to sell directly to big corporations in deregulated markets instead of just government marketplace. Farmers say they will lose business to big buyers and face exploitation.Analysts say more reforms may lead to more resistance. “Reforms in mass-employment sectors that involve livelihoods are more difficult to pull off than those in industrial or financial sectors,” said KK Kailash of the University of Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-protests-tomar-stresses-need-for-more-reforms-in-farm-sector/story-LCR0H50WVOq9DEJ2TBNsJL.html
24-12-2020||India||CIC alters view on electoral bond buyers||The Central Information Commission (CIC), India’s transparency watchdog, has said no public interest is involved in disclosing the names of buyers of electoral bonds while reiterating the argument that such information cannot be shared under the Right to Information (RTI) Act as it is held in a “fiduciary” capacity -- a move that reflects a change in position from an order it issued in January. “There appears to be no larger public interest overriding the right to privacy of the donors and donees (recipients) concerned,” information commissioner Suresh Chandra said in an order issued on December 21.In January, another bench of the CIC said in an unrelated case that the electoral bonds process should be more transparent and the names of those buying them should be declared.Maharashtra-based RTI applicant Vihar Durve had sought details from State Bank of India (SBI) of those who bought electoral bonds from the bank and donated them to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Congress, and the Left parties, from domestic branches of the bank between 2017 and 2018.The electoral bond scheme allows citizens and corporate entities to buy monetary instruments from SBI and donate them to political parties, which can redeem them for money. Citizen groups have for long argued that in the interest of transparency, the identity of such donors must be disclosed.After being dissatisfied with the reply of SBI’s public information officer, who refused to provide the names of the donors on grounds that it was third-party information that cannot be shared, Durve filed an appeal with the bank’s First Appellate Authority (FAA).FAA also ruled that the information related to electoral bonds issued to political parties was held by SBI in a fiduciary capacity and that the names of the donors could not be disclosed because they fell in the bracket of “third party information”.Section 8 of the RTI Act prohibits sharing of third-party information without written consent of the third party. However, the section also says that the information can be shared if the information officer is convinced that it would serve “larger public interest”.Durve, in his petition, contended that declaring the names of the donors will serve the larger public interest of ensuring transparency in the funding of political parties. He also said that electoral bonds were an opaque way of funding with citizens not knowing who, especially e corporate entities, were donating money to the parties.“Citizens need to know which companies are funding which party to infer whether they (corporate) are influencing policy making,” Durve said.The applicant filed an appeal with the CIC in September 2018. On December 21, 2020, CIC upheld SBI’s stand, holding that “disclosure of names of donors and the donees may be in contravention of provisions contained in section 8 (1) (e) (j) of the RTI Act.”The section exempts a public authority from giving citizens’ information available with it in fiduciary relationship, if a competent authority is satisfied it would not serve larger public interest. According to the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), political parties have received a total of 12,452 electoral bonds worth Rs 6,210.39 crore until January this year, from January 2017. The BJP received about 60% of the total funding through electoral bonds and Congress about 31.5%.ADR also said the funding received through electoral bonds was more than the money generated through the sale of coupons, vouchers or cash donations for the BJP. ADR in October filed an application in the Supreme Court seeking an early hearing of its petition demanding scrapping of the electoral bonds. saying it was in violation of various transparency regulations.Anjali Bhardwaj of National Campaign for People’s Right to Information said the CIC order was a setback for bringing in transparency in the issue of electoral bonds. “We did not expect this from transparency watchdog to issue such an order. It is a setback,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cic-alters-view-on-electoral-bond-buyers/story-kMfgGLzMkjrDGFaI2v3lfK.html
24-12-2020||India||Approving Pfizer based on global study may impact Indian vaccine makers: Kang||Giving Pfizer approval based on their global data, without a bridging study in India, could disadvantage the national vaccine developers and manufacturers, said clinical scientist and vaccine expert Dr Gagandeep Kang. “So far, we haven’t licensed any vaccine without data from India. However, the new clinical trial rules that came into force last year allows licensure without such data, meaning Pfizer could be given an approval. This could disadvantage our manufacturers,” said Dr Kang during a discussion on race for developing a vaccine for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the India International Science Festival. So far, three companies have applied for emergency use authorisation with the country’s apex drug regulator Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). This includes Pfizer, which has already been given emergency approval in the United States and the United Kingdom. However, no bridging study on the immune response of Indians has been done so far. Only 4.3% of the participants in the global trial of the vaccine were Asians. The other two companies to have applied for emergency use authorisation are Serum Institute of India that will be manufacturing 1 billion doses of the vaccine developed by Oxford University along with pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca. A bridging study to gauge the immune response produced by Indians to the vaccine in 1,600 participants is being carried out. Others, such as the Russian Sputnik V is also conducting a phase III trial in India. “I think the bridging studies being conducted should not be termed as Phase III as they are just looking for immune response in the participants. They are not looking at finding the efficacy of the vaccine,” said Kang. The safety of the vaccine is determined in a small phase I trial, the immune response generated is studied in a slightly bigger phase II trial, and the protecting provided by a vaccine in field is gauged in a phase III trial. The third company to apply for the emergency license is Bharat Biotech that is currently conducting a phase III trial of 26,000 people across 25 sites in the country. Over 13,000 participants have already been recruited. The vaccine candidate was developed by the Indian company along with the Indian Council of Medical Research. “We will have real phase III data from Bharat Biotech and ZyCovD which is about to start phase III trial,” she said. She added, Dr Sanjay Rai, head of the department of community medicine at All India Institute of Medical Sciences and one of the lead investigators for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, said that people who have already been exposed to the natural infection should be excluded from the initial vaccine drives. “We know that the people who have had the infection are not susceptible to it for some time and thus can be excluded from the vaccine drives at the moment. The limited number of vaccines can initially be given to the most vulnerable – those in the high risk groups but haven’t had the infection. There are studies going on to look at how long does this natural immunity last; if we find out it doesn’t last long, they can be given the vaccine later on,” he said. As for the new UK variant, Dr Priya Abraham, director of National Institute of Virology – Pune said, “Even in the UK strain, the RBD protein is 99% identical to the Wuhan strain hence the vaccines are likely to be effective,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/approving-pfizer-based-on-global-study-may-impact-indian-vaccine-makers-kang/story-wIMhM2qttARHUCo9t8nWlK.html
24-12-2020||India||Allahabad HC quashes FIR over UP ‘jungle raj’ comment||The Allahabad high court has quashed a First Information Report (FIR) filed against a Twitter user who allegedly remarked that Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had transformed the administration of the state into “jungle Raj.”“Expressing dissent on law and order situation in the state is a hallmark of a constitutional liberal democracy like ours and the same is constitutionally protected under Article 19 of the Constitution (right of freedom of speech and expression),” the court said in its order, which was passed on November 23. A division bench comprising justice Pankaj Naqvi and justice Vivek Agarwal allowed a writ petition filed by Yashwant Singh, who allegedly made the remarks against UP CM on his Twitter handle. It quashed an FIR dated August 2, registered against the petitioner under Section 500 (defamation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66-D (offence of cheating by personation by using computer resource) of the Information Technology Act, 2008 at Bhognipur police station in Rama Bai Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh.The FIR alleged that Singh used his Twitter handle to remark that the chief minister of the state had transformed the state into a “jungle raj”. It also referred to abductions, demands for ransom and murders, the FIR said.The petitioner challenged the FIR, contending that he had been well within his constitutional right to freedom of speech under Article 19. Mere dissent does not amount to criminality and the FIR has been lodged only to coerce him to stop expressing dissent against the state government, the petitioner argued.Quashing the FIR and the consequential proceedings against the petitioner, the court said: “We, after analysing the above provisions regarding allegations made in the FIR, do not find even remotely a commission of offence under Section 66-D, as the said provision relates to cheating by personation. It is not the case of prosecution that while committing the overt act, the petitioner either tweeted using other’s Twitter handle...No offence under Section 66-D of IT Act is made out. Insofar as Section 500 IPC (defamation) is concerned, the same is also not made out, as the alleged tweet cannot be said to fall within the mischief of defamation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-hc-quashes-fir-over-up-jungle-raj-comment/story-BFlOagcbVwwHHFu27AhIRK.html
24-12-2020||India||China’s offer for disengagement in East Ladakh is a trap. Rejected||India will not accept the proposal of Chinese military commanders to turn the eight mountainous spurs jutting out of the Sirijap range into a no-troop area, people familiar with the matter said.Chinese commanders are understood to have proposed that Indian and Chinese troops move back to either side of the eight spurs that overlook the north bank of Pangong lake - named Finger 1 to 8 - and convert the area in between to a no-activity buffer zone, or a no-man’s land.This proposal doesn’t serve India’s interests since half of the eight spurs were under Indian control before the Chinese troops violated 30 years of written agreements to maintain peace and tranquillity along the LAC on May 5, 2020. And Indian troops patrolled up to the last one. The Chinese commanders are suggesting in the name of peace that Indian troops move back and make the area between first and last spur as a no troops area.ALSO WATCH | Army Chief Gen Naravane visits Ladakh; reviews situation along LAC As of now, both the Indian Army and the PLA are facing each other on Finger 4 with China ramping up infrastructure to Finger 8. The Indian Army and the PLA are deployed in proximity in the Gogra-Hot Springs area with up-gradation of military capabilities in the occupied Aksai Chin area.  Also Read: China’s new road cuts travel time to Karakoram Pass, raises red flags in Delhi“This proposal has been rejected. We cannot reward China for its transgressions. We want China to restore status quo ante and PLA to go back to its position as of April 2020,” a military commander said in New Delhi as Army Chief General MM Naravane wrapped up his visit to forward areas of the East Ladakh sector where tens of thousands of soldiers are deployed in sub-polar temperatures to match the PLA’s strength.One of the areas that General Naravane visited on Wednesday was the strategic heights of Rezang La and Rechin La on Kailash Ranges that was occupied by Indian troops in an overnight operation on August 29, a preemptive move designed to outclass the PLA that was trying to expand its footprint and reach the 1959 line on the south banks of the now nearly frozen lake. The Indian Army chief went to the south banks of Pangong Tso to ensure that the deployed troops are comfortable in sub-zero temperatures and the armor is fighting fit. The senior army officer said accepting the Chinese proposal would have amounted to ceding control over territory patrolled by Indian Army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police before Chinese troops started transgressions across the Indian perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).This aggressive approach of the PLA was the backdrop for the clash between Indian and Chinese patrols on the northern bank of Pangong lake on the night of May 5. Over the next few days and weeks, the face-off spread to some other parts of the East Ladakh sector including Galwan valley and Gogra-Hot Springs area near Kongka La area.Chinese forces have refused to back down over the past seven months and often try to suggest that Indian and Chinese troops should carry out a simultaneous withdrawal of troops. India, however, wants the PLA to take the first step back because it was the first to cross the red line and trigger the face-off.The bloody confrontation in Galwan valley in mid-June that led to the death of 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers has already eroded the semblance of trust on the Indian side. The PLA had provoked the violent scrap 10 days after its top generals had reached a broad understanding after three rounds of talks with Indian commanders on initiating disengagement at the standoff points.A senior army officer said there have been multiple proposals from PLA commanders since then but mostly appeared to be aimed at incentivising the Chinese troops for its transgressions. The Indian side has been firm on its demand that any disengagement and de-escalation must result in restoring the 20 April status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-offer-for-disengagement-in-east-ladakh-is-a-trap-rejected/story-FvW3GFnmLULlelWKlQRigI.html
24-12-2020||India||Covid-19 rules: List of states that have restricted New Year celebration||With the fresh threat of a new Covid strain detected in the UK and many countries isolating the United Kingdom in the last week of December, New Year celebration will be dim this time. Though the Covid-19 situation in India is looking up and the health ministry has confirmed that the new strain has not yet been detected in India, state governments are taking measures to avoid year end gathering. The first case in India was detected in January 2020. In the last 11 months, the Covid-19 curve took several unpredictable turns, shifting its epicentre from Kerala to Maharashtra to Delhi from time to time. But what remained constant is that the number of cases saw an uptick after festivals.Hence, states are on vigil as the festive week begins.MaharashtraMaharashtra has announced a seven-hour night curfew across the state from December 22 to January 5. As New Year celebration begins at 12 at night, effectively, there will be no midnight celebration in Mumbai, Goa this year.> On Christmas eve, Mumbai churches will not hold open-air masses and the number of visitors in churches will be monitored. The masses have to be conducted by 8pm.> No more than 200 people will be allowed in each mass.> There will be no change in the Standard Operating Procedures for restaurants in Mumbai.Tamil NaduPublic celebrations in restaurant, clubs, pubs, resorts, beach resorts, beaches have been banned across Tamil Nadu on both December 31 and January 1, 2021. So, Marina Beach which is a popular New Year party destination will remain out of bounds. However, there is no curfew in Tamil Nadu. Restaurants, pub, clubs and resorts will remain open and function normally adhering to Covid-19 guidelines.KarnatakaKarnataka has banned planned mass gatherings without social distancing in clubs, pubs, restaurants or in similar places from December 30 to January 2. Clubs, pubs and restaurants can’t host parties but will function normally abiding by Covid-19 guidelines. Starting from Wednesday, there will be night curfew between 10pm and 6am till January 2.RajasthanOn the lines of restrictions imposed during Diwali, the Rajasthan government has banned year end celebrations, public gathering. “People should celebrate New Year with family in their house, avoid overcrowding and do not burst fire crackers. It is necessary for the health of oneself and others. Rajasthan will strictly follow the directions issued by Supreme Court for all the states regarding corona,” chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted earlier.In Dehradun, the district administration has banned collective celebrations like parties at hotels, bars, restaurants and other public places on Christmas, New Year’s Eve and New Year to stop the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-19-restrictions-list-of-states-that-have-banned-new-year-celebration/story-He3KvYXEe1RpBib2Hv6LKP.html
24-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest updates: Govt should keep farm laws in abeyance, tweets P Chidambaram||As the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s new farm laws enters day 28 on Wednesday, there still appears to be an impasse between them and the Centre. As per Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, some farmer leaders from Uttar Pradesh met him and extended their support to the farm laws. He also said that these leaders did not even ask for amendments. There was a meeting between Bharatiya Kisan Union and the minister at Krishi Bhawan on Tuesday. Farmers intensified their agitation against the laws as Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was witness to a demonstration on black flags in Ambala city.The protesting farmers have said that they were prepared to celebrate the Republic Day with their own tractor rally on Delhi borders as no end seems to be in sight as the Centre and the farmers remain locked in a stalemate. Follow all live updates here:The govt has effectively aborted talks: Congress leader P Chidambaram“By taking an inflexible position that the farm laws will not be repealed, the government has effectively aborted the talks before they can be resumed. Government should heed the suggestion of the Supreme Court and keep the farm laws in abeyance during the period of the talks,” tweets senior Congress leader P Chidambaram. By taking an inflexible position that the farm laws will not be repealed, the government has effectively aborted the talks before they can be resumed.Government should heed the suggestion of the Supreme Court and keep the farm laws in abeyance during the period of the talks.Warn govt to take cognisance and find a solution soon, says BKU’s Yudhvir SinghBharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) Yudhvir Singh accuses government of trying to delay the issue and break farmers’ morale. “Government is taking our issues lightly, I’m warning them to take cognisance of this matter and find a solution soon,” says Singh.Want govt to take discussion forward with “open mind,” says YadavWe want to assure Centre that protesting farmers and unions are ready for a discussion with government. We’re waiting for government to take the discussion forward with an open mind & neat intention: Yogendra YadavGovt attempting to break our movement: Yogendra YadavGovt is constantly holding talks with so-called Farmers’ leaders and organisations, who’re not associated with our movement at all. This is an attempt to break our movement. Govt is dealing with protesting farmers, the way it deals with its opposition: Yogendra YadavGovt should come up with concrete proposal in writing, says Yadav“We urge the government not to repeat those meaningless amendments which we have rejected but come up with a concrete proposal in writing so that it can be made an agenda, and the process of negotiation can be started as soon as possible,” says Yogendra Yadav. We urge the govt not to repeat those meaningless amendments which we have rejected but come up with a concrete proposal in writing so that it can be made an agenda, and the process of negotiation can be started as soon as possible: Yogendra Yadav at Singhu border https://t.co/oAWu3hO97fGovt’s new letter “fresh attempt to defame”: Yogendra YadavSwaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav calls the government’s new letter “fresh attempt to defame farmers’ associations.” He further says, “United Farmers Front today has written a letter to govt. It states that govt shouldn’t question the letter written by United Farmers’ Front previously as it was a unanimous decision.”On 9th November, farmers will receive Rs 18,000 crores in their accounts: TomarOn 25th December, 9 crore farmers will receive Rs 18000 crores in their accounts as part of PM Kisan Saman Nidhi Yojna. PM will be the Chief Guest. By last evening, 2 crores farmers have registered themselves for this online event: Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh TomarConfederation of NGOs of Rural India submit signatures in support of farms lawsRepresentatives of Confederation of NGOs of Rural India meet Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and MoS Agriculture Kailash Choudhary, submit 3,13,363 signatures taken across 1 lakh villages in support of Centre’s three farm laws.Will bring more farm reforms in future, says Tomar“I would also like to thank banks, as they brought more than 1 crore farmers under Kisan Credit Card cover during pandemic and gave farmers Rs 1 lakh crores in last 8 months. We’ve undertaken some reforms and will bring more in future,” says Tomar.Will ensure farmers get the right price, says agriculture minister Tomar“Through various schemes, we will fill all gaps in agriculture sector, which will benefit farmers and ensure they get the right price...Even during Covid-19 pandemic, we saw that work related to farming and agriculture wasn’t affected,” says Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar.5 TMC MPs meet farmers at Singhu borderTMC MPs Derek O’Brien, Satabdi Roy, Prasun Banerjee, Pratima Mondal and Md Nadimul Haque interact with farmers from who are on a relay hunger strike at Singhu border. Delhi: On TMC chief Mamata Banerjee’s direction, 5 party MPs comprising Derek O'Brien, Satabdi Roy, Prasun Banerjee, Pratima Mondal & Md Nadimul Haque today met & interacted with farmers from who are on a relay hunger strike at Singhu border. pic.twitter.com/wdt0oDkU28If food scarcity hits the country, Kerala would be worst affected: CM VijayanKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the reason Kerala stood by the agitating farmers was that being a consumer state, Kerala was heavily dependent on farmers for food, and if a food scarcity crisis ever arose in the country, Kerala would be worst affected. Kerala stands in solidarity with agitating farmers: CM VijayanKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan extended his wishes to farmers on Farmers’ Day and ensured that Kerala stood with the agitating farmers. Vijayan said that the Centre should listen to the farmers’ demands and scrap the farm laws. ‘Tukde-tukde’ gang misleading farmers: MP minister Narottam Mishra Madhya Pradesh minister Narottam Mishra said that he could not understand what was ‘black’ in the farm laws and that nobody has been able to explain it as of yet. Mishra accused the ‘tukde-tukde’ gang for instigating and misleading farmers Farmers perform ‘havan’ at Ghazipur borderProtesting farmers performed ‘havan’ on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh which is recognised as Farmers’ Day.  #WATCH पूर्व प्रधानमंत्री चौधरी चरण सिंह की जयंती के अवसर पर गाज़ीपुर बॉर्डर पर किसान 'हवन' करते हुए। #farmersdayगाज़ीपुर बॉर्डर पर कृषि कानूनों के खिलाफ विरोध प्रदर्शन करते हुए किसानों को आज 26 दिन हो गए हैं। pic.twitter.com/3poaMJvthcModi govt should withdraw farm laws as gift on Farmers’ day, says farmerAs protests against the Centre’s farm laws continued, one of the protestors was quoted by ANI saying, “On Farmers Day, I want to say the same thing to the Modi government that we should give these gifts to us today by withdrawing the agricultural laws because today’s farmers are educated and they know about these laws.”We are ready to talk 24 hours but the govt does not want to talk because they have a problem: ProtestorFarmers are continuing to protest at the Singhu (Delhi-Haryana) border. One of the protestors said that the Centre’s letter proposing talks between the two aprties would be answered today. He also said that farmers were ready to talk 24 hours but it was the government that had a problem. DMK chief slams PM over not meeting farmersDMK chief MK Stalin slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not meeting farmers who have been protesting for almost a month around Delhi in the freezing cold. He also accused Tamil Nadu chief minister Palaniswami of ‘dancing to the PM’s tune’.Rajnath Singh wishes farmers on Farmers’ day, hopes they will end agitationDefence Minister Rajnath Singh wished farmers on Farmers’ Day and thanked them for providing the country with food security. Singh said that the government was holding talks with some of the protesting farmers with full sensitivity and hoped that the agitations would soon come to an end. Farmer union leaders to meet and decide next round of talks with CentreAbout 32 farmer union leaders will meet today to decide the next course of action, pertaining to further talks with the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-farmer-union-leaders-to-meet-and-decide-next-round-of-talks-with-centre/story-yBy8ryiy85i9gsjTItuZaK.html
24-12-2020||India||Delhi, UP governments spar over Covid testing, education||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were locked in a tussle on Wednesday over Covid-19 management and school education with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal hitting out at his Uttar Pradesh counterpart, Yogi Adityanath, over the quality of testing in India’s most populous state.The war-of-words came a day after Kejriwal announced that AAP will contest the 2022 assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, prompting criticism from UP’s basic education minister Satish Dwivedi over the state of government schools. On Wednesday, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia sought an open debate on education with top UP political leaders.“It seems like the good governance of the AAP in Delhi haunts Yogi Adityanath. The great work we have done on covid-19 management in Delhi is now being discussed by people across Uttar Pradesh. Unlike you, we did not have to resort to fake Covid-19 tests,” Kejriwal tweeted, sharing a news report alleging irregularities in Covid-19 testing in Uttar Pradesh. “Anyway, Manish (Sisodia) has accepted the invitation by your minister and he shall be in Lucknow on December 22 for a debate,” Kejriwal added.The UP government hit back.“As far as the fight against Covid-19 in Delhi is concerned, why did the central government have to intervene? Because they (AAP government) had failed… Mr Kejriwal is day dreaming,” said state minister Sidharth Nath Singh, referring to a raft of measures announced by the Centre in June and November to ramp up testing and curb the surge in infections in the Capital.Sisodia and Dwivedi publicly argued about the quality of education in the two states.On Tuesday, Dwivedi had invited Kejriwal and Sisodia for a visit to Uttar Pradesh and take a tour of government schools. In his UP polls announcement, Kejriwal had highlighted the conditions of healthcare facilities, schools, governance and law and order in Uttar Pradesh.In response, Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s education minister, said on Wednesday that he was ready for a public debate.“BJP leaders asked for a debate on school models. They challenged me for a visit and also an open debate. I accept both the challenges. Next Tuesday (Dec 22), I will be in Lucknow. Please let me know where to come for the debate and who to argue with – the chief minister, deputy CM or education minister of UP. Let’s have an open debate on government schools in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh… I have one request, please do not back down now,” he said, in a video briefing.The Delhi government is the first and the only one to spend 25% of its budget on schools… The plight of UP government schools is well-known widely… I urge Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath to improve the condition of schools in Uttar Pradesh,” he added.But Dwivedi dismissed the suggestion and called it childish.“I only reacted to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announcement that the party would contest the 2022 assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. And that there was no question of debating with him (Sisodia). I have several other commitments on that day and there’s no time to debate with him,” he added. “It is an attempt to gain some limelight.”“We have 1.59 lakh government primary and upper primary schools across Uttar Pradesh where 1.8 crore students are enrolled. It is almost Delhi’s total population. Whereas Delhi has 1,024 government schools,” the minister added.Singh also hit out at the AAP’s flagship mohalla, or neighbourhood, clinic initiative.“Mr Kejriwal keeps talking about Mohalla clinics. The BJP’s tele-consultation scheme is a far better one…As far as schools are concerned, they should go to the villages (in UP) and see. The people will tell them about what has changed in the last few years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-bjp-trade-barbs-over-covid-management-schools-in-up/story-AfJZiDv4rOEBa5lnGTDtOK.html
24-12-2020||Editorials||In Kashmir, the return of democracy||Local elections in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) are a significant moment in the political evolution of the new Union Territory. Ever since the state assembly was dissolved in 2018, and the state was subsequently bifurcated and turned into a Union Territory, it has witnessed a political vacuum — where voters haven’t really got an opportunity to express their aspirations and elect representatives, and political figures haven’t been able to channel citizen aspirations and shape policies and administrative action. For those worried about the democratic deficit in the new Union Territory, local elections come as a sign that India remains committed to the democratic path. A range of forces deserve credit for this development. The Union government and Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha pushed for the elections; the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration — a conglomeration of Kashmir’s regional parties that is opposed to the constitutional changes — showed courage and chose to express its opposition by participating in the democratic exercise; and security forces kept relative peace when terrorists, sent from across the border, sought to undermine the democratic process. The results are telling too. The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration has swept the Kashmir valley — the alliance, led by National Conference and Peoples Democratic Party, fought on a clear platform. It was opposed to the effective nullification of Article 370 and the dilution of statehood. While it is important to understand the role of local factors in determining local electoral outcomes, it cannot be denied that People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration’s win is also evidence that the mood on the Kashmiri street is opposed to the revocation of Article 370. This is a message to the Centre, which did not follow due process and adopt an adequate consultative approach when it took the decision, and has been unable to reach out to the Kashmiri street and persuade it of the rationale of the move. This trust deficit must not be allowed to grow. At the same time, the Bharatiya Janata Party has emerged as the single largest force, propelled by its win in Jammu and a breakthrough in limited parts in the valley. This reflects the greater support for the constitutional changes in Jammu. It also reflects the persistent divide in the state on religious and regional lines. Deepening the trust between Jammu and Kashmir, and between Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi must be core policy goals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-kashmir-the-return-of-democracy/story-G9HNTXJfCj5HW5xNexbjTO.html
24-12-2020||Editorials||Ensuring education for the marginalised students||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs on Tuesday announced that the Union government will increase its share of contribution to Post Matric Scholarship for students from the Scheduled Castes (SCs). The Centre’s assistance, which was around ₹1,100 crore annually during 2017-18 to 2019-20, will be around ₹6,000 crore annually during the 2020-21 to 2025-26 period. Under the scholarship scheme, the government provides financial assistance to SC students, whose household incomes are less than ₹250,000 annually, for higher education. The transfer of financial assistance to the students will be now in the Direct Benefit Transfer mode, preferably using the Aadhaar Enabled Payment System.This is a positive step to retain — and bring back — SC students in the schooling system who are often forced to drop out because their families are unable to meet schooling and related expenses, or have no choice but to join the informal sector workforce to supplement family incomes. While leaving school helps families tide over immediate economic challenges, such decisions rob students of the ability to access education, and of the opportunity to fulfil their potential.While ensuring more funds to retain students is commendable, the Centre must also iron out the systemic challenges that are dogging post-matric scholarships. Reports indicate unfortunate and inordinate delays, backlogs and improper disbursement, a blame game between the Centre and states over processes that need to be followed, and scams, misappropriations and non-allocations as far as the scholarship funds are concerned. Translate the positive decision into sound implementation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/ensuring-the-education-of-marginalised-students/story-kqYS7uQtKRCJybeFDFnBDI.html
24-12-2020||Editorials||The battle over the next Dalai Lama||Reincarnation is officially a geopolitical consideration. The United States (US) Congress has passed a Tibet Policy and Support Act that says the choice of the next Dalai Lama is the prerogative only of Tibetans. In addition, any attempt by the Chinese to interfere in the Dalai Lama’s succession would result in sanctions against that country. The Act is expected to be signed into law by President Donald Trump who made history by allowing Lobsang Sangay of the Tibet government-in-exile to make his first visit the US State Department. Washington has urged other governments to pass similar laws.While the Act reflects the Trump administration’s hard views on China, it also serves as a reminder of the coming global battle over the Dalai Lama’s succession. If traditional methods are followed, there will be a gap of over a decade before the 15th Dalai Lama will come of age. Beijing is fully expected to appoint its own Dalai Lama — and then use China’s economic and political influence to coerce other governments into recognising only their Dalai Lama. The new US law ensures that on reincarnation, Washington will stick to the straight and correct path. But other countries will find it harder to resist. One has only to see how Mongolia was brought to its knees after allowing the Dalai Lama to visit their country.This begs the question as to whether India needs to do more. New Delhi’s position has been that it does enough by playing host to the Dalai Lama, the government-in-exile and the largest Tibetan refugee population anywhere. Tibetan leaders are discouraged from expressing political views against China while on Indian soil. However, the Ladakh border clash has shown Beijing no longer feels the need to abide by such informal understandings. The Dalai Lama succession is the type of high stakes issue China will feel no reason to hold back on. India should prepare itself for a modern-day avatar aggression. One, it should officially declare that it believes the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan sect leaders outside of China have the final say in Tibetan spiritual issues. Two, it must review its present policies regarding Tibetan refugees whose numbers in India are shrinking rapidly. They provide an important source of legitimacy for Tibetan leaders in India but now number less than 75,000. Three, India must begin engaging with other governments and immunise them against the coming pretender to the Potala Palace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-battle-over-the-next-dalai-lama/story-jcLe6MFk6RVD0S5IopNMAJ.html
24-12-2020||Editorials||The debilitating impact of pollution on the economy||Delhi suffered the highest per-capita economic loss due to air pollution last year in India, according to a study published in The Lancet on Tuesday. The economic loss due to lost output from premature deaths and illness attributable to air pollution (outdoor and household) as a percentage of state GDP was 1.08% in Delhi. The highest loss to GDP was recorded by Uttar Pradesh (2.15%), followed by Bihar (1.95%), Madhya Pradesh (1.70%) and Rajasthan (1.70%). Overall deaths and disease due to air pollution, according to The Lancet, is responsible for a loss of 1.36% of the nation’s GDP. The impact of air pollution on the economy can be deep, yet not immediately obvious. For example, higher rates of asthma, diabetes or chronic respiratory diseases can lead to reduced ability to work and lower participation rates in the labour force. Children susceptible to asthma attacks also miss school days, which can severely impact their learning and subsequently future growth, while health care requirements can result in their parents taking extra time off from work. Deaths of children and young people bring an economic cost through lost contributions to society and the economy, which can be large. Earlier this year, a study released by MIT Sloan said that a large-scale review demonstrates that air pollution is not only detrimental to people’s physiological health, but also their psychological health. It increases depression, and impairs cognitive functioning and decision-making. In a developing country such as India, there is a continuing debate on carbon-intensive growth versus environment and health. But as The Lancet study shows, increasing pollution load is erasing the very economic and human development gains that the country aspires to achieve. The pollution-related losses will also hit the poorer states with weaker social infrastructure harder, deepening the already existing social and economic inequities further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-debilitating-impact-of-pollution-on-the-economy/story-pbRMLoPF6j01JmysGZeoeK.html
