26-12-2020||News||Indoor air pollution: Don’t brush it aside||Last week, The Lancet had some grim news for India: Air pollution killed 1.7 million Indians in 2019, said a report published in the journal. Outdoor air pollution is not only increasing, but also killing more: The death rate from outdoor air pollution has increased during this period by 115%, it warned. There was, however, a sliver of good news: Indoor, or household, air pollution (IAP) caused 64% fewer deaths in the last two decades (1990-2019). The use of traditional biomass and cookstoves is one of the key causes of IAP; incomplete combustion of biomass produces a range of toxic gases. According to the World Health Organization, one of the most dangerous types of pollution is perhaps the most familiar: Smoke. Burning fuels such as dung, wood and coal in inefficient stoves or open hearths produces a variety of health-damaging pollutants, including particulate matter (PM), methane, carbon monoxide, polyaromatic hydrocarbons and volatile organic compounds. According to the 2011 Census, about 65.9% of India’s households depend on solid biomass, including firewood, crop residue, and cow dung, as the primary fuel for cooking. In 2019, nearly 0.6 million Indians died due to IAP, said a report published by the US-based think tank, Health Effects Institute. Unsurprisingly, women bear the brunt “black roofs, black lungs”.Experts say two central schemes — the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (that provides LPG connections to Below Poverty Line families) and the Unnat Chulha Abhiyan (that promotes improved biomass cookstove) — are saving people from the ill effects of IAP. In addition, a range of civil society groups are helping in awareness-building, extending access to clean-cooking solutions (forced draught, natural draught, induction cooktops and solar cooktops), and making affordable products and technologies available to users. The positive news on IAP in The Lancet report should not make us complacent. There are two challenges when it comes to containing IAP: One, ensuring the sustained adoption and usage of clean-cooking tech, which still is a challenge despite the government, private players, funding agencies, and NGOs pushing the pedal on capital infusion, technology development and clean cooking programmes. There are a number of reasons for this, ranging from culturally unsuitable designs to programmatic challenges. “In the absence of a shared understanding on what constitutes adoption of clean-cooking solutions and accepted indicators according to which programmes can be understood and evaluated, there is a lack of clarity and agreement on both the barriers that need to be overcome and the drivers that need to be fuelled to address this challenge,” explains Rewasa Nishchal, lead, Clean Cooking Initiative, Tata Trusts. Since women are key to the use and popularisation of clean-cooking technologies (though they are not always the decision-makers when it comes to buying/installing them), Tata Trusts is trying to nudge behaviourial change through awareness-building on the deleterious and long-term impacts of IAP on women’s health. In four states, Tata Trusts has distributed “wellness COEL bangles”, which can detect the presence and level of IAP, particularly CO, in a room, to rural women. Once the level of CO inside a room exceeds an acceptable range, alarms and pre-loaded audio messages warn the bangle-user to exit the polluted zone. The second IAP challenge is to ensure that people don’t opt for dirty fuels as their secondary fuel option for cooking. Unfortunately, this seems to have happened due to Covid-19. The lockdown saw more meals being cooked at home than usual. This may have led to an almost 2% — or about 150 tons per day — increase in total household PM 2.5 emissions in the country, according to the preliminary findings of a study being conducted by World Resources Institute (WRI) India. In predominantly rural states, the average ambient PM2.5 concentration ranges from 22 to 112 µg/m3, while indoor PM2.5 concentration ranges from 106 to 512 µg/m3. The finding of high indoor PM2.5s suggests a need for more awareness and cleaner-fuel use applications, including a reliable LPG stream, to ensure that people don’t use dirty secondary fuel. “Studies must consider primary and secondary fuel users and PM2.5 exposure for reporting the risk and air pollution emissions results,” says Ajay Nagpure, head of WRI-India’s air pollution division. In discussions on air pollution, IAP often loses out to outdoor pollution. But as the extent of the challenge shows, IAP is an equally big problem. Let’s not brush it under the carpet.kumkum.dasgupta@htlive.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/indoor-air-pollution-don-t-brush-it-aside/story-GVnPt0KpCAJlTEl1P0BTMO.html
26-12-2020||News||2020: The people vs the Indian State||Three events defined India’s political landscape in 2020. The protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), the migrant labour crisis that unfolded as workers defied lockdown orders and asserted their rights, choosing to walk home in the face of adversity, and agitating farmers knocking on Delhi’s doorstep. Voters continue to invest their faith in the ruling dispensation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity is unshaken, and India’s political opposition remains moribund. Yet these protests and assertion of rights represent a critical juncture in our politics. Democracy is defined as much by elections as it is by social processes that moderate State power. This is the power of protests and their centrality in India’s current political moment. As we look back at 2020, it is worth reflecting on the possibilities and limitations of our politics, expressed through these critical events.The year 2020 dawned with protests against CAA. Secularism’s last sigh, CAA protesters raised a brief glimmer of hope for a new politics. A politics that could free us from the opportunistic secularism of the past and the Hindutva juggernaut of the present by upholding constitutional values and redefining secularism. But the protests were also an expression of deep anxiety among India’s Muslims, increasingly alienated by a politics that uses the State machinery to strengthen its ideological project and normalise prejudice. These anxieties are a reminder of why the grammar of secularism is so central to India’s post-colonial project of nation-building. The ethos of secularism is a necessary antidote to communalisation and politicisation of religion, and the violence that these can unleash.It is a measure of just how deep the politics of prejudice has penetrated the Indian State that within weeks the CAA protests became an instrument in the hands of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to deepen communal polarisation. Politicians and mobs could chant “goli maro…..” with visible State sanction, while the political opposition, caught in its own cynical opportunism, afraid of alienating the Hindu vote, watched in quiet acquiescence.The pandemic enabled the State to crush protests, use its coercive powers to intimidate citizens and deepen prejudice with “love jihad” laws. In the aftermath of the protests, CAA and National Register of Citizens have receded to the background, but the political project has emerged stronger. Politics around the protests exposed the extent to which mainstream party politics is being shaped by the Hindutva consensus and how deep Muslim anxieties now run. This anxiety is giving way to new forms of political expression, illustrated in the success of Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen in the Bihar elections. The quest for a secular political ethos will likely turn on whether these new sites of electoral competition will pry open an alternative politics or deepen exclusionary politics. This is the question that will shape India’s democratic future in 2021 and beyond.Once the pandemic hit, elites across the political divide coalesced around the global pursuit of flattening the curve through lockdowns. Fear of the virus overrode any consideration of the disastrous consequences of a freeze in economic activity, particularly on informal workers. The prime minister called for India to gather in solidarity as the nation went to war against Covid-19. India’s elite and middle classes responded with enthusiasm, banging thalis and lighting lamps in support of “corona warriors”. But a far larger hitherto invisible group of citizens rose in defiance. Stripped of their livelihood, India’s workers refused to be locked down. They wanted to make their way home. And when the State blocked transport, they walked. This was not an act of desperation. It was an act of power. An assertion of rights and dignity against a State that routinely abandoned them. Nine months later, the ravages of the lockdown have failed to translate into a political demand for deepening the welfare State, for redistribution or even a modicum of economic relief through cash transfers and expanded social protection. Instead the economic damage caused has been leveraged to introduce labour reforms and in some states, an attempt to dismantle all forms of labour protection in the name of attracting capital. A politics that is based on rights and the promise of equal citizenship remains a distant dream even as India aspires to the increasingly distant goal of becoming a $5-trillion economy.There is one silver lining. Despite the resurgence of lockdowns in parts of Europe and the United States, after the horrors of April and May, India has, thus far, resisted succumbing to large-scale lockdowns even when cases surge. Implicit in this resistance is a powerful truth about democracy. Even the most invisible voices can make themselves heard and delegitimise the use of brute State power.As 2020 comes to a close, agitating farmers have occupied highways, converting them into new sites of protest. Much has been written about the agriculture laws, the processes through which they were legislated and their economic merits and de-merits. But the debate has yet to acknowledge the underlying political economy that is driving these protests: The failure to build a credible consensus on pathways for achieving India’s much-belated agrarian transition. This is not a debate that can be had in binaries of free markets vs State control nor can these protests be explained by elite capture seeking to retain the status quo, although it is easy to interpret the protests, as many supporters of the agriculture laws have done, through this lens.These protests draw their legitimacy from the lived experience of fractured growth driven by oligarchic capitalism and a discredited State. The frequent invocation of some of these people in these protests is not because the farmers’ protests have been captured by the Left, but rather because India’s path to capitalism is yet to demonstrate its ability to create genuinely free markets and a politics that enables widespread prosperity. Farmer fears and anxieties of losing bargaining power when confronted with big business and a compromised State are far more genuine than most of us would like to admit. Our debates on economic reforms and the politics that shapes them must confront this reality.Bringing India on to a sustainable path of long-term growth and charting a new course for agrarian transitions will require a politics of trust, credibility, inclusion and consensus building. The government may still brazen it out, but the policy agenda and credibility is considerably weakened. A divisive, polarising rhetoric, populist leadership and coercion can help propel parties to power, even in functioning democracies. But the everyday practice of democracy remains a powerful corrective.This is the real lesson that the BJP ought to learn from India’s agitating farmers and protesting citizens. Rather than discredit the protesters, the BJP will do well to recognise the democratic lessons they offer. As 2020 closes, India’s future hangs in balance.(Yamini Aiyar is president and chief executive, Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/2020-the-people-vs-the-indian-state/story-dEpgCVr3K61RZWfCdqvMyH.html
26-12-2020||Gurugram||Heavy traffic congestion on Delhi-Jaipur highway; hundreds of trucks stuck||Heavy traffic congestion was witnessed on Delhi-Jaipur Highway on Saturday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest at Jaisinghpur Khera, located near Shahjahanpur in Alwar district, at the Rajasthan-Haryana border. A large number of trucks and containers were seen stuck near Bawal as the Rewari Police diverted vehicular traffic headed to Kotkasim in Rajasthan to Jaipur. Authorities were forced to divert the traffic towards Kotkasim from Kasola Chowk after farmers blocked both sides of the carriageway of the Delhi-Jaipur highway on Friday afternoon. Sub-inspector Hawa Singh, who was posted at a flyover near Kasola Chowk on Rewari-Kotkasim Road said that they have stopped traffic towards Jaipur from Friday afternoon after both the carriageways were blocked. “The vehicles take a left towards Kotkasim and from there they move onwards on internal roads towards Behrore onwards to Jaipur,” said Singh. Traffic jam was witnessed as vehicles got stuck near Kasola Chowk onwards to Kotkasim on Saturday afternoon as commuters tried to find their way onwards to Rajasthan. “My wife is expecting and I don’t know where this road will take us. Lot of people like us are stuck in jam,” Ravi Beniwal, a commuter. Rajesh Kumar, a truck driver, whose vehicle was being used by police to block the road towards Jaipur said they had been standing there since last evening. “We have just had our lunch and don’t know when the situation will normalise. There are hundreds of trucks that are stuck on the main road and parked at petrol pumps. We were going to Mumbai from Karnal,” he said. A commuter who had managed to come to Haryana after crossing the border on foot said that vehicles from Jaipur to Delhi have also been diverted at around three to four places to avoid the blockade. “People are facing lot of trouble due to blockade. Locals who cross the border for work will suffer from Monday onwards,” said Kushal Singh, a resident of Behror. Commuters on the highway said congestion was also witnessed at Masani barrage where traffic police had set up a diversion towards Rewari. “There is a need to remove this blockade at the earliest as local industry and transporters are also suffering,” said Ram Kumar Yadav, resident of Dharuhera. Ram Murthy Joshi, SP , Bhiwadi said, “Both carriageways are blocked and routes have been diverted to ensure commuters get passage to cross the stretch.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/heavy-traffic-congestion-on-delhi-jaipur-highway-hundreds-of-trucks-stuck/story-ENaUuhBWJTVbN0UTBXNfhO.html
26-12-2020||Gurugram||15 UK returnees untraceable;seven refuse to get tested for Covid-19||At least 15 returnees from the United Kingdom, who arrived in Gurugram in the last two weeks, cannot be traced by the district health department due to incorrect contact details furnished by them. Additionally, seven travellers have refused to get themselves tested for Covid-19. A senior official said that legal action will be taken against such people for not following the government rules and for failing to help the government to identify people who might be infected with new strain of SARS-CoV-2 virus.The list of the untraceable travellers has been already shared with the Gurugram Police, according to the health department as they have to administer Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test. Until Saturday, out of 411 travelers who arrived in Gurugram after December 9, at least 288 have given their samples for testing.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer(CMO), said, “In compliance with the government guidelines, we have to test every traveller who arrived from the UK in the last two months. Presently, 15 people are untraceable due to incorrect addresses or mobile numbers, which are not reachable. The list has been shared with the commissioner of police Gurugram to trace the people.”He said, at least seven travellers are reluctant to get themselves tested. “Our teams are constantly trying to motivate them but they have refused to give their samples for testing,” said Yadav, who issued a press statement on Saturday, asking UK returnees to come forward for testing. It said that despite several efforts some returnees are not getting themselves tested. If they continue to do so,action will be taken against them against Section 188 of IPC for not complying with the government rules.K K Rao, commissioner of police, Gurugram, said, “The investigation will begin once we receive the list from the health department. We will trace the UK returnees by reaching out to the embassy for correct contact details.”Yadav said that the immediate contacts of such travellers should also quarantine themselves. Following the recent standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the union ministry of health and family welfare, the district health department will have to monitor cases through calls or visits, and collect samples if they develop symptoms like cough, cold, fever or breathlessness for 28 days from the date of arrival from the UK.On Thursday night, the health department received a list of 695 travellers who arrived in Gurugram from the UK from November 25 onwards. Out of these, 411 people have to be administered with the RT-PCR test. Of the 411, at least 256 have given their samples to the district health department and 32 to private labs. About 101 travellers moved back to other states or cities and their names have been provided to the state governments. Yadav has already directed private labs to collect samples from homes, if approached by any UK returnee and preserve additional sample in case a person is tested positive, for genome sequencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/15-uk-returnees-untraceable-seven-refuse-to-get-tested-for-covid-19/story-ErvjaCSq1ddwLepuuB8LXI.html
26-12-2020||Gurugram||22-year-old woman kills self; family accuses cops of harassment||A 22-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide at her residence in Rajender Park area on Saturday. Her family alleged that she had committed suicide due to “humiliation and torture” by Faridabad Police.As per the complaint, a crime unit of Sector 19 of Faridabad Police raided the house of a person named Shankar, who has been accused in a case of a cyber crime, on Thursday night. Family members of the accused alleged they were tortured the entire night in their house, taken to the crime unit in Faridabad next morning and subjected to third-degree abuse. They alleged that the deceased woman, who was the sister of the accused, committed suicide due to “humiliation and torture” of the family by the police.Naintara, the wife of the accused, claimed she was unaware about the activities of her husband. “Whenever I asked him about his work, he used refused to divulge anything,” she said. According to Naintara, a police team knocked on her house on Thursday night and the moment she opened the door they slapped her and asked her about her husband. “They made me and my sister-in-law law(victim) stand in a corner of the house and kicked us They took me into a police van and physically abused me in the moving van,” said Naintara.Sandeep, a relative of the accused, in his complaint filed with Rajendra Park police station, mentioned that he received a call from the deceased seeking help. “She told me that Naitara was picked up by the police. At around 6.30am on Friday, I reached her home. The moment I got inside the house, cops took away my mobile, wallet and everything I had. They abused me and other members of the family. They took us to the crime unit of Sector 19 in Faridabad. They forced me to stand naked and subjected me to police torture,” said Sandeep. Later in the evening they were released and they came back to Gurgaon and narrated the entire incident to the victim. Fearing police action, the victim committed suicide. “We came back and shared our ordeal with the victim. I told her that if Shankar was not caught soon the police will treat her in a similar manner. Fearing police torture, she committed suicide,” alleged Naintara.Spokesperson of Faridabad police, Sube Singh, said Shankar and few others have been accused in a case of cyber fraud wherein they used to clone SIM cards of people in the name of porting their phone numbers. They used to empty out the bank account of the target. A case in this regard is registered at the cyber police station of Faridabad.“The Faridabad police team was in Gurgaon on Thursday to arrest Shankar. He tried to run over the cops with his bike and managed to escape with the help of his family members. Faridabad police has registered a case at Badhshahpur police station in this regard against Shankar and his family members for obstructing government work and attacking policemen. Those who helped the accused will be arrested soon,” said Singh, adding that the family members were never tortured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/22-year-old-woman-kills-self-family-accuses-cops-of-harassment/story-wx79QHPw7LSAHLkUwlI4pL.html
26-12-2020||City||Mumbai civic body begins testing of 187 UK returnees for new Covid-19 strain||In an attempt to identify and prevent the spread of the new Covid-19 variant in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday started testing 187 passengers who had arrived from the United Kingdom (UK) earlier this week. According to BMC officials, the results of all these passengers will be out by Monday.A BMC official said, “187 passengers who are currently quarantined in hotels in the city will be tested in two batches on Saturday and Sunday. The results of those who were tested on Saturday will be out on Sunday.”Along with the UK returnees, those passengers who reached the city from the Middle East and Europe earlier this week will also be tested. Over 1,000 passengers from the UK, Europe and Middle East have been quarantined since December 21 amid the fear of new Covid-19 variant. Passengers from South Africa have been quarantined from Saturday but a decision on their testing will be taken later.“The samples of those who test positive will be sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for detecting the new Covid-19 strain reported in the UK. Such patients will also be hospitalised,” the official said. Earlier this week, around 590 passengers arrived from the UK to Mumbai on three flights. Of these, 187 passengers were quarantined, while the others were permitted to leave as they were not residents of Mumbai. Of the passengers from Europe and the Middle East who had arrived to Mumbai this week, 820 fliers have also been quarantined at different hotels in Mumbai till Friday. BMC is tracing more than 1,500 passengers who had arrived from the UK in the past one month to test them for the new strain. Officials, however, said that there is no proposal to trace passengers who arrived in Mumbai from Europe and Middle East in the past one month. The civic body said it will wait for the Covid-19 test results of these passengers before going ahead with any further relaxations, especially concerned with the reopening of schools or restarting the local trains for all after December 31. Suresh Kakani, additional civic commissioner, said, “No decision has been taken on restarting local trains for all or reopening schools. The proposal has to come from the state government. But whether we are in a position to reopen schools and restart locals for all is something we’ll have to decide after considering the situation in the coming days. One of the factors will also be detection of the new Covid-19 strain. For now, our focus is on quarantining and testing passengers from the UK, Europe, the Middle and South Africa to detect the new strain.”However, state’s Covid-19 task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said the new variant detection should not affect the decision to unlock the city. “There’s no harm in unlocking with Covid-appropriate behaviour in the coming days. The detection of the new strain, if any, shouldn’t impact the unlocking. But we should be prepared for a surge, say around two weeks after the New Year,” he said.On November 20, BMC had decided to keep all the schools for Class 9 to Class 12 closed till December 31, owing to the fear of a second wave around Diwali. In the case of local trains, the state government had given its consent to the Centre to restart locals for all in the last week of October, but the decision was not implemented owing to the fear of the second wave. Meanwhile, 536 cases were reported in Mumbai on Saturday, taking the tally to 290,336. The toll is at 11,068 after 12 deaths. Around 2.7 lakh patients have recovered from the virus. The city’s recovery rate is around 93%, while fatality stands at 3.8%. There are 8,262 active cases in Mumbai. One hot spot that has shown signs of drastic improvement – Dharavi – recorded only one Covid-19 case on Saturday, taking its tally to 3,789. Of these, 3,464 patients have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-civic-body-begins-testing-of-187-uk-returnees-for-new-covid-19-strain/story-j5URcqNwQ7HFAMArMr0SLO.html
26-12-2020||Gurugram||Colleges to create bank of pre-recorded lecture videos||The state higher education department has asked teaching staff across colleges in the state to share recorded video lectures, which will be used as e-content for the ongoing academic session. College heads said that the video lecturers will serve as additional learning resources for students, especially those who are not able to take regular online or physical classroom sessions.In a directive shared with colleges earlier this week, the higher education department said that regular teaching staff would need to contribute recorded lecture videos for the development of e-content for the academic session 2020-21. The department has said that the faculty needs to submit at least one recorded lecture video pertaining to a topic on a given subject. The topics on which the videos will be submitted are being handled by nodal officers of different colleges.Ramesh Garg, principal of Government Girls College, Sector 14, said that nodal officers for different subjects had earlier been appointed to helm the generation of e-content for this year in view of the pandemic. “If all faculty members across colleges in the state can pitch in with recorded lecture videos pertaining to a particular topic, the department will be able to put in place a bank of learning resources. While discussion is a major constituent of live online classes, these videos will act as a content resource for revision,” said Garg.Garg said that the pool of videos created would cover different content in line with the syllabus and can be used as an online learning resource once it’s ready. “In normal times, students used to have physical notes and other resources at their disposal but the pandemic has hastened the shift towards digital education. The videos that will be put together will serve as an online bank for students in addition to the classes that they take,” said Garg. He said that students will be able to benefit from videos from different teachers across the state under this e-content initiative.Dr Satyamanyu Yadav, principal, Government College in Sector 9, said that the lecture videos that will be recorded will serve as an e-resource for students. “Teachers will prepare lecture videos that will be transmitted through existing television broadcast mechanism. Further, they will be uploaded to an e-content library being created by the department. If there are students struggling with bandwidth issues or those who are unable to tune in regularly to online classes, they can rely on these video lecturers,” said Yadav. He said that students could download the necessary videos and use them offline for revision when required. “Sometimes, students miss out on live online classes that are being held daily. In such a situation, they can use their downloaded lecture videos,” said Yadav.The directive undersigned by the project officer, EDUSAT for the higher education department, stated that lecturers would need to discuss learning objectives and references used by them for preparing the lecture videos. “The lecture should begin by discussing the learning objectives and references used by the resource person. Besides the video, lecturers need to submit a document outlining the same,” said the officer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/colleges-to-create-bank-of-pre-recorded-lecture-videos/story-CuxTyIA5RppmQHPXtOOorJ.html
26-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG starts preparation to achieve water plus tag in upcoming Swachh Sarvekshan||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has started a survey of all the drainage pipelines across the city to check if the lines are connected to the nearest sewage treatment plant (STP) and whether they need to be upgraded for ensuring the same.The main purpose of the survey is to help the civic body to achieve the water plus certification for Gurugram, said officials.A city is declared water plus if all wastewater generated from households, commercial buildings, and industries flows to the STP for treatment.In the upcoming 2021 Swachh Survekshan Survey, a water plus certification carries 200 points. The certification was introduced by the Central government in August 2019.“We are looking to turn Gurugram into a water plus city at the earliest, and work in this regard has started. We are surveying areas across the city to check the on-ground status of drainage pipelines and accordingly take action for laying fresh lines or repairing existing drainage lines if the need arises,” said Dheeraj Kumar, joint commissioner, Swachh Bharat Mission, MCG.At several areas in the city, especially those in Old Gurugram, where the drainage lines were established much before the MCG came to formation in 2008, sewerage and stormwater lines tend to mix with each other.MCG officials said that the survey will also identify such sites in the city so that drains can be accordingly altered or laid anew.Kumar also said that the MCG is also simultaneously working on a plan to lay pipelines from the city’s STPs to the nearest green belts, parks or construction sites so that recycled water can flow to such sites for irrigation and construction purposes.He said that the MCG has already laid such a pipeline in a gated township in Sector 49.The city has STPs at Behrampur and Dhanwapur. The two plants together have the capacity of treating more than 400 MLD (million litres daily) of wastewater on a daily basis, said MCG officials. In a nutshell, the process of treating wastewater in an STP starts with the sewage being stored inside a tank. In the tank, the solid or heavier waste sinks to the bottom.The heavier waste or sludge is then removed from the wastewater entirely while the rest of the wastewater is once again filtered to remove smaller particles.Subsequently, the wastewater is left alone for a short period of time to naturally bio-degrade. In the last stage, tertiary treatment is carried out to remove phosphate and other chemicals.The treatment of wastewater holds importance as a January 2019 GMDA report stated that at least 80 MLD of untreated sewage water enters the storm water drains daily which, apart from posing health hazards,pollute the underground water table and nearby water bodies. This also causes waterlogging during the monsoon season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-starts-preparation-to-achieve-water-plus-tag-in-upcoming-swachh-sarvekshan/story-4fQFasI2wXqxpO909ILxTP.html
26-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Woman attempts to end her life by jumping from elevated road in Sector 21||Noida: A 20-year-old woman allegedly tried to take her own life on Saturday afternoon by jumping from the Noida elevated road near Sector 21. She is currently undergoing treatment at a government hospital in Delhi, police said.Police officials said that the incident took place around 1.30pm. “She was immediately rushed to a private hospital nearby from where she was referred to a higher centre in Delhi,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1.The police said that the reason for her attempted suicide is unclear at the moment.“She lived with her family in the area under the Sector 20 police jurisdiction and was training to be a seamstress. However, the family could not provide any details about problems she may have been facing. No suicide note was recovered from her, and we are not able to question her as she is yet to regain consciousness,” said a senior police official.Two die by suicideIn a separate incident, two persons, working at a company under the Kasna police jurisdiction, allegedly took their own lives within hours of each other.“The first suicide was reported last night when a 19-year-old youth took his own life. Today afternoon, the suicide of a 22-year-old woman was also discovered. They both worked in the same company, but so far they appear to be completely unrelated,” said Vivek Triwedi, SHO, Kasna police station.Police officials said that the reason behind the two suicides are unclear. “The woman had even informed her husband today about the first suicide, and when he came back home in the afternoon she was already dead by then. She had a 2.5 years old boy also,” said the SHO.The police are investigating possible connections between the two cases. Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-woman-attempts-to-end-her-life-by-jumping-from-elevated-road-in-sector-21/story-Wv2EoXBX7fNd0wYGsVwkvI.html
26-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Health dept conducts tests of 260 travellers from UK, 2 found positive for Covid-19||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar health department has conducted RT-PCR testing of 260 returnees from the United Kingdom. Officials said that test results of around 140 travellers have been received, and two of them have tested positive for Covid-19. In the wake of the rise of a new variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus in the UK, the district administration has prepared a list of 425 passengers who have arrived from that country in the past 30 days. While all of them have been asked to serve the mandatory 28-day home quarantine, the district health department has started RT-PCR testing of 260 of them who have come to India after December 8, the officials said. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the Covid-19 control room is keeping a close eye on all the 425 travellers. “So far, we have got results of RT-PCR tests of around 140 travellers, of which two have been tested positive. Both the infected patients have been admitted to an isolation ward at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida,” he said. The new variant, referred to as Sars-CoV-2 VUI 202012/01 (Variant Under Investigation, year 2020, month 12, variant 01), was detected in the UK earlier this month and reported to be highly transmissible.The DM said that the presence of new variant of the virus among the positive patients can only be ascertained through genomic sequencing. “Their samples have been sent to ICMR laboratory in New Delhi. But, since they were negative in their RT-PCR tests two weeks ago in the UK, it is expected that they are having only common Covid-19 infection. If the new variant of Sars-CoV-2 is found in their samples, the patients will continue to remain in the isolation unit for another 14 days, when they will be tested again,” he said. GB Nagar chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that all the 185 international travellers from the UK, who arrived in India between November 25 and December 8, will be contacted by district surveillance officials. “As per the standard operating procedure of the state government, those who had arrived from the UK between November 23 and December 8 had to be in mandatory 28-day home quarantine. If anyone among them develops symptoms, we’ll take their samples for RT-PCR,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-health-dept-conducts-tests-of-260-travellers-from-uk-2-found-positive-for-covid-19/story-wEmKuAFQC68jXrrtSpHViJ.html
26-12-2020||Noida||Respite from cold wave likely for 2 days as mercury may rise||Noida: The city is likely to get a respite from the cold wave for the next two days. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), due to change in the weather conditions and approaching western disturbance – a phenomenon that leads to snowing in the northern Himalayan states and temporary change in the wind directions – the mercury is set to rise by three degrees Celsius on Sunday and Monday. However, the minimum temperatures will drop sharply, leading to much harsher weather conditions from Tuesday onwards, IMD said. “There is a western disturbance approaching, which would change the current wind directions from icy cold north-westerly to warmer south-easterly and easterly. This would raise the morning time temperatures and provide temporary relief to the region from cold waves. The morning hours will, however, see shallow to moderate fog,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. On Saturday, the minimum and maximum temperatures for Noida were recorded at 6.2 degrees Celsius and 20.7 degrees Celsius, against 7.2 and 21.6 degrees a day earlier. Meanwhile, the average minimum and maximum temperatures for NCR based on the Safdarjung observatory were recorded at 4.4 degrees Celsius and 21.9 degrees Celsius, against 4.6 and 22.4 a day earlier. “The minimum and maximum temperatures on Sunday could rise by two to three degrees Celsius. The wind speed would be around 12 kmph,” said an official at IMD. The Met officials, however, said that the relief from the cold waves would be temporary as the weather conditions will revert and mercury will fall sharply towards Tuesday, giving a harsh weather conditions towards the year-end. “From Tuesday onwards, the wind directions would revert to icy cold north-westerly that would bring the mercury down with minimum temperature likely to hover around 3 degrees Celsius, giving a cold year-end,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/respite-from-cold-wave-likely-for-2-days-as-mercury-may-rise/story-mbMu0NIpTFnCBUDzD9JAPK.html
26-12-2020||Noida||Tikait’s remarks at Palwal stoke controversy||Ghaziabad: The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader, Rakesh Tikait, has landed in controversy over his alleged remarks in which he claimed that “temples” and “pandits” (priests) were not “giving enough support” to ongoing farmers’ agitation. A purported video of the Tikait’s address to the protesting farmers in Haryana’s Palwal has recently surfaced on social media. Tikait allegedly made some derogatory remarks against priests in the purported video. Tikait, who is also the national spokesperson of BKU, is spearheading protests at the UP Gate in Ghaziabad where thousands of farmers from Punjab and Uttarakhand have joined in since November 28 against the Centre’s new farm laws. Tikait, however, said on Saturday that he did not make any derogatory comments but some people were unnecessarily trying to create a controversy. He said that he was just urging priests in temples to come forward and support farmers. “They are coming to our protest site but not showing up. They are distributing some sweets like ‘kheer,’ ‘laddus’ and ‘gur’. They should come up with banners if they are helping farmers,” Tikait said at the UP Gate on Saturday. Tikait also posted several tweets in which he stated that it was a plan to create a divide. “Even after this, if someone got hurt, I am ready to apologise hundred times. Rakesh Tikait is nothing. Rakesh Tikait’s ego is not bigger than the agitation. Country is above all,” Tikait said in a tweet. Over the issue, ‘Zila Brahmin Samaj’ of Palwal has raised objections about the alleged remarks by Tikait. The association’s senior vice-president Pandit Subhash Sharma said a complaint has been given in this regard to Sadar police station in Palwal for registering an FIR against Tikait. Vijaypal Singh, deputy superintendent of police, Palwal, said that the matter will be first investigated. “If the complaint is given by the association, we will get it inquired/investigated before lodging any FIR,” he added. Mahant Narayan Giri, caretaker of ancient Dudheshwar Nath Temple in Ghaziabad, also criticised the remarks allegedly made by Tikait. “His remarks cannot be justified at all. I know that his father (BKU founder Mahendra SinghTikait) had sent donations to our temple. He was a very noble man. Further, if temples or priests help out people, they don’t put up banners or posters to show that they contributed,” Mahant Giri said.Meanwhile, the Ghaziabad police on Saturday evening said that they have registered an FIR under IPC section 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) against an unidentified person who allegedly issued threats to Tikait. “After receiving a complaint stating that an unidentified person has issued death threat to Rakesh Tikait, we have registered an FIR at Kaushambi police station. Surveillance teams have been roped in to find out the suspect,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram). “We have given a police complaint with regard to threats issued to me. The caller said that he has plans to kill me and also said that I had asked for donations from temples. He said he was calling from Bihar,” Tikait told reporters at UP Gate.Shamsher Rana, national media co-ordinator of BKU, confirmed that a police complaint was given on Saturday evening after the alleged threat call to Tikait.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/tikait-s-remarks-at-palwal-stoke-controversy/story-uIL9ta8SqCHbJmRx5y5XyN.html
26-12-2020||Noida||UP govt sends six officers to assist Ghaziabad administration deal with farmers||The Uttar Pradesh government has deputed six officers to assist the Ghaziabad district administration to deal with the growing number of farmer protesters at UP Gate.The officers include deputy collectors to additional district magistrates and will be in Ghaziabad till January 2. The officers are from districts like Lucknow, Etah, Mainpuri and Bijnor. “The officers will be deployed as magistrates and will also carry out other duties,” said Bipin Kumar, city magistrate who was officiating at additional district magistrate (city). Ghaziabad District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not take calls. The gathering at the UP-Gate has swelled considerably over past week with about 300 to 350 tractor-trolleys also arriving from Uttarakhand. Vehicles and tents line up from the top of the UP-Gate flyover till the Khoda Colony end along the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME). Inspector general (law and order) Jyoti Narayan also arrived in Ghaziabad on Friday evening and held a detailed meeting with administration and police officers.Narayan directed that for the purpose of crowd management and any law-and-order situation, the UP Gate area should be divided into seven zones and 13 sectors. “The IG also directed that public address systems be installed to curb spread of rumours and police should be on the lookout for anti-social elements,” said district information officer Rakesh Chauhan. “The district magistrate has also directed a committee comprising officers from health, transport, fire and even the magistrates to be on round the clock duty at the stie in wake of growing number of people at the protest site. He has also directed the inspection of power cables and installation of floodlights. It was also directed that the health department also deploy a team for regular check-ups for protesters and make arrangements to test for Covid-19.‘We didn’t block the road’Even as the Delhi to Ghaziabad carriageway of the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) was blocked for the third time this week on Saturday, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) blamed the administration and police.The road was blocked for more than five hours, forcing administration to divert traffic to other border sites. While the Ghaziabad to Delhi carriageway had been blocked since December 3, protesters had blocked the other road too alleging that the police were stopping their supporters in other districts from joining them.The blockade on Saturday was the fifth time that the highways were completed blocked, the previous occassions being December 8, 14, 21 and 22. “There were about 300 tractor-trolleys which had arrived from Uttarakhand on Friday evening and they blocked the highway on Saturday morning. The volunteers of the BKU were not involved. We repeatedly requested them not to block roads but to no avail,” said a BKU leader at UP Gate. The BKU (Tikait) on Saturday evening said that farmer groups, that were their supporters, were stuck in Rampur. Rakesh Tikait, BKU national spokesperson, however, denied that the blockades were put up by protesting farmers. “We did not block the highways and in fact the police and the administration had done it,” Tikait said at UP Gate while maintaining similar stance which he put up during the 10-hour blockade on December 22. During the blockade on Saturday which lasted from 11am to 4.30pm, protesting youths and farmers also blocked the Ghazipur to Vaishali slip road which was finally opened around 3pm up on intervention of senior farmers’ leaders. The protesters also played DJ music in tractors which they drove freely on the highway lanes and also resorted to sloganeering and clicking of selfies besides playing volley-ball on the blocked roads. The protest site at the UP Gate is growing every day in terms of gathering with tractor-trolleys now lined up in front of Khoda Colony extend up to the UP-Gate flyover where special tents have been put up. “We estimate that the proportion of BKU volunteers is about 20-25% of the gathering while majority are now from Uttarakhand and Punjab,” a BKU leader quoted above, said. “There was no law-and-order situation at UP Gate. Farmers blocked the road and later opened it on their own,” said Vipin Kumar, city magistrate who was officiating at additional district magistrate (city). BKU faction continued protest at Chilla Border: At the other Chilla border in Noida, members of BKU’s Bhanu faction continued their hunger strike on Saturday while they were also joined by group from Aligarh. “They came to show their support but left later today. Eleven of our brothers are on an intermittent hunger strike and we will continue to do so until our demands are met,” said state president, Bhanu, Yogesh Pratap Singh. The Noida police said that there have been no law-and-order issues at the border. “The status quo is being maintained for now. The new group that arrived from Aligarh handed over their memorandum of demands before leaving and traffic from Noida to Delhi continues to move via the DND flyway,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajesh S.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-govt-sends-six-officers-to-assist-ghaziabad-administration-deal-with-farmers/story-6ViHzIXgDGP8rU9heq9QhL.html
26-12-2020||Noida||State govt takes back two cases against GNoida farmers in land acquisition issue||The Uttar Padesh state government has withdrawn two cases against farmers of Bhatta and Parsaul villages in Greater Noida in connection with a 2011 clash in which four people were killed. That year, the Yamuna expressway industrial authority (Yeida) had begun to acquire land in these two villages, which the residents had opposed. On May 6, 13 farmers were booked for allegedly kidnapping government officials. The next day, police and farmers clashed resulting in the death of two policemen and two civilians, besides several injuries.Twenty cases were registered at Dankaur police station following the clashes and 40 people were booked. The government had since withdrawn 15 cases, while the order to take back two more was issued on December 21 by the state governor Anandiben Patel. The cases withdrawn involved charges of rioting, assault in robbery, kidnapping and arms act against the PAC. “The government has seen all the evidence after which the public prosecutors were permitted to file the necessary documents in court to take back the charges which the governor has allowed following which due proceedings should be carried out,” said a notice from the deputy secretary’s office to the Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate’s office. The Jewar MLA has also been championing for the charges to be dropped against the farmers. “We have been fighting constantly for the past three years to do away with all the cases against the farmers. At least three more cases are pending and we will ensure those are also taken back,” said MLA Dhirendra Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/state-govt-takes-back-two-cases-against-gnoida-farmers-in-land-acquisition-issue/story-QeZNSZf9V3l44A7up8tg7N.html
26-12-2020||Delhi||Fire in mask manufacturing factory kills one||A 50-year-old man was killed after a fire broke out in a mask manufacturing factory in Mayapuri industrial area in west Delhi on Saturday, police and fire officials said. Two others were managed by rescue teams. Police said the man — identified as Yugal Kishore — died due to inhaling toxic smoke. He did not suffer burns, rescuers said.Fire officials said that two gates – one iron and another wooden – of the factory located on the third floor of a building were locked from inside and three men were sleeping inside, when the fire broke out at around 3.30am. The rescue team of the fire department took a couple of minutes to break open the two gates and douse the flames. Police are probing the cause of the fire. Six fire tenders and nearly 15 firefighters were involved in the rescue operation and their prompt action saved the lives of two men who were trapped inside the factory, said Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg.Ravinder Singh, additional division officer (DFS) said that the fire was not big and the flames were doused in less than half an hour. Since the machines and raw materials used for making masks had caught fire, it caused smoke that engulfed the entire factory and spread in nearly 200 square yard on the third floor, he said.Another fire officer said the rescuers first broke open the iron and wooden gates and rescued two workers -- Feroz Ansari,24, and Aman Ansari,18, -- who had fallen semi-unconscious, after inhaling smoke.“The two men were in the main hall. They soon regained consciousness and told the firefighters that the tailor, Jugal Kishore, was in a room on the same floor. The room’s door was locked from inside. The rescue team broke it open and found the tailor lying unconscious on the floor,” said the officer.Kishore was rushed to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital in a CATS ambulance. He was declared brought dead at the hospital later, said additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Subodh Kumar Goswami.“We have registered a case of negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter and death by negligence under Indian Penal Code’s Section 285 and 304A at the Mayapuri police station,” said Goswami.Police and fire officials suspect that the fire may have been caused either due to a short circuit or the workers burning something in the factory to keep themselves warm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-in-mask-manufacturing-factory-kills-one/story-0jVGGwtXmlS5gVaieavElI.html
26-12-2020||Mumbai||Aurangabad woman returns from UK, tests positive for Covid-19; sample to be sent for strain testing||A 57-year-old woman in Aurangabad city of central Maharashtra had travelled to the United Kingdom and has tested positive for Covid-19.The local civic body has kept her at a hospital dedicated to the passengers who have returned from the UK. She may be the first person in the state to test positive for the virus after visiting the UK where a new strain of coronavirus disease has been found.The civic body will now send her sample to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune to confirm the type of strain she is infected with.The state government has put the administration on alert after discovery of a new strain Covid-19 which is believed to be much more infectious than all the previous strains. It has directed the civic bodies and district collectors to trace and conduct tests of all those who came from the UK between November 15 and December 23.Also read: More muscle to IAF with at least 3 more Rafales flying-in next month“This woman arrived in Mumbai on December 15 and by road reached Aurangabad the next day. Following the directives, we traced and conducted her RT-PCR test and her report on Friday confirmed that she is positive for Covid-19. However, she is still asymptomatic,” said Dr Nita Padalkar, assistant municipal commissioner and medical officer of health, Aurangabad municipal corporation.Dr Padalkar said her RT-PCR test conducted in London on December 11 was negative and thus it is difficult to say if she is a carrier or she got infected in transit or after arrival in the country. “To know the type of virus, we have again collected her sample and will send it to the NIV, Pune, on Monday and after getting her report we will be able to comment further,” she said.The woman stays in Aurangabad city with her husband and his sample was also collected today. The civic body is now trying to trace other people whom she came in contact with while travelling to Aurangabad from Mumbai, the medical officer of health said. The government has already banned flights from the UK. It has also started tracing and testing passengers from the UK who came before the ban was imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aurangabad-woman-returns-from-uk-tests-positive-for-covid-19-sample-to-be-sent-for-strain-testing/story-8WybbdqpFpXjeWkCLHbfSN.html
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana at a standstill, but MC at work||With cities coming to an abrupt halt due to the Covid-induced lockdown, the role of local governments became all the more crucial this year as these took on the dual challenge of fighting the pandemic while also ensuring that essential services continued running smoothly.The Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC), the largest civic body in Punjab, too found itself facing new challenges. From conducting disinfection drives to distributing ration among labourers, the already cash-starved MC simultaneously dealt with the burden of numerous construction projects under the smart city mission. Though development projects had to be stopped for about a month after the lockdown came into effect in March, these again picked up pace in April, after permission was granted to deploy labourers at construction sites, but with riders.However, it was not an easy run for the department as nearly a dozen of its staffers got infected with the virus. Two Class-IV employees also succumbed to the disease. Their work did not go unnoticed as residents appreciated their services, especially those of sanitation workers, who kept working even during the lockdown to keep the city clean. Among the biggest success stories of the civic body, in terms of development, were the reopening of the Jagraon Bridge and rejuvenation of the 114-year-old Clock Tower. The construction of Sidhwan Canal waterfront and green belts in the city brought some respite to residents amid an extremely rough year.Towards the end of the year, however, the civic body was on the receiving end as residents and the opposition raised the long pending issues, including potholed roads, traffic chaos due to ongoing construction works, stray animal menace, choked sewer lines, among others. As the recovery drives of MC were also hit due to the lockdown, the fund-starved MC is still struggling to find a way out of financial crisis. Another major setback was that the civic body could only hold two house meetings this year.HighsJagraon bridge reopenedThe historic Jagraon Bridge – the lifeline of the city – got a new lease of life as it was thrown open to residents after a prolonged wait of four years in the month of September. The bow string girder bridge, built by the railways, is now the cynosure of all eyes. The bridge connects the old city with the new and has been erected by replacing the 132-year-old bridge constructed by the British in 1888. Disinfection drives:Soon after the lockdown was announced in the month of March, the civic body commenced disinfection drives in the city. The roads and internal streets were disinfected with sodium hypochlorite and the drive was taken up extensively till the month of May. Apart from the civic body staff, fire brigade was also involved in the process. Handy machines were also provided to councillors to disinfect internal streets, where fire tenders could not enter. However, the drives were stopped after the unlocking process started. MC ferries labourers to stationAs labourers struggled to go back to their native places after the imposition of the lockdown, the MC played a crucial role in dropping them off to the railway station, once the Union government commenced special trains for them. As there was little or no public transport during the time, MC had started a special bus service to take them to the station. Sidhwan waterfront development projectAs authorities have completed the first phase of the waterfront development project alongside Sidhwan canal in Sarabha Nagar area, the place has become a favourite haunt of residents, especially morning and evening walkers. Apart from residents who come to spend leisure time with their families, a large number of cyclists also visit the place as it has a separate cycling and jogging track. The area from Pakhowal road canal bridge to Gill road canal bridge will be developed under the second phase. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said leisure valleys are also being developed in BRS Nagar, Haibowal, Sarabha Nagar, Tajpur road among others areas to increase the green cover in the city. As directed by National Green Tribunal (NGT), micro forests are also being developed on the banks of Buddha Nullah. Recently, a team led by MC secretary Jasdev Sekhon took steps to beautify a park in Rose Garden, using waste material under the ‘Best-out-of-waste’ initiative. Clock Tower restored to original glory In shambles for years, the iconic Victoria Memorial Clock Tower (Ghanta Ghar), established in 1906 now dons a new look as the MC undertook a Rs 66 lakh project to revamp it. The mechanical clock, which was lying non-functional for a long time, has also been repaired.Smart city projects picks up pace:The Ludhiana Smart City Limited has started work on major projects, including Pakhowal Road ROB/RUBs, transformation of Malhar road as smart road, and rejuvenation of Sarabha Nagar market, among others. The LED streetlights project, however, has not been completed even after two years. Swachh Survekshan 2020 ranking and award:In the Swachh Survekshan-2020, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) bagged the ‘Best big city in innovation and best practices’ award among cities having a population of more than 10 lakh. In all, 47 cities contested under the category, out of which the city secured 34th rank with 3, 113.06 points out of 6, 000. Downs:Buddha Nullah pollution continues to be a bane: Despite the state government and MC’s tall claims of spending Rs 650 crore on the cleaning of Buddha Nullah, it continues to remain highly polluted. What’s more, authorities have also found over 950 permanent encroachments alongside it. Around 200 encroachments, in form of animal sheds and houses, were razed in December. No end to stray dogs menace:The stray dog sterilisation project was disrupted thrice this year as there was a shortage of staff due to labour exodus. Residents’ patience wore thin as there was no respite from dog bite cases, On December 10, nearly 15 residents, including children, were bitten by a stray dog in BRS Nagar on December 10. No solution for solid waste:Facing the heat from the National Green Tribunal, the civic body has started working on solid waste management. Efforts are on to start collecting segregated waste from households. But dumping of garbage on roadsides and at secondary dumping points continue to put a blot on the face of the city. The civic body has also failed to find a solution to 16 lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste dumped at MC’s main dump site. Adding to the woes, A2Z company, the firm involved in lifting of garbage from the city, has served a self-termination notice, and from February 2021, the MC will have to manage garbage collection on its own. No upgrade for fire brigade Three years have elapsed after 16 lives, including nine of firefighters, were lost in the plastic factory tragedy of November 2017, but the state government and the civic body have failed to upgrade the firefighting equipment. The fire brigade also does not have fire safety masks, suits or hydraulic ladders. It also faces an acute staff crunch, even as the city sees a number of fire incidents from time to time. Stray cattle menaceWith MC facing a shortage of space to shelter stray cattle, the animals continue to pose grave danger to the lives of the commuters. Despite collecting over Rs 30 lakh as cow cess every month, the civic body has failed to find a solution to the problem. The MC had established a cow shelter at Burj Powat village in July, with a capacity to shelter over 150 cattle, but the civic body has failed to start the shifting process of cattle.Road samples fail quality tests:Even after the civic body spent around Rs 630 crore on the construction and maintenance of roads and streets in the last five years, the roads remain treacherous for commuters in the absence of quality check. Even after cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and mayor Balkar Sandhu took a strict stand against errant contractors, there is very little improvement in terms of quality of work due to the nexus between the contractors and the MC officials. Two recently roads constructed in the ward of mayor Balkar Sandhu also got damaged in the month of December. Fuel theft cases:In a major embarrassment to the civic body, its own staff was found involved in fuel theft. In the first week of December, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal ordered the suspension of chief sanitary inspector Jagtar Singh and two sanitary inspectors, Gurinder Singh and Satinderjit Singh Bawa for the theft. Services of a contractual driver, Kulwant Singh were also terminated. Satinderjit had already been suspended in October after the mayor caught him and a driver stealing 43 litres of fuel allocated for a fogging machines.Jobs not provided to slain firefighters’ kin Three years have elapsed since the plastic factory fire mishap, but the kin of three out of the nine firefighters killed in the tragedy, have still not been provided jobs or compensation by the government. The affected families include those of contractual firefighters, Manpreet, Sukhdev and Vishal.Vending zones notified, but not establishedStreet vendors are up in arms against the civic body as it is carrying on with the anti-encroachment drive without establishing vending zones in the city. The setting up of vending zones has been hanging fire for six years now. Recently, the MC had got 64 vending zones notified by the local bodies department, but nothing has been done at the ground level to establish the vending zones yet. Meanwhile, street vendors and shopkeepers continue to be a hurdle in the smooth flow of traffic in different parts of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-at-a-standstill-but-mc-at-work/story-J2Zv7MBObYzk5ptSxSB88N.html
26-12-2020||City||Dry run for Covid vaccine in Ludhiana on December 28, 29||Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma On Saturday informed that the dry run for the Covid-19 vaccine will be held at seven sites in the district on December 28 and 29. He said that Ludhiana and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar have been chosen by the government for the administration of the vaccine in the first phase.The DC chaired a meeting organised to discuss the same at Bachat Bhawan on Saturday. He was accompanied by the commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal, joint CP J Elanchezhian, ADC (D) Sandeep Kumar, ADC Jagraon Neeru Katyal Gupta, ADC general Amarjit Bains, civil surgeon Rajesh Kumar Bagga, all SDMs, and other senior officials of the district administration.Sharma informed that the dry run will be conducted at seven locations (one in each sub-division of the district) namely civil hospital, Ludhiana, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H), Raikot, Jagraon, Machhiwara, Khanna, and Payal.He said that the activity is aimed at testing the laid-out mechanisms for the vaccination roll-out in the health system. The DC added that the dry run will exercise end to end testing of the Covid-19 vaccination process and will vaccinate pre-identified beneficiaries from specified groups supported by Co-WIN, an electronic application. The primary objective of the dry run includes assessing the operational feasibility of using Co-WIN application in a field environment and testing linkages between planning. Implementation and reporting mechanisms would identify challenges and guideway forward before actual implementation.The DC informed that in the first phase, more than 30,000 healthcare workers (both government and private) of the district, who have registered themselves on the government portal, would be administered the vaccine, followed by Aanganwari workers, people aged above 50 years, people below 50 years with comorbidities, and others.He clarified that this vaccine would not be available off the shelf for the time being and would only be administered to people who have got themselves registered on the government portal. He said that upon registration, the beneficiaries will receive an SMS notifying them about the date and place of administration.He also informed that initially, the dry run is proposed to be conducted in four states, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, and Gujarat. He said that the immunisation partners, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the World Health Organisation (WHO), would support this activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dry-run-for-covid-vaccine-in-ludhiana-on-december-28-29/story-lk1dpXYuz99QYZzFfp3PxJ.html
26-12-2020||Pune||Kausarbaug residents protest against leasing amenity plot||A large number of Kausarbaug residents, including young children, staged a protest on Friday against Kausarbaug co-operative housing society management in Kondhwa for allotting a reserved plot meant for sports activity for children to a private person for carrying out commercial sports and marriage functions.The residents raised slogans against the management stating that the 40,000 square feet open plot was meant exclusively for sports activities for society children and should not have been leased to a private person for profiteering.The protests began just before the start of Friday prayers when the citizens distributed pamphlets condemning privatisation of the public plot by the society management committee. Some skirmishes took place during the protest after which the Kondhwa police were summoned to defuse the situation.Nisar Attar, a society resident, said, “The society has illegally allotted the plot to a private person who is developing the space for profit. Our children don’t have any place to play and it will be a very costly exercise if our children decide to opt for playing in the said plot. Parking issues and women’s security are of serious concern before the residents. We demand strict action against the committee members and an immediate end to the commercialisation of amenity space of our society.”Kausarbaug society chairman advocate Rahman, said, “We have given the plot to develop a sports ground and false allegations are being levelled that we have given it for marriage functions. We have named it, Kausarbaug sports academy, where society children will get an opportunity to play sports. We have informed the police that we have given the ground for sports for children both inside and outside the society. We have passed a general resolution regarding the same, where everybody was taken into confidence, before we went ahead with the allotment. The person who has taken over the ground has spent lots of money for its development. We have not constructed any shed.”Mohammad Zia, another protesting resident, said, “It is a major scam being perpetrated by the committee members for purely profit motives. This commercial project has disturbed peace in the area and leading to problems like traffic jams and no space for parking during prayer times. The managing committee acted dishonestly and cheated the society residents and executed the project during the quietude of pandemic. It has illegally changed the status of the plot to commercial one and deserves strictest penal action as per the law.”Another resident Mohammad Anas Qureshi described the managing committee’s act as treachery and said, “An amenity plot cannot be commercialised and it has been reserved for sports recreation purpose exclusively for the society. We have petitioned to the police and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and will ensure that culprits are punished.”Kausarbaug residential society has over 1,200 members and also houses the biggest mosque of Kondhwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/kausarbaug-residents-protest-against-leasing-amenity-plot/story-K6BD9f4Uot6hMIFjA3xorN.html
26-12-2020||City||Trident Cup T20 cricket tournament: Jalandhar XI, Punjab Reds to meet in finals||Jalandhar XI lost a crucial toss at Hara Cricket Academy Ground on Saturday but managed to win the game against Amandeep Cricket Club, Amritsar, and enter the finals of the Trident Cup T-20 cricket tournament.The game at both venues was delayed due to heavy fog and started at 12.45 pm. Jalandhar XI batted first and was in trouble after losing wickets early and at one stage were 25/3 in 6.3 overs. Fighting knocks by Abhishek Bajaj (28 off 33 balls), Arun Kalia (21 off 20 balls), and a late cameo of 26 runs off 18 balls by Prerit Dutta helped their team finish at 130 for 8 wickets in 20 overs. For Amritsar, Sumit Sharma took 2 wickets giving away 24 runs, captain Vinay Chaudhary took 2 for 25, and Satnam Singh 2 for 29.Amandeep cricket Club, Amritsar, were put under pressure early, losing wickets at regular intervals and were 21 for 4 in 5 overs. However, a gritty knock of 54 off 49 balls studded with 5 fours and 2 sixes by Sumit Sharma and 26 off 24 balls by Satnam Singh helped them recover, taking the team to 118 for 9 in 19 overs, requiring 13 runs off the last over to win the game. But unfortunately, they were all out for 119 runs in 19.4 overs. Jalandhar XI won the game by 11 runs. Harit Sacher bowled a spell of 4-0-33-3, Arun Kalia 2.4-0-10-3, and Prerit Dutta 4-0-19-1.Earlier in the day, IG police Ludhiana, Yurinder Singh Hayer had inaugurated the game. Rakesh Agrawal, the commissioner of police, Ludhiana, was also present. Former Indian cricketer Ajay Sharma presented the man of the match award to Arun Kalia of Jalandhar XI.PUNJAB REDS ENTER FINALIn the second semi-final played at GRD Academy ground, Punjab Blues won the toss and decided to field first. Punjab Reds lost two wickets early but a third-wicket partnership of 65 runs between captain Mandeep Singh (43 off 29 balls, 7 fours) and Gurkeerat Mann (68 off 40 balls, 5 fours, and 3 sixes) and a fourth-wicket partnership of 110 runs between Gurkeerat Mann and Anmolpreet Singh, who remained not out on 63 runs off 30 balls (4 fours and 5 sixes) helped Punjab Reds post a formidable total of 206 for 4 in 20 overs. For Punjab Blues, Baltej Singh and Karan Kaila bowled economical spells of 4-0-22-0 and 4-0-29-0, respectively. Indian player Barinder Sran got 2 wickets but was expensive (3-0-43-2).In response, Punjab Blues kept losing wickets at regular intervals and finished at 132 for 9 in 20 overs, thus losing the game by 74 runs. Anmol Malhotra scored 26 off 25 balls, and Ikjot Thind 21 off 23 balls. Indian players Sandeep Sharma (4-0-18-3), Siddharth Kaul (4-0-23-2), and Mayank Markande (4-0-18-3) won the game for their team.Anmolpreet Singh won the man of the match award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trident-cup-t20-cricket-tournament-jalandhar-xi-punjab-reds-to-meet-in-finals/story-J8MjB6efvaJkl4yiyy4JHJ.html
26-12-2020||Delhi||Woman falls to death from third floor in Janakpuri, police claim suicide||A 32-year-old woman died after allegedly falling down from the third floor of a building in west Delhi’s Janakpuri on Saturday afternoon. Police said the woman may have killed herself by jumping off the building. A two-page resume was found near the woman’s body, suggesting that she had come to attend a job interview, either in the building or at a nearby office, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said that the police control room received a call at 1.06 pm and the caller informed that a woman had fallen from an upper floor of a building.A police team reached there and found the woman lying unconscious and bleeding on the first floor of the building. She was rushed to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead. The woman’s identity was established and her family was informed. Her body was preserved in a government hospital’s mortuary, the DCP said.“Prime facie, it appears that she had fallen from the third floor. Further probe in on,” said DCP Purohit.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialists. Helplines: Fortis Stress Helpline: 8376804102, Sumaitri: 01123389090, Snehi: 01165978181, Sanjeevani: 01124311918/01124318883||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-falls-to-death-from-third-floor-in-janakpuri-police-claim-suicide/story-Y5dTZXAjTpIK5OKMfflJVK.html
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 3.8k to take recruitment test for master cadre in Punjabi, Hindi today||As many as 3,841 candidates will appear for the recruitment test of master cadre in Punjabi and Hindi at government schools on Sunday. For Punjabi, 2,873 candidates will appear in the morning shift (9.30am to 12pm), while 968 applicants for Hindi will appear between 2pm and 4.30pm. The recruitment exam for English will be conducted on Monday in which over 914 candidates will appear. Teachers will be recruited against 3,704 total posts.The candidate must undergo thermal screening at the entry gate and sanitise their hands. As per instructions from authorities, 24 candidates will be accommodated in every room maintaining social distancing protocols. The school principals must get their premises sanitised before the exams.Ludhiana police commissioner has banned the assembly of five or more persons within a 200-metre radius of the examination centres under Section 144 of the CrPC. The order is applicable till December 28. Rajinder Kaur, district education officer (elementary), who is handling the charge of DEO secondary, conducted a meeting with the centre controller and superintendents to brief them about their duties. “School principals have been asked to make the necessary arrangements and invigilators, deputy superintendents and superintendents have been deputed to conduct the exams,” she said. As per officials of the department, more teachers will be deputed at the examination centres if required . Government Senior Secondary School, Jawahar Nagar (boys), will accommodate 300 candidates, Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose, 350, Government Senior Secondary School, Haibowal Khurd,300, Residential Senior Secondary School for Meritorious Students, 173, Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, PAU, 450, Shaheed-E-Azam Sukhdev Thapar Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Bharat Nagar, 400, RS Model Senior Secondary School, 300, Ramgarhia Senior Secondary School, Boys, Millerganj, 300, and Government Senior Secondary School, Sekhewal, (300).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/recruitment-test-for-master-cadre-punjabi-and-hindi-to-be-held-today/story-eNHWGcEmDS5Ufd3j6e8U6K.html
26-12-2020||Jaipur||Centre too arrogant to empathise with farmers’ plight: Pilot||Former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot on Saturday accused the Union government of being too stubborn and arrogant to understand farmers’ sufferings.Pilot hurled the allegations while demanding the repeal of the three recent farm laws against which farmers have been protesting for over a month now, camping at various border points of Delhi. “Our ‘annadatas’ have been struggling with determination on the path of truth and justice to protect their self-respect and rights. They have been facing the vicious cycle and atrocities of the central government for the last one month, but the BJP government in its stubbornness and arrogance is unable to understand the suffering of farmers,” Pilot said in a tweet. “The central government should repeal the anti-agrarian laws passed in the undemocratic process and protect the interests of the Annadata by giving rights to the struggling peasant brothers in the bitter cold,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/centre-too-arrogant-to-empathise-with-farmers-plight-pilot/story-9u8TsEI3JWBdDGDLqh1S0O.html
26-12-2020||City||Buddha nullah pollution: Ludhiana MC conducts meetings with residents||Two days before commencing the ‘Buddha Nullah Warriors Campaign’, the municipal corporation (MC) team conducted meetings with residents living in the vicinity of the nullah at Hambran Road on Saturday.Puran Singh, state project director of Swachh Bharat Mission, led the MC team and issued warnings to 24 residents who were dumping solid waste in the nullah. Challans were issued to around half a dozen residents.Singh said that MC has already deployed over 60 marshals at the 14km long stretch of the nullah to prevent the residents from dumping waste in the nullah. ‘Buddha Nullah Warriors Campaign’ will commence from Monday wherein NCC, and NSS cadets from different colleges of the city will go door to door to spread awareness among the residents. A capacity-building seminar for NCC cadets was held at SCD Government College on Saturday.Singh said, “Residents should also step forward and cooperate with the authorities as only then we will be able to reduce pollution in the nullah.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/buddha-nullah-pollution-ludhiana-mc-conducts-meetings-with-residents/story-fldyejCdYdqHl2sTpa4U9M.html
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||Elderly man mowed down by truck in Ludhiana||An elderly man died after being hit by a speeding truck at Gill Road on Saturday. The victim has been identified as Kirpal Singh, 71, a resident of Karnail Singh Nagar. An eye witness said that as Kirpal was walking towards ATI College, when he was hit by the speeding truck from behind. The victim died on the spot. Due to dense fog, the driver escaped with the truck. As soon as they received information, cops from Division Number 6 police station rushed to the spot and started investigation.A case has been registered under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code and police is scanning CCTV footage to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/elderly-man-mowed-down-by-truck-in-ludhiana/story-Kb535ysnVibjO7wfo39vjO.html
26-12-2020||City||Ludhiana blind murder cracked: Victim’s brother, 3 contract killers arrested||Police claimed to have cracked the blind murder case of a man whose body was found on Bahadurke Road on November 2, with the arrest of four persons, including the victim’s brother. The brother, identified as Ashok Kumar of Kishangunj,Bihar, had been residing in Mohalla Banda Bahadar Colony, Bahadurke Road. He had hired three contract killers, Azad Alam, Pawan Kumar and Monu, all residents of Kishangunj of Bihar, to execute the crime police said.The victim, Raj, was bludgeoned to death with bricks when he was returning from work.Joint commissioner of police (JCP) Bhagirath Meena said that during the course of investigation, it emerged that Ashok was involved in an illicit relationship with the victim’s wife. Ashok was picked up for questioning and confessed to hiring contract killers to kill Raj so that he could marry his wife. He said that the deal was struck at Rs 50,000 and he had paid a token amount of Rs 20,000 to them, while the rest was to be paid after they killed Raj.Police have recovered the brick used in the crime, motorcycle and mobile phones from the possession of the accused. A case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. They were presented before a court and further sent on remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-blind-murder-cracked-victim-s-brother-3-contract-killers-arrested/story-Bos3Zgdq1A1HBB7K7s2FrJ.html
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||161 fresh Covid cases, 2 deaths in Chandigarh tricity area||The tricity area on Saturday reported 161 fresh Covid-19 cases while two patients succumbed to the virus.Chandigarh reported 78 cases, followed by 61 in Mohali district and 22 in Panchkula. A death each was reported in Chandigarh and Mohali, taking the toll to 315 and 336, respectively. In Panchkula, it stands at 140.The Union Territory has recorded 19,423 cases so far, of which 354 are active. In Mohali, 1,374 cases of 17,910 remain active, and in Panchkula, 231 of 9,870 cases are active. UK returnees being testedThe UT health department has conducted Covid tests of 17 UK returnees, of which eight are negative while results of the remaining are awaited.The administration had received information of 132 travellers through various departments. Of these, 95 have been physically verified and an undertaking of self quarantine for 14 days has been taken from them. All were asymptomatic and RT-PCR negative before boarding their flights. The remaining 37 could not be physically verified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/161-fresh-covid-cases-2-deaths-in-chandigarh-tricity-area/story-A9rybftOntyPzo4IQsIZaP.html
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 37% dip in snatching cases this year||Only 77 cases of snatching were reported in Chandigarh this year, lowest in five years and down from 122 in 2019, mainly due to restrictions imposed in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Police claim other initiatives such as mapping of snatching-prone areas, registration of cases against snatchers who stopped attending court hearings and making it compulsory for deputy superintendents of police and station house officers to visit the crime spot also helped in keeping the number low.However, with just under 50% cases solved, police have a lot of catching up to do next year. Among 77 cases, police are yet to trace the snatchers in 40 cases. Moreover, southern sectors, which provide an easy escape route to Mohali and surrounding villages, remain most prone to snatching. As many as 53 cases were reported in the southern division (which comprises police stations of Sectors 31, 34, 36, 39, 49 and Maloya), followed by 17 in east division (Sectors 19, 26, Industrial Area, Manimajra, Mauli Jagran and IT Park) and just six in central division (Sectors 3, 11, 17 and Sarangpur). The southern belt is also densely populated, which makes it easier for snatchers to spot the prey, strike and escape, said a senior police official, not wishing to be named. “We are putting in our efforts. The coordination among the tricity police has improved, which will go a long way in plugging the escape routes,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP), Kuldeep Singh Chahal. Drug addiction main reason, mobile phones prime catch “As many as 90% snatchers arrested this year were hooked to drugs, and committed the crime to fund their addiction,” said another senior official. Investigations show that mobile phones are the most targeted items, owing to easy resale in secondhand market without any documentation. While 36% of the stolen items were mobile phones, 30% were bags and purses and 16% were gold chains. “Most mobile phones are snatched when people are talking on them and are least alert,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-37-dip-in-snatching-cases-this-year/story-G64wap8c39y4bERk2nAtHO.html
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cold wave sweeps Chandigarh, relief ahead||Cold wave swept Chandigarh for the first time this season as minimum temperature dropped to 4°C on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. According to the India Meteorological Department, similar conditions will most likely continue on Saturday night, though night temperature is likely to rise from Sunday onwards due to chances of light rain in the city.Cold wave is declared when minimum temperature drops to or below 4°C in a region. It can also be declared if minimum temperature drops below 10°C and is 4.5-6.4°C below normal. A severe cold wave is declared when it reaches 2°C.At 4°C, minimum temperature was two notches below normal on Saturday. This is the lowest that the minimum temperature has dropped this season. Earlier it was recorded at 4.2°C on December 20. The city was also much colder than Shimla, where minimum temperature was recorded at 7°C.However, relief is likely ahead, according to the weatherman. “A western disturbance will be active in the city on Sunday, and light rain up to 10mm can be expected. Although the system will leave the city by Monday, chances of light rain will continue that day too,” said an IMD official. “Due to cloudy weather, minimum temperature can rise by 4-5 degrees.” However, if it rains during the day, maximum temperature, which was recorded at 19°C on Saturday, can be expected to go down. After light rain on Sunday, foggy conditions can also be expected from Monday onwards.In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 17 and 20 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 4 and 8 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cold-wave-sweeps-chandigarh-relief-ahead/story-0nNz5PsYt3peAVlZywOZ9O.html
26-12-2020||City||Ambala to elect its first woman mayor||As many as 1.87 lakh voters are eligible to cast their ballot to elect the city’s first woman mayor besides 20 councillors from as many wards in the Ambala municipal corporation, which goes to the polls amid Covid-19 pandemic on Sunday.A multi-cornered contest awaits BJP-JJP coalition’s mayoral candidate Vandana Sharma and Congress’ Meena Aggarwal, as parties floated by former ministers Venod Sharma (HJP) and Nirmal Singh (HDF) have also fielded their candidates — Shakti Rani Sharma and Amisha Chawla, respectively — for the coveted post, which is reserved for a woman. In all, six are in the fray. From 20 wards, 101 candidates are vying for a seat in the MC House. The tenure of the previous House got over in July 2018, and later the civic body was bifurcated into Ambala Municipal Corporation (City) and Ambala Sadar Municipal Council (Cantt). In the previous House, there were 16 independents, mostly backed by the Congress as the party had not contested on its symbol, and four from the BJP. Within the city limits, the BJP had only one councillor. The voter turnout was around 67%. The last and the only mayor Ramesh Mal was from the Congress, who later shifted to the BJP just before the 2019 assembly elections. Public holidayIn view of the polling, the day will be observed as a public holiday in government offices and in all factories, commercial establishments and shops falling within the jurisdiction of all wards of the corporation. Returning officer Sachin Gupta said voting will begin at 8am and will go on till 5:30pm at 198 booths, of which 15 are sensitive and six hypersensitive. Deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said: “Special arrangements have been made in view of the coronavirus pandemic. At the entrance to the polling booth, voters’ temperature will be checked. Masks and sanitisers will also be available.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-to-elect-its-first-woman-mayor/story-K2DbG07KOuLmxnptlB5ymO.html
26-12-2020||City||Panchkula to vote for new mayor, 20 councillors||About 1.89 lakh people will seal the fate of six mayoral candidates and 83 others in the fray for 20 seats of councillor as the Panchkula municipal corporation goes to the polls on Sunday.Set up in 2010, the MC witnessed its first election in 2013, when the Congress won the mayor’s post and majority in the House with 12 seats. The Bharatiya Janata Party and Indian National Lok Dal won three each and two seats went to Independent candidates. The city’s first mayor, Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia, remained on the post till 2018 when the House was dissolved. She is again in the fray in mainly a two-cornered contest with the BJP’s Kulbhushan Goyal. The other contenders are Anil Pangotra of the Bahujan Samaj Party, Sudarshan Bansal of Janral Samaj Party and Independents Padam Garg and Shyam Singh Negi.This is the first time elections are taking place in a bifurcated MC, as Kalka and Pinjore were separated from the limits of the Panchkula civic body earlier this year.Voting from 8:30am, no phones allowedThe voting will begin at 275 polling booths across 20 wards at 8:30am on Sunday. It will continue till 5:30pm.The administration has appointed 12 supervisors besides 16 polling parties. At every polling booth, there will be five polling officials besides two to three cops and home guards. While 98 booths have been declared hyper-sensitive, 29 are sensitive.Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja addressed all polling parties on Saturday. “ No one is allowed to take mobile phones at polling booths,” he said.The last hour of polling has been dedicated to Covid-19 patients, said Ahuja, adding that others can also vote during the last hour.“Not more than 1,000 voters are allowed at every polling booth. Each polling booth will have thermal scanners and sanitisers besides PPE kits for those in need. Special arrangements will be made for senior citizens, pregnant women, and specially abled people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-to-vote-for-new-mayor-20-councillors/story-QVF9CGj13biVAYo6WwZCVI.html
26-12-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||MC’s garbage collection drive finds few takers The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation’s latest attempt at door-to-door segregated garbage collection hasn’t got the expected response. While the garbage collection vehicles made umpteen rounds of Sectors 1 to 30 over the past three days, city residents didn’t seem interested. Many of them didn’t even come out of their houses to hand over the garbage leave alone segregate it. “The MC will have to change its strategy and go to houses the way the garbage collectors do with rehris (carts). In Chandigarh, the literacy level may be high but awareness about such issues is low. A little inconvenience and people don’t participate,” said an MC official involved in the drive. Chandigarh cops go the extra mile to track vehicle thieves With vehicle thefts on the rise, Chandigarh Police have finally got cracking. Breaking from the practice of the station house officers (SHOs) not being a part of raids to arrest vehicle theft accused, an SHO of a police station in the south division of the UT was recently asked to lead the team conducting raids in another state. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal asked the inspector to go the extra mile. “SHOs can’t pass the buck. A crime is a crime and arresting the accused is the aim,” a UT police officer said. Politicians forget Covid safety in Panchkula MC campaign Leaders campaigning for the Panchkula municipal corporation elections did not adhere to Covid-19 safety guidelines whether it was maintaining social distancing or wearing masks properly. There seemed to be no concern about the health of voters. A video shared on WhatsApp showed Panchkula BJP MLA Gian Chand Gupta and other leaders interacting with children and dancing to rhymes in a packed room without masks. It would have been a welcome gesture in normal times but certainly not during the pandemic. No parent would appreciate putting their child at risk, particularly at a time when the leaders have been holding rallies and interacting with people of all walks. Online talent show for dogs leaves pet lovers awestruck Pet lovers had a reason to cheer when Rotaract Club, Chandigarh Himalayan, organised Pawestruck, a virtual talent show for pets, recently. Nearly 70 pets participated and were given challenges to complete at home over four days which concluded on December 20. Five winners were selected and won free grooming sessions for their pets. Chandigarh has country’s biggest RWA umbrella? The Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) which started two years ago, now boasts of 93 member RWAs, which members claim make it the biggest umbrella RWA body of the country. In fact, chief spokesperson Anish Garg said that he is in touch with officials of the Limca Book of Records and their status as the biggest umbrella RWA body in a city in India is being reviewed. Inputs by Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Tanbir Dhaliwal and Rajanbir Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-4R3213yF5VDT4h0oCK2GdL.html
26-12-2020||Bangalore||‘Which astrologer said it?’ Ex-PM Deve Gowda on BJP-JD(S) merger rumours||Rejecting speculation about his party’s merger with the BJP, former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Saturday asserted JD(S) was here to stay and would strive to come to power on its own in the 2023 assembly polls.He also hit out at the Congress for questioning his secular credentials and blamed it for the collapse of the JDS-Congress government in Karnataka and levelled allegations against the party.Breaking his silence on rumours about the merger with the saffron party, which he termed as an “entertainment programme”, the JD(S) patriarch said, with his clarification, the speculation should end.“Since the last three months several things have been said about our party, it can be called an entertainment programme.JD(S) is a regional party and the pain behind saving and building a regional party will only be known to its workers, office bearers and its head,” Gowda told reporters.Claiming that political leaders were speaking about JD(S)’ irrelevance,the 87-year-old leader said no one can shake or remove his party so easily.“It is not just Deve Gowda and his son, there are people to save this party not only during my lifetime, but even after me,” he added.Amid rumours of a possible merger, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy, also Gowda’s son, and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had last week issued separate statements, dismissing it as far from the truth.There has been speculation for some months now about the merger, with Kumaraswamy twice meeting Yediyurappa personally at his official residence and JD(S)’ alleged softening of stand towards the ruling BJP in the state.Also JD(S) extending its support for the passage of the contentious land reforms bill in the Legislative Council after initially opposing it, and support to BJP in its no-confidence motion against the Council Chairman did add to the speculation.To a specific question on merger, Gowda said “Which astrologer has said it? ..These are childish talks...I was a former Prime Minister.Will I take my party to someone’s doorsteps?” Asked about 2023 elections, Gowda said the JD(S) was working towards coming to power on its own.“Congress is a big party and they have strength to bring the party to power.I’m not saying we have that strength, but we will strive for it, and will not sit quiet. There is no question. We will fight to come to power,” he said. Gowda hit out at the Congress party during the press conference.“I can speak a lot about Congress..” he said, as he noted that he too was a Congressman in the past.Stating that he had not gone to anyone’s door asking for his son Kumaraswamy to be made the Chief Minister after the 2018 assembly polls, he said “I invited all the secular leaders of the country for swearing-in of (Congress-JDS government)-why? To give strength to the Congress that had lost strength in 18-20 states...Who destroyed it?” Gowda hit out at the Congress, also Siddaramaiah, for trying to test his secular credentials.“On the issue of removing the legislative council Chairman, a former Chief Minister who is also a senior Congress leader (Siddaramaiah) by taking my name has spoken about testing my secular stand (for supporting BJP’s no-confidence motion).” He claimed Chairman K Pratapachandra Shetty was ready to resign, but the Congress party to which he belongs was not allowing him, “because they want to test Gowda’s secular credentials.” Gowda accused the Congress of misleading Muslims, and trying to destroy JD(S)’s secular credentials. “....none of them (Congress leaders) had gone to Godhra (immediately after riots).These people will save Muslims!They say in Parliament proceedings that theirs is soft Hindutva.Now I don’t understand soft and hard Hindutva,” he said.“Rahul Gandhi, who is projected as the future Prime Minister of the country, during the poll campaign had said Deve Gowda’s party is a B-team of BJP. This was for a former PM,” he said as he hit out at the state Congress leaders asking “who made him say this? Was their intention to save JD(S) or to finish it? and what was the outcome?” On the political slugfest between Kumaraswamy and Siddaramaiah, Gowda said he has sought putting an end to the “entertainment programme” from the JD(S) side.“Let them build their party, let us build ours.” Gowda has convened a mega meeting of the JD(S) on January 7, 2021, at Palace Grounds in Bengaluru.“Those who are honest will come, those who arent will go.This meeting will reveal the reality,” he said.He also said the JD(S) will have a core committee in place with 8-9 leaders and discuss revamping the party after January 15, aimed at strengthening it.“We will save and build this party, a regional party is necessary for the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/which-astrologer-said-it-ex-pm-deve-gowda-on-bjp-jd-s-merger-rumours/story-PrkaE6rfMj9g1R0sPAxumO.html
26-12-2020||City||32-year-old Kaithal farmer dies of heart attack at Tikri border protest site||A 32-year-old farmer from Serda village of Haryana’s Kaithal district died at the protest site near Tikri border on Saturday.The deceased Amarpal Singh was participating in the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three agriculture laws since a few days.His family members said he suffered a heart attack on Friday night and was taken to the hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Amarpal owns five acres of agricultural land and was the only son of his parents. He is survived by his wife and two children. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) Kaithal district president Hoshiar Singh Gill said Amarpal died due to heart attack at Tikri border and the body reached his native village on Saturday. A lot of farmers participated in his funeral, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/32-year-old-kaithal-farmer-dies-of-heart-attack-at-tikri-border-protest-site/story-yD1iu8gl7TnlC35NrnUlxK.html
26-12-2020||Kolkata||Saradha scam: CBI moves SC to quiz ex-police commissioner Rajeev Kumar||The CBI has moved the Supreme Court seeking to question senior IPS officer and former Kolkata police commissioner Rajeev Kumar in connection with the multi-crore-rupee Saradha chit fund scam case.The central probe agency, which has been entrusted with the task of probing the Ponzi scheme cases in West Bengal by the apex court, has moved the fresh plea to quiz the senior police officer again, alleging that he has not been cooperating with it in the ongoing investigation, a source said.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) said Kumar’s further questioning is necessary in order to unearth the larger nexus in the scam.The plea is likely to be taken up for hearing on the reopening of the apex court after the winter break.The Saradha group of companies allegedly duped lakhs of people to the tune of Rs 2,500 crore, promising higher rates of return on their investments.The scam was unearthed in 2013 during Kumar’s tenure as the Bidhannagar police commissioner.Kumar was part of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) set up by the West Bengal government for probing the scam, before the Supreme Court handed over the case to the CBI in 2014, along with other chit fund cases.In November last year,  the apex court had sought the response of the IPS officer on the CBI’s appeal challenging the anticipatory bail granted to him in the chit fund scam by the Calcutta High Court.The probe agency had filed an appeal in the apex court against the October 1, 2019 order of the Calcutta High Court, which had granted Kumar the relief saying it was not an appropriate case for custodial interrogation.The high court had directed Kumar to cooperate with the investigating officers and make himself available before them for questioning on a 48-hour notice by the CBI.On September 21, 2019, a pre-arrest bail plea of the IPS officer was rejected by the Alipore District and Sessions Court in Kolkata.The Centre and the West Bengal government were also locked in an unprecedented standoff after a CBI team had reached Kumar’s official residence for questioning him, but had to retreat as the local police detained its officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/saradha-scam-cbi-moves-sc-to-quiz-ex-police-commissioner-rajeev-kumar/story-dgZLxSzmQad2nKuvchBNyI.html
26-12-2020||City||Eight cops suspended for pilfering seized poppy husk in Jind||Eight policemen, including Jind crime investigation agency (CIA)-1 inspector Virender Singh, two CIA assistant sub-inspectors Praveen Kumar and Jaibir, were suspended on Friday for depositing less amount of poppy husk or ‘Doda chura’ seized from a drug peddler on December 18.Jind superintendent of police OP Narwal said eight policemen have been suspended for their alleged role in connection with ‘Doda chura scam’. “A special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to investigate the case,” he added.Two days ago, Haryana State narcotics control Bureau, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rajesh Kumar said they had received a tip-off that a truck loaded with ‘Doda-chura’ was lying at Uchana police station, which was seized on December 18. “We recovered 20 bags of Doda chura and a huge amount of onion on the other side of the truck. A joint team of CIA and police had recovered 414kg Doda chura from Jagroop, a resident of Jind’s Palwan along with the truck. The next day, police arrested his accomplice Rakesh Kumar of Karnal for drug smuggling. The cops had deposited only 414kg contraband in treasury amount and did not unload 398.150 kg contraband from the truck, not shown in the treasury,” he added.A senior official pleading anonymity, said the CIA personnel were planning to let off Rakesh Kumar from the case and demanded Rs 10 lakh from him. “The cops also promised Rakesh that they will return 398.150 kg contraband,” he added.The assistant sub-inspectors posted at Jind CIA-1, both drug peddlers and few unknown policemen have been booked under Section 15(3), 25, 29, 59 of the NDPS Act. “We have started an investigation into the matter to ascertain the role of other cops in the drug smuggling network,” the DSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-cops-suspended-for-pilfering-seized-poppy-husk-in-jind/story-C1cx5es8wQP6TdI5gjWScO.html
26-12-2020||City||Four Karnal villages to get model ponds by January||The Karnal administration is setting up sarovars or model ponds in four villages of the district and they will be completed by end of January next year, officials said on Saturday. The sarovars will be set up at Kachhawa, Sagga, Gondar and Padha villages and an amount of ₹5 crore will be spent on the project under Haryana Pond and Waste Water Management Authority. These ponds will be spread from 8 acres to 25 acres land and the biggest sarovar is being set up in Padha village.Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the sarovars are being set up for recreational purposes and will also help to recharge the ground water table besides increasing beauty of the villages. These sarovars will also have park pathways, open air gyms and gardens to provide a healthy environment to the villagers, he added.He said the village panchayats will manage the sarovars after completion and the irrigation department will ensure supply of clean water from the canal into these ponds. The ponds will be inaugurated by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-karnal-villages-to-get-model-ponds-by-january/story-kopNSZk5ZMjnEDs8FjjEBL.html
26-12-2020||City||Jind villagers provide food, shelter to Punjab farmers heading to Delhi||The residents of three Jind villages—Jhanj Khurd, Jhanj Kalan and Barodi—on Saturday made arrangements for food and shelter for large number of Punjab farmers marching towards Delhi to protest against the Centre’s three agriculture laws.The farmers stopped at these villages for the night halt and will head towards Delhi on Sunday morning. The residents have made all the arrangements at schools, community centre and even their houses.Suresh Kumar, a resident of Jhanj Kalan, said they got information that a group of 30,000 farmers and labourers from Punjab will enter Haryana through Datta Singhwala border on Saturday. “We contacted a few farmers and asked them to stay at our villages. We have opened the doors for our brothers, mothers, sisters and elderly people. The women from our villages came in large numbers to prepare food for the farmers,” he added.Roshni Devi, a resident of Barodi village, said she along with two dozen women from her village reached the school, where arrangements of food and shelter are being made for Punjab farmers.“We have a lot of love for Punjab farmers, who are leading the agitation against the Union government. I had asked three women from Tarn Taran to stay at my home tonight. The residents of our village have arranged food, warm milk, halwa, energy booster food, clothes and many other things. This agitation has brought Haryana and Punjab farmers more close,” she added.Hardeep Singh, a farmer from Gurdaspur, said,“ We have never seen such arrangements and the faces of local residents shows their affection for us. Few elderly people, who were waiting for us at Jhanj Kalan, told us to come back only after winning this battle against the government. There are no problems due to SYL between us and politicians from both the states are raising this issue for their benefits and we (farmers) will solve this issue on our own,” he added.He said farmers, including women from Punjab’s Amritsar and Tarn Taran, are in their group and they will head towards Delhi borders in the morning.Jind deputy commissioner Aditya Dahiya said he has deployed 27 duty magistrates after receiving information about entry of Punjab farmers in the district. “Our ambulances and fire brigades are also deployed near the gathering. We do not want any confrontation and will allow the farmers to move through the district periphery. We are keeping a vigil on anti-social elements. The farmers are coming peacefully,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jind-villagers-provide-food-shelter-to-punjab-farmers-heading-to-delhi/story-ypSFbHywFjvYKEt1x7fLQO.html
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||Hooda demands special Haryana assembly session, says BJP-JJP coalition has lost support of MLAs||Former chief minister and Leader of opposition in Haryana Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday again demanded convening of a special session of the assembly and said the Congress will move a no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government.Hooda said that he has requested the governor to convene a special session of the assembly “as the government is not wanting a session of the House because it wants to avoid facing a no-confidence motion”. “Many Independent MLAs have withdrawn support to the government and many legislators of BJP’s coalition partner JJP have also spoken in support of farmers. It is clear that the BJP-JJP coalition government has lost the confidence of its own legislators,” Hooda claimed. Responding to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s remarks that there is no need to call a special session of the assembly, Hooda said that protest by Haryana farmers was reason enough to do so. “Every day a protesting farmer dies due to biting cold. Does the state government not consider such a big agitation of farmers as an issue which merits discussion,” he said.“In this battle between the farmers and the government, many legislators of coalition partner JJP have also spoken in support of the farmers. It is clear that the BJP-JJP coalition government has lost not only public support but also the confidence of its own legislators,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hooda-demands-special-haryana-assembly-session-says-bjp-jjp-coalition-has-lost-support-of-mlas/story-qR0v5pKImyJ0KQEX1A6AvL.html
26-12-2020||City||Farmers ban entry of BJP-JJP leaders in Haryana agriculture minister’s home constituency||Intensifying their protest against the Centre’s three agriculture laws, farmers under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha on Saturday announced a ban on the entry of BJP-JJP leaders in villages of Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal’s home constituency Loharu.Speaking at a panchayat in Loharu’s Behal, Dayanand Punia, a farmer leader, said they have decided to ban the entry of BJP-JJP leaders in their respective villages. “ We will set up village-level committees to ensure that farmers from each village will reach at Delhi borders in rotation to support the ongoing agitation,” he added.Dharam Singh, president of Lakhlan village, said they have also decided to boycott agriculture minister JP Dalal in eight villages. “If any person calls Dalal at their house or village, we will also announce their social boycott. The farmers have unanimously decided to take over Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s rally on January 3 at Behal. We will occupy the venue of Khattar’s rally on January 2,” he added.A day earlier Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal said the chief minister’s rally at Behal in his home constituency Loharu was postponed due to polling of votes for the civic body elections on December 27. “ Some people were announcing to boycott CM’s rally, I want to tell them that the Jal Adhikar rally would be held at any cost,” Dalal added.Charuni slams Dushyant, Birender SinghBhartiya Kisan union (Charuni) state president Gurnam Singh Charuni has hit out at Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and senior BJP leader Birender Singh.“Chautala claims to be the political heir of Devi Lal but he is a disgrace on his name and similarly Birender Singh on the name of peasant leader Sir Chhotu Ram. Devi Lal and Chhotu Ram sacrificed their lives for the farmers’ struggle but Dushyant and Birender are just doing politics. Birender is making a fool of us by extending support to farmers and his son Brijendra Singh is enjoying as a BJP MP,” he added.On being asked about Dushyant’s remarks to mediate between the farmers and government, Charuni said where was Chautala when his government lodged cases against them, dug the road to restrict their march to Delhi borders and used water cannons and tear gas shells to disperse them. “It was the Haryana government which created hurdles for us. Why did Chautala remain mum when Haryana Police lathicharged us. We are capable enough to hold dialogues with the government,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-ban-entry-of-bjp-jjp-leaders-in-haryana-agriculture-minister-s-home-constituency/story-M0ZTW2y6Zme9SBSYwK7hoN.html
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||Guest Column: We need to learn to live with our mistakes||One thing that we human beings have in common is that we all make mistakes. One way or another, sooner or later, we all do it. If you’ve made mistakes in this life, know that you are not alone. Everyone on the planet does it. Mistakes are the ultimate sign that we are human. We should be comfortable making mistakes, admitting them and sharing them with one another from an early age. That is healthy as we will then be more accepting of our own humanity and feel much more at ease with each other. Perhaps we will be much more supportive of each other too. But that is so often not the case. Collectively, we tend to be quite afraid of making mistakes and feel immensely uncomfortable afterwards. It could be that throughout human history our survival has relied on us not making mistakes. Nature’s diktat: One mistake and you’ll be dead, could have been so ingrained in our DNA that it instinctively comes through when we do something wrong. With many social structures, religions and cultures around the world severely condemning people for making mistakes throughout the ages, our brains actually flash an error message when we go against social norms. Generally speaking, we are not at ease with making mistakes, with being wrong, with failure, with falling outside norms, and that much more. We don’t want to disappoint people whose approval we want.We are just not very comfortable with being human. The school system alone teaches us from a young age that being wrong won’t lead to success – think about the test papers with red marks. So many of our systems, along with our upbringing, can so often create shame, pain, and tell us that we are ‘bad’ people. Or simply not good enough. Learn to say that you are sorry both to yourself and to those whom you’ve hurt through your mistakes. By apologising to those you’ve wronged, you take responsibility and offer a chance for closure and healing. You also offer them a chance to forgive you. By apologising to yourself, you offer yourself compassion, for not knowing any better, or for simply screwing up in spite of knowing better. We all have our own baggage, and we need to learn to cut ourselves some slack and learn to forgive ourselves. This is also an excellent chance to engage your own inner critic and recognise the patterns that are sabotaging your ability to forgive yourself. Learn to quiet that harsh inner voice and look beyond the mistake – be kind to yourself. In many ways, being wrong is the only option we can count on as humans. The story of humanity is after all built on endless mistakes – and it is only by learning how to acknowledge them to ourselves and to one another that we can truly heal our story, and inherently our planet. The more obsessed we are with being right, the more walls we put between ourselves and the world. We need these walls to come down, and we need to normalise being wrong, so that we may heal and evolve in a fundamental way as a collective. There is no harm in being wrong as long as you can correct the wrong.mahavirindia@yahoo.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-we-need-to-learn-to-live-with-our-mistakes/story-D3NWIlzAgSuZWa9RwdX7jM.html
26-12-2020||Delhi||Gang targets three ATMs in four hours, hunt on for suspects||A group of four-five bike and car-borne men committed three back-to-back ATM robberies in west Delhi’s Madipur, Kirti Nagar and Naraina Vihar within four hours early on Saturday morning, police said. The three ATM robberies prompted several police teams to activate their technical as well as human intelligence network to identify and nab the suspects. In one of the three ATMs, the suspects made two attempts within an hour, the police said.Although the identity of the suspects could not be ascertained till Saturday night, the modus operandi suggests that it could be the work of a gang from Mewat in Haryana. Three separate cases were registered at the Punjabi Bagh, Kirti Nagar and Naraina Vihar police stations. “All the three ATMs — one of Punjab National Bank and two of Axis Bank — were unguarded and did not have security guards at the time of the incident. The banks are yet to give us an estimate of the exact amount stolen from three ATMs. Several teams are working on the cases,” said deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit.Police said that the robberies took place between Friday midnight and 4am on Saturday. The first robbery took place in an ATM booth located in Madipur area in Punjabi Bagh around midnight. Three men wearing caps and masks entered the ATM booth, blacked out the CCTV cameras using spray paint and cut open the money dispensing machine using a gas cutter. They took out the cash and fled, said a police officer.According to the officer, the same set of robbers then went to Kirti Nagar and targeted an ATM booth using the same modus operandi. Their third target was an ATM booth in Naraina Vihar. The footage of the CCTV cameras at the booth show that the alleged robbers arrived around 2.30am and attempted the robbery after spraying black paint on the cameras.“Due to some reason, the robbers then left the ATM. They returned around 3.30am and carried out the robbery,” the officer said, adding that the CCTVs installed on the possible routes taken by the suspects to reach the three ATMs are being scanned for clues.The police are also scanning the database of criminals who commit similar crimes and are out of jail. Their special focus is on gangs from Mewat region, who have in the recent past been involved in uprooting ATM machines or stealing money from such machines after cutting them with gas cutters.“Prime facie, it appears that the suspects had conducted detailed reconnaissance of the three ATMs before targeting them,” added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gang-targets-three-atms-in-four-hours-hunt-on-for-suspects/story-cbD6BWXUP2YIWxOqcMZtSK.html
26-12-2020||City||Pune’s home farmers cultivate a taste for turmeric grown in their back-yards, terraces||PUNE Turmeric has found a place in the Indian kitchen for centuries. Pune residents are now growing turmeric in their backyards.Sujata Naphade, a home maker and resident of Pashan, and Nishika Patel, a homemaker and resident of Kondhwa, are two such “home farmers”.Naphade, 44, has been growing turmeric in her backyard for four years, something that Patel is doing on her terrace. “It’s all about the quality of the soil, the weather, and lots of patience. There are many criteria at play so just a technique won’t guarantee success as the major role here is played by unpredictable factors, like the rains,” said Naphade, who has also done her graduation in B-tech Agriculture. Nahpade advises people to first learn about the soil required, depending on the area of cultivation and the seasonal weather. According to her the best time to plant turmeric is in March or April. As turmeric does not have any seeds, one can buy fresh organic harvest in late December or January from a known market vendor or a farmer.Growing turmeric is a long process that takes up to 10 months, but the harvest done even in a one-foot diameter pot or a “grow bag”, will reap a minimum of around 1-1.5kg of turmeric.Depending on the soil, it will be enough to last a whole year of use for a small family. To grow turmeric requires a one-by-one foot diametre pot, dry leaves, soil, and some kitchen waste, said Naphade. One has to start by layering the soil and dry leaves alternatively. The top layer should be of the soil mixed with kitchen waste and any other organic manure. The plant has to be watered every two-to-three days. Keep adding dry leaves every month to keep the fertility and quality of soil stable. “I’ve always been interested in gardening as a child with my father. Now we don’t get chemical-free organic fruits and vegetables anymore. Wanting to eat natural, organic, seasonal food was a major reason for us to start growing our fruits and vegetables. And coming from an agricultural background solidified the base of the plan to grow our food at home,” she said. “Another reason for us to continue this was to make sure we learn to teach our kids. The previous generations knew everything about farming and agriculture, but the future ones won’t know anything as we haven’t learned enough to teach them. Our kids won’t know anything about their food and well-being,” added Naphade. Patel has been growing turmeric for three years on the terrace of her flat. “It is easy as long as you take good care of the plant. It takes good sunlight and soil to grow. One has to take care of the amount of sunlight the plant receives, along with the water. If you water way too much, the turmeric will get spoilt,” she said. For her, its been a learning journey. “There are some times when the harvest is good. And some times when you make mistakes and it does not come out best. But, it’s really good knowing that the food you’re eating is grown by you,” said Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-s-home-farmers-cultivate-a-taste-for-turmeric-grown-in-their-back-yards-terraces/story-hcAKCwTqiRHEjyjJCeyBhK.html
26-12-2020||Jaipur||‘Bye-bye. We’re quitting!’ RLP pulls out of NDA over farm bills says chief Beniwal||After Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Rashtriya Loktantric Party (RLP) chief Hanuman Beniwal also walked out of National Democratic Alliance on Saturday. While addressing farmers’ rally in Shahjahanpur in Rajasthan’s Alwar district, Beniwal said, “Bye-bye. We are quitting NDA. Nothing is above the pride of farmers in the country.” State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Mukesh Pareekh said that Beniwal’s party is an independent party and a one man’s unit. “Just because of him, the BJP left the parliamentary seat from Nagaur and helped him in winning the election,” he said.“Earlier, he had supported the agri laws but now just to gain political mileage he had quit the alliance,” Pareekh added. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in September had also pulled out of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) coalition at the Centre over the passage of contentious farm bills passed in Parliament earlier this month. Also read: ‘Wake up’ - Digvijaya Singh calls upon Congress members to join farmers’ stirThousands of RLP supporters joined the farmers protest on Saturday on Jaipur-Delhi National Highway in Shahjahanpur along the Rajasthan-Haryana border. Around 3 pm on Saturday, hundreds of vehicles had reached the border from Kotputli area of Jaipur rural. The RLP workers had put up a separate pandal on the stretch from where the farmers have been protesting on the highway for 14-days. “I request the central government to not play with flames. Any government who has dared to go against has been dethroned. Because of this act, agriculture mandis will end. Why didn’t the government consult the farmers? Because of this act land mafias raj will increase. I don’t understand why is the government not rolling back the laws,” said Beniwal at the protest site. Also read: Kerala gold smuggling case - Customs to move high court against jail deptCalling himself a son of a farmer, Beniwal said he had always supported them. “The central government is in the mood to muscle down the farmers’ protest. But this is the issue of sustenance and pride of farmers and we are standing with them,” he said.Last week, the disappointed RLP chief, who is a Lok Sabha Member of Parliament (MP) from Nagaur, resigned from three parliament committees in support of farmer’s issue. Farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana and Gujarat had started proceeding towards Delhi earlier this month but were stopped by the Rewari police at the Haryana-Rajasthan border. Since then, they have been protesting at Shahjahanpur in Alwar district at Rajasthan-Haryana border. RLP in Rajasthan The party has a Member of Parliament from Nagaur (Hanuman Beniwal) and three MLAs from Merta, Khinvsar and Bhopalgarh assembly constituencies. The RLP, which was formed before the 2018 assembly elections, had fielded candidates on 57 constituencies, won three and received a vote of share of 2.40 per cent. The party contested in alliance with the BJP on Nagaur Lok Sabha seat in 2019, thereafter on Khinvsar bypolls. The decision of breaking tie will not have much of an impact on the NDA. The BJP in Rajasthan is in opposition with 71 MLAs - far below the majority figure.Though RLP chief Beniwal is a vocal detractor of chief minister Ashok Gehlot and ex-CM Vasundhara Raje but if Gehlot woo him, it may consolidate his position in circumstances that arise during political crisis in Rajasthan.The BTP with two MLAs has already withdrawn its support from the Congress. If the RLP becomes a Congress ally, it will offset the impact caused by the BTP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/bye-bye-we-re-quitting-rlp-pulls-out-of-nda-over-farm-bills-says-chief-beniwal/story-Xfwq9rImkgyNQRsR30beEM.html
26-12-2020||Pune||Test drive of ‘death stretch’ from New Katraj Tunnel to Navale bridge chowk||Using the New Katraj tunnel to Navale bridge chowk stretch has become a risky affair for motorists, two-wheeler riders and pedestrians, as the road is witness to regular mishaps. The main observation cited by road experts is that the road has a long slope where heavy vehicles use the decline to shut down their engine to save fuel which may cause accidents as in many cases the brakes stops to function. On November 29, three persons lost their lives after a heavy vehicle dashed them on the highway near Narhe exit on the service road. HT conducted a test drive on December 19 (Saturday) in a truck starting from New Katraj tunnel via Narhe service road exit till Navale bridge chowk. To understand the precautions and safety measures that need to be taken by truck drivers, especially on the slope, we were accompanied by Swapnil Pangare, area sales manager of KGP Auto Ltd, Ghatge Trucking BharatBenz dealer with their heavy truck driver Jamir Shaikh. Both of them explained on how to drive steadily and the things that need to be followed while driving through the slope stretch of the road to avoid accidents. Test drive 1. At 8.30 am, I along with driver Jamir got into the truck which has a heavy load capacity up to 28 tonnes. We started from Navale bridge chowk towards the new Katraj tunnel 2. While going towards the new Katraj tunnel, Jamir showed some of the important buttons inside the driver cabin which are used to control the vehicle. One such button is called “Constant Throttle Valve” (CTV). It is mainly used to control the engine brakes while the vehicle is on slope. The button was located on the right side of the driver’s steering wheel. “There are six diesel sprinkling nozzles in the engine. After switching on this button, only one diesel nozzle supply is on and other five remain closed. This step saves diesel and also the vehicle ignition is on and air supply to brakes remains constant. Many trucks do not have this facility, and some drivers do not use it even if the heavy vehicle is fitted with the button,” Pangare said. 3. In 15 minutes we crossed the tunnel and by taking the ‘U’ turn on the highway we started coming back from the tunnel towards the Navale bridge chowk which is the danger stretch that sees accidents. 4. From halfway through the tunnel, the slope on the highway started and the truck gained speed (there is speed limit of 80 kmph on this highway). Jamir said, “There is a speed lock of 50 kmph to the truck and even on the slope if the ignition is on we control the vehicle on first or second gear.” After the tunnel ended, the slope started towards the Dari Pul bridge and to show the mistake that some drivers commit, Jamir took the vehicle on ‘neutral’ gear. Soon, the speed of the vehicle almost touched 90 kmph 5. Explaining the wrong practise of putting the heavy vehicle on neutral gear, Pangare said, “When a truck driver crosses the tunnel before the Dari Pul bridge, he puts on the neutral gear. Later, when he approaches the Navale bridge, he starts applying brakes as other vehicles also enter the stretch. As the vehicle was in neutral gear, the liners get heated up which leads to brake failure and possible accident. There is a brake control button in every heavy vehicle or truck which should be used by the driver on such slopes, but to save a fuel of around 3 to 4 litres, they do such risky things.” 6. Driving ahead, we crossed the Dari Pul bridge and the ‘death’ stretch or accident-prone slope on the highway started. Jamir took the speeding truck in second gear. He then switched on the CTV button which controls the engine brakes and though in speed the truck was going at 50 kmph on fuel saving mode. The stretch from new Katraj tunnel to Navale bridge chowk is around 6 to 7 kms and there are several boards on this stretch installed by the Pune traffic police department appealing drivers “not to switch off the engines or put vehicle on neutral”. Rumbler strips are there at a couple of spots, and at some spots potholes were also seen. 7. By around 9.10 am we reached the Narhe service road exit which goes ahead to the Navale bridge chowk. This is the spot where the recent accident claimed three lives. As our vehicle was on control speed, Jamir slowly took the service road and finally our test drive ended at 9.15 am coming back to Navale bridge chowk. Normally the average mileage of trucks is between 3 and 6 kmpl, and to save fuel on this danger stretch drivers follow the wrong practice of switching off the engine or putting it on neutral gear. But if the engine break control button is used with ignition on, then same amount of fuel is saved along with safely passing through the slope, according to Pangare. Review “Overall, the test drive was good and we got a first-hand experience of traveling inside a speeding truck on this ‘death stretch’. It is not so difficult for drivers to control their heavy vehicles by using safety features in their vehicles, but lack of alertness or careless attitude may cause accidents. While going through the slope, we found some speeding heavy vehicles. By controlling the vehicle on gear with the help of engine brake button, one can easily control the speed avoiding any mishap. Some improvement and upgrade in road infrastructure on this stretch by NHAI is needed like repairing potholes, adding more rumbler strips and putting up of more safety sign boards and signals along the service road.” Mishap count Accidents happened on this stretch starting from new Katraj Tunnel to Navale Bridge Chowk Year/Fatal accidents/Serious accidents/Minor accidents/Total 2019/12/02/29/43 2020 (Till Nov)/14/25/09/48 Total /26/27/38/91||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/test-drive-of-death-stretch-from-new-katraj-tunnel-to-navale-bridge-chowk/story-vfmmyycT1YYEo3IvU95LMI.html
26-12-2020||Pune||Startup mantra: Lighting up O2 supply requirement in Pune||It has been nine months since the Covid-19 outbreak began in the country. So far, there have been three crucial stages in the fight against this pandemic. First, detection of the coronavirus infection; second, enrichment of oxygen in order to decrease the dependency on ventilator units at hospitals; and the third and final stage is now vaccine distribution – especially last-mile delivery – across the country. Pune’s Science start-up and research institute ecosystem has played a crucial role in all these three stages of the Covid-19 outbreak. The Venture Centre of the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), alone, has supported and incubated 25 start-ups, of which three have played a super-important role in the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Covid-19 testingIn the first phase, detection of the coronavirus infection, was the testing procedure. The RTPCR test took at least 24 hours to produce results. This was because of a very limited number of approved labs and kits available across the country for testing swab samples. MyLab Discovery Solutions developed the first made-in-India PathoDetect Covid-19 Qualitative PCR test kit in a record time. It further received necessary commercial approvals and the kit was launched across the country. Phase 2: Oxygen EnrichmentWith a rising number of Covid-19 cases, patients in a serious medical condition, requiring oxygen and ventilator support, were also increasing exponentially. The healthcare systems at Covid-19 hotspots across the country were failing only because patients were not able to get oxygenated or ventilated beds in hospitals. Genrich Membranes Pvt Ltd, a start-up founded by Dr Ulhas Kharul and Dr Rajendra Kharul, stepped in at this crucial stage and supplied oxygen enrichment units (OEU) to hospitals. The NCL Venture Centre also played a key role in bringing together Genrich and Bharat Electronic Limited (BEL) to manufacture these units. The feedback received from hospitals was encouraging as the number of patients requiring ventilator support started decreasing due to the OEUs. Genrich is now in the process of obtaining an ISO 13485 certification for their product so that private hospitals can avail of the benefits of their product on a large scale. Genrich not only provided OEUs, but also developed a prototype for virus-free air kits for frontline healthcare workers and doctors who had to wear the PPE kits for long hours while dealing with Covid-19 patients. Phase 3: Vaccine distributionVaccine candidates are in process of getting emergency approval from the central government. However, the crucial task is to transport the vaccines vials to the farthest locations in the country. At present, traditional ice packs are being considered as vaccine carriers, but they pose many challenges, like maintaining the adequate temperatures till the vaccine is administered. The efficacy of the vaccine depends on these conditions and it is not possible to analyse the outcomes. Blackfrog Technologies has developed a portable temperature-regulation device for last-mile transport of thermally sensitive biologicals like vaccines, blood, serums etc. The technology will be used for transport of biological samples (blood, sputum) from hospitals/remote areas to diagnostic centres that conduct Covid-19 testing. They have already donated a unit of Emvólio - their portable medical-grade refrigeration system to the Udupi District Government Hospital for safe and efficient transport of Covid-19 specimens to laboratories. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Other Pune based start-ups involved in Covid-19 prevention, and precautionary, measures Atmen TechnoventionThe company has developed an endotracheal tube obstruction monitoring device. Covid-19 patients often experience shortness of breath, i.e. ARDS (Acute respiratory distress syndrome). All patients with this symptom are intubated using an endotracheal tube. Currently, clinicians monitor the endotracheal tube manually, which needs an experienced person. The company is also developing portable and affordable ventilators.ZeroplastDeveloping nanocellulose based 100% soil compostable products as an alternative to single-use plastics. Currently, working on eco-friendly, food-safe, hygienic, antibacterial and antiviral hand gloves made from compostable biopolymers and reusable masks coated with nanocellulose formulation which offers antiviral and antibacterial properties.Better SuitsDeveloping protective gear for frontline warriors and healthcare workers. They are developing a protective suit with the following properties: (a) reusable, breathable, and heat-absorbing fabric (b) smart indicators that can indicate contamination levels and (c) antiviral coating.Seagull BiosolutionsDeveloping immunodiagnostics ELISA kits using the Active Virosome (AV)-expressing S protein of Covid-19.Cyca OncosolutionsRepurposing an immune booster nutritional supplement as a therapeutic candidate for Covid-19. To be used as an inhaler for direct delivery to lungs.JeevtronicsThe company has developed a dual powered defibrillator. This product is to be used in ICUs in case of sudden cardiac arrest for patients suffering from Covid-19.Newndra InnovationsTheir flagship assistive device - JaipurBelt is an unpowered, lightweight (weight of helmet), efficient and affordable and patented exoskeleton that can protect the medical staff, healthcare workers and nurses from the fatigue and stress on their back due to long hours of work activities by off-loading the spine and waist up to a configured, variable limit without restricting body movements.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Interesting Statistics/info• Of 339 NCL employees, 24 were found seropositive in a voluntary survey• Venture Centre is the only second organisation in India after Biocon Pharma in Bengaluru which has established a facility of government-supported Centre for Biopharma Analysis (CBA)• Venture Centre is the nerve centre for the task force constituted for repurposing of drugs for Covid-19• Under CAWACH initiative a nation-wide call has been announced requesting proposals from start-ups working on developing solutions for Covid-19 for funding assistance up to Rs 2 crore per start-up. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Experts speak:Dr Venugopalan Premnath, head, Venture Centre, NCL“Pune has a culture of respecting knowledge and nurturing innovators. Thus, the Pune innovation ecosystem is one of the best for knowledge-intensive, inventive start-ups to take birth and grow. Pune has a conducive research culture, density of scientists and engineers, key scientific facilities, good quality of life to attract talent and a pool of budding entrepreneurs. Where it falls short is in a pool of investors with a risk appetite for scientific enterprises, maturity in innovation management capabilities in R&D institutions and a weak pool of experienced entrepreneurs in the scientific business space. Pune is working towards improving these weaknesses. Venture Centre has started TechEx.in as a technology transfer and innovation management hub. During the Covid pandemic, Pune’s start-up community really rose to the occasion and made us realise how important it is to nurture a start-up pool.”Dr Rajendra Kharul, director, Genrich Membranes“Pune ecosystem is quite useful and helpful. Genrich is fortunate to be a part of such a thriving ecosystem. The biggest advantage of such an ecosystem is that the peers, founders can talk to each other and exchange information on critical issues which saves their time.”MyLab Discovery Solutions Hasmukh Rawal and Shailendra Kawade founded Mylab Discovery Solutions in 2016. The company was self-funded and developed affordable diagnostic solutions. The two co-founders were working with a US-based laboratory equipment giant Thermo Fisher before they started this company. Their manufacturing facility is located at Lonavala Industrial Estate and approved by Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation Pre-COVID revenue of Rs 44 crore Funding of Rs 1 crore from Action Covid-19 Team (ACT); undisclosed amount from Technology Development Board (TDB), Serum Institute of India and AP Globale in April 2020. Genrich Membranes NCL scientist Dr Ulhas Kharul along with Dr Rajendra Kharul and Kiran Bansode started the company in March 2015 It is a spin-off company based on proprietary technology from CSIR-NCL Received grant of Rs 44 lakh from BIRAC in 2016; and NSTEB equity-funding of Rs 50 lakh in 2017 ---------------- Blackfrog Technologies Founded by Mayur Shetty, Donson Dsouza and Ashlesh Bhat in November 2015 Incubated with Manipal Universal Technology Business Incubator Received BIRAC Biotechnology Ignition Grant of Rs 50 lakh in 2017 to develop proof of concept Located in Udupi, Karnataka and supported by Venture Centre, Pune as implementation partner ---------------- CEOs/Co-Founders/researchers about idea/current status Dr Rajendra Kharul said, “We took advantage of the government scheme for scientists and thought of making use of the membrane science in the interest of society. Patients with respiratory diseases like asthma require handy enriched oxygen units like those available in the foreign countries. We thought of making such units which are affordable and easy to carry. We took help of the CSIR 800 project and installed such machines at the Chest Research Foundation, Sassoon Hospital and Primary Health Centre in Palghar. In the last one or two years we had several rounds of detailed discussion with private and government hospitals. During these discussions we realised that certification for the device is necessary and hence we are now obtaining ISO 13485 certification. After acquiring the certification, the product can be widely adopted in private and government hospitals.” Mayur Shetty said, “Even before the COVID19 outbreak, there was a huge requirement for effective vaccine distribution especially the last mile delivery part. Polio, BCG, MMR all require cold chain infrastructure and traditional use of ice packs drops the temperatures below 2 degree which affects efficacy of vaccine. Our product was designed in 2018 and now we are scaling up the manufacturing. At present we have capacity if 250 units per month and we are increasing it to 350 per month. Considering that the COVID19 vaccine is on horizon, we are working with ISO 13485 complaint contract manufacturer which will enable us to produce one lakh units per month. We are live on ground in three states for delivering animal vaccines, human vaccines and COVID19 specimens like nasal and throat swabs.” Hasmukh Rawal said, “When the first COVID19 case was identified in India and there was no Indian test available, we knew that the country will have to struggle to meet the testing demands. We have a deep expertise in molecular testing due to years of a work in this domain. We got our complete research team to focus on developing a test which is highly reliable and cost effective. Within six weeks we developed a test which passed the most stringent of criteria and at one- fourth the cost of existing tests. Our investors helped us to scale from near 20,000 test a week to 2 lakh tests a day. ---------------------------------------------------- Customers/Government view Dr Sudhir Patsute, medical superintendent, Dr Naidu Infectious Disease Hospital, Pune Municipal Corporation “Central line system for oxygen support to patients was not available at most government or civic hospitals. Using oxygen cylinders, transporting and refilling them was a difficult task as we were pressed for time. So, using portable oxygen enrichment units or generators was needed during the Covid-19 peak. Mild symptomatic patients could be provided with required oxygen support as the flow could be adjusted using the unit. This helped in keeping the oxygenated beds vacant for patients with severe symptoms.” Dr Awanti Golwilkar-Mehendale, consultant pathologist, AG Diagnostics “We are very happy with the kit. Availability of kits was never an issue. Results using the kit were and the technical support provided is equivalent to any other international company. The process of validation of the kit in the lab was very smooth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/startup-mantra-lighting-up-o2-supply-requirement-in-pune/story-PBBh9LlhAT2fmt2nENL89H.html
26-12-2020||Pune||MNS activists ransack Amazon warehouse in Kondhwa Budruk||Irate activists of Raj Thackeray’s Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) ransacked the Amazon transportation service godown located at survey number 27 in Burhani industrial estate in Kondhwa Budruk on Friday. MNS activists carrying party flags barged into the company compound, ransacked the furniture and broke window glasses with stick. The MNS action is fallout of a court notice issued to its party chief asking him to appear before the court on January 5, 2021. Following the vandalism, a case was registered by Kondhwa police against 10 unidentified persons under section 143,147,149,427,452 of IPC along with several other relevant sections of Maharashtra police act, epidemic. The complaint in the matter was filed by Amazon official. Amazon in its complaint had alleged that its posters were torn by MNS workers.The MNS workers were furious as the court had asked the party supremo and other leaders to appear before the Dindoshi court after a suit was filed in the court.MNS corporator Sainath Babar said “Amazon was informed well in advance that its application must have Marathi language on its platform. This is just the trailer and MNS will go hammer and tongs against the company if it fails to adhere to our demands of incorporation of Marathi language on its application as it is the mother tongue of the people.”The MNS had also written to the e-commerce platform that if demands were not met, then they can go to any extent to ensure that their mother tongue language demand is enforced. In November, the party had started a campaign entitled “No Marathi, No Amazon” seeking to incorporate the Marathi language in Amazon’s app.Kondhwa police station in charge Sardar Patil was unavailable for comments despite repeated attempts to reach out to him. A large number of policemen were deployed in the area to prevent the MNS activists from resorting to further vandalism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mns-activists-ransack-amazon-warehouse-in-kondhwa-budruk/story-ArukBnFtGey5YHKVTLV3KP.html
26-12-2020||Pune||Aim to bring sports revolution via int’l university, says Sunil Kedar||We aim to bring in a sports revolution in the country with the opening of the International Sports University at the Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex, Balewadi, said Sunil Kedar, state sports and youth affairs minister on Friday. Kedar, who was in the city to interact with the city’s sports fraternity, said, “Like former PM Rajiv Gandhi, who brought Information and Technology (IT) revolution in the country which has helped various generations get employed and even prove their mettle in other countries, in the same way, the International Sports University will help bring sports revolution in the country.”A budget of Rs 400 crore has been allocated for the prestigious event. However, the state was initially planning to set up a university in Aurangabad, but considering the cost and infrastructure, the project has been moved to Pune.“If we had started the project from scratch, then we would have had to spend Rs 700 to 800 crore and it could have taken a lot of time, but in Pune, infrastructure will not be a problem,” added Kedar.The university will offer various courses including physical and sports education, sports sciences and sports medicine, sports technology, sports governance, sports management, sports media and communication, sports coaching and training.In the first phase, a three-year programme in sports science and sports technology will be started along with a three-month programme in sports coaching and training. Intake capacity for each course will be 50 students.“Focus will be not only on developing athletes who can bring medals, but producing world-class coaches in the country. We have a trend to hire coaches from other countries and this could help change that,” added Kedar.Government is also planning to set up sub-centres of universities in other parts of the state after two years. The state sports minister also stressed on providing much needed help for athletes who come from middle class families.“The sports university will create such a platform that it will give employment to all athletes who are coming from middle class families. University will give them so many options related to sports stream that even if someone does not want to play a game, they can continue to remain at the back-end in a supporting role,” added Kedar, who is expecting the university to be ready in the next three years.Omprakash Bakoria, state sports commissioner, said that the sports department is in talks with prestigious institutes like the Indian Institute of Technology and Indian Institute of Management for possible tie-ups.“We have written to IIT, Mumbai, and IIM, Ahmedabad, for possible tie-ups. We are looking to get experts from these prime institutes for our courses like Sports Technology, Sports Governance and Sports Management,” said Bakoria.The university will also help students during placements. “We will be meeting corporates associated with the field of sports. We will meet companies leading the sports manufacturing group so that our students get jobs in these companies when they complete the course,” added Bakoria. Rutuja Bhosale, who went to the US to play college tennis and represented Texas A&M, said, “Having a sports university in your city helps tremendously. One can get every facility under one roof. I have experienced it when I was in Texas and it really helps. If this happens, it will be a major boost for upcoming athletes.”Malikaa Marathe, an upcoming tennis player who studies in Class 11, said, “Having a sports university would work really well to promote sports in the city. Hopefully, it would help more people get involved in sports.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/aim-to-bring-sports-revolution-via-int-l-university-says-sunil-kedar/story-0SKN06NEv1WR4GB31hC81N.html
26-12-2020||Pune||25 asymptomatic, one positive among traced int’l travellers in Pune||The Pune district administration and civic authorities have been able to trace at least 25 passengers of the 544 who arrived from the UK in the past one month, as part of their surveillance. Of these 25 travellers, who are asymptomatic, one traced by the authorities tested positive during the re-test following which his samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology for genome sequencing to ascertain if the virus is the similar to the new strain, officials said. The person, according to officials, had arrived in Pune on December 13 and tested positive as he went for RT-PCR test in the city. “The person is from Pune city and is asymptomatic. The person is currently undergoing quarantine period at home. We have sent his samples to NIV for genome sequencing,” said Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) assistant health chief, Dr Sanjeev WavareExtensive screening and tracing is going on for passengers who have travelled abroad over the last one month. These passengers are screened and tested in the wake of the new Covid-19 strain found in the United Kingdom (UK).Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer, said that of these 504 passengers, the surveillance team has traced 25 people so far. “We are working day and night to trace the others and all those who have come in contact with these passengers as a precautionary measure. The rest of the passengers will be traced very soon,” said Pawar.He further said that those who are found displaying any symptoms, will be quarantined immediately.“We are tracing all the passengers. There are around 96 passengers from the Pune rural area. Rest are from the city. After the tracing is done, we will get to know how many exhibit symptoms and accordingly, testing will be done,” said Pawar.Experts from the field opined that passengers who test positive should be retested with the TaqMan or TaqPath to confirm the new strain. Otherwise, their genomes sequencing should be done.As per the central government standard operating procedure (SOP), the list of passenger manifest from international flights shall be conveyed by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) so that this data would be provided to the surveillance teams.Central government has issued special guidelines for those passengers who arrived in the country before the SOP was issued and a list of all such passengers has been given to the respective states and city administrations for further action, like contact tracing and institutional quarantine.There are no direct flights to the Pune airport from the UK. However, there maybe passengers who arrived at different airports from abroad and travelled to the city via railways or roadways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/25-asymptomatic-one-positive-among-traced-int-l-travellers-in-pune/story-IIMtZyaEkWwnB6hNqYfScO.html
26-12-2020||City||Smaller crowds, but still out on Christmas: Pune pushes night curfew timings to celebrate||PUNE It was a jam-packed MG road on Friday night as Christmas celebrations unfolded around the city. Children wearing Santa caps and taking selfies was the mood. At most spots, social distancing was not maintained. Even face masks had given way to the festive fervour.Crowds were still on the roads at 11 pm, despite the night curfew in place.Shops and hotels did start closing down and slowly, post 11-pm, crowds began to reduce. HT visited MG road, Camp, Jungli Maharaj road and Ferguson College road. Compared to last year, this time smaller crowds were on the roads. Post-11pm, the night curfew really began to kick in roads in the city began to look deserted. The only traffic movement was seen at the Swargate ST stand and the Pune railway. By midnight police bandobast was in place at places in the city. At Khandoji Baba chowk (the starting point of Karve road near Garware Bridge) a nakabandi was in place.Each and every vehicle was stopped and checked by the police.Talking about the night curfew in the city, Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said, “We have given additional manpower for the night curfew bandobast across the city and it will continue till December 31. We all need to stay at home and follow the night curfew orders, for the safety of the public.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/smaller-crowds-but-still-out-on-christmas-pune-pushes-night-curfew-timings-to-celebrate/story-RY6KOJjfpJ9B3QCcgX12KO.html
26-12-2020||Kolkata||Fresh TMC offensive over rebel MP’s defection, Amit Shah briefed by BJP in charge||Trinamool Congress party workers stopped the car of former party MP Sunil Mondal outside the BJP’s state headquarters in central Kolkata and staged a protest on Saturday morning, leading to further escalation of tensions between the two parties ahead of the Assembly elections in the state. Following the incident, BJP’s national general secretary and West Bengal in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya briefed Union home minister Amit Shah about the incident. “Today TMC workers attacked the car of Sunil Mondal, who is an MP. I briefed the Union home minister about it,” said Vijayvargiya, while addressing a gathering at the BJP office. TMC’s top leaders said that it was a spontaneous protest by party workers against Mondal since he hadn’t resigned as an MP. Mondal had resigned from TMC before joining the BJP on December 19. “Have you seen any such protest for Mukul Roy or Suvendu Adhikari who also defected to the BJP? They both had resigned and then joined the BJP. Mondal, however, hasn’t resigned from his MP post yet. It was a spontaneous protest,” said Kalyan Banerjee, TMC MP. On Saturday, a felicitation event was held by the BJP for the newly inducted leaders including former TMC MP and state minister Suvendu Adhikari. Mondal and other leaders, who recently switched sides, also attended. Also Read: Centre not cooperating, indulging in propaganda for political gains: Mamata BanerjeeAt a stone’s throw, local leaders of the TMC, too, set up a stage and organized a rally. The BJP’s state vice president Pratap Banerjee wrote to the Kolkata Police commissioner stating that the TMC event was a provocation and the stage was built with permission from the police. When Mondal’s car arrived at the BJP office, TMC workers stopped it and staged a protest. Some even lied down the road and showed him black flags. Later, Mondal’s security and BJP workers escorted him to the BJP office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/fresh-tmc-offensive-over-rebel-mp-s-defection-amit-shah-briefed-by-bjp-in-charge/story-rbvNDmgUikM7CgVx7fcGZL.html
26-12-2020||Patna||After Bihar police jailed in-laws for her murder, woman found alive||In another instance of a botched-up investigation by Bihar police, a woman, whose in-laws were arrested for her alleged murder over dowry, was found alive in Muzaffarpur. Police had earlier claimed that her in-laws had dumped her body in river Dabra after killing her. In May 2019, a married woman named Sweety Kumari, along with her younger son Pawan (7), had gone missing from her house in a village under the Bheldi police station area of Saran district. Two days later, body of an unidentified woman was found near the banks of Dabra river in the area, following which, a case was lodged against unknown persons on May 17. Following a news report on the unidentified body washing ashore, Sweety’s father, a resident of Parsa police station area, identified the body as of his missing daughter’s and registered a fresh complaint at Bheldi police station, accusing five persons of her murder, said Marhaurua sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Indrajit Baitha.After three months of investigations, the police arrested three persons including a woman, claiming that the trio had confessed to Sweety’s murder. The police also produced their confessional statement before the court; following which, the trio was sent to jail. However, the Police was left embarrassed when the ‘murdered’ woman was found alive at Muzaffarpur, following a complaint by those accused of killing her.Also Read: As Congress delays review of Bihar poll results, cracks begin to showThe woman and her son have been brought to Saran and an investigation into the entire episode has begun. The woman will soon be presented in the court, and her statement will be recorded, said Baitha. The woman was married in 2008 to a man, Manbodh, who is said to be mentally unstable. As per preliminary investigation, the woman had left for Mumbai with someone before returning to Muzaffarpur recently. Senior police officers said that the murder charge against the five accused will now be dropped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/after-bihar-police-jailed-in-laws-for-her-murder-woman-found-alive/story-lsHOyVOaw7AxIpfWCLrp9J.html
26-12-2020||Kolkata||Bengal MP Sunil Mondal, who joined BJP, faces protests in Kolkata||BJP leader and MP Sunil Mondal, who had switched over from the TMC last week, on Saturday faced protests by the workers of the ruling party in West Bengal when he was going to an office of the saffron camp here.The incident happened when Mondal was on his way to the BJP party office at Hastings, police said.“Some TMC activists, who were participating in a programme there, blocked his car. They sat on the road to stop him from going to our office. They also banged the window panes, pelted his vehicle with stones,” BJP MP Arjun Singh alleged. This led to a scuffle between the BJP activists who were present there and the TMC workers, he said. Police reached the spot and ensured the safe passage of Mondal’s car, a senior officer said. “This only shows the true colour of the TMC. They don’t believe any democratic norm. Is this a way to treat a people’s representative?” Mondal asked.Along with Suvendu Adhikari and five TMC MLAs, Mondal had joined the BJP at Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s rally in Midnapore on December 19.Mondal was elected as TMC MP from Purba Bardhaman.The TMC said the incident was a reflection of people’s anger against the turncoats. “It was people’s anger against the turncoats and a spontaneous protest,” TMC MP Saugata Roy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-mp-sunil-mondal-who-joined-bjp-faces-protests-in-kolkata/story-8G02sMm2haYOk1IMyKWkZN.html
26-12-2020||Mumbai||10 family shelters destroyed in Bhiwandi slum fire in Thane, residents evacuated||A fire broke out in a slum locality of Fatima Nagar in Bhiwandi area of Thane district in Maharashtra around 3am on Saturday, resulting into a loss of shelter for around 10 families. However, No casualty or injury was reported in the incident. Several rooms were charred in the fire but over 50 residents were evacuated safely by the locals and fire department officials, who rushed to the spot in time, averting a major tragedy. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. The locality, where the fire broke out, is a slum, with people living in rooms made up of iron sheets. On Friday night, after the residents went to sleep, one of the rooms caught fire, which quickly spread to the nearby rooms.Also Read: MNS workers allegedly vandalise Amazon warehouse in PuneLocals were the first to spot the fire and inform the fire department, following which, two fire tenders were rushed to the spot. “The blaze broke out around 3am and was brought into control after 45 minutes. Since it was a slum area and several people lived there, the premises were evacuated to avert a greater tragedy. The cause of the fire is not known yet and it will be revealed only after an investigation,”said Rajesh Pawar, chief fire officer, BNCMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/10-family-shelters-destroyed-in-bhiwandi-slum-fire-in-thane-residents-evacuated/story-vraVUzVmqEu1IXGoabU8LP.html
26-12-2020||Kolkata||Centre not cooperating, indulging in propaganda for political gains: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday for misleading farmers with ‘half-truth and distorted facts’ instead of proactively addressing their issues. She also blamed the Centre of non-cooperation and ‘indulging in propaganda for petty political gains’.“Our farmer brothers & sisters have been on streets protesting against new farm laws. Instead of addressing them, PM today chose to mislead the people with half-truth & distorted facts. BJP-led Centre is not cooperating & only indulging in propaganda for petty political gains,” she tweeted, along with a letter in which she rubbished the Centre’s allegation of the non-cooperation by the Bengal government in implementing the PM Kisan Yojana. Banerjee said that the three contentious farm laws would dilute the MSP and state procurement systems, leaving farmers at the mercy of private buyers. She slammed the PM for ‘showing his apparent concern’ via a televised event rather than proactively working to resolve their issues. Mamata said that she had written two letters on the issue of PM Kisan Yojana and spoken to the minister concerned but it was them who were not cooperating. Our farmer brothers & sisters have been on streets protesting against new farm laws. Instead of addressing them, PM today chose to mislead the people with half-truth & distorted facts. BJP-led Centre is not cooperating & only indulging in propaganda for petty political gains. pic.twitter.com/gtngklCruyBanerjee reminded the Centre of its Rs 85,000 crore outstanding dues to the state, which included Rs 8,000 crore of unpaid GST dues, saying that they must release a part of these funds if they really cared about West Bengal. The chief minister said that her government was prepared to do anything for the benefit of the people, even if it meant supporting the politically driven schemes of the Centre which were formulated out of political agenda and were not in the interest of helping people. Banerjee said that her ideologies were consistent with the vision of the founding fathers of the country, that she had served the people of West Bengal with the right intent and that the people would give a befitting reply to those trying to malign them or their state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/centre-not-cooperating-indulging-in-propaganda-for-political-gains-mamata/story-coFKu3QGCFUR2dqS4jxyGO.html
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||Free run for motorists as farmers picket toll plazas in Haryana for second day||Farmers continued their protest against the Centre’s new agriculture laws by allowing the free movement of vehicles through toll plazas in Haryana on Saturday in response to the farm unions’ call to picket the toll collection booths from December 25 to 27. Women protesters along with children joined the protest at Kitlana toll plaza in Dadri, while farmers parked their tractor-trolleys on the roadside and sat on dharna near Makrauli toll plaza on the Rohtak-Chandigarh highway and at Madina toll plaza on the Rohtak-Hisar highway. Farmers from Haryana and Punjab continued their sit-in at the Shambhu toll plaza near Ambala on the Delhi-Amritsar National Highway-44 for the second day. The protesting farmers gathered at the border on Friday, forcing employees at the toll collection booths to leave. Vinod Kumar, the safety manager at Khatkar toll plaza near Jind, said, “We have shut down all computers, fast tag and other operations since Friday morning. Vehicles are crossing the toll area without paying any tax. A loss of about Rs 40 lakh is estimated due to the farmers’ call to close this toll plaza for three days. We have faced a loss of Rs 4 lakh a day here since farmers started their journey towards Delhi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/free-run-for-motorists-as-farmers-picket-toll-plazas-in-haryana-for-second-day/story-dMrZrdKa3YUS49zt6ay1uM.html
26-12-2020||Delhi||Two national highways closed due to stir; farmers yet to decide on sixth round of talks||The Delhi Traffic Police on Saturday said that two National Highways- NH9 and NH24 have been closed for traffic movement from Delhi to Ghaziabad as the farmers are continuing their protests against the central government’s agriculture reforms introduced in September.Updating the commuters through Twitter, the police advised them to take alternate routes to Ghaziabad via the Delhi Noida Direct flyway (DND), Wazirabad and the ITO.“Traffic Alert. NH-9 and NH-24 both are closed for Delhi to Ghaziabad due of farmer protests. People are advised to take alternate route for Ghaziabad via DND, ITO and Wazirabad,” it said.The Police on Friday had sealed Singhu,Ghazipur,Piau Maniyari and other border points and urged commuters to rather travel through Lampur, Safiabad, Palla, and Singhu school toll tax borders. Heavy security was deployed at the Ghazipur border to ensure that the protests do not take a violent turn. Traffic AlertNH-9 and NH-24 both are closed for Delhi to Ghaziabad due of farmer protests. People are advised to take alternate route for Ghaziabad via DND, ITO and Wazirabad.COVID PRECAUTIONS :WEAR MASK, MAINTAIN SOCIAL DISTANCING, KEEP HAND HYGIENE.From the past one month, farmers- majorly from the states of Haryana and Punjab have marched and are camping at border points in the national capital and neighbouring states seeking the removal of the controversial reforms. Union agricultural minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday had once again appealed to the farmers to end their agitation and engage in a dialogue with the government.“I want to urge them to leave the protest and come forward for the dialogue. I am hopeful that farmers will understand the importance of new laws and reach a solution,” Tomar said. Till now five rounds of talks have been held between the government and farmer groups but they failed to reach any logical conclusion.Also Read: No confusion over new farm laws in Madhya Pradesh, says Shivraj Singh ChouhanThe agriculture ministry in its latest letter on Thursday invited the farmers for a sixth round of talks and urged them to decide the date and time for the same. The farmer groups on Friday held a meeting to discuss the latest letter of the government, with some groups hinting that they might resume talks in order to find a solution to end the deadlock. Today the groups will hold a second round of meeting where a formal decision regarding the Centre’s invite for dialogue is likely to be taken.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2-highways-in-delhi-closed-due-to-stir-farmers-yet-to-decide-on-6th-round-of-talks/story-cqeS2y9k1rg3KzMWZ5sEZL.html
26-12-2020||Patna||As Congress delays review of Bihar poll results, cracks begin to show||Even a month and a half after the Bihar Assembly election results were declared, the Congress party is yet to assess the reasons for its flop show despite being blamed by ally, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), for the Grand Alliance or Mahagathbandhan’s narrow loss to the NDA, and despite every other major political outfit having reviewed their poll performances. While the RJD emerged as the single largest party with victories on 75 seats, the Congress had to be content with just 19 seats, eight less than the previous elections. It was only due to the Left parties’ vastly improved performance that the GA managed to win 110 out of the 243 Assembly seats in the state. Senior party leaders including All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Tariq Anwar and Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) campaign committee chief Akhilesh Prasad Singh, said that the party needed a formal review of the defeat in order to rebuild the organisation soon. Anwar, also a former Union minister, is hopeful that the AICC would undertake the review exercise soon. “Review of the defeat in Bihar is very much on the AICC agenda,” he said, citing discussions with party leaders in Delhi. Singh blamed “flawed” electoral strategies drawn by BPCC chief Madan Mohan Jha and AICC leaders Randeep Singh Surjewala and Shaktisinh Gohil for losing the seats the party was confident of winning.Also Read: Ashwini Kumar Choubey seeks CM Nitish Kumar’s help to end strike of Bihar’s junior doctors“We lost Mithilanchal, as we refused to rethink our candidate for the Jale assembly seat, which allowed the opposition to create a Hindu-Muslim divide. I have studied (our performance on) every seat and know how the party lost. I am ready to explain it to the party senior, Rahul Gandhi,” added Singh. BPCC chief Jha said Gohil’s prolonged illness was causing the delay in review exercise. “Senior leaders often meet at Sadaqat Ashram and informally discuss the causes of the setback. However, a formal review is needed,” said Jha. A senior AICC member Kishore Kumar Jha claimed the party’s “laidback” approach had demoralised party workers. “Leaders of the RJD and the Left often criticise the Congress leadership for defeat in polls because state party leaders lacked courage. Senior RJD leader Shivanand Tiwari got away with criticising the party leadership. Sadly, those in key positions in the BPCC refused to react,” said Jha, adding that some leaders were avoiding the crucial review meeting to save their own skins. Recently, Shivanand Tiwari had hit out at Rahul Gandhi, claiming he lacked leadership quality and therefore didn’t inspire people. He advised the Congress president to forsake her ‘blind love for son’ for the sake of the country. AICC media panellist and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra was the only prominent leader to respond to Tiwari’s attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/as-congress-delays-review-of-bihar-poll-results-cracks-begin-to-show/story-DDbs1Pv3S97PMVoWAYyLsN.html
26-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: One dead, 3 rescued after fire breaks out at mask manufacturing unit||One person died while three others were rescued after a fire broke out at a mask manufacturing unit in Mayapuri area of the national Capital on Saturday morning. Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said that the call was received at 3.54am and six fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The deceased has been identified as Jugal Kishor, Garg said. The DFS chief added that the mishap occurred after machines and raw materials on the third floor of the manufacturing unit caught fire. The three people were rescued after the doors and walls of the unit were broken down by the DFS team, he said. The rescued have been shifted to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital. (With inputs from Karn Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/one-dead-2-rescued-after-fire-breaks-out-at-mask-manufacturing-unit-in-delhi/story-iB6JRAQhXBqwh3nHaFN9rO.html
26-12-2020||City||Punjab health department starts tracing of 2,500 UK returnees over new coronavirus strain fears||Amid rising concerns over a new infectious strain of the coronavirus, the state health department on Friday started tracing nearly 2,500 travellers who returned from the United Kingdom in the last one month and are believed to be living in various districts of Punjab. The move came after the Union health ministry directed the states and the union territories to track the locations and clinical status of the travellers from the UK who arrived in the country after November 25. It will be ascertained as to which other state(s) they travelled after their arrival besides conducting genome sequencing of their samples. The state is planning to conduct mandatory RT-PCR tests of the travellers who did not undergo testing after their arrival, especially those who landed less than two weeks ago. The new coronavirus strain, which accounts for one-third of the current cases in London, is believed to be 70% more infectious than the other known variants. “As per the data, 1,822 travellers to Punjab from the UK in the last one month landed at the Delhi international airport. As many as 1,604 travellers to Punjab and elsewhere landed at the Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, after November 25. Of a total of 3,426 returnees, nearly 2,500 are still believed to be in the state,” said Punjab Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. The tracing exercise will be over in the next two days, he added. “All these returnees will be kept under surveillance by the health department. The symptomatic people will be tested for Covid-19. We will further trace their contacts who will also be tested for the virus,” he added. “Till now, no traces of the new virus strain have been found in India but many UK travellers were tested positive after their arrival. Also, the department is closely monitoring the eight passengers aboard the Heathrow- Amritsar flight who were tested positive on December 22. On Friday, their samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for genome sequencing and research of the new virus variant,” Dr Bhaskar added. The department has already listed 216 close contacts of these eight people and they are being shifted to institutional quarantine facilities in their respective districts. “The direct contacts of the eight persons include their family members and those sitting next to them in the flight. After five-day institutional quarantine, all of them will be tested,” said Dr Bhaskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-health-department-starts-tracing-2-500-uk-returnees-over-new-virus-strain-fears/story-So8w6R942O3OLLjIhQOyJO.html
26-12-2020||City||Former Bathinda SDM, town planner under lens for irregularities in land acquisition for highway widening||The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has detected major irregularities in the land acquisition process for widening of the Bathinda-Sangat Kalan road as the nature of 177 khasras (plots) of land was changed from agriculture to commercial in an attempt to give undue compensation to nearly 155 private landowners. The probe conducted by the NHAI’s regional office, Chandigarh, categorically puts the role of the then Bathinda sub-divisional magistrate (SDM)-cum-competent authority for land acquisition (CALA) Amrinder Singh Tiwana and then district town planner (DTP) Paramjit Singh under the lens for the alleged irregularities. The compensation amount, however, has not been paid yet to the landowners. In a letter to the Punjab government on October 1, 2019, the NHAI observed “apparent irregularities” on part of Tiwana in preparing the 3A notification and variation list to 3A notification (for land acquisition) and by Paramjit Singh in issuing change of land (CLU) permission. The central agency had written to the Punjab revenue and rehabilitation department and sought investigation into the matter.On May 27, 2020, the revenue department sought report from the Bathinda deputy commissioner in this regard. In his report, the DC said that serious irregularities occurred when Tiwana acted as CALA and the matter should be investigated by a senior officer. The revenue department on November 24 wrote to the personnel department to take further necessary action as the latter deals with the Punjab Civil Service (PCS) officers. The complaint and consequent probeIt was on August 5, 2019, that one Ashutosh Singh filed a complaint with the NHAI and demanded a probe into the process, alleging that some officials in collusion with some people acquired the land at an exorbitant price of Rs 60-70 crore. The NHAI constituted an expert committee under CR Rana, a land acquisition expert, along with Bathinda project director Vipin Mangla. The committee’s report submitted in September 2019 stated that 3-A notification for land acquisition was published in e-gazette the previous year in September. The nature of land of khasra numbers 863, 851 and 852 at Gehri Buttar village was changed from agriculture to commercial on the same day of submission of application of CLU on August 20, 2018, to give inflated compensation to the landowners. “The project director had also raised the issue of CLU on a large scale with the CALA as well as Bathinda DC but no action was taken. Therefore, you are requested to get the investigation done,” reads the NHAI’s communication to secretary (revenue) Manashvi Kumar in October last year. Tiwana, who is now posted as Kotkapura SDM, didn’t respond to repeated calls and messages. Paramjit Singh (now Faridkot district town planner) rejected allegations of irregularities, saying only three CLU cases were cleared and that too as per the government’s guidelines and with the permission of the then Bathinda DC Preneet Bhardwaj. “We faced a lot of pressure from influential people to clear four other CLU cases, but we refused,” added Paramjit who recently filed a reply on the matter after being charge-sheeted. NHAI project director (Bathinda) Vipul Gupta declined to comment on the issue, saying he is not authorised to talk to the media. Bathinda deputy commissioner N Srinivasan also didn’t respond to calls and messages. Secretary (revenue) Manvesh Singh Sidhu, who looks after land acquisition matters, acknowledged that the case is with the department and he has written to the personnel department for further action. RTI activist Kuldeep Singh Khaira, who also procured some details in the matter, said, “A single officer can’t execute such a scam. In this case, huge amount of public money would have been paid off had the NHAI officials not probed the matter properly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-bathinda-sdm-town-planner-under-lens-for-irregularities-in-land-acquisition-for-highway-widening/story-e2wmZny6zrytUczRu2LZ5I.html
26-12-2020||Mumbai||ED notice to NCP’s Eknath Khadse? Leader denies it||Two months after he joined Maharashtra’s ruling Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), senior leader Eknath Khadse is said to have received a notice from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a land deal case. Khadse has been asked to be present before the central agency on December 30, according to news reports. Khadse, however, told HT that he is yet to receive the notice, but was mentally prepared for any such move. The former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) bigwig was also forced to resign from the ministerial council in the previous Devendra Fadnavis government, following allegations of graft and conflict of interest in a land deal at Bhosari near Pune four years ago. Khadse is said to have received notice from ED in the same land deal case. “Apart from farming, I have no other income source. I was mentally prepared for this and had even said this while joining NCP. This would be my fifth probe in the same land deal case. The state anti-corruption bureau has investigated the case twice, while it has also been probed by the income tax department has and Zoting committee (formed by the previous regime),” Khadse said. “Until now, ED used to probe major cases worth hundreds of crores. Now if they want to investigate a land deal worth ₹25 crore-₹30 crore, then I should be happy that my name is added in list of big people,” he said. Satyabrat Kumar, joint director of the ED did not respond to calls.Khadse joined NCP in October. State NCP chief Jayant Patil had said Khadse may have to face ED probe after quitting BJP. “If they unleash ED behind me, I will show the CD,” Khadse said referring to alleged proofs of corruption against BJP leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ed-notice-to-ncp-s-eknath-khadse-leader-denies-it/story-OXQsR8WgMwoktOxrFvYKHI.html
26-12-2020||City||Academic publishers vs LibGen and Sci-Hub: Make research, academic papers accessible to all, 2K scientists, students appeal to court, govt||Amid three major academic publishers seeking ban on free-to-all academic websites, over 2,000 researchers, scientists and students from across the country have signed a petition demanding free access to knowledge. “Academic research cannot flourish without a free flow of information between those who produce it and those who seek it, and we strongly oppose the contention of the lawsuit,” said a statement released by the Breakthrough Science Society (BSS) – a platform for scientists, researchers, students and teachers from all over India. The scientists, through BSS, are urging the government and the court to keep information to academic and research papers accessible to all. The Delhi high court (HC) on Thursday restrained Sci Hub and Libgen, two online repositories providing free access to paywalled research, from uploading, publishing or making available any article till January 6 on a plea by the three global academic publishers, Elsevier Ltd., Wiley India Pvt Ltd and American Chemical Society, claiming copyright infringement. On Monday, the three publishers had filed a case in the HC, seeking a ban on the two websites. The three publishers are among the leading producers of academic journals, books, research work and other publications. Sci-Hub and LibGen give free access to research papers. Elsevier, Wiley and ACS, which charge a subscription fee for accessing content published by them, have alleged that Sci-Hub and LibGen were infringing on their exclusive rights to manuscripts of research papers.Elsevier, Wiley and ACS, which charge a subscription fee for accessing content published by them, have alleged that Sci-Hub and LibGen were infringing on their exclusive rights to manuscripts of research papers and should thus be banned. The scientific community, however, is upset with the court case, to seek a ban of accessible scientific content, and has strongly opposed the alleged “commoditisation of research information.” “We are shocked to learn that three academic publishers — Elsevier, Wiley, and the American Chemical Society (ACS) — have filed a suit seeking a ban on the websites Sci-Hub and LibGen, which have made academic research-related information freely available to all,” said BSS. “More than 2000 scientists, professors, researchers, teachers and students have signed a statement supporting free access to knowledge and urging the court and the government to allow the Indian academic community to continue to have access to Sci-Hub and Libgen,” said Soumitro Banerjee, general secretary of BSS and professor in the physical sciences department of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research at Kolkata. Contending the allegations of infringement by the publishers, scientists said publishers such as LibGen and Sci-Hub do not violate any norm of ethics or intellectual property rights, as the research papers are actually intellectual products of the authors and the institutions. The statement issued by BSS added that international publishers such as Elsevier have created a business model where they treat knowledge created by academic research, funded by taxpayers’ money, as their private property. “Those who produce this knowledge – the authors and reviewers of research papers – are not paid, and yet these publishers make windfall profit of billions of dollars by selling subscriptions to libraries worldwide at exorbitantly inflated rates, which most institutional libraries in India, and even developed countries, cannot afford. Without a subscription, a researcher has to pay between $30 and $50 to download each paper, which most individual Indian researchers cannot afford. Instead of facilitating the flow of research information, these companies are throttling it,” read the statement. “The way exchange of scientific knowledge works today is through papers. And the subscription fees are so high for each journal that students find it difficult to subscribe to any of those. Some research institutes have institution subscriptions, but that is also limited by the institute funding. As most institutes are facing fund cuts, the first thing they do is to discontinue subscriptions. So to really grow scientific knowledge exchange, whatever Sci-Hub and LibGen are doing are great initiatives. As research scholars, we should support them,” said Dibya Sankar, a research scholar from Tata Institute of Fundamental Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/academic-publishers-vs-libgen-and-sci-hub-make-research-academic-papers-accessible-to-all-2k-scientists-students-appeal-to-court-govt/story-iid8Q847AQt6O4ZlLM6r8N.html
26-12-2020||City||Ludhiana: 1 dead, 43 new Covid cases detected in district||A 39-year-old man from Mansooran village of Pakhowal succumbed to Covid-19 on Friday, even as the district recorded 43 fresh cases in 24 hours, health officials said.The district’s cumulative count of cases now stands at 24, 558. While 23, 171 patients have recovered, 955 lost the battle to the virus. Ludhiana now has 429 active cases and a recovery rate of 94.35%.Of the 43 who tested positive in the last 24 hours, two were healthcare workers, 24 were patients with influenza-like illnesses, four were contacts of positive patients.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said swab samples of 2, 223 suspected patients were sent for testing on Friday. He appealed to the residents to follow all the directions issued by the state government to stop the infection spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-1-dead-43-new-covid-cases-detected-in-district/story-uNBTxcRmyrXMopfwUyFgLO.html
26-12-2020||City||Maharashtra gives time till Jan 15 for UG medical admissions||Following a circular by the National Medical Commission (NMC) extending admissions to undergraduate (UG) medical and dental seats across the country, the state common entrance test (CET) cell released a notification on Friday stating that MBBS and BDS admissions has to end by January 15, 2021. The earlier deadline for the admissions was December 31.“As per the notification by NMC dated December 24, candidates registered for state quota seats by paying ₹1,000 and now wish to take admission through institutional quota (15%) seats in the institutional level round can avail it by paying ₹5,000,” stated the circular released by CET cell on Friday.It further stated that students can complete this process by December 31, 11.59pm.Admissions to most of the professional UG courses were delayed this year owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. While medical admissions are ending soon, admissions to other courses, including engineering, pharmacy, architecture, management and law, are yet to kick-off in the state.The CET circular further stated that a separate circular with information on the second mop-up round for institutional quota will be released soon by the authorities. “Revised prescribed last date to cancel admissions for candidates will be declared soon,” stated the circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-gives-time-till-jan-15-for-ug-medical-admissions/story-YVrhGUZ4rico8qKVJ5KswI.html
26-12-2020||City||TRP case audit: Mumbai Police say have proof; Republic TV rubbishes it; BARC says not right to comment||The Mumbai Police’s crime branch, which is probing the television rating points (TRP) manipulation case, has claimed that a recent forensic audit conducted by the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) has brought out a lot of incriminating material, and revealed how data was manipulated to bring Republic TV at the number one position among English news channels. Joint commissioner of police Milind Bharambe said the data manipulation was mostly done between 2016 and 2019. Forensic auditors appointed by BARC analysed the data of 44 weeks in their audit. He also alleged that it appears from the audit that the ratings were pre-decided and accordingly manipulated. The number one news channel at the time was thus brought to the second position, said the police. “Three methods were used for the manipulation, and data was selectively chosen to ascertain and analyse TRP for the particular [accused] channel,” said Bharambe. Police have also discovered some emails and WhatsApp chats exchanged between the ex-employees of BARC and channels on the BARC servers. Bharambe said one of the chats read, “Please find below numbers on English news, as required. Times Now numbers were changed while Republic remains same”. Another chat stated: “Pls find below English news channels-Times Now and CNN News 18 –will be changed. The equations of Times Now have decreased drastically across the universe”. Republic TV in its statement said the claims are “laughable”. In support of its claim, the channel said BARC had sent e-mails to Republic on October 17 and November 20, stating that there was no question of any manipulation by the channel. “The [forensic report] Mumbai Police is referring to is from July. BARC’s emails to us are from November and December. It defies common sense why BARC would give Republic Media Network a complete clean chit in November and December.” It has further claimed for the past three months, Mumbai Police has done everything possible to “target” Republic Network, and has “fallen flat” every time. “This ridiculous and bizarre witch-hunt was exposed once again today,” it adds. A spokesperson from BARC India said, “The development related to the two ex-employees of BARC India is a part of an ongoing investigation for which BARC management continues to extend its support and cooperation to the law enforcement agencies. It would consequently be inappropriate for BARC to comment any further at this stage. Every employee of BARC India is expected to conform to a Code of Conduct & Ethics and any infringement invites suitable disciplinary action. We will continue to ensure that what Indian watches is reported accurately and with utmost integrity. It’s a responsibility we owe all our stakeholders.” The audit report also mentioned manipulation being done for some entertainment channels. Meanwhile, Partho Nirmal Dasgupta, former CEO of BARC, who was arrested from Pune on Thursday after his role cropped up during investigation, is also suspected to be involved in manipulation of TRP. Dasgupta worked in from 2013 to 2019. He allegedly misused his position to manipulate TRP of some channels. He was produced before a magistrate on Friday and has been remanded to police custody till December 28. “We have got very strong evidence with us against the officials who are responsible for TRP fraud. BARC has cooperated very well and helped in the investigation,” Bharambe added. The investigation in the case started on October 6. The first charge-sheet has been filed against some of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trp-case-audit-mumbai-police-say-have-proof-republic-tv-rubbishes-it-barc-says-not-right-to-comment/story-iyDHCOQxImWrxFOZNgpP3K.html
26-12-2020||City||Mumbai man stabbed 17 times: 29-year-old accused held from Solapur||Mumbai crime branch’s unit 11 on Thursday evening arrested a 29-year-old man from Solapur district, who along with four associates allegedly murdered a Goregaon resident after stabbing him 17 times with a chopper on December 17.The police said the victim, Amin Khan, 42, and the accused, Sohel Saeed Munshi, were involved in illicit activities such as supplying illegal electric connections to locals. The duo were rivals and used to have fights frequently. According to the crime branch, Munshi is involved in at least 12 assault cases. He was earlier externed twice from the city, said a police officer. On December 17, Khan was at Bhagat Singh Nagar, Goregaon. Munshi along with his three brothers and a 16-year-old attacked Khan with a knife and choppers. They stabbed Khan 17 times. He was rushed to a hospital by some locals, but was declared dead before admission, said inspector Sunil Mane of unit 11. Bangur Nagar police nabbed Munshi’s four aides. Crime branch officers then started a parallel probe and learnt that Munshi was hiding in Pune. However, when they had reached there, Munshi had left for Solapur. The police then traced him through his phone and nabbed him on Thursday evening from Solapur. He was brought to Mumbai and handed over to the Bangur Nagar police, Mane said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-man-stabbed-17-times-29-year-old-accused-held-from-solapur/story-mq8IVDA40WDBBY0CsTHEJM.html
26-12-2020||City||Not enough volunteers for Covaxin trial: Mumbai hospitals||City’s civic hospitals are not getting enough volunteers to conduct the clinical trial of the first indigenous vaccine, Covaxin, owing to lack of awareness and scepticism about Covid-19 vaccines. Doctors fear this may further delay the compulsory completion of the clinical trial process.In the last week of October, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) selected two hospitals – the Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital (Sion hospital) and Sir JJ Hospital in Parel for the pan-Indian clinical trial of Covaxin, manufactured by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. According to ICMR, 2,000 volunteers in the age group of 18-60 have to be a part of the trial. By December 31, the hospitals were supposed to complete the selection process. However, only 128 volunteers have come forward at Sion hospital, while JJ Hospital has had 368 volunteers for the trial so far.“We aren’t getting enough volunteers to take part in the trial. Earlier, we were getting 30-35 volunteers for the trial. But now, it has gone down to 10-12 volunteers. Many of them opt out of the trial after filling up the consent forms,” said Dr Dinesh Dhodi, department of pharmacology and in-charge of the trial at JJ Hospital.Doctors believe that the lukewarm response from volunteers could be attributed to several reasons. Many who wish to volunteer are unable to reach the hospitals owing to restrictions on travel. Secondly, following a few reports about the adverse effects of the vaccine on volunteers, many are hesitating to participate in the trial.During the first phase of the trial in August, a volunteer was hospitalised after receiving a dose of Covaxin. The issue was reported to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation-Drug Controller General of India (CDSCO-DCGI) within 24 hours. “The adverse event was probed thoroughly and determined as ‘not vaccine related’,” said the spokesperson, Bharat Biotech.On September 6, AstraZeneca, which is developing the vaccine Covishield along with the University of Oxford, temporarily had to halt the phase-3 trials around the globe after a participant reportedly developed severe adverse reactions in the United Kingdom. Later, the company resumed clinical trials of its vaccine candidate after confirmation from the regulatory authorities that it was safe to do so. “We started the trial on December 5 when the response was higher. But gradually, the response has declined. There is not much awareness among people about vaccine. So, not many are coming forward,” said Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Sion hospital. “We cannot force volunteers to take part in it if they don’t want to,” he said.In the trial, out of the 1,000 volunteers, around 500 will be given a placebo (a replica of the actual vaccine which does not contain an active drug). However, this has discouraged many volunteers from taking part in the trial as they do not wish to get themselves administered with the placebo, doctors said.“We haven’t received any deadline about the completion process of the trial yet. But if we don’t get proper response from citizens, we might have to write to the ICMR seeking additional time for the trial,” said a senior official from the civic body.Doctors have urged citizens to trust the efficiency of the vaccine. “Experts with several years of experience in medicine have developed this vaccine. People should come forward to help in developing it,” said Dr Joshi.According to a study report — Safety and immunogenicity clinical trial of an inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, BBV152 (a phase 2, double-blind, randomised controlled trial) and the persistence of immune responses from a phase 1 follow-up report — published by Biotech on Monday, the vaccine was well-tolerated with no serious adverse events in its Phase-2 trials. “In the Phase-2 trial, BBV152 led to tolerable safety outcomes and enhanced humoral and cell-mediated immune responses,” read the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/not-enough-volunteers-for-covaxin-trial-mumbai-hospitals/story-WGewVfCbRAPhsM3ZXk50sJ.html
26-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body starts training doctors for Covid-19 vaccination||As the city hopes to receive the Covid-19 vaccine by the first half of next year, the civic body has geared up to train doctors for the mass immunisation process. So far, 40 doctors have received training as master trainers, who will later train other doctors.Even though the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has been immunising children for years, this will be the first time that the civic body will vaccinate adults. For the initial phase of Covid-19 vaccination, BMC has estimated the need to train around 2,500 people. “Though the process is similar [to other vaccination drives], we still need to provide training to our doctors. These 40 doctors have been trained for vaccine distribution, storage and transportation. We expect to complete their initial training by January 7, 2021,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC.Other than tertiary-care hospitals, training is being conducted at peripheral and special hospitals as well. Following this exercise, these trainers will train the vaccination team members at their respective centres and field-level staff. Meanwhile, the civic body has identified eight hospitals — King Edward Memorial (KEM), Lokmanya Tilak General, BYL Nair, Cooper, Bhabha (Bandra), VN Desai, Rajawadi and Bharat Ratna Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar — as Covid-19 vaccination points.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said the civic body has decided to develop a real-time Covid-19 mobile application to monitor and regulate the vaccination process among the 2 crore-odd population of Mumbai. “Along with vaccination process, we also need to train our employees in handling the app, which will help to centralise the system,” he said.The civic body plans to vaccinate around one crore people within a month after the vaccine roll out. “To ensure better accessibility to people, we have plans to include schools and gymkhanas as the vaccination points,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-starts-training-doctors-for-covid-19-vaccination/story-0Xtvz6uZKTmykOl8VQqH1O.html
26-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai local trains for all likely in first week of Jan: Maharashtra minister||As the pandemic situation seems to be under control, the Maharashtra government plans to restart local train services for all in the first week of January 2021. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar on Friday said he had spoken to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and he was positive about opening the railway services in the next eight-10 days. However, a decision would be taken only after reviewing the pandemic situation. “With the risk of the spread of the new variant of the virus, we will have to be careful while taking any decision about railway services for all. When we allowed women commuters in non-peak hours in September, the crowding at stations was beyond control,” he said. Wadettiwar said a letter has already been given to the Railways for their nod, but the final call has to be taken by the state government. “The decision will depend entirely on the situation in the next 8-10 days. There should not be a problem in opening up trains for all if the cases remain low. We will hold a review meeting in the first week of January and decide,” he said. According to an official from the relief and rehabilitation department, the local services would not be opened for all, but a few segments of commuters will be allowed to travel in non-peak hours. The official said like women are allowed to commute from 11am to 3pm and 7pm till midnight, men may be allowed early morning. Currently, the local trains are accessible only to people from essential services that have been issued special QR codes. Meanwhile, keeping the trend of steady fall in the daily caseload over the past four weeks, Maharashtra saw 3,431 new infections on Friday, taking the tally to 1,913,382. The daily average caseload has dropped to 3,579 in 25 days of December, from 4,702 in the corresponding period in November. With the addition of 71 new deaths, the toll has touched 49,129, as the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state still remains high at 2.57% against the national rate of 1.45%. In Mumbai, 596 new cases and 11 deaths were reported on Friday, taking the tally to 2,89,800 and toll to 11,056. Meanwhile, Pune and Nagpur districts retained their second and third positions after Mumbai, in reporting the daily cases with the addition of 566 and 378 cases, respectively. The number of active patients has dropped to 56,823 with highest, 14,145, in Pune. The positivity rate in the state has dropped significantly over the past few weeks. It has been 5.80% in 24 days of December, against 7.68% in November and 13.47% in October. With the drop in the positivity rate, the daily average testing too has dropped to 61,868 in December, from 63,166 in November and 70,393 in October. “We have been taking due precautions about international passengers coming from countries like the UK, Europe to ensure there is no spread of the new variant of the virus. Our projections about the rise in the cases in the first week of December after Diwali have proved to be wrong, as people took due care. A similar risk hovers in the second week of January, about two weeks after Christmas. If the number of cases continues to be at this level, it will mean that we have managed to control the spread,” said Dr Avinash Supe, who heads the state-appointed death audit committee. Dr Supe said the number of tests is being done in accordance with the infection rate, which has currently dropped significantly. “If we have 500 cases in Mumbai, and if their 15 contacts are traced and tested, the number of tests would not exceed 7,500, which is fine,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-trains-for-all-likely-in-first-week-of-jan-maharashtra-minister/story-SOlTECOCSCFx3FDVkNXfqN.html
26-12-2020||Mumbai||Thane civic body shelves idea of desalination plant||Four years after it was first proposed, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has finally shelved the desalination plant to be set up along the creek to convert the creek water into potable water.The plant was scrapped by the general body last week that claimed that it was too expensive for the city and that other ways of water conservation need to be explored.The city receives 480MLD water daily from TMC’s own water supply scheme, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) and Shahad-Temghar Water Supply Authority (STEM).Read more: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray gives nod for Rs1,600-crore desalination project for MumbaiTaking into consideration the increasing population of the city, this water will be insufficient in the future. The administration had proposed desalinating the creek water and using it for potable purposes.The plant was opposed by the opposition who claimed that there were several other ways to increase water resources. The opposition had also filed a petition in the High Court, which the court dismissed last year. The plant also faced opposition from the farmers, which the officials claim was addressed.Last year, before the civic elections, the corporation had given a work order for the first phase of desalinating 20MLD water.An officer requesting anonymity said, “We had spent ₹15 lakh on formulating the proposal and land acquisition so far. However we have now got a letter from the general body to scrap the plant. Thus, we cannot go ahead with the said project.”The total cost of the plant was ₹150Cr.Read more: Mumbai civic body’s desalination plant project: Why not focus on water conservation, ask expertsThe issue of the desalination plant was raised by former standing committee chairman Ram Repale, who asked the general body about its status.Thane Mayor Naresh Mhaske said, “The plant is very costly and not feasible for the city. In the times of the pandemic the corporation has lost heavy revenue and it is not feasible to take this additional cost for the plant. Thus, we have decided to scrap the plant.”Ironically, the Shiv Sena had supported the plant right from the beginning and even approved it amidst chaos in the general body meeting held two years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-shelves-idea-of-desalination-plant/story-eBD5vi3v6PdA8EeSJc5IUP.html
26-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government gives extension to cabinet sub-committee on CAA-NPR till May 31||The Maharashtra government has decided to give an extension of six months to the cabinet sub-committee formed to study the controversial citizenship laws — Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), National Population Register (NPR) and National Register of Citizens (NRC). The committee will now have to submit its report to the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray by May 31, 2021.The committee has got a second extension this time. After being constituted on March 13, it was asked to submit its report on March 30, but the state was hit by the Covid-19, hence it was given the first extension of eight months till November 30.“Since the cabinet sub-committee was formed, the state struggled with the pandemic and saving the lives of the people was our first priority. We could hold just one meeting before the lockdown was imposed and later could not follow up the discussion,” a senior minister, who is also a member of the committee, said on conditions of anonymity.“The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) too communicated to the state on March 25 that they have decided to postpone the process of NPR till further orders, owing to the Covid-19 outbreak,” said a senior official from the state home department, requesting anonymity.The committee headed by state transport minister Anil Parab was formed, despite differences among the ruling partners of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government.Thackeray had supported CAA, NPR, but has termed NRC as problematic. “NPR is proposed along with the census. It happened in 2010 too. Census happens after every 10 years in our country. If there are new columns proposed in the NPR, they will be scrutinised by our government and if it seems problematic, we won’t take it ahead,” he said.“There is no need to be afraid of CAA, as it is not going to strip anyone’s citizenship. CAA will give citizenship to Hindus from the neighbouring countries. NRC is problematic to every citizen, irrespective of caste, creed, religion, any which way. I won’t allow stripping of anyone’s rights,” Thackeray has said.Members of the panel comprise Anil Parab and Uday Samant from Shiv Sena; Nawab Malik and Jitendra Awhad from the Nationalist Congress Party; and Sunil Kedar and Vijay Wadettiwar from the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-gives-extension-to-cabinet-sub-committee-on-caa-npr-till-may-31/story-63liuVJcXTXTSuiTDDdkcM.html
26-12-2020||City||HP Cong to observe BJP govt’s 3-year anniv as ‘black day’||In a scathing attack on the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government in Himachal, Congress on Friday described the former’s three-year rule as “disappointing” and an “utter failure”.“Jai Ram Thakur government has miserably failed on all fronts,” said Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee president Kuldeep Singh Rathore while addressing the media here. Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri was also present on the occasion.Rathore said that each year of the BJP rule was weighing heavily on the people of the state who desperately awaited the assembly elections to teach the “haughty” state government a lesson.He said that even as the BJP-led state government is celebrating its three years in office, it has done nothing substantial which it can count as achievement.“Development projects in the state have come to a grinding halt. The BJP government is listing those projects as achievement which were initiated by the previous Virbhadra Singh-led Congress government,” Rathore alleged.The state government also failed to provide people of the state any relief during the Covid-19 crisis, said Kuldeep Singh Rathore.Meanwhile, Congress Legislative Party leader Mukesh Agnihotri said that all the former chief ministers of Himachal are remembered for some or the other contribution to the state, but Jai Ram Thakur will be remembered for ruining the state.Corruption in the last three years came to the hilt and even a senior BJP leader had to resign from the party president post, he said, adding that every kind of mafia was active in Himachal Pradesh to plunder its wealth and resources.“BJP instead of celebrating should focus on actual development of the state as there is nothing on the ground and all its developmental claims are only on paper and in speeches,” said Agnihotri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-cong-to-observe-bjp-govt-s-3-year-anniv-as-black-day/story-EhitBA3oMLCySPk2ayukDN.html
26-12-2020||Mumbai||Exchange plastic for food coupon: Kalyan-Dombivli civic body initiative||In an initiative to make the city plastic-free, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has come up with a drive in which if a person gives away 5kg of plastic, he will be given a food coupon worth ₹30 that can be redeemed at a poli bhaji centre.After the drive was started earlier this week, around 10 people have taken advantage of this. Individuals can give the 5kg of plastic waste at a collection centre opposite Pragati College, Dattanagar in Dombivli.“We have been taking up several measures to ensure waste is collected in a proper, segregated manner. Plastic waste is one such waste that people usually dump anywhere and everywhere. One can just collect the waste and give it at the centre and actually buy food out of it,” said Ramdas Kokare, deputy commissioner, solid waste management department, KDMC.This initiative by the civic body is a part of the ‘Zero Waste’ policy introduced by the KDMC for over a year now. This initiative is being implemented jointly with Siddhi Waste To Green Ltd and Trupti Gruha Udyog.As of now, only one collection centre is giving these coupons while in the coming days more such centres will come up across Kalyan-Dombivli.“We have got response from a poli bhaji centre in Kalyan. Soon, we will start this drive in Kalyan also,” added Kokare. Earlier, the civic body had initiated an e-waste collection drive across Kalyan-Dombivli that also received good response from the citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/exchange-plastic-for-food-coupon-kalyan-dombivli-civic-body-initiative/story-qjrSp64NjbyOrcvL5uKF9K.html
26-12-2020||Mumbai||No HC relief for tenants of dilapidated building at Mumbai’s Ghatkopar||The Bombay high court recently refused to stay the demolition of a dilapidated building in Ghatkopar after the tenants sought to stop the demolition, saying they had not received the re-development benefits to which they are entitled by law.On December 22, a bench of justice SJ Kathawalla heard a petition filed by tenants of a building scheduled for demolition, in which the tenants sought a stay because the landlord and developer had not provided the tenants’ alternative accommodation or transit rent. The technical advisory committee (TAC) report and a report by an independent structural auditor have confirmed the building is in a ruinous condition.After hearing the submissions, the court observed that the current petition was a delaying tactic by the tenants. “The petitioners and their advocates are well aware that the petitioners cannot be allowed to continue their stay in a dilapidated building and they are always at liberty to seek reliefs qua transit rent and execution of the permanent alternate accommodation agreement, or to even prevent the developer from proceeding with the development without providing the benefits that the petitioners are entitled to in law, but the petitioners certainly cannot continue their stay in a dilapidated building on the pretext of the developer not having extended the re-development benefits to them to which they are entitled to in law,” observed the court. The court has directed the tenants to vacate the building immediately and permitted the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to undertake demolition once the building has been vacated. The matter will be heard next on January 28, 2021, to consider whether any other relief may be granted to the petitioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-hc-relief-for-tenants-of-dilapidated-building-at-mumbai-s-ghatkopar/story-8ct79NsLEvW4ONnYIqM4jP.html
26-12-2020||Mumbai||Joshi-Bedekar College in Thane gets autonomous status||Joshi-Bedekar College gets autonomous status, becoming the first such institution in Thane city. The college is quite popular in Thane and was started in 1969, it is managed by Vidya Prasarak Mandal that has another 12 institutes under its banner. The institute now possesses the freedom to reconstruct and design the course or syllabus from time to time, making it viable to students within Thane city.Apart from the professional and vocational courses, the college can also include skill-oriented courses that will bring more employment.“With the autonomous status, we have the freedom to include modern education techniques and tools that make the education process more attractive and effective. Based on the demands in the job markets and the recent trends, we shall be able to include more courses every year,” said Dr Vijay Bedekar, trustee, Vidya Prasarak Mandal.The institute has been receiving ’A’ grade accreditation for the last three cycles. More than 7,000 students study today in the Arts and Commerce College.An autonomous college has the freedom to determine and prescribe its own courses of study and syllabus. It can redesign courses to suit the local needs and include more skill-oriented courses based on the job requirements in the market. Such colleges also have the privilege to evolve methods of assessment and conduct their own examinations and declare results.The University Grants Commission (UGC), a statutory body under the government of India, is tasked with maintaining standards of teaching, examination and research in university education. As per UGC’s criteria, a college seeking autonomy must be accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), with at least an ‘A’ grade for at least three cycles of accreditation. If the NAAC score is equal to or above 3.51, the institute can be declared as an autonomous institute without an onsite visit by UGC’s expert committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/joshi-bedekar-college-in-thane-gets-autonomous-status/story-MoRItQOxpB08OQmT5GOyNI.html
26-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai road rage: Auto driver served show-cause notices||After a video of an autorickshaw driver dashing a two-wheeler went viral, the city’s transport department has served show-cause notices to the driver on the suspension of autorickshaw permit and driving license. The notices were served on Thursday evening.The Wadala regional transport office (RTO) has served Sayyed notices asking the autorickshaw driver Salman Sayyed to respond in three days as to why his license and permit should not be suspended.“Action will be taken against the driver if he fails to respond within three days. The notices are served under relevant sections of the Motor Vehicle Act.” said a senior RTO official. The incident occurred on the Ghatkopar-Mankhurd Link Road on December 17. Sayyed had reportedly got into a heated argument with biker Kishor Kardak. Later, Kardak was hit by Sayyed’s three-wheeler, after which he lost balance and fell. In the viral video, Sayyed is seen dashing his autorickshaw with Kardak’s two-wheeler and then fleeing from the spot.Kardak, however, did not sustain any major injury. The video was recorded by another motorist who later forwarded it to the Mumbai Police.Sayyed on Thursday was also arrested by the Mumbai Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-road-rage-auto-driver-served-show-cause-notices/story-MUlf33QLmJlV0tjMlP6ufI.html
26-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM holds high-level meeting to discuss Navi Mumbai issues||The Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held a special high-level meeting at Mantralaya on Thursday to discuss issues relating to Navi Mumbai.The meeting was called at the request of Thane MP Rajan Vichare. Present at the meeting were Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde, Cidco vice-chairman and managing director Sanjay Mukherjee, NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar, MMRDA commissioner RA Rajeev, CM’s principal secretary Vikas Kharge, consultant Ajoy Mehta, additional chief secretary Ashish Kumar SIngh and other top government officials.Read more: Navi Mumbai civic body clears redevelopment of 4 housing societiesBasic and important issues concerning Navi Mumbai, including pending PAP issues with Cidco, redevelopment of dilapidated buildings, slum improvement, MIDC area civic services, regularisation of need-based houses of villagers, freehold property, building stadium at sports complex plot in Ghansoli, flyover from Arenja Corner in Vashi to Pawane, Thane-Belapur Road, Coastal Road from Airoli to Vashi, and Vashi to Ulwe, etc., were discussed. Vichare said, “The CM discussed in detail the various issues with the officials and has given several instructions with regard to them. He will soon make several announcements for Navi Mumbai based on these discussions and the inputs he has received.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-holds-high-level-meeting-to-discuss-navi-mumbai-issues/story-25JLSBrIcXf8xWDz1VC4SN.html
26-12-2020||Mumbai||22-yr-old man held for rash driving, running over 2 persons in Thane||The Thane Nagar police have arrested a 22-year-old man for rash driving and injuring two people with an Audi car. The accused was chased for almost 5km by the traffic police. He was assaulted by locals who caught and handed him over to the police. The accused, a resident of Waghbil on Ghodbunder Road, has been identified as Pradeep Patil, 22, and was driving the car owned by his brother .The incident took place between 1.30pm and 2pm on Friday. Pradeep first ran over a person near Vihang hotel on Ghodbunder Road and fled. Later, he hit a handicapped person near Thane Nagar.“Our traffic police constable from Kapurbawadi started following him. He also informed the police at Nitin Company Junction. Instead, he took the flyover and headed towards Kopri for Mumbai. We posted a barricade at Kopri and were waiting for him. He took a service road from Gurudwara and went towards Kopri. He hit a handicapped person near Thane Nagar and was caught by locals,” said Balasaheb Patil, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Traffic, Thane.Ram Somvanshi, senior police inspector, Thane Nagar police station, said, “We have detained him and further investigation is on. A case will be registered for neglect and rash driving.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/22-yr-old-man-held-for-rash-driving-running-over-2-persons-in-thane/story-Eodnwba32h8aN0MlRNxk7I.html
26-12-2020||Mumbai||MNS workers vandalise Amazon godowns in Pune,Mumbai over non-inclusion of Marathi||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) workers on Friday vandalised the godowns of Amazon, an e-commerce portal, in Mumbai and Pune, demanding inclusion of Marathi as a preferred language in their application and website.The workers resorted to ransacking the godowns at Kondhwa (in Pune) and Chandivali, after the Dindoshi court directed MNS chief Raj Thackeray to be present in the court, following Amazon’s complaint that their posters were torn by party workers.MNS leader Nitin Sardesai said, “Amazon is anti-Marathi as it gives a choice of other languages to its buyers, but not Marathi. This provoked the Maharashtrians, hence they indulged in violence,”Amazon has called this incident unfortunate. “This is an unfortunate incident at our site by external parties and we are working with the site team to ensure safety of people. We will continue to extend all cooperation to law enforcement as may be necessary. Safety of associates is our key priority and we will continue to ensure a safe working environment for all our associates,” said the spokesperson of Amazon India.The MNS had demanded that e-commerce companies like Amazon and Flipkart should include Marathi as a preferred language option on their apps, as other regional languages like Tamil, Telugu and Kannada were already incorporated.Flipkart responded to the diktat and included Marathi as an option, while Amazon refused to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mns-workers-vandalise-amazon-godowns-in-pune-mumbai-over-non-inclusion-of-marathi/story-8CcjOFnrYjPpDrPigVmZxI.html
26-12-2020||Mumbai||Dombivli losing green cover, complain locals||Dombivli residents are losing its only oxygen green cover. With the recent fire completely burning the green cover and blasting going on in the hills, the green cover has turned black.Locals at the adjoining Umbarli Village regularly go for morning walks and also plant trees to keep it green. They blamed the garbage mafia and land mafia for Dombivli losing its green cover and demanded action against them.The Umbarli Tekdi is an oxygen zone for residents of Kalyan-Dombivli with hills and greenery around including a forest, two dams, waterfalls and different kinds of species and birds. Read more: Dombivli ground receives faceliftA fire that took place on December 9 had destroyed the natural beauty. On December 12, Pramod Patil of MNS, a member of legislative assembly, had given a complaint letter to Sanjay Rathod, forest minister. Patil alleged that regular complaints about protecting the forest have been neglected by the authorities including the forest department and local bodies.Kalpana Waghere, Range Forest Officer, Kalyan, said, “Complaint regarding the same has been received and investigation is going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dombivli-losing-green-cover-complain-locals/story-6HhOPjKrt3tEeQMyPloTpK.html
26-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Pawan Hans staff to bid for firm, raise ₹800 crore||A group of Pawan Hans employees plans to participate in the sale process of the helicopter service company and hopes to raise around ₹800 crore to this end. Earlier this month, the government had invited fresh bids for the strategic sale of Pawan Hans along with transfer of management control. According to sources, a group of employees will participate in the bidding process for Pawan Hans. Before submitting their bid, the group will meet Air India officials to learn about the disinvestment and bidding process. “With January 19 slated to be the last date for submission of bids, officers from both Delhi and Mumbai are coordinating with each other and are working toward looking for potential investors to participate in the bidding process,” said a Delhi-based official on condition of anonymity.A source in Pawan Hans said the employees may either tie up with a financial institution or join a prospective bidder, with the first option being considered preferable. “A few senior management officials are set to meet Air India officials. This meeting is expected to seek ideas from the airline employees on the potential investors and the complete process ahead.”A Pawan Hans official said that around 60 employees, including 20 senior pilots and top management, have been actively pursuing the matter. Talks are on with four financial institutions to raise funds. Pawan Hans currently has 349 permanent employees and around 700 employees in total. “According to norms, 15% of the company’s permanent employees should be bidding for the process. Hence, the criterion is met as we have more than 50 employees participating in the bidding process,” said the official. The employees will have to work out a deal that a potential investor would consider profitable. “We are sure of making profits within a year of taking over the company and restructuring it. Our immediate aim is to communicate to our potential investors that the company has been in loss for the last couple of years due to mismanagement. We expect the bid to cost us around ₹700-800 crore,” said a Pawan Hans official. In 2019-20, Pawan Hans reported a net loss of ₹28 crore, which is less than 2018-19’s net loss of ₹69 crore. In 2018, the government had invited bids to sell 51% stake in Pawan Hans. However, the bid was withdrawn after Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) decided to sell its 49% stake in Pawan Hans. In 2019, a second attempt was made to sell Pawan Hans, but the sale failed to receive investor response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-pawan-hans-staff-to-bid-for-firm-raise-800-crore/story-6vv39pVk77ueCLa1xpVBCI.html
26-12-2020||City||Atal Tunnel reverses winter migration from Lahaul-Spiti||The strategic Atal Tunnel built across the 13,050-ft Rohtang Pass, the gateway to Lahaul and Spiti, has come as a relief for residents of the remote, tribal district of Himachal Pradesh as the all-weather connectivity has ensured they needn’t migrate to low-lying hills for fear of being cut off from the rest of the world due to snowfall. Lahaul and Spiti district has the toughest terrain in the region and remains cut off for six months due to snowfall on the Rohtang Pass, which literally means built on piles of bodies in the local Bhoti dialect. Usually, during winter, a majority of tribal residents migrate to Kullu, Manali and the low-lying plains of the state before the closure of the pass. By November, most people head to their houses in other parts of the state. The temperature in Lahaul dips to minus 30 degrees when winter peaks and life for tribal residents is tougher in Spiti valley, which is separated by the 15,000-ft Kunzum Pass. The winter migration is more in the six panchayats of Pattan valley, known for growing potatoes. This is due to poor medical facility in the region. Till last year, the residents were dependent on chopper flights to travel outside the valley. The 2011 census pegged the district population at 31,564.” There was a time when 70% of the population migrated in winter. But with the opening of Atal Tunnel, named after former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, winter migration is down,” says Lahaul and Spiti deputy commissioner Pankaj Rai. “We conducted a random survey to assess the winter migration and found only 30% of the population migrated this time,” he says. CONFIDENCE OF CONNECTIVITY Residents of the three villages of Dimpuk, Koksar and Ramthang near the north portal of the tunnel at Sissu used to migrate with their livestock to Kullu and Manali in November and return in April. The three villages are located in a treacherous terrain and the area is susceptible to avalanches. “But this year, we are still in our villages,” says Anju Shashni, the head of the Koksar panchayat. Government offices in Koksar are still open. “The opening of the tunnel has given hope and confidence to the villagers of Dimpuk and Koksar. We know even if the roads are closed due to snowfall, we can walk up to the tunnel and cross to the other side. Moreover, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, people feel safer at home in villages than migrating to crowded towns,” says Chander Mohan Prasheera, a social activist amd head of the Institute of Vocational (Tourism) Studies at Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla. “A day will come in the near future when people will return and resettle in their villages,” says Prasheera. TOUGH LIFE IN TRIBAL DISTRICT The tribal district does not offer much in terms of quality of education, employment, health and road connectivity. The living conditions in Lahaul-Spiti are bad in routine and turn worse in winter. Power supply remains suspended due to snowfall and people find it difficult to get medical aid when the roads are snowbound “The younger generation is moving out of the valley. Many of my friends have settled down in cities like Chandigarh,” says Sonam Zanpo, 36, who runs a hotel in Keylong. “As a child, we walked for five days to cross Rohtang Pass and there were no inns or hotels along the road where we could take shelter. We would halt at villages en route at night,” says BS Kapoor, a retired chief engineer from Tholang village, 113 km from Manali. The village is home to only 36 families but has produced a significant number of professionals, including bureaucrats, doctors and engineers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/atal-tunnel-reverses-winter-migration-from-lahaul-spiti/story-GVtSL34ZeK9qgIJ2dPOO9O.html
26-12-2020||City||Jai Ram unveils Vajpayee’s statue at Ridge||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday unveiled the statute of former Prime Minister and Bharat Ratna recipient Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his 96th birth anniversary at the The Ridge here. December 25 is also marked as Good Governance Day, which was established in 2014 to honour Vajpayee by fostering awareness on accountability in government among the people.While addressing the ‘Atal Samriti Samaroh’ organised by the state language, art and culture department at the Gaiety Theatre, Thakur paid rich tributes to the former PM. He said Vajpayee was a statesman and a great personality who, due to his politics of principles, gained national appeal. Stating that the great leader and politician would always be remembered by the country, the chief minister said Vajpayee defined highest values of leadership and devoted himself to the nation. Thakur said that Vajpayee was an orator par excellence with the ability to cast a spell on the audience. Even during some of the tensest moments in Parliament, the former PM succeeded in defusing the situation with utmost ease.The CM said that despite being away from active politics for over a decade at the time of his demise, lakhs of youth joined Vajpayee’s last journey which shows his deep impact on people’s lives. He said that the nation was first for the great leader and therefore he is regarded as the true statesman by the country.Thakur said as the Prime Minister of the country, Vajpayee changed India forever in many aspects. He said that during Vajpayee’s tenure between 1998 and 2004, the latter was credited with reviving India’s glory in the global economy. It was due to the strong willpower of Vajpayee that India became a nuclear power, Thakur said adding that it was due the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, a vision of Vajpayee’s, that rural road connectivity gained pace and almost all the panchayats of Himachal were connected by roads.Thakur said that unveiling of the statue at The Ridge was a tribute to this great son of Mother India. He said that the 18-feet structure, which was constructed for Rs 1.08 crore, was also a token of love and affection from the people of the state to the great statesman. Thakur said that Vajpayee always believed in value-based politics and would always be remembered and respected for his simplicity, humanity and benevolence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-unveils-vajpayee-s-statue-at-ridge/story-MOq1wVlnwPmaELApdzoBYL.html
26-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Glitch derails services on Central Railway’s trans-harbour line||Local train services on the trans-harbour railway line were suspended for more than four hours on Friday.Train services were suspended from 10.05am to 2.46pm, between Thane-Vashi and Nerul-Vashi railway stations.A technical glitch at Koparkhairane railway station resulted in the suspension of local train services.“The railway traffic from Vashi-Thane and Nerul-Thane was suspended. Pantograph of a local train entangled with overhead wires was the reason for train suspension. Train services resumed at 2.46pm.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.Owing to the failure, 60 local train services were cancelled on the trans-harbour railway line on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-glitch-derails-services-on-central-railway-s-trans-harbour-line/story-a9MUa2dYxRK3Ohqv8G6AFK.html
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Readers’ Take: Let’s end this separation anxiety and manage waste responsibly||More flexibility, friendliness, politeness neededFor the success of the waste segregation system, the administration must educate the residents about the importance of managing waste by organising door to door visits of officials. Garbage collectors should be trained in social skills to engage with the residents politely. A large chunk of Chandigarh’s population comprises senior citizens and the collectors must help them segregate waste and pick it up. Independent garbage collectors must be adjusted in the system to enable them to earn a livelihood. Collection charges should be economical so that everyone can welcome the new changes.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliPut collection vehicles to optimum useDetermination is the key to success. The municipal corporation (MC) should not spend on new vehicles if these are not put to optimum use. The collectors are the ones who should be motivated to clean up the city and workshops should be organised for them on waste management, especially making the distinction between dry and wet waste. The public should be informed about this new policy and fines should not be immediately collected from them for non segregation. MC must give up the idea of collecting revenues baselessly. With the right guidance the residents will cooperate in segregating waste.Sumesh Kumar BadhwarOnly sustained efforts will workCollection vehicles amount to a tiny step in the whole waste management process in the city. As proposed, all garbage: Wet, dry and that containing chemicals will be collected from people’s doorsteps. But where will all of it end up? Do we have an efficient working garbage processing plant in the city to process it daily? The local administration and MC officials were on the warpath over the performance of a garbage processing plant at Dadumajra, which was almost two decades old and performing far below its guaranteed performance parameters. The newly appointed consultants have written off that plant and advised the administration to add a new unit. However, the MC has taken over that under performing unit and is now in litigation with the private promoter. Until the final court orders come in, the authorities will not be able to make any changes in the plant and machinery of the plant and no plans have been made to set up a new processing unit. Scientific disposal will take time. The local authorities should also ensure that garbage thrown across the cycle tracks, on pavements and at parks or religious places should be cleared up and should give waste collection and processing tasks to their own employees. Only a systematic and sustained professional approach on all fronts will work.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhRWAs, citizens and admin have to come togetherNo waste segregation plan can work until all three: The citizens, RWAs and administration work together. Once it’s decided that the city shall stay clean no matter what then everyone will do his or her bit to manage waste. Making people aware of the importance of garbage control is the first step in this direction. Priyam Aggarwal, Chandigarh.Sectors should have waste disposal unitsThe welcome step taken by UT Chandigarh to segregate waste at source and also to penalise people for violations will save us from growing mountains of waste created at Dadumajra. Each sector should set up a resource management centre to recycle waste there, thus doing away with the need to cart everything to the dump. Dry waste (Non biodegradable) like paper, cardboard, polythene bags, wrappers, etc should be recycled by compressing these in hydraulic machines to make useful items like planters, benches and tiles. Wet waste (biodegradable) like vegetable leaves, curd, tea leaves, etc should be put in rectangular bins daily to make organic manure which will be ready in 50 to 60 days. This will also increase garden yield by recycling wet waste into organic manure and save us from chemicals like urea. Our ultimate mission should be to reduce, reuse and recycle. TBS BediBasic hygiene countsWhat’s needed most is cooperation from residents in segregating waste in two bags before handing it for collection. What might seem to be a tedious chore for residents will ultimately help the MC meet its waste management targets. Those assigned duties to collect waste need minimum basic training to make the project successful. Collectively we also have the responsibility to practise hygiene, not to spit or throw used wrappers or disposables at will.This becomes even more important during the coronavirus pandemic.Subhash Puri, PanchkulaSmart technology neededThe MC is very short staffed, with just 2,200 sanitation workers against a sanctioned strength of 4,500 employees in a city with a population of nearly 12 lakh. The garbage disposal system and waste management issues are not being addressed urgently. Why is technology not being used to tackle five lakh tonnes of waste that has accumulated in the dumping ground? Information on new technologies that can actually flatten trash in a few weeks is not being sought because of the funds crunch. The sanitation situation is going from bad to worse. The MC had notified the penalties and user charges, but failed to find partners to do garbage collection work. This move could have assisted the MC in streamlining the waste management system, albeit with a token fee in the Property Tax bill. But, in an election year (2019), the MC scrapped this too. It seems that the reins of city sanitation need to be taken over by the residents themselves to help the MC control the mess. Rajiv Boolchand JainHow you segregate waste is important tooWaste segregation starts from home so all citizens must be made aware of and responsible for it at source. Three different bins: Red for wet waste, green for dry and blue for solids such as glass and iron must be used in every household. The collection system from home to processing plant should also be done similarly. At the plant the three different wastes must be processed and recycled separately. The responsibility of residents and waste collecting staff must be fixed keeping in mind that motivation is more effective than penal action. This system will take time to get working. Also, at this time the MC has one shed for all types of waste. This has to stop and sheds should be built for three types of waste.Capt Amar Jeet Kumar, MohaliNeed to access all areas of cityIt is essential to offload dry and wet waste separately at the receiving inlets of the waste processing plant to make it run smoothly. Now it is all the more essential for the waste collectors to pick up the segregated waste from each household from the lanes and narrow bylanes of the city where collection vehicles cannot enter and dump it in the separate compartments of the waiting vehicles at the designated place and time. Such arrangements also have to be made for eateries under the watchful eyes of MC staff concerned. It’s mandatory for all households to ensure that segregated waste is disposed of properly.SC Luthra Start compostingHaving been born and brought up in Chandigarh, I have always found the city to be clean and charming. Small area, low population density, proactive administration and easy-to-manoeuvre roads also make it clean. However, a big problem here is lack of a waste to compost plant. With the ongoing garbage disposal crisis in the city, such plants could be a good addition to ensure that biodegradable waste is transformed to usable compost. This will also encourage the residents to start composting and thus bring down the volumes of waste generated. Abhishek Kumar, ChandigarhPenalties no guarantee for successThe new system has many pitfalls as the habits of the citizens will not change overnight. Unless there is segregation of waste at the origin it will be very difficult for the garbage collectors to carry out the process in vehicles. The MC should have at least launched a drive beforehand to create awareness about the changes in the collection system. Penalties are not guarantees for success and it will antagonise the citizens. Many are even not aware about the classification of garbage in various categories. MC should have taken a lesson from other cities across India, which have ranked in the top three slots of the Swachh Survekshan in this and previous years, on disposing of garbage. However, all of us should cooperate with the MC to make the drive a thumping success.Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhDon’t be lazy and uninformedPeople need shun this lax attitude of mixing garbage. RWAs must start making renewed efforts to ensure that the locals do what is required of them to make the collection drive a success. They must keep bins outside homes with segregated waste for the convenience of collectors. Garbage should be lifted from each house, even where very senior citizens live on their own. In fact, they should be helped by the collectors to move waste. Awareness and co-operation are most important at this juncture.Amanpreet Kaur Bains, KuraliNo segregation? Stop collecting wasteThe authorities should start planning to set up infrastructure to process the amount of waste generated in the city, including building composting units. Those who make compost at home should be allowed to sell it at a centralised facility at a fixed rate. I don’t think that penalising a resident for not segregating the waste will work as the manual collectors have demanded 50% of the penalty, and usually, whenever money comes into play it creates room for corruption. Instead, authorities should stop collecting waste from houses where segregation has not been done. This way people will get back on track on their own. Moreover, authorities need to keep following up with people who are responsible for the execution of this plan and make sure that the measures listed are followed strictly at all levels.Krrish Madaan, AmbalaClear all doubtsThe best way to ensure success of waste segregation in city is to educate people through door to door campaigns to identify wet and dry waste and segregate it in two separate bins in each household before delivering to the collector. Most people are confused about kitchen waste, which is a mix of fruits and vegetables peels, tea leaves and tea bags. Clearing their doubts will help.Rajinder ParshadPull up your socks, peopleA dedicated and disciplined plan has to be implemented to achieve cleanliness objectives, on which, unfortunately, everybody fails miserably, right from politicians, the residents to the workers. No one is keen on performance. Instead of forcing implementation of policies, the administration and MC are being liberal with all segments when it comes to cleanliness. No one is willing to put in some work and do one’s duty, be it government employees or citizens. Unless we develop a constructive spirit and culture, this waste segregation plan too will fail. Instead of trying to help, we specialise in accusing others of faults. Let’s try to clean our homes, then our streets and then cities. There is no other mantra of success. MPS Chadha, MohaliGet the collection timings rightFor success of the new system, there should be 1. Awareness in households of segregating dry and wet waste. The MC councillors can play an effective role in this regard. Leaflets should be printed explaining the benefits of segregating waste and should be distributed to each household2. Without cooperation of the present garbage collectors, the MC scheme will not be successful3. There should be fixed timings for collection4. At the initial stage waste can be lifted on alternate days5. Garbage from upper floors will have to be collected by attendants6. Collection timings should be either fixed before 8 am or after 6 pm, so that working couples can also avail of the facility7. Being the first planned city of India, we are already far behind others in matters of sanitation, so we should make out all efforts to make this proposal a great success.Sham Sunder SharmaCreate an app to track garbage trucksThe government needs to work sincerely to make this drive a success. An app can be created where residents can learn how to segregate waste and also report any problems they face. They should also be able to, through the app, track the truck that collects the segregated waste or communicate with those operating the vehicle. Senior citizens living on their own should be assisted in segregation and collection.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhMore information requiredThere has been no drive to make residents aware of the segregation system, even though they will be ensuring its success. Many people do not know how to segregate wet and dry waste, they have no idea when the vehicles will visit their sectors. What happens to those living in the upper stories? What’s going to happen to the present door to door collectors? For the success of the waste management system, there should be awareness through media, pamphlets should be distributed and residents contacted through NGO/RWS besides, inducting all door-to-door personnel on MC rolls to lift waste and get paid 50% of the fine collected from defaulters as this is the only means of their employment and source of income in the economically challenging times of corona and otherwise.SK KhoslaFixed timings for vehiclesChandigarh is a planned city but the new system of collecting segregated waste is not an easy job. Most couples in the city work and can’t wait the whole day for the garbage collector to show up. So timings should be fixed for the vehicles. In case that’s not done then a point should be specified at a sector where vehicles can come in the morning once and then in the evenings.Avinash GoyalSystem riddled with flawsSenior citizens and working couples are not likely to take kindly to the new system as the former will have to step out of the gates to dump waste and the latter might have problems with collection timings. Another likely flaw is that the jumbo-sized vehicles will not be able to enter the narrow streets with dead ends. The new system will also not work for people living on the first, second and third floors as they would have to move downstairs to dump waste. The MC authorities would have done better had they kept sector welfare associations and other stakeholders in the loop for rolling out a better and effective system. However, since the drive has already been launched, the authorities must ensure in the first place that it is implemented strictly.Ramesh K Dhiman||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-readers-take-let-s-end-this-separation-anxiety-and-manage-waste-responsibly/story-yu1B96H5seocwFJhLP9gKP.html
26-12-2020||Delhi||At Singhu, farmer bounds himself in chains to protest||His tall body bound by heavy metal chains and his fists clenched all through from morning to evening for the last 18 days, a farmer from Fazilka in Punjab has been standing facing the main stage at the Singhu Border agitation site while portraying himself as the symbol of the “slavery” that the farmers have been fighting. The metallic chain, a medium-sized lock and a few iron nuts and bolts attached to them weigh around 5.5 kilos, said the 42-year-old farmer, Kabil Singh. He said he has been standing at the same place and in the same position from 7am to 7pm everyday for the last 18 days even as farmers and other visitors to the site flock to take selfies with him. “I’ll take this position until the black farm laws are repealed or until I drop dead,” said Singh, his fists still clenched. He said that he decided to be the symbol of a silent bound farmer amidst the loud speeches being delivered in front of him from the stage located about 100 metres from him. Singh said that he purchased the chain, lock, nuts and bolts from his hometown in Rukanpura during one of his visits to his home amidst the protests. It takes him about 10 minutes to deck his body in the chains every morning and lesser to remove them every evening. “I just stand this way. I don’t feel anything. The farm labour in real life is much harder than standing with a filos of metals on my body,” said the man decked in clean white kurta-pyjama, a light brown jacket, a green turban and a neat set of shoes. The chain went around his neck and bound his two hands and one ankle. His teenage daughter had passed away last year to a disease and he is left with a 13-year-old son. “My ancestors were farmers. I am a farmer. My son will be a farmer after me. But I don’t want him to be a slave in the guise of a farmer. My sacrifice is for the future farmers like my son,” he said while asking curious onlookers to wait till be got free to pose with them. Aruna Deshpande, a protesting farmer from Aurangabad district in Maharashtra, who was waiting to take a selfie with Singh, said that she was fascinated on seeing him standing in the same position day after day. “His form of protest is unique,” said Deshpande. Singh does quit that standing position a few times a day, through. “When I have to eat or visit the toilet, I am absent from here for a few minutes every day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-singhu-farmer-bounds-himself-in-chains-to-protest/story-OPMSsgsDGavBMk9HZ1sTjO.html
26-12-2020||Delhi||Seven UK returnees, one contact tested positive for Covid-19||Seven individuals who returned from the United Kingdom between November 25 and December 21, and one of their contacts have so far tested Covid-19 positive in Delhi, a senior government official said on Friday.The Union government had suspended all flights from the UK on December to prevent the spread of a new strain of Covid-19 that is learnt to have emerged there, which experts fear may be more contagious.As on Friday, the senior official said, 19 patients were admitted in the special ward in Lok Nayak Hospital that has been set up for UK returnees and their contacts who test positive for the infection.The 19 include 11 patients who were identified from the last few flights to arrive from the UK in the national capital over Tuesday and Wednesday.The other eight patients were traced by the district administrations through their ongoing reach-out drive, and tested positive on Wednesday and Thursday “The eight include seven UK returnees and the father of one of the UK returnees, who is a resident of Dwarka,” said the senior official who did not wish to be identified.While people arriving from UK on December 22 and 23 — after the government’s announcement — were directly scanned, tested and quarantined (if needed) from the airports, state governments have been entrusted with reaching out and conducting Covid-19 tests on all passengers who have arrived from UK between November 25 and December 21, even if they had previously got themselves tested on arrival.A senior official in the revenue department said around 14,000 passengers arrived at the Delhi airport between November 25 and December 21 – of which around 1,500 are Delhi residents. District officials have initiated a reach out drive to trace them all and get them tested.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had earlier this week told reporters that nearly 7,000 passengers flew into the city from the UK in the last two weeks.But, senior officials later said the number of passengers who actually reside in Delhi would be much lower.Once a UK returnee tests positives, all her /his contacts are to be tested. The contacts awaiting test results and those who test negative have to complete mandatory institutional quarantine. They can either opt for a government facility in Chhatarpur or a paid facility in hotel at Aerocity.The Chhattarpur facility currently has around 60 individuals lodged. Most of them were people sitting in the neighbouring seats of the UK-Delhi flights from which the 11 Covid-patients were identified over Tuesday and Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-uk-returnees-one-contact-tested-positive-for-covid-19/story-Ui25LUwIpUsgo4KUSyRYXN.html
26-12-2020||Delhi||HC directs SDMC, ASI to look into illegal construction near Qutub Minar||The Delhi high court has directed the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and the zonal deputy commissioner of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to look into the matter of dereliction of duties and fix responsibility of the officers after noting that unauthorized constructions have come up within 40 meters of Qutub Minar, an ASI-protected monument. Justice Najmi Waziri, while hearing a plea on December 23 by one Rishi Sehdev, said, “The construction has been carried out in such a large area – surely, this could not have escaped the attention of either the police, the ASI or the corporation,” the court said.“Let the concerned zonal deputy commissioner of the corporation also look into the matter and fix responsibility of the officers who may be found to be in dereliction of their duties. Similarly, the matter be also looked by the director general of ASI. The deputy commissioner of police (south) too shall look into the matter with respect to the role of the police in this regard,” the court said. During the hearing, the standing counsel for SDMC told the court that the permission for construction was taken from the civic body and the ASI on the basis of “misrepresentation of facts and fabrication of documents”.Justice Waziri said this is “odd” because permission could not have been granted for any construction in the prohibited zone of 100 metres abutting a protected monument. The construction has taken place roughly 40 metres from the Qutub Minar, a world-renowned monument protected monument, he said.The SDMC counsel also told the court that during the construction only one full grown tree has been cut. However, the court, taking note of the timeline of the Google photos submitted by the petitioner, said “quite a number of trees have been felled”.The court also asked all the authorities to file affidavits, along with photographs and relevant documents, within four weeks and posted the matter for further hearing on February 17, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-directs-sdmc-asi-to-look-into-illegal-construction-near-qutub-minar/story-Wd7Ly8pIE4wzcGZSIEU7BO.html
26-12-2020||Delhi||Fewest daily virus cases in Delhi for 131 days; 30 deaths||The national capital on Friday recorded 758 new cases of Covid-19, the fewest in a single day since August 16, even as testing remained high — with the city recording a test positivity rate below 1% on Friday, for only the second time since the state government began sharing testing data regularly.Delhi, in the seven days ending on Friday, recorded a daily average of 952 new infections — the first time this number has dropped below 1,000 since May 31, when it saw a seven-day average of 918 cases.The state government’s daily health bulletin on Friday also recorded 30 more deaths of the infection, taking the overall death toll in the city to 10,414.With 85,749 tests, the positivity rate was recorded at 0.88%, even as a majority of these — 45,521 — were conducted using the gold standard reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method. Experts have warned that if the RT-PCR tests slacken, it could catch the Capital off guard if the outbreak begins resurging.The positivity rate has been below 2% for 11 days now and it was the second time this week that a positivity rate of less than 1% was recorded. Previously, the positivity rate was 0.99% on Wednesday.Last week, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had that Delhi seems to have overcome the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Delhi had recorded the highest single day spike on November 11 with 8,593 cases in 24 hours.So far, 621,439 people in Delhi have been diagnosed as Covid-19 positive, of whom 603,758 have recovered, government data showed.As on Friday, 2,656 Covid-19 beds in Delhi’s hospitals were occupied, leaving vacant a vast majority of beds reserved to treat patients with the viral infection.“The numbers are encouraging, especially the increased proportion of RT-PCR tests and the low positivity rate. The government should keep up with its currently applicable strategies on testing, tracing and isolation,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fewest-daily-virus-cases-in-delhi-for-131-days-30-deaths/story-sOeP8q0PHbB5HfMRLYFROL.html
26-12-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal says BJP endorsing new farm laws||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for endorsing the three contentious farm laws, even as lawmakers from his party shouted slogans against the new laws in the central hall of the Parliament on Friday. Kejriwal said in a tweet: “According to the BJP, these laws will not cause any losses to farmers. But what will be the benefits? They (BJP) claims that these will enable farmers to sell their produce outside agricultural produce markets. But outside markets, agricultural produce sells for half the price. So, where is the benefit? The truth is that these laws have several disadvantages and no benefits at all.”Earlier on Friday, four MPs of the AAP had protested against the law in the central hall of the Parliament after Prime Minister Narendra Modi was done paying tribute to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his 96th birth anniversary.The AAP’s lone Lok Sabha MP from Punjab Bhagwant Mann later said in a press conference at the party’s head office in Central Delhi, “Today, once again, we demanded that the government rolls back the three laws. Through our protest, we tried to reach out to PM Narendra Modi but he did not even care to listen to us. It clearly shows that the BJP has no intention to listen to the protesting farmers.”The BJP, however, dismissed the allegations.Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said, “When the Union home minister has given a clear assurance to farmers, we fail to understand why the AAP leaders are misleading them. The AAP should look at its own anti-farmer reforms. They charge road tax on tractors, higher power rate for irrigation and hardly procure anything at Minimum Support Price (MSP). Delhi farmers are in distress because of them.”Farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The AAP had voted against the three laws in both Houses of the Parliament when they were passed in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-says-bjp-endorsing-new-farm-laws/story-e3YeVBgVaYoXZNQCllLfeL.html
26-12-2020||Delhi||61% of active Covid-19 cases in Delhi’s 5.5k hot spots: Delhi govt data||Around 61% of active Covid-19 cases in Delhi as on December 22 were in areas demarcated as containment zones, up significantly from 35% in mid-November, when the national capital was at the peak of its third wave of coronavirus disease cases, according to Delhi government data.Additionally, the Capital had a far greater number of containment zones on December 22, as against mid-November, even though the city has seemingly passed the third wave of infections, and daily new infections are lower now than during than the former period.As on December 22, Delhi recorded 12,189 total active cases, of which 7,438 (61%) were in the city’s 5,501 containment zones. In comparison, on November 15, the Capital had 43,774 active cases, of which 15,242 (35%) were inside the 4,430 containment zones demarcated at the time. The government attributed the sharp increase in the share of active Covid-19 cases in red zones to its micro-containment policy, which was intensified in November. In fact, till early-December, they also allowed containment zones to be notified with less than three cases identified in close proximity, based on a risk assessment by district surveillance officials. The Capital had 6,501 containment zones on December 11 — the highest count so far, government data showed. It further showed that even though the next 11 days saw a drop in the number of active containment zones (from 6,501 to 5,501), it still remains higher than the number on November 15 (4,430).As new Covid-19 cases in the national capital have continued to decline for around three weeks now, seven out of 11 districts recorded less than 1,000 active cases as on December 22 – compared to only one such district on November 15.Delhi added a daily average of 1,186 new cases in the seven days ending December 22, down significantly from the 6,697 daily average infections it added in the seven-day period ending November 15 — a period that coincided with increased crowds owing to festivities, and hazardous levels of air pollution.State revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said, “Delhi witnessed the third wave of Covid-19 in November, which was the worst so far. During that phase, the government decided to go for an aggressive strategy of creating micro containment zones. The idea was to arrest the spread of the disease at the earliest by bringing in a higher proportion of cases under scaled-up surveillance. Micro containment zones were created wherever district officials assessed transmission risk. The efforts have shown good results and Delhi is in much better shape now.”Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said, “Containment zones witness scaled up surveillance and concentrated efforts on the fronts of testing, tracing, health checks, etc. So, a higher proportion of active cases in containment zones is a good sign. It shows that the government has done better in identification and demarcation of such red zoned. It also shows that scaled-up efforts have succeeded in reducing Covid-19 cases in Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/61-of-active-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-s-5-5k-hot-spots-delhi-govt-data/story-oomIU13sJ6rPMRL0Sb2mZP.html
26-12-2020||Bhopal||‘In dangerous mood, will bury you’: Shivraj Singh Chouhan warns gangsters||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan warned mafia and asked them to leave the state else he will bury them in 10 feet deep in the ground.While addressing people in a programme organised to mark the birth anniversary of late Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in Babai, Hoshangabad on Friday, Chouhan said, “Nowadays I am in a dangerous mood. I will not spare wrongdoers.”“We (state government) are running a campaign against mafia who have constructed house, buildings by using their muscle power and influence. Mafia leave Madhya Pradesh, else I will bury you 10 feet deep into the ground and your whereabouts will not be known to anyone.”Also read: ‘FASTag fee collection reaches Rs 80 crore per day’ - NHAIChouhan said, “Good governance is being implemented in the state as per the vision of former prime minister late Atal Bihari Ji. There will be rule of law in the state, not of goons and miscreants”.Defining good governance, Chouhan said, “good governance means ensuring that the benefits of government services reach the public with a fixed time frame without any bribe and it is happening in MP”.He announced the construction of a huge memorial in memory of late former PM Vajpayee in Gwalior which will outline his personality, activities and life’s philosophy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/will-bury-you-10-feet-deep-madhya-pradesh-cm-warns-mafia-asks-to-leave-state/story-4QAbP5W2d3SuDnPa44jAKP.html
26-12-2020||Delhi||Raghav Chadha files police complaint for attack on DJB office||Senior Aam Aadmi Party leader and Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairman Raghav Chadha on Friday registered an FIR against Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, a few other leaders of the party and unidentified suspects in connection with the attack on the Jhandewalan office of the water utility. In his complaint, Chadha said that a group of around 200-250 BJP workers entered DJB’s office premises in central Delhi’s Jhandewalan by breaking barricades and scaling the main gate, as “Delhi Police officials watched in silence”. He further said that the group — led by Gupta — physically assaulted and injured several DJB staff who were on duty and issued “imminent death threats” to him.A senior police officer, who did not want to be identified, said that a case under the Epidemic Diseases Act, and that under Indian Penal Code sections 188 (disobedience to an order passed by a government servant) and 427 (mischief causing damage) has been registered at Desh Bandhu Gupta Road police station. “We have not made any arrests so far,” said the officer.As for alleged vandalism inside the DJB premises, the officer said that the board officials will be asked to share details about the damage to property. “Based on that we’ll add sections to the FIR. Friday was a holiday because of which we couldn’t meet the DJB officials,” said the officer. “The goons of the BJP said that they are disgruntled because Arvind Kejriwal and the Aam Aadmi Party have stood in solidarity with protesting farmers, because the AAP government did not allow stadiums to be converted into jails, and because the AAP leaders tore apart copies of the contentious farm laws in the assembly. They also admitted to leading similar attacks at residences of the chief minister and deputy CM Manish Sisodia (earlier this month),” Chadha, who is also spokesperson of the AAP, said at a press conference on Thursday, after the attack. The BJP have denied the allegations and hit back saying that supporters of the AAP had led the vandalism. Gupta said the charges levelled against him were baseless. “These are baseless allegations. We had organised a peaceful protest at the DJB office against a scam related to water tankers. A group of people there attacked us and one BJP supporter was severely injured.” Delhi BJP’s media head Naveen Kumar said: “We went there after Chadha did not take our calls regarding a meeting. There, a group of AAP supporters attacked us and then they vandalised the DJB office to mislead people and divert attention from the water tanker issue. No BJP protester engaged in any violence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/raghav-chadha-files-police-complaint-for-attack-on-djb-office/story-yVQ51geU2DiGRlybKyV0fO.html
26-12-2020||Delhi||Riot victims allege police forced them to file false complaints against Pracha, cops reject charge||A group of Delhi riot victims on Friday alleged that the police was pressuring them to file false complaints against advocate Mehmood Pracha, whose office was raided by the police on Thursday in connection with an alleged forgery complaint. According to his office, Pracha is representing, pro bono, nearly 100 people accused in various cases related to the communal riots that broke out in northeast Delhi in February. At a press conference held at the Press Club, the victims also claimed that the police threatened them to withdraw complaints and did not file cases. Sahil Parvez, whose father was allegedly shot dead by rioters, said, “Police officials and authorities did not listen to me while preparing medico-legal certificates or first information reports. Even though I named the rioters, no action was taken against them. Some were arrested and later released on bail. During this time, I was constantly threatened to withdraw my case.” Delhi Police spokesperson Anil Mittal said, “All such allegations are false and baseless. Investigation into cases is being done solely on merits.” Mohammad Wasim,who was seen in viral video showing police assaulting a group of residents and forcing them to sing the national anthem, said, the police refused to register an FIR in the case. “We sought Pracha’s help and were later threatened by police officials at Jyoti Nagar police station to withdraw our case. Police also told us that the person who was going to help us (Pracha) would also be implicated and killed,” said Wasim, a resident of Kardampuri. Mohammad Nasir Khan,who was shot at by rioters and lost an eye in the violence, said he received no legal help by the police in the days following the riots. “I had read about Pracha who took up cases pro bono of marginalised people from minority, Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe communities. However, after bringing him on board, we started getting threats that we should withdraw our complaints or get another lawyer,” said Khan, a resident of north Ghonda.Mohammad Mumtaz, another Delhi riots victim who lost his shop in the February violence in Khajoori Khas, said, “I wanted to name the locals who burnt my shop in the FIR but Dayalpur police personnel insisted on registering FIR against unnamed people. Following this, my house was also burnt by a mob and yet the police insisted on not writing the names of people I identified or even recorded videos of. After we approached Pracha to fight our case, I was asked to file a false complaint against Pracha.” Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi in February 2020 after initial clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters went out of control and resulted in clashes between Hindus and Muslims. The riots left at least 53 people dead and around 400 injured. Police have arrested at least 21 persons for conspiring to orchestrate the riots. The arrested persons include prominent faces of the anti CAA protests such as former JNU student Umar Khalid, student activists Sharjeel Imam, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Safoora Zargar. Police have alleged that the arrested persons planned the riots, mobilised the rioters under the garb of the sit-in anti-CAA protests while the arrested persons have denied the allegations and accused police of launching a witch-hunt against anti-government voices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/riot-victims-allege-police-forced-them-to-file-false-complaints-against-pracha-cops-reject-charge/story-GDqXEVJydSLiecptRqPFSJ.html
26-12-2020||Delhi||Day after raid, Delhi Police book Mehmood Pracha for obstruction||A day after Delhi Police raided the office of senior advocate Mehmood Pracha in connection with a forgery complaint, a first information report (FIR) was registered against him at Hazrat Nizamuddin police station on Friday under sections 353 and 186 (obstructing public servant from doing his duty) and 34 (common intention) of IPC, said deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena. Two police officials privy to the development also said that the police would also send a detailed report about the incident along with video evidence to the court. Both Pracha and the police had recorded video of the raid.According to his office, Pracha is representing, pro bono, at least 100 persons arrested in the 2020 Delhi riots case, including Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and Gulfisha Fatima. Pracha said the raid that began at noon on Thursday, ended at 2.30am on Friday. He alleged that the police assaulted and intimidated him. While the police said they had obtained a warrant to searched Pracha’s office, many political leaders and lawyers criticised police for the alleged high-handedness. On Thursday, Pracha had also filed a complaint at Hazrat Nizamuddin police station, alleging that some imposters posing as police personnel had visited his office and stolen data from his computers. Police did not comment on Pracha’s complaint.On Friday, as controversy surrounded the police raid, the Delhi Police released a statement on Thursday’s events. Police said that searches were carried between Thursday and Friday at Pracha’s office and the office of another lawyer, Javed Ali, in Yamuna Vihar after receiving warrants under issued under Section 93 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Police claimed the search teams were accompanied by independent public witnesses, staff in uniform, women police officers and videographers.DCP (special cell) Manishi Chandra, whose team had conducted the raids, said Javed Ali “extended cooperation” after seeing the warrant. “Being sensitive to the needs of a practising advocate, a facility was extended to him (Ali) to obtain a mirror image of the seized hard disk so that his normal professional activities do not get hampered. The whole operation that started at Ali’s Yamuna Vihar office around 5 pm Thursday ended at about 10 am on Friday,” he said in the statement. Chandra said the team that searched Pracha’s office was “met with stiff resistance”. “Pracha was served a written request to cooperate in locating the computer wherein the incriminating documents may be present so as to avoid a general search of all the computer systems which were found in his office,” said the DCP, adding that Pracha and his associates got “aggressive and abusive”. DCP Chandra claimed that when the police team tried searching for files with a particular keyword on a computer and informed him that a particular computer had to be seized, he got “verbally aggressive and created a ruckus”.Police had on Thursday said that they conducted searches at Pracha’s office in a case where two lawyers, including Pracha are accused of fabricating evidence and using forged notary stamp. On August 22, police had registered an FIR against Pracha after one of the riot victims told a court that the lawyer has asked him to fake a deposition and frame three people in riot cases. Pracha had then denied the allegations and said that he was being framed by police as he was representing many persons arrested in riots cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/day-after-raid-delhi-police-book-pracha-for-obstruction/story-qnrllxLrrnhVqj3y7dbBnO.html
26-12-2020||Delhi||Mercury likely to fall by end-December: IMD||Cold and foggy weather persisted in the national capital on Friday as the minimum temperature remained below five degrees Celsius for the third consecutive day, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The Safdarjung observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of 4.6°C, three notches below the normal.“Moderate” fog reduced visibility to 201 metres at Safdarjung, while “shallow” fog was recorded in the Palam area, Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre, said.According to the weather department, fog is categorised as “very dense” when the visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of “dense” fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, “moderate” 201 and 500 metres, and “shallow” 501 and 1,000 metres.Cold wave conditions are predicted in parts of Delhi on Saturday.A moderate intensity western disturbance is likely to lead to a substantial fall in minimum temperatures once again end of this month, according to predictions by weather forecasters.A gradual rise in minimum temperatures, by two to three degrees Celsius, is predicted in the next three days, followed by a drop in minimum temperatures between three and five degrees over northwest India between December 28 and 30.“Minimum temperatures are likely to drop to around 3°C to 5°C after December 28. Normally also, winter is at its peak during end-December and early-January. However, because of the influence of a western disturbance, it can be harsher. Both October and November have been colder than usual this year but December has been mild so far,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.Meanwhile, ‘cold wave’ to severe cold wave’ conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and ‘cold wave’ conditions probable in isolated pockets over Uttar Pradesh, north Rajasthan and north Madhya Pradesh on December 28 and 29.Ground frost conditions are likely over parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and north Rajasthan during December 28 and 29. A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degree C in the plains. Slight improvement in Delhi pollutionAfter three consecutive days of “severe” pollution, Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) improved marginally to fall in the “very poor” category at 357. Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Gurugram, Noida, all of which had recorded severe air also improved marginally.According the Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality early warning system for Delhi, surface winds are likely to get stronger on December 25, and ventilation will improve resulting in improvement in air quality. “The wind speed increased to 10 to 15 kmph on Friday which helped improve air quality but we are expecting AQI to deteriorate again on December 27 and 28 to lower end of very poor or severe category. When a western disturbance approaches winds slow down which results in accumulation of pollutants,” said VK Soni, scientist at IMD’s air quality management division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mercury-likely-to-fall-by-end-december-imd/story-utdXosVfOCjEXjZIXwLjJM.html
26-12-2020||Delhi||Man kills 9-year-old, sets body on fire in Maidan Garhi, arrested||A 22-year-old man allegedly kidnapped and murdered a nine-year-old and then threw the child’s body in a pond in south Delhi’s Maidan Garhi — all in an attempt to marry his childhood friend, police said on Friday after cracking the case.The suspect planned and executed the child’s kidnapping and murder after getting inspiration from a television crime show, the police said adding that the woman had turned down his proposal recently because she said she already had a child.Police said the child was kidnapped and strangled to death on November 28. The body was recovered from a muddy pond on Thursday (December 24), after a passerby spotted it and informed the police. The boy’s body was found stuffed in a plastic bag. His clothes were hidden between stones near the pond. The body as well as the clothes were semi-charred. The suspect, identified only by his single name Bittu, had tried to set them on fire to ensure his identity was never established, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur. “After strangling the child, Bittu had thrown the body in the muddy pond in a forested area in Maidan Garhi, went back home, and joined the child’s family in searching for him. He visited the crime scene the next day and noticed that the child’s body was visible in the pond,” said DCP Thakur. Bittu, the DCP said, then pulled out the body, took it inside a forested area and hid it there. He then purchased some petrol and went back to the place where the body was hidden. Bittu then allegedly poured the petrol on the body and sent it on fire. But due to the wet clothes, the body did not burn, said Thakur. “Bittu again hid the body in the forested area and returned home. He went there the next day, removed the clothes and shoes from the body, and stuffed it in a plastic bag. He threw the bag in the pond to make sure the body is not visible again,” added Thakur. Police said that the involvement of Bittu in the child’s kidnapping and murder emerged after the body was discovered on Thursday and technical surveillance of cellphones of people known to the boy showed his presence near the crime scene on the day the kidnapping happened. “We interrogated Bittu. Initially, he tried to mislead us. But when confronted with technical evidence, he confessed,” said a senior police officer. During the interrogation, the officer said, Bittu revealed that he liked the child’s mother and wanted to marry her. However, her family married her to someone else. A couple of years ago, the woman separated from her husband because of a marital discord. She then began living with her parents, the officer said. “Bittu then again started getting close to the woman. He frequented her home and got friendly with her and her son as well. Some days ago, he proposed to the woman, but was turned down by the woman who cited her son as a reason. Bittu then hatched the murder plan,” said the officer. On November 28, Bittu saw the boy outside his home in Bhati Mines and asked him to accompany him to a nearby forest to eat berries. They boarded a Gramin Sewa vehicle and reached Maidan Garhi. From there, they went to a forested area, where Bittu allegedly strangled the child with a towel and threw the body in the pond, said DCP Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-kills-9-year-old-sets-body-on-fire-in-maidan-garhi-arrested/story-MGSRZO26bHbOmNKrHqEffM.html
26-12-2020||Delhi||Soon, smoother ride to Mayur Vihar from Noida||Motorists travelling from Mayur Vihar-I to Central Delhi and from Noida to Mayur Vihar-I will soon have a smoother ride as the Public Works Department (PWD) is likely to open soon cloverleaves (loops) of the newly constructed Mayur Vihar-I flyover on Delhi-Noida Link Road. The 800-metre-long flyover was opened for traffic in January 2019 but the loops — meant to provide seamless connectivity to Mayur Vihar -I and to Delhi — were under construction. The officials say that now the construction of loops is almost complete and it is likely to be opened early next month.  Currently, the road beneath the flyover is closed so motorists have to take detours to reach their destinations in central and New Delhi.These problems will be solved once the cloverleaves are opened. One loop will allow the traffic coming from Noida to come down and drive towards Mayur Vihar. The other loop will start from Mayur Vihar-I side and join the flyover towards Akshardham. The length of both the cloverleaf flyovers will be 300 metre each.“Most of the construction work of cloverleaves is almost complete and only some finishing touches along with streetscaping at a portion of the service road is left. We would have completed it by now but the work was slowed down due to restrictions on construction activities owing to soaring pollution levels and shortage of material. The finishing touches will take only a few days. We hope to open the loops early next month,” an official said.Currently, motorists going towards Akshardham side from Mayur Vihar-I have to travel nearly one kilometre towards Noida to take a U-turn from underneath another flyover on the Link Road. Similarly, those going to Mayur Vihar-I from Noida have to travel nearly a kilometre extra to take a U-turn from underneath NH-24 flyover. “My office is located in Connaught Place and to reach there I have to travel nearly 1.5 km extra. It is because I first have to travel in opposite direction towards Noida to take a U-turn from underneath a flyover and then drive towards Akshardham. It not only consumes more fuel but also more time,” said Himanshu Giri, a resident of Mayur Vihar-I.Ratnesh Singh, another resident of the east Delhi neighbourhood, said the construction of loops was underway for a long time and it should be opened soon so that travel to central and New Delhi can become easier. “If loops are being opened next month, then it will be a New Year gift for us as it would ease our travelling woes,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/soon-smoother-ride-to-mayur-vihar-from-noida/story-OPMQhxN6OS9vGttLsfwhQP.html
26-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt rejects compensation claims of 12 cops who died on Covid duty||The Delhi government has rejected compensation claims filed by families of 12 out of 15 police personnel who were verified to have died of Covid-19 in the national capital, according to documents reviewed by HT. In rejection letters sent to the families, the city-state’s government argued that the officers hadn’t been “deployed on Covid-19 duty” when they were infected by the coronavirus.Since the first case of the disease was reported in the national capital on March 2, 31 police personnel have died of the infection, according to police and state government records seen by HT. Of the 31,Delhi police officers have so far confirmed that 15 officers were on Covid-19 duty at the time they were infected and subsequently died.Three claims are pending with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government. Senior police officers are verifying he other 15 deaths before the compensation claims are forwarded to the government. The Delhi government had, in April, announced ₹1 crore in ex gratia (Latin “by favour”) for families of frontline workers who are infected by the virus on duty and die of the viral disease. From guarding containment zones to enforcing the lockdown, managing law and order to feeding the homeless across the city, Delhi Police have been at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic. “We analysed every case carefully and sent them to the government. These were also cases in which the government had promised to award the ₹1 crore compensation after the deaths were reported by the press,” a mid-level Delhi Police officer, who coordinates with the government’s home and revenue departments, said. “Delhi was a red zone and has around 6,000 containment zones even now. The people who died were on field duty and travelling across the city. Informing their families that the compensation has been rejected is difficult.”Constable Yogender Prashad Yadav’s family in west Delhi is one of the 12 who received letters from the government rejecting their claim. Yadav, who was posted at the Paschim Vihar police station in outer Delhi, died of the disease on July 7. His father Jagdish Yadav said: “ My son was among those who enforced lockdown norms. He went to different places to ensure that residents follow social distancing norms. He was even guarding containment zones. I want to ask the Delhi government the definition of Covid-19 duty.”The father added: “When police personnel died on duty of Covid-19, the chief minister had tweeted, promising that the state government would pay their families ₹1 crore as compensation. We request him to honour that promise.”In all the 12 claims rejection letters, the government wrote back to the police that “the deceased was performing his routine duty assigned to him and was not deployed for Covid-19 duty, which is a mandatory condition to become eligible for grant of ex gratia of Rs 1 crore.”.As on Thursday evening, 7,387 Delhi Police personnel were infected with Covid-19, of whom 554 are currently battling the disease.HT contacted the Delhi government to find out why the claims had been rejected, but there had been no response from the administration as of Friday evening. The state government did not also share details of compensation claims it had accepted and against which it had paid families of frontline workers who have died of Covid-19 till date..The state government had on April 19,2020 — in the third week of the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 — issued a notification promising ₹1 crore compensation for the families of frontline workers who die of the disease. “Any person including Doctor, Nurse, Para-Medical Staff, Security/Sanitation Staff, or any other Government Officer/Official including Police Officer/Official, whether temporary or permanent employee or contractual, in Government or Private Sector, deployed for COVID-19 duties by Government of NCT of Delhi, if expires by contracting the disease. During discharge of his/her duty, his/her family shall be compensated with ex-gratia amount of Rupees one Crore, posthumously,” read the notification. NCT is short for national capital territory. The national capital on Friday added 758 new cases of the infection, and 30 more deaths.Aruna Sharma, wife of police inspector Sanjay Sharma, who died of the disease on August 18, said the government’s announcement and subsequent rejection of the family’s claim worsened their condition. Sharma was posted with a police control room van. “Everybody thinks we will be paid ₹1 crore as compensation so they do not offer to help. Had the government not made the announcement, our friends and family would have come together to help us through these times. When the lockdown was imposed, the police did not have the liberty to work from home,” Aruna Sharma said. She said the government’s decision had left them in shock. “Delhi had the most cases across the country at one point. My husband was on field duty. The papers show he even conducted checking on the roads. It was in the police vehicles that accused persons were transported or the food to the homeless was collected for distribution. Currently, we are clueless what to do,” she said.Police expert Prakash Singh, former chief of the Uttar Pradesh and Assam police forces, as well as the Border Security Force (BSF), said: “If it is true that the policemen died of Covid-19 on duty and yet the cases were rejected, then it is very shocking. When people stayed at home, some essential service providers like doctors, police, chemists were on duty.... The police have to go to a containment zone if duty calls. The police functioning did not stop during the lockdown. They were more visible then. Any cop who was on field duty on the roads then deserve the claim much like the paramedic staff.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-rejects-compensation-claims-of-12-cops-who-died-on-covid-duty/story-MZhF1fMVrTqVcLEXr9h8dI.html
26-12-2020||Education||JEE Main 2021: Chandigarh students can now take exam in Punjabi||There is some good news in store for students of government schools of Punjab, as the National Testing Authority (NTA) has decided to conduct the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) in more regional languages, including Punjabi, from next year. A letter in this regard has been issued by the secretary and it has been stated that interested Class 12 students can appear in the competitive exam in Punjabi. The exam will be conducted in four sessions from February to May 2021. This move by the NTA will help many students from Punjab to appear in this competitive exam in their mother tongue. To make maximum Class-12 students appear in the competitive exam, school education secretary Krishan Kumar directed principals to inform students of the science stream to apply online for the exam.The examination, which is also an eligibility test for the JEE-Advanced for admission to the IITs is currently offered in English, Hindi, and Gujarati. The students will have the option to take the test in Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, Kannada, Marathi, Malayalam, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu.  District education officer, elementary Rajinder Kaur, handling the additional charge of DEO secondary, said, “The science mentors have been asked to motivate students to appear in this exam which will enable them to get admission in IITs.” This year 104 students from government schools cleared the JEE Main from Ludhiana and over 600 appeared in the exam held in January and September. Of them, 44 students were from a meritorious school run by the state government.A chemistry lecturer, Varinder Pathak from government senior secondary school, Multi-purpose said, “This step by the government will help many students to fare better in the competitive exam as several students having a phobia of English did not appear in the exam.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-s-students-can-now-take-jee-main-in-punjabi/story-AexdJrTT8O3NFZ87cYa8EP.html
26-12-2020||Chandigarh||Year of the pandemic: Khaki warriors face an invisible enemy||From fighting off crime to standing on the frontline in the battle against Covid-19, Ludhiana police proved the age old adage true that when the going gets tough, the tough get going. While nothing could have prepared them to fight the invisible enemy that came in the form of a pandemic, they stood strong even as they lost two of their own -- assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kumar Kohli and assistant sub-inspector Jaspal Singh – to the virus.When the Punjab government, and subsequently the Centre, brought in a curfew to break to Covid transmission chain, the khaki warriors played a crucial role in enforcing the restrictions. Often at great risk to themselves, the men and women in uniform remained on the ground for hours at end without rest or sleep, facing the wrath of residents who were still trying to come to terms with the unprecedented times. Nearly 70 police personnel tested positive for the virus but they returned to their duty, soon after recovery.The cops also played Good Samaritans as they distributed ration among the needy and made arrangements to send migrants to their native places as the pandemic wreaked havoc to the economy. Rising to the challenges of the pandemic, they also helped cremate the bodies of corona victims as the process required a special protocol. Other challenges amid the pandemic Police had to rope in around 2,000 volunteers to help them enforce the lockdown. As people continued to venture out without masks and curfew passes, police had to establish four open jails to detain the violators. The police collected over Rs 5 crore as fine, through 1.1 lakh challans issued since March. The pandemic forced the police to suspend public dealing for three months –from July to October— and residents were asked to lodge their complaints via email. 3 new posts created The Ludhiana police also witnessed a change in its hierarchy after the government created three new posts of joint commissioner of police and abolished the post of deputy commissioner of police, headquarters. Now, the joint commissioners of police will the senior-most officers after the police commissioner. Deputy commissioners of police will now be third on the hierarchy chart. Also, with the induction of the three new officers, the city now has 44 gazetted officers – which include the police commissioner, five DCPs, 10 ADCPs, 24 ACPs and one DSP (anti narcotics). The city has 28 police stations and one women police station to deal with matrimonial disputes.A crime that shook the cityAmong the most gut-wrenching crimes that the city witnessed was the murder of four members of a family in Mayur Vihar in the last week of November. Builder and realtor Rajiv Sunda, 60, hacked to death four members of his family –wife Sunita Sunda, 58, son Ashish Sunda, 35, daughter-in-law Garima Sunda, 32, and grandson Suchet, 12, with an axe and knife on the morning of November 24. After the gruesome murders, he fled in his Maruti Suzuki Swift car before setting it ablaze and ending his life by jumping before a running train. A suicide note recovered from his house revealed that he had taken the extreme step as he was fed up of his daughter-in-law’s kin, who, he alleged, had been threatening to implicate him in a fake dowry case. He had also mentioned that the accused had not returned the money they had borrowed from him.Cops pulled out of Bains’ security detailLok Insaaf Party head and Atam Nagar MLA Simarjit Singh Bains found himself in a soup in April this year after he made a controversial statement against the police in response to an incident wherein a Nihang Sikh chopped off the hand of a cop on duty. Hurt and demotivated by his statements, four cops in his security detail submitted in writing to the police department that they did not want to serve him anymore as Bains had “insulted” the police department. Later, Bains complained to the Union minister of minority affairs, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and vice-chairman of the National Commission for minorities, Manjit Singh Rai about the withdrawal of his security. He alleged that police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, in an interview after the incident, had tried to malign his image at the behest of the Congress government.LowsBroad daylight robbery at IIFLA gang of five armed robbers made off with at least 30kg of gold ornaments, worth more than Rs 10 crore, from India Infoline Finance Limited’s (IIFL) gold loan branch on Gill Road on February 17. Four of them had entered the branch and executed the crime in 25 minutes flat, while the fifth robber, who was waiting for them in a car, drove them off. The crime spot is located opposite the office of Punjab Police’s Crime Investigation Agency Staff-3 unit. Before the Ludhiana police could get any clue about the robbers, the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) solved the case and arrested the accused.Finance firm employee’s custodial deathThe custodial death of Deepak Shukla, a finance company employee, on February 27 had raised questions about the working of the police. Shukla’s kin had alleged that he was tortured in custody. They were forced to approach the court as the police appeared to be shielding the errant cops by putting off the registration of the case. The case was finally registered on August 15 after court orders. Three cops–the then station house officer of Division Number 5 police station, sub-inspector Richa Rani, assistant sub-inspector Charanjit Singh and assistant sub-inspector Jaskaran Singh were booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code and the Contempt of Court Act.Flushing hooch into Sutlej River The Ludhiana police were caught on the wrong side of the law as a few personnel were pictured disposing off hooch, which had been confiscated in raids, in the Sutlej River. The police had flushed nearly 8.64 lakh litres of lahan (hooch) in river and polluted the water body. The same practice continued even after the hooch tragedy in Amritsar, Batala and Tarn Taran which claimed over 100 lives.No trace of domestic help who executed robbery Police failed to trace a Nepalese domestic help, who along with his two accomplices, had robbed the house of industrialist Sandeep Ghai after holding captive the latter’s elderly parents. The crime took place in the posh Gurdev Nagar locality on October 7. The accused had injured an 11-year-old domestic help and sedated the security guard of the house while carrying out the crime. At the time of the incident, Ghai, along with his wife and children, had gone for dinner to their relatives’ house in Model Town.Cops turn criminals While many laid down their lives in the line of duty, there were a few who brought embarrassment to the force by indulging in illegal activities. Division Number 2 station house officer, Amandeep Singh Gill, 39, was arrested by the special task force of Ludhiana police, after he and his aide Ajay Kumar were found in possession of 10.3-gm heroin on February 18. The SHO had recovered the contraband from five suspects, but instead of lodging an FIR against them, he had set them free for bribe.An assistant sub-inspector (ASI), Sukhpal Singh of Jamalpur police station had shot at his friend’s wife with his service weapon at their residence over a monetary dispute on January 14. At the time of the incident, the two teen daughters of the victim were in the adjoining room.Assistant sub inspector (ASI) Dharminder of Daba police station, along with a woman and a cable operator, had honey trapped a realtor and demanded Rs 50 lakh after claiming that they had a lewd video of him with the woman. The ASI threatened the realtor that he would implicate him in a rape case on the basis of the video. The Daba police had arrested all the accused on June 29.A head constable, Surinder Kumar, deputed at Kanganwal police post, had changed an entire FIR for a bribe of Rs 50,000 to benefit drug peddlers arrested with ‘Ganja’ (cannabis). He was booked on July 18. Five police personnel, including four ASIs and a constable, who were facing corruption charges, were dismissed from service on November 23.HighsDrive against beggingIn a drive against begging, that started in February, police had identified 1,170 beggars at 19 busy locations of the city and started initiatives to rehabilitate them. But the Covid-induced lockdown threw the drive off-track. But the police resumed the drive in November and within a month brought down the number to 435 by rehabilitating them. Police had released a Whatsapp number where residents could contact the police to share details about the location of beggars. Cache of drugs recoveredThe Ludhiana police recovered intoxicant syrups, tablets and capsules worth Rs 10 crore from the basement of a house in Jaipur of Rajasthan in September and October, and disrupted a drug supply chain with the arrest of five accused. Police had claimed to have recovered 13,000 capsules, 1, 76, 560 syrup bottles, 10.29 lakh tablets and 14,400 injections from their possession.Impounded vehicles returned to ownersLudhiana police had also handed over 239 impounded vehicles, 213 mobile phones and Rs 6.74 cash to its owners on superdari (interim custody) on October 30. The total worth of these properties comes to around Rs 4 crore. The step was taken as the police ran out of space to store these at the police stations. The police had earned over Rs 1 crore by auctioning 1, 705 unclaimed vehicles.Robbery at Muthoot Finance foiledPolice, with the help of the public, foiled a robbery at Muthoot Finance company’s Dugri Road branch on October 16. Three of the robbers had fled empty-handed after opening fire, injuring four employees and an onlooker. The robbers had filled gold worth Rs 15 crore in bags and some cash but before they could escape, the employees overpowered them. Police managed to identify all six accused, but could arrest only three of them.Police recover kidnapped child within hoursPolice rescued the two-year-old son of a city-based hotelier, hours after the toddler was kidnapped by the family’s driver on December 2. The accused had demanded Rs 4 crore to release the child. The driver, identified as Harjinderpal Singh, and his accomplices sarpanch Lal Singh, former sarpanch Rachhpal Singh, Sukhdev Singh alias Sukha, Lal Singh of Kot Isse Khan and his wife Mandeep Kaur, were nabbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-s-khaki-warriors-fight-an-invisible-enemy/story-4g8RJr4Q15THCSKbtmlguL.html
26-12-2020||Pune||Long holiday weekend sees heavy rush on highways||Highways saw long queues on Friday with residents taking advantage of the long weekend to hit the roads to travel to tourist spots around Pune. Heavy traffic was seen on the Pune-Mumbai expressway and old Pune-Mumbai highway, towards Satara on Bengaluru highway and especially at the ghat sections of Khandala and at Mahabaleshwar. The Maharashtra Highway State Police (HSP) has also deployed additional manpower on the highways, especially at toll posts and ghat section to clear the holiday rush. Also “golden hour” traffic movement in which heavy vehicles and trucks are stopped near the toll post as per the requirement for 1 or 2 hours today. “We have deployed bandobast on large scale on all highways in Pune division looking at the weekend rush of people entering and departing the city. We have instructed the toll naka operators to post extra staff for clearing vehicles as there are long queues of vehicles. For extra police force, we have got manpower from other highway regions to tourists spots like Mahabaleshwar and Lonavla,” said Sanjay Jadhav, superintendent of police, state highway police (HSP), Pune. “Another major thing which we are focusing is on ghat sections at Khandala and Wai Ghat going towards Mahabaleshwar. If there is bottleneck in the ghat section then the entire traffic flow is disturbed. So, along with policemen we have also put in place cranes for emergency situations. Then we are using golden hours system on highways and not allowing heavy vehicles to pass through the ghat section. We are stopping them at toll nakas for 1 or 2 hours as per the requirement to clear the traffic.” Jadhav said. Shantanu Maner, an IT professional, said, “Today I came to Lonavla along with my family for two days vacations. There was massive traffic on the expressway. We had to wait for 15 to 20 minutes at the toll naka as there were long queues.” Heavy rush was also seen at all the major state transport bus stands — Swargate, Shivajinagar which is now shifted to Wakdewadi and Pune railway station ST stand. Additional buses were sent on all the routes across Maharashtra by Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC). Giving details of the Pune division MSRTC bus operations, Ramakanat Gaikwad MSRTC Pune divisional controller said, “From yesterday (Thursday), there is heavy ST bus movement from all the bus stands as people want to go home or for holiday during the long weekend. We are plying extra buses on all the major routes like Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli, Mumbai, Konkan, Nashik, Solapur and Aurangabad. Additional manpower of traffic controllers is given to guide passengers to get buses. Around 15 per cent of additional buses are given by the Pune division across the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/long-holiday-weekend-sees-heavy-rush-on-highways/story-3n2lmeozxosex90zUNFKDP.html
26-12-2020||World||Europe rolls out Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine in bid to leave Covid-19 pandemic behind||Europe launches a cross-border vaccination programme of unprecedented scale on Sunday as part of efforts to end a Covid-19 pandemic that has crippled economies and claimed more than 1.7 million lives around the world.The region of 450 million people has secured contracts with a range of suppliers for over two billion vaccine doses and has set a goal for all adults to be inoculated during 2021.While Europe has some of the best-resourced healthcare systems in the world, the sheer scale of the effort means that some countries are calling on retired medics to help out while others have loosened rules for who is allowed to give the injections.With surveys pointing to high levels of hesitancy towards the vaccine in countries from France to Poland, leaders of the 27-country European Union are promoting it as the best chance of getting back to something like normal life next year. “We are starting to turn the page on a difficult year,” Ursula von der Leyen, president of the Brussels-based European Commission coordinating the programme, said in a tweet.“Vaccination is the lasting way out of the pandemic.”After European governments were criticised for failing to work together to counter the spread of the virus in early 2020, the goal this time is to ensure that there is equal access to the vaccines across the entire region.But even then, Hungary on Saturday jumped the gun on the official roll-out by starting to administer shots of the vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech to frontline workers at hospitals in the capital Budapest.Countries including France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Portugal and Spain are planning to begin mass vaccinations, starting with health workers on Sunday. Outside the EU, Britain, Switzerland and Serbia have already started in recent weeks.The distribution of the Pfizer-BioNTech shot presents tough challenges. The vaccine uses new mRNA technology and must be stored at ultra-low temperatures of around -80 degrees Celsius (-112°F).France, which received its first shipment of the two-dose vaccine on Saturday, will start administering it in the greater Paris area and in the Burgundy-Franche-Comte region.Germany, meanwhile, said trucks were on their way to deliver the vaccine to care homes for the elderly, which are first in line to receive the vaccine on Sunday.Beyond hospitals and care homes, sports halls and convention centres emptied by lockdown measures will become venues for mass inoculations. In Italy, temporary solar-powered healthcare pavilions will spring up in town squares around the country, designed to look like five-petalled primrose flowers, a symbol of spring.In Spain, doses are being delivered by air to its island territories and the North African enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla. Portugal is establishing separate cold storage units for its Atlantic archipelagos of Azores and Madeira.“A window of hope has now opened, without forgetting that there is a very difficult fight ahead,” Portuguese Health Minister Marta Temido told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europe-rolls-out-pfizer-biontech-vaccine-in-bid-to-leave-covid-19-pandemic-behind/story-NYbqqn5RZBDgYitlN8663N.html
26-12-2020||World||Widespread outages continue in Tennessee after Nashville Christmas morning explosion||Sweeping communications outages continued to plague large swaths of Tennessee on Saturday as federal investigators combed the site for clues into the explosion of a recreational vehicle that rocked sleepy downtown Nashville on Christmas.Police emergency systems in Tennessee, Kentucky and Alabama, as well as Nashville’s Covid-19 community hotline and a handful of hospital systems, remained out of service due to an AT&T central office being affected by the blast. The building contained a telephone exchange, with network equipment in it — but the company has declined to say exactly how many people have been impacted.Meanwhile, investigators shutdown the heart of downtown Nashville’s tourist scene - an area packed with honky-tonks, restaurants and shops - as they shuffled through broken glass and damaged buildings to learn more about the explosion. While authorities are certain that this was a deliberate act, they have been mum on saying publicly who did this and why.Mayor John Cooper has enforced a curfew in the downtown area until Sunday via executive order to limit public access to the area.AT&T said restoration efforts are facing several challenges, which include a fire that “reignited overnight and led to the evacuation of the building.” This has forced their teams to work with safety and structural engineers and drilling access holes into the building in order to reconnect power.“Our teams continue to work around the clock on recovery efforts from yesterday morning’s explosion in Nashville,” the company said in a Saturday statement. “We have two portable cell sites operating in downtown Nashville with numerous additional portable sites being deployed in the Nashville area and in the region.”Gov. Bill Lee asked the White House on Saturday for federal assistance due to the “severity and magnitude” of the explosion’s impact. At least 41 buildings were damaged, and communications systems — including residential and cell phone service and 911 call centers — failed across the state, he said. Kentucky and northern Alabama were also affected, he said.Ray Neville, president of technology at T-Mobile, said on Twitter that service disruptions affected Louisville, Nashville, Knoxville, Birmingham and Atlanta. “We’re working diligently w/ our partner on restoration. We apologize for any inconvenience. Updates to follow,” he said in a tweet late Friday.The outages had even briefly grounded flights at the Nashville International Airport, but service was continuing normally as of Saturday.According to Metro Nashville Police Chief John Drake, police officers responded on Friday to a report of shots fired when they encountered the RV blaring a recorded warning that a bomb would detonate in 15 minutes. Police evacuated nearby buildings and called in the bomb squad. The RV exploded shortly afterward.Law enforcement officials have said they believe the blast was intentional but don’t yet know a motive or target.“This morning I toured the site of the bombing,” Gov. Bill Lee tweeted Saturday. “The damage is shocking and it is a miracle that no residents were killed. (First lady Maria) and I continue to pray for those who sustained injuries from the blast.”Lee had been in quarantine due to his wife contracting Covid-19. However, the Republican said that he and Maria had both tested negative, allowing the two to visit downtown Nashville. Lee said the first lady had “fully recovered.”On Friday, Drake told reporters that investigators at the scene “have found tissue that we believe could be remains, but we’ll have that examined and let you know at that time.” No new information regarding the tissue was made available Saturday.Three people taken to area hospitals for treatment were in stable condition Friday evening.The FBI has taken the lead in the investigation, agency spokesman Joel Siskovic said. Federal investigators from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives are also involved in the investigation. The FBI is the primary law enforcement agency responsible for investigating federal crimes, such as explosives violations and acts of terrorism.In West Virginia, a hospital system said Saturday that it was experiencing network connection issues directly related to the Nashville explosion. South Charleston-based Thomas Health, which operates two hospitals, said on its Facebook page that it didn’t have an estimated time of restoration.Similarly, Sumner Regional Medical Center in Gallatin, Tennessee, said on its Facebook page that it was operating without access to some of its systems, including medical records.“We prepare for situations like this and moved immediately to paper records. There has been no disruption to the delivery of patient care, and no cause for concern for this temporary issue,” the center said in a post Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/widespread-outages-continue-in-tennessee-after-nashville-christmas-morning-explosion/story-R0cgmk2uctBsTS6Tnk6SvL.html
26-12-2020||World||French investigators to question Carlos Ghosn in Lebanon||A team of French investigators will come to Beirut next month to participate in interrogating former Renault-Nissan boss Carlos Ghosn, a Lebanese justice ministry official said Saturday.The official gave no specific date or details of what information the investigators would seek from Ghosn.Former auto executive Ghosn, who is a Lebanese, Brazilian and French national, fled Japan in a dramatic escape that drew headlines last year, arriving in Lebanon on Dec. 30, 2019.In addition to his trial in Japan, the 66-year-old businessman is facing a number of legal challenges in France, including tax evasion and alleged money laundering, fraud and misuse of company assets while at the helm of the Renault-Nissan alliance.The Lebanese official, speaking on condition of anonymity in line with regulations, said the French investigators would be working alongside their Lebanese counterparts.Information about investigations is secret under French law, and French judicial officials did not respond to requests for comment Saturday on the report.After leading the Japanese automaker Nissan for two decades, Ghosn was arrested in Japan in November 2018 on charges of breach of trust, misusing company assets for personal gains and violating securities laws by not fully disclosing his compensation. He denied wrongdoing and fled Japan while out on bail awaiting trial. He is unlikely to be extradited from Lebanon, where he has been since last year.At least two Ghosn-related investigations were opened in France. One focused on suspicious transactions between Renault and a distributor in Oman, as well as suspected payments for private trips and events paid by Renault-Nissan’s Netherlands-based holding company RNBV.Another investigation focused on suspected misuse of company funds for a party for Ghosn at Versailles.The French inquiry aims to determine who is at fault for a string of alleged financial violations between 2009 and 2020.That includes “suspicious financial flows” between Renault and the SBA car dealership in Oman. This aspect of the inquiry is targeting several million euros of travel and other costs paid by the Netherlands-based Renault-Nissan holding RNBV but suspected to have been for Ghosn’s personal use.Ghosn’s French lawyers have said the payments to SBA were “justified bonuses” for having boosted car sales in the Persian Gulf and denied allegations that the funds benefited Ghosn or his family personally.Renault last year said an internal audit with Nissan found 11 million euros in questionable expenses at RNBV allegedly linked to Ghosn, including for air travel, personal spending and donations to nonprofit organizations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-investigators-to-question-carlos-ghosn-in-lebanon/story-WdhK2ZuZedWjCoMeHIU5iK.html
26-12-2020||World||Explainer: How will the EU-UK trade deal change ties?||British and EU negotiators clinched a wide-ranging free trade deal on Christmas Eve, meaning commerce between the trading bloc of 450 million consumers and the sixth-biggest global economy will keep on flowing without tariffs or quotas from Jan. 1.Britain has hailed the agreement as a clean break with the European Union that will allow London to set its own agenda, while the bloc has also welcomed a “good deal” that will let the 27 member states move on.But much will be different once Britain completes its journey out of the EU, its single market and customs union, at the end of this year. There are also areas left unfinished that will require more negotiation.Here are examples of what will change.LEVEL PLAYING FIELDThis issue almost derailed the talks when Britain accused the EU of introducing a new demand that would give the bloc a unilateral right to impose tariffs on Britain if it was deemed to have moved too far away from fair competition rules.The agreement means that now both sides have the right to challenge the other through an arbitration mechanism if any regulatory divergence is deemed to have resulted in a competitiveness issue. It also says that if such mechanisms are used too often and too long, it can trigger a renegotiation of the relevant parts of the treaty.MORE CHECKS AND RED TAPE IN TRADE IN GOODS Unlike so far, goods moving between Britain and the EU will be subject to customs, regulatory and animal safety checks, leading to more red tape requirements. Ireland, the EU country most affected by Brexit, estimated in September that import and export declarations could increase 12-fold to as many as 20 million per year. END TO FREE MOVEMENT OF PEOPLE While the EU and the UK agreed to sidestep visas for short-term stays, the current free movement of people will end. That means EU citizens going to the UK, and vice-versa, will be subject to more extensive border screening. EU citizens’ right to live and work in the UK - as well as British citizens’ ability to do the same in Europe - will diminish. Pet passports will no longer be automatically recognised across the EU-UK border.REDUCED SECURITY INFORMATION SHARINGBritain hailed the deal for ensuring a range of fast and effective security capabilities but there are significant changes to the way Britain and the EU will share security, police and intelligence data. The UK will no longer participate in Europol or Eurojust, and will lose access to the Schengen Information System, though there are ways to share passenger, fingerprints, DNA and vehicle data.A senior member of the UK negotiating team said the “extensive” deal allowed Britain to collaborate with Europol or Eurojust, but those involved would have to get used to a different process.CURBS ON TRANSPORTUK licences for passenger or cargo flights will no longer be sufficient to operate between EU destinations or from the EU onwards. Britain and EU states can, however, run flights between one another, and will cooperate on aviation safety and slots.For road transport, cabotage will be reduced though hauliers carrying loads between the EU and the UK can operate with no limits and there are full transit rights. CHANGES TO FISH QUOTAS, LIMITED ACCESS TO WATERS Full access to one another’s fishing waters ends after a 5-1/2-year transition period from 2021, during which catch quotas will also be gradually moved from the EU to the UK. Both sides have agreed that 25% of EU boats’ fishing rights in British waters will be transferred to the UK fishing fleet, over that period. After that, there will be annual talks to set the amount EU boats can catch in British waters and vice versa.The senior negotiating team member said both sides had had to compromise, but that at the end of the transition, Britain will have full control of its waters and access to them.FINANCIAL SERVICESFrom Jan 1, British-based financial services groups lose automatic access to the EU’s single market. Both sides have said new market access must be negotiated outside the trade agreement in specific equivalence deals.The two sides will also aim to agree by March 2021 a memorandum of understanding on regulatory cooperation in financial services.SEPARATE ARRANGEMENTS FOR ENERGY AND CLIMATEBritain will no longer participate in the EU’s internal energy market or be part of the bloc’s emissions trading scheme. The British government said this month it would establish a domestic emissions trading scheme (UK ETS) from Jan. 1.STATE AIDOn state aid, the two have agreed to create a body to provide independent oversight and to work within six overarching principles. But Alexander Rose, director at legal business DWF, said: “We know we will have a new UK Subsidy Control regime, but at this point ... we don’t know which body will oversee this, what the rules are and whether block exemptions (used for 99% of awards) will remain.” ROAMING CHARGESEU member states have agreed to drop roaming charges for mobile connections and data within their single market, a legal requirement on mobile operators that will no longer apply to Britain from the start of 2021. Should telecom firms introduce such charges, as is the case with Switzerland, citizens crossing between the EU and the UK will have to turn their data roaming off or face higher charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explainer-how-will-the-eu-uk-trade-deal-change-ties/story-um04W59UM635qRP1mNKatI.html
26-12-2020||World||Hungary gives 1st vaccine shots a day before EU’s rollout||Hungarian doctors and health care workers began getting vaccinated Saturday with one of the continent’s first shipments of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine against Covid-19, upsetting plans for a coordinated rollout on Sunday of the first shots across the 27-nation European Union.The first shipments of coronavirus vaccines arrived across the bloc late Friday and early Saturday. It was not immediately clear why Hungarian authorities began their vaccinations a day early. Authorities in Slovakia also announced that they planned to begin administering their first doses on Saturday evening.European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen released a video celebrating the vaccine rollout, calling it “a touching moment of unity.”“Today, we start turning the page on a difficult year. The Covid- 19 vaccine has been delivered to all EU countries. Vaccination will begin tomorrow across the EU,” she said.In Hungary, the first shipment of 9,750 doses — enough to vaccinate 4,875 people, since two doses are needed per person — arrived by truck early Saturday and were taken to the South Pest Central Hospital in Budapest. The government said four other hospitals, two in Budapest and two others in the eastern cities of Debrecen and Nyíregyháza, would also receive vaccines from the initial shipment.The vaccines developed by BioNTech and Pfizer arrived by truck in very cold conditions were delivered warehouses across the continent on Friday and early Saturday after being sent from a manufacturing center in Belgium before Christmas.The rollout marks a moment of hope for a region that includes some of the world’s earliest and worst-hit virus hot spots, including Italy and Spain, and others, like the Czech Republic, that were spared the worst early on only to see their health care systems near their breaking points in the fall.Altogether, the 27 EU member states have seen at least 16 million cases of the coronavirus and more than 336,000 deaths.“It’s here, the good news at Christmas,” German Health Minister Jens Spahn said at a news conference Saturday. “This vaccine is the decisive key to end this pandemic.”“It is the key to getting our lives back,” Spahn said.The rollout is the result of coordination on the part of all 27 member states, helping the bloc to also project a sense of unity in a lifesaving mission of logistical complexity after difficulties in negotiating a post-Brexit trade deal with Britain.The first doses, however, are limited just under 10,000 doses in most countries, with the mass vaccination programs expected to begin only in January.Each country is deciding on its own who will get the first shots — but they are all putting the most vulnerable first.French authorities said they will prioritize the elderly, based on the high impact on older populations in previous virus surges in France. The French medical safety agency will monitor for eventual problems.Germany, where the pandemic has cost more than 30,000 lives, will begin with those over 80 and people who take care of vulnerable groups.Spanish authorities said early Saturday that the first batch of the coronavirus vaccine to reach the country had arrived in the central city of Guadalajara — where the first shots will be administered on Sunday morning at a nursing home.In Italy, which leads Europe in confirmed known deaths, a nurse in Rome at Spallanzani Hospital, the main infectious diseases facility in the capital, should be the first in the country to receive the vaccine, followed by other health personnel.In Poland, the first two people to be vaccinated on Sunday will be a nurse and a doctor at the Interior Ministry hospital in Warsaw, the main coronavirus hospital in the capital, followed by medical personnel in dozens of other hospitals.Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki recently called it the patriotic duty of Poles to get vaccinated — a message directed at a society where there is a high degree of vaccine hesitancy born from a general distrust of authorities.In Bulgaria, where suspicions also run high, the first person to get the shot will be Health Minister Kostadin Angelov, who has promised an aggressive campaign to promote the benefits of the shots.In Croatia, where the first batch of 9,750 vaccines arrived early on Saturday, a care home resident in Zagreb, the capital, will be the first to receive the vaccine on Sunday morning, according to state HRT TV.HRT TV also reported that authorities would launch a pro-vaccination campaign that will include celebrities and other public figures getting the vaccine on camera.“We have been waiting for this for a year now,” Romanian Prime Minister Florin Catu said on Saturday after the first batch of the vaccine arrived at a military-run storage facility there.The vaccinations begin as the first cases of a new variant of the virus that has been spreading in the U.K. have now been detected in France and Spain. The new variant has caused several European countries to restrict traffic with Britain.A French man living in England arrived in France on Dec. 19 and tested positive for the new variant Friday, the French public health agency said in a statement. He has no symptoms and is isolating in his home in the central city of Tours.Meanwhile, health authorities in the Madrid region said they had confirmed the variant in four people, all of whom are in good health. Regional health chief Enrique Ruiz Escudero said that the new strain had arrived when an infected person flew into Madrid’s airport.German pharmaceutical company BioNTech is confident that its coronavirus vaccine works against the new UK variant, but further studies are needed to be completely certain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hungary-gives-1st-vaccine-shots-a-day-before-eu-s-rollout/story-cQ5ktG9dOSOkVi5l3aoAcO.html
26-12-2020||World||Hamas says ‘barbaric’ Israeli strike damaged children’s hospital||Hamas on Saturday denounced as “barbaric” overnight strikes it said damaged a Gaza children’s hospital, while Israel’s army said it was responding to rocket fire from the enclave.The Israeli army said it struck three Hamas targets, including a rocket manufacturing site, underground infrastructure and a military post, after two rockets were fired from the Gaza Strip.But Gaza’s ruling Hamas in a statement said a “barbaric” Israeli strike had damaged a children’s hospital and a centre for people with special needs.Medical sources in Gaza said the strikes “lightly wounded” two civilians, including a child.The Israeli army, however, insisted on Saturday afternoon that it did not hit the hospital.“Secondary explosions, which were identified from the strike on the Hamas rocket manufacturing site, are suspected of causing the damage to the nearby located hospital,” an army statement said.Hamas “deliberately places military targets at the heart of densely populated areas”, while the Israeli army “takes all possible precautions to avoid harming civilians and civilian buildings”, the statement added.Sirens had sounded on Friday night in the southern port city of Ashkelon and the area surrounding the Gaza Strip, according to an earlier army statement.“Two rockets were fired from the Gaza Strip towards Israeli territory,” the statement said, adding that they were intercepted by the Iron Dome Aerial Defence System.There were no reports of damage as a result of the interceptions. Israeli emergency medical services said several people were treated for shock.The latest fire from the Palestinian enclave came over a month after one rocket was launched from the coastal strip into Israel.Islamist group Hamas, which Israel considers a terrorist organisation, seized control of Gaza from rival Palestinian movement Fatah in 2007 in a near civil war.Since then, Hamas has fought three devastating wars with Israel in the territory, where about two million Palestinians live.Israel has since maintained a crippling blockade on the Gaza Strip to prevent Hamas from arming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hamas-says-barbaric-israeli-strike-damaged-children-s-hospital/story-sT3qQ3MJqfq3vkRURJcO1K.html
26-12-2020||World||US testing requirement for UK travellers may not be enough to contain Covid-19 variant. Here’s why||Amid concerns over new variants of SARS-CoV-2 causing rapid spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on Friday announced new testing requirements for inbound travellers from the United Kingdom. The US health agency said that the air passengers arriving from the UK would require to show a negative Covid-19 test result obtained within 72 hours before the departure. The testing requirement is aimed at curbing the spread of new Covid-19 variant in the United States, a country already overwhelmed by infections.“Airlines must confirm the negative test result for all passengers before they board. If a passenger chooses not to take a test, the airline must deny boarding to the passenger,” the CDC order reads.Why is the new testing requirement may not be enough?The CDC acknowledged in its order that testing “does not eliminate all risk”, but when combined with other measures like self-monitoring for Covid-19 symptoms, wearing masks, and social distancing, “it can make travel safer.” The researchers on the CDC’s Covid-19 response team reportedly said that testing three days before a flight may reduce the risk of spreading the virus by only 5-9%. According to a CNN report, Dr Paul Offit, an infectious disease specialist at the University of Pennsylvania, said that the new testing requirement “is like putting up a chain link fence to keep out a mosquito.” The latest advisory doesn’t mandate institutional quarantine, a measure announced by several countries for incoming travellers from the UK. In the case of false Covid-19 negative results, the new testing requirement could fail to contain the new variant of the coronavirus, which is believed to have originated in southeast England. Also Read | Oxford Covid-19 vaccine may become the first to get Indian regulator’s nod for emergency useA report by CDC scientists, published in November, suggests that testing on the day of departure can reduce the risk of transmission by 37-61%. It also said that a 14-day quarantine after arrival, without symptom monitoring or testing, can reduce risk by 97-100% on its own. The report is based on mathematical modelling and has not been peer-reviewed.Earlier this week, the top infectious disease expert of the United States, Dr Anthony Fauci, said that it’s “certainly possible” that the new variant of coronavirus has already reached the US. During an interview on ABC’s Good Morning America, Dr Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease, had called travel ban a “dramatic step”, but indicated that there could be a requirement to test travellers before they arrive in the country.“When you have this amount of spread within a place like the UK, that you really need to assume that it’s here already, and certainly is not the dominant strain, but I would not be surprised at all if it is already here,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-testing-requirement-for-uk-travellers-may-not-be-enough-to-contain-covid-19-variant-here-s-why/story-kH5j9aNX6EGrbqyqYSJ2QJ.html
26-12-2020||World||Chinese ships illegally enter Japan’s territorial waters||Two Chinese ships have illegally entered the Japanese territorial waters near the disputed Senkaku Islands on Saturday, according to Japan’s security service.Citing NHK broadcaster, Sputnik reported that the incident occurred at 16:00 pm (07:00 GMT), with the Japanese Coast Guard Service urging violators to leave the country’s territorial waters.This is despite Japanese Defence Minister Nobuo Kishi last week conveying to his Beijing counterpart Wei Fenghe about Tokyo’s strong concerns over Beijing’s regular attempts to “unilaterally change the status quo by coercion”.In October, two Chinese vessels stayed in the disputed waters for about 50 hours, marking the longest intrusion into the waters in eight years.This year, Japan has registered 24 cases of Chinese ships’ violation of its sea border, Sputnik said.China has been increasing its maritime activities in both the South China Sea and the East ChinaSea over the past few months, partly in response to Beijing’s concerns over the increasing US military presence in the region because of escalating Sino-US tensions.The Japanese government maintains the islands are an inherent part of Japan’s territory, in terms of history and international law. It says there is no issue of sovereignty to be resolved over them.Beijing’s rising assertiveness against counter claimants in the East and South Sea has resulted in unprecedented agreement across the Indo-Pacific. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-ships-illegally-enter-japan-s-territorial-waters/story-J67lQtXXbwjTu3NXRDreNO.html
26-12-2020||World||Police search for clues to mysterious RV blast in Nashville||Police and federal agents in Nashville sought clues on Saturday to determine how and why a motor home was blown to pieces in an apparent bombing on Christmas Day that injured three people and damaged dozens of buildings in the heart of America’s country music capital.The motor home, parked on a downtown street of Tennessee’s largest city, exploded at dawn on Friday moments after police responding to reports of gunfire in the area noticed the recreational vehicle and heard an automated message emanating from it warning of a bomb.The means of detonation and whether anyone was inside the RV when it blew up were not immediately known, but investigators were examining what they believed might be human remains found in the vicinity of the blast, police said.Police offered no possible motive, and there was no claim of responsibility, though Nashville Metropolitan Police Department officials called the blast an “intentional act” and vowed to determine its origin.Agents of the FBI and the US Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives were assisting in the probe.Adding to the cryptic nature of the incident was the eerie preamble described by witnesses - a crackle of gunfire followed an apparently computer-generated female voice from the RV reciting a minute-by-minute countdown to an impending bombing.Police scrambled to evacuate nearby homes and buildings and called for a bomb squad, which was still en route to the scene when the RV blew up just outside an AT&T building where it had been parked.Police later posted a photo of the motor home, which they said had arrived in the area about four hours prior to the explosion.The fiery blast, heard for miles away, destroyed a number of other vehicles parked nearby, shattered windows and heavily damaged several adjacent buildings. Mayor John Cooper said a total of 41 businesses were damaged.Fire officials said three people were taken to hospitals with relatively minor injuries and were listed in stable condition. Authorities said quick action by police to clear the area of bystanders likely prevented more casualties.Damage to AT&T facilities from the blast caused widespread disruptions of telephone, internet and fiber optic TV service in central Tennessee and parts of several neighboring states, including Mississippi, Kentucky, Alabama and Georgia, the company said. Police Chief John Drake said authorities had received no threats of an attack prior to the reports of gunfire at the outset of the incident.The explosion occurred about two blocks from Lower Broadway, where some of Nashville’s famous live music venues are located. The Ryman Auditorium, former home of the Grand Ole Opry and just three blocks from the blast scene, was undamaged. The Gaylord Opryland and current Grand Ole Opry complexes, which sit outside the downtown area, were not impacted. “It’s a startling thing to have it happen in Nashville so close, and on Christmas, but we understand that America is in very tumultuous times right now,” country singer John Rich, who owns a honky-tonk club a block from the explosion, told Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/police-search-for-clues-to-mysterious-rv-blast-in-nashville/story-jFyNggVZNmh9PmuME8VdAJ.html
26-12-2020||World||Archaeologists uncover ancient street food shop in Pompeii||Archaeologists in Pompeii, the city buried in a volcanic eruption in 79 AD, have made the extraordinary find of a frescoed hot food and drinks shop that served up the ancient equivalent of street food to Roman passersby.Known as a termopolium, Latin for hot drinks counter, the shop was discovered in the archaeological park’s Regio V site, which is not yet open the public, and unveiled on Saturday.Traces of nearly 2,000-year-old food were found in some of the deep terra cotta jars containing hot food which the shop keeper lowered into a counter with circular holes. The front of the counter was decorated with brightly coloured frescoes, some depicting animals that were part of the ingredients in the food sold, such as a chicken and two ducks hanging upside down.“This is an extraordinary find. It’s the first time we are excavating an entire termopolium,” said Massimo Ossana, director of the Pompeii archaeological park.Archaeologists also found a decorated bronze drinking bowl known as a patera, ceramic jars used for cooking stews and soups, wine flasks, and amphora.Pompeii, 23 km (14 miles) southeast of Naples, was home to about 13,000 people when it was buried under ash, pumice pebbles and dust as it endured the force of an eruption equivalent to many atomic bombs.“Our preliminary analyses shows that the figures drawn on the front of the counter, represent, at least in part, the food and drink that were sold there,” said Valeria Amoretti, a site anthropologist.Amoretti said traces of pork, fish, snails, and beef had been found in the containers, a discovery she called a “testimony to the great variety of animal products used to prepare dishes”.About two-thirds of the 66-hectare (165-acre) ancient town has been uncovered. The ruins were not discovered until the 16th century and organised excavations began about 1750.A rare documentation of Greco-Roman life, Pompeii is one of Italy’s most popular attractions and a UNESCO World Heritage Site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/archaeologists-uncover-ancient-street-food-shop-in-pompeii/story-t20hFNHe3hHUDTWkiYm8NK.html
26-12-2020||World||Japan bans new entries of foreigners after new coronavirus variant arrives||Japan on Saturday said it would temporarily ban non-resident foreign nationals from entering the country as it tightens its borders following the detection of a new, highly infectious variant of the coronavirus.The ban will take effect from December 28 and will run through January, the government said in an emailed statement.Japanese citizens and foreign residents will be allowed to enter but must show proof of a negative coronavirus test 72 hours before departing for Japan and must quarantine for two weeks after arrival, the statement said.Japan on Friday reported its first cases of a fast-spreading variant in passengers arriving from Britain. The new variant has also been detected in a man who visited the UK and a family member - the first cases of infected people found outside airport checks - Nippon TV reported on Saturday.The new strain adds to worries about a surge in cases as Tokyo reported another record rise on Saturday.Infections of the virus that causes Covid-19 hit a record 949 in the capital just as Japan heads into New Year holidays that normally see people stream from the capital into the provinces.Serious cases were unchanged from a day earlier at 81.Tokyo transport hubs were subdued, local media said, a day after Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, under pressure as cases continue to climb, urged the nation to stay home and avoid social mixing.With New Year celebrations centered around family gatherings and mass visits to temples and shrines, experts have warned public restraint will be essential to prevent infection rates from rising further amid concerns of pandemic fatigue.Suga’s initial political honeymoon after taking his post in September has ended, with his popularity sliding after criticism he was slow to react to rising infections in Tokyo and for attending a group steak dinner in defiance of his own calls for caution||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-bans-new-entries-of-foreigners-after-new-coronavirus-variant-arrives/story-7jha5gEpnBfA8WSkuLSgeO.html
26-12-2020||World||Ahead of holidays, China ramps up measures to control new Covid-19 cases||Beijing residents were on Saturday asked to wear face masks before going out of their houses and advised not to travel out of the capital as the city has reported new Covid-19 cases while the Chinese port city of Dalian went into a war-time mode to deal with the new cases.Health officials are ramping up measures ahead of the upcoming Spring Festival and Chinese New Year holidays following the emergence of new cases, official media reports said.China has controlled the pandemic after it emerged in Wuhan in December last year but new cases continued.The Chinese mainland on Friday reported 20 newly confirmed Covid-19 cases, including eight locally transmitted ones and 12 arriving from outside China, the National Health Commission (NHC) said on Saturday.Six of the locally transmitted cases were reported in northeast China’s Liaoning province, while two were reported in Beijing, the commission said in its daily report.Meanwhile, an official of Beijing’s health authority has advised the residents to stay in the city before they get Nucleic Acid Test (NAT) results and not to travel outside Beijing or China if not necessary.Pang Xinghuo, deputy director of the Beijing Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, said that residents should wear masks while going out and practice social distancing.In May this year, Beijing health officials said that there is no need to wear masks as the virus has been brought under control.Pang also asked residents to disinfect surfaces of packages from areas under risk and wash hands when handling frozen food.State-run Global Times on Saturday quoted Beijing local government asking companies not to arrange business trips outside of the capital and abroad, and advising residents not to leave the city during the Spring Festival holidays in addition to schools and companies staggering their holidays.Chen Bei, deputy secretary-general of the Beijing municipal government, said in order to reduce the clustering of people, Beijing will strictly review applications for holding major events, and not organise big gatherings such as sports events or temple fairs.Cinemas, libraries, museums and entertainment venues have to operate at 75 per cent capacity, Chen said.On reducing risks during travel, the capital urged operators of airlines, railways and expressways to strictly implement temperature checking and disinfection, the Global Times report said.Meanwhile, the port city of Dalian has ordered all of its local medical institutions to enter into a wartime mode on Sunday, after the city reported a new confirmed Covid-19 case on Saturday, the report said.About 8.13 lakh people in the city have conducted the nucleic acid tests so far, it said.China has so far reported 86,933 Covid-19 cases since early this year. This includes 328 patients who are still receiving treatment.A total of 81,971 people has been discharged in the mainland while 4,634 have died of the virus, the NHC report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ahead-of-holidays-china-ramps-up-measures-to-control-new-covid-19-cases/story-k01qpgxbbBSoLjIly8vuTM.html
26-12-2020||World||‘Window of hope’: Europe prepares to launch Covid-19 vaccinations||Hungary stole a march on its fellow EU nations as it began vaccinating its people against Covid-19 on Saturday, a day ahead of rollouts in several other countries including France, Germany and Spain as the pandemic surges across the continent.Mass vaccination across the European Union, home to almost 450 million people, would be a crucial step towards ending a pandemic that has killed more than 1.7 million around the world, crippled economies and destroyed businesses and jobs.Hungary administered the vaccine, developed by Pfizer and BioNTech, to frontline workers at hospitals in1the capital Budapest after receiving its first shipment of enough doses to inoculate 4,875 people. The first worker to receive the shot was Adrienne Kertesz, a doctor at Del-Pest Central Hospital.Hungary has reported 315,362 Covid-19 cases with 8,951 deaths. More than 6,000 people are still in hospital with Covid-19, straining the central European country’s care system.“We are very happy that the vaccine is here,” Zsuzsa and Antal Takacs, a couple aged 68 and 75, said while playing table tennis in a Budapest park. “We will get the vaccination because our daughter had a baby in France last month and we want to go see them. We do not dare travel before we get the vaccine,” Zsuzsa said. The Hungarian rollout came a day before countries including France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Portugal and Spain are planning to begin mass vaccinations, starting with health workers. The distribution of the Pfizer-BioNTech shot, which was first rolled out in Britain earlier this month, presents tough challenges. The vaccine uses new mRNA genetic technology, which means it must be stored at ultra-low temperatures of around -80 degrees Celsius (-112°F).NEW VARIANT IN FRANCE, SPAINFrance, which received its first shipment of the two-dose Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine on Saturday, will start administering it on Sunday in the greater Paris area and in the Burgundy-Franche-Comte region.“We have 19,500 doses in total, which amounts to 3,900 vials. These doses will be stored in our freezer at minus 80 degrees (Celsius) and will be then distributed to different nursing homes and hospitals,” said Franck Huet, head of pharmaceutical products for the Paris public hospital system.The French government is hoping to get around one million people vaccinated in nursing homes during January and February, and then a further 14-15 million in the wider population between March and June.The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine was approved by the French medical regulator on Thursday.France reported more than 20,000 new Covid-19 infections on Friday for the second day running, something not seen since Nov. 20. The seven-day moving average of daily new cases, which evens out reporting irregularities, is at a one-month high of 14,969.France’s number of confirmed Covid-19 cases now totals 2,547,771, the fifth-highest tally in the world, while its Covid-19 death toll stands at 62,427, the seventh-highest.In a concerning development, the health ministry said on Friday that a man who recently arrived from London had tested positive for a new variant of the virus that has been spreading rapidly in southern England and is thought to be more infectious.In Spain, Madrid health authorities said on Saturday they had confirmed four cases of the new variant of the virus, as the country received its first deliveries of the vaccine. The boxes arrived by truck at a storage facility near Madrid as dawn broke. Employees at Spain’s medicines agency unpacked the vaccine, which is stored in dry ice, with gloved hands.“Vaccination will start tomorrow in Spain, coordinated with the rest of Europe,” Health Minister Salvador Illa wrote on Twitter. “This is the beginning of the end of the pandemic.”Doses will be taken by air to the Spanish islands and the North African enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla, and by road to other regions of the country, where a total of about 50,000 people have died from the disease.‘WINDOW OF HOPE HAS OPENED’Germany, meanwhile, said trucks were on their way to deliver the vaccine to care homes for the elderly, which are first in line to receive the vaccine on Sunday.The number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in the country rose by 14,455 to 1,627,103, data from the Robert Koch Institute for infectious diseases showed on Saturday. More than 29,000 people have died, in total.The federal government is planning to distribute more than 1.3 million vaccine doses to local health authorities by the end of this year and about 700,000 per week from January. “There may be a few hiccups at one point or another in the beginning, but that is quite normal when such a logistically complex process begins,” said Health Minister Jensen Spahn. In Portugal, a truck escorted by police dropped off the first batch of Covid-19 jabs at a warehouse in the country’s central region. From there, the nearly 10,000 shots will be delivered to five big hospitals. “It is a historic milestone for all of us, an important day after such a difficult year,” Health Minister Marta Temido told reporters outside the warehouse. “A window of hope has now opened, without forgetting that there is a very difficult fight ahead.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/window-of-hope-europe-prepares-to-launch-covid-19-vaccinations/story-mOaEqEcAB247QOAHLP50aP.html
26-12-2020||World||Iran extends traffic curfew to 330 cities to sustain virus decline||Iran has extended a night-time traffic curfew to 330 lower-risk cities in an effort to sustain a recent fall in the number of new coronavirus infections and deaths, state television reported on Saturday.Alireza Raisi, spokesman for the national coronavirus task force, said on state TV that a curfew running from 9 p.m. to 4 a.m., already in place in 108 so-called “orange” or medium-risk cities, will be extended to lower-risk “yellow” cities.The curfew, during which there is a ban on the use of private cars to reduce the level of contacts between people, resulted in nearly 100,000 fines on one night in the past week.Health Ministry spokeswoman Sima Sadat Lari told state TV that 134 people had died of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, the lowest since Sept. 13, taking total deaths to 54,574 in the Middle East’s worst-affected country.There were 5,760 new cases reported, the lowest since Oct. 22, bringing the total to 1,194,964.Iran’s Central Bank head said on Thursday it had received approval from US authorities to transfer money to a Swiss bank to buy coronavirus vaccines from COVAX, a multi-agency group dedicated to assuring fair access to vaccines for low- and middle-income countries.It did not say which vaccines it was buying.On Saturday, President Hassan Rouhani, in televised remarks, reiterated Iran’s complaint that US sanctions had made it difficult to make payments for vaccines. “We arranged money from a bank to buy vaccines from COVAX but they said you need (US) approval,” Rouhani said.Food and medicine are exempt from sanctions that Washington reimposed on Tehran after President Donald Trump walked away from Iran’s 2015 nuclear deal with world powers. But the US measures have deterred some foreign banks from processing financial transactions for Iran deals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-extends-traffic-curfew-to-330-cities-to-sustain-virus-decline/story-ETfZgLEEiR4W1RgtMVhVuM.html
26-12-2020||World||British coronavirus variant found in Sweden||The new variant of coronavirus linked to a rapid rise in infections in Britain has been detected in Sweden after a traveller from the United Kingdom became ill and tested positive, the Swedish Health Agency said on Saturday.Health Agency official Sara Byfors told a news conference the traveller had been isolating and that no further positive cases had so far been detected.The unidentified traveller was staying in Sormland, south of Stockholm, according to Signe Makitalo, a regional infection control doctor. The new variant is thought to be more transmissible than others currently circulating.“The person that tested positive with the virus travelled to Sormland from Great Britain for a visit over Christmas,” Makitalo said, adding that the risk of further contagion from the case was considered extremely limited.Sweden imposed travel restrictions earlier this month on passengers from Britain amid concerns over the variant Similar measures have been taken by several other countries in the European Union and across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-coronavirus-variant-found-in-sweden/story-hG3760niO6WVOqJyhWP4sN.html
26-12-2020||World||China to convene for annual parliamentary session from March 5||China will begin the annual meeting of its top legislative body on March 5 in the capital Beijing, official state media Xinhua News Agency reported on Saturday.The decision was made by the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress (NPC) on Saturday, and the proposed agenda includes reviewing a government work report and a draft of the 14th Five-Year Plan, China’s blueprint for economic and social development, according to Xinhua.The gathering of the National People’s Congress typically takes place in early March in Beijing, but was delayed to May this year due to the coronavirus outbreak.The Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), an advisory body to parliament, was advised to meet on March 4 in Beijing, reported Xinhua. The NPC, China’s parliament, usually sits for at least 10 days. The CPPCC, a largely ceremonial advisory body, runs in parallel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-convene-for-annual-parliamentary-session-from-march-5/story-N8nF5RISXvB2SnBCsLLI7M.html
26-12-2020||World||US whistleblower Edward Snowden’s wife shares photos of their new son||US whistleblower Edward Snowden’s wife has given birth to a son, photographs posted on her social media page on Saturday showed.“Happy Holidays from our newly expanded family,” Lindsay Mills wrote, sharing photographs on Instagram of the couple holding the newborn. A post shared by L's Journey (@lsjourney)Snowden, 37, who fled the United States after leaking secret National Security Agency files in 2013 and was given asylum in Russia, said last month that he would be seeking Russian citizenship together with his wife for the sake of their future family.The couple said they feared being separated from their son, in an era of pandemics and closed borders, if they did not become dual US-Russian citizens. Russia has already granted Snowden permanent residency rights, lawyer Anatoly Kucherena said earlier this year, a vital step towards Russian citizenship.US authorities have for years wanted Snowden returned to face a criminal trial on espionage charges brought in 2013.“As we expected, there is a new addition to his family. Edward and Lindsay have had a son. The mother and baby are in excellent health,” Russia’s Interfax news agency reported on Saturday, citing Kucherena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/u-s-whistleblower-edward-snowden-s-wife-shares-photos-of-their-new-son/story-WA3mjuvCWMtro7dlCy9BqL.html
26-12-2020||World||Explosion rocks downtown Nashville on Christmas morning: What we know so far||A recreational vehicle parked in downtown Nashville, Tennessee, exploded during the early morning hours of Christmas injuring people and causing damage to buildings nearby. A recorded message warning about the explosion kept coming out of the vehicle following which the explosion occurred, in which three people were injured, according to a report by news agency Reuters.Nashville mayor John Cooper and the local police department have called the explosion an “intentional act” with the mayor describing the incident as a “deliberate bomb set off in the community” as per initial evidence. At 6:32 Christmas morning, @MNPDNashville and @NashvilleFD responded to the scene of an explosion on 2nd Ave, approximately one block north of Broadway. Metro Police confirm the source of the explosion came from a vehicle.Here is what we know so far about the early morning explosion on Christmas day:1. The recreational vehicle that exploded was an old white motor home that was parked in the neighbourhood. Metro Nashville Police department have tweeted the image of the vehicle, which arrived at 1:22am in the area, and have called upon people with information to come forward and report. BREAKING: This is the RV that exploded on 2nd Ave N this morning. It arrived on 2nd Ave at 1:22 a.m. Have you seen this vehicle in our area or do you have information about it? Please contact us via Crime Stoppers at 615-742-7463 or online via https://t.co/dVGS7o0m4v. @ATFHQ pic.twitter.com/JNx9sDinAH2. Three people have been injured so far and are currently stable. Police officials have not found the motive behind the blasts and there have been no claims of responsibility yet, according to a Reuters report.3. A surveillance video used by CNN showed a recorded voice saying “if you hear this message, evacuate now” kept emanating from the vehicle, moments before it exploded.4. John Drake, chief of the Metro Nashville Police department, said that investigators have detected human tissue near the blast site, which would be examined further, according to a CNN report.5. The explosion took place outside an AT&T building and the company has reported “widespread disruptions of telephone, internet and fibre optic TV service in central Tennessee and parts of several neighbouring states, including Mississippi, Kentucky, Alabama and Georgia” according to Reuters.6. Six police officers were identified to have immediately jumped into action, helping residents to evacuate, after hearing the recording from the vehicle, according to CNN. They have been praised by the mayor and the police chief.7. Nashville mayor Cooper also announced a state of civil emergency on areas surrounding the blast site. A curfew has also been imposed until Sunday for response and relief efforts.  I have signed Executive Order 12 to issue a state of civil emergency proclaimed within the area bounded by James Robertson Parkway, 4th Ave north, Broadway and the Cumberland River. A curfew will start at 4:30pm, Friday Dec 25. and be lifted Sunday, December 27 at 4:30pm. pic.twitter.com/jZ484LrHZ7||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explosion-rocks-downtown-nashville-on-christmas-morning-what-we-know-so-far/story-qBigYns2Xl01CVb4pmk0IM.html
26-12-2020||World||Man accused of killing US journalist to walk free: All you need to know about Daniel Pearl case||A Pakistani court on Thursday ordered to release four men accused of kidnapping and murder of American journalist Daniel Pearl, triggering a strong reaction from the United States. The key accused in the case, UK-born al-Qaeda leader Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh and his three aides, are set to walk out of the prison on Saturday, PTI reported.The US State Department’s Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs raised deep concerns over the Pakistani court’s ruling to “release multiple terrorists responsible for the murder of Daniel Pearl”. Soon after the verdict, the US State Department said the government has been assured that the accused have not been released “at this time”, adding that they will be closely following the case.“We are deeply concerned by the reports of the December 24 ruling of Sindh High Court to release multiple terrorists responsible for the murder of Daniel Pearl. We have been assured that the accused have not been released at this time,” tweeted the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs. (1/3)We are deeply concerned by the reports of the December 24 ruling of Sindh High Court to release multiple terrorists responsible for the murder of Daniel Pearl. We have been assured that the accused have not been released at this time.Here’s all you need to about the Daniel Pearl murder case:1. Daniel Pearl, an American journalist who worked as the South Asia bureau chief of The Wall Street Journal, was abducted in Karachi in January 2002 while working on a story about terror groups linked to al Qaeda. About a month later, a graphic video of Pearl’s beheading was sent to the US consulate in Karachi, sparking global outrage.2. Owing to international pressure, Sheikh and three of his aides were arrested, and, later, convicted by an anti-terrorism court in Pearl’s kidnapping and murder case. Sheikh was sentenced to death and his aides were sentenced for life in prison. In April 2020, the Sindh High Court of Karachi overturned the murder conviction and found Sheikh only guilty of kidnapping the WSJ journalist.Also Read | Men charged in Daniel Pearl’s murder case to be released on Saturday, says lawyer3. The court commuted Sheikh’s death sentence to seven years of imprisonment, while acquitted the three others - Fahad Nasim Ahmed, Syed Salman Saqib and Sheikh Adil. The Pakistan Peoples Party-led provincial government of Sindh then challenged the ruling in the Supreme Court and refused to release the four accused. The government kept them in detention under the Maintenance of Public Order for three months and extended it further under the Anti-Terrorism Act, 1997.4. However, a division bench of the Sindh High Court expressed displeasure over the government’s decision to keep the men behind bars, declaring the detention illegal. The court ordered the government to immediately release them and asked authorities to place their names on the Exit Control List (ECL), Pakistan’s no-fly list, since the country’s top court is hearing appeals of the Sindh government and Pearl’s family against the high court’s ruling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-accused-of-killing-us-journalist-to-walk-free-all-you-need-to-know-about-daniel-pearl-case/story-gRXh0val7QtEWkOOgpFhCL.html
26-12-2020||World||George Blake, last in line of Cold War spies who betrayed Britain, dies at 98||George Blake, who died in Russia on Saturday at the age of 98, was the last in a line of British spies whose secret work for the Soviet Union humiliated the intelligence establishment when it was discovered at the height of the Cold War.Britain says he exposed the identities of hundreds of Western agents across Eastern Europe in the 1950s, some of whom were executed as a result of his treason. His case was among the most notorious of the Cold War, alongside those of a separate ring of British double agents known as the Cambridge Five.Unmasked as a Soviet spy in 1961, Blake was sentenced to 42 years in London’s Wormwood Scrubs prison. In a classic cloak-and-dagger story, he escaped in 1966 with the help of other inmates and two peace activists, and was smuggled out of Britain in a camper van. He made it through Western Europe undiscovered and crossed the Iron Curtain into East Berlin.He spent the rest of his life in the Soviet Union and then Russia, where he was feted as a hero.Reflecting on his life in an interview with Reuters in Moscow in 1991, Blake said he had believed the world was on the eve of Communism. “It was an ideal which, if it could have been achieved, would have been well worth it,” he said. “I thought it could be, and I did what I could to help it, to build such a society. It has not proved possible. But I think it is a noble idea and I think humanity will return to it.”Becoming a committed communistBlake was born in Rotterdam in the Netherlands on November 11, 1922, to a Dutch mother and an Egyptian Jewish father who was a naturalised Briton.He escaped from the Netherlands in World War Two after joining the Dutch resistance as a courier and reached Britain in January 1943. After joining the British navy, he started working for the British Secret Intelligence Service, MI6, in 1944. After the war, Blake served briefly in the German city of Hamburg and studied Russian at Cambridge University before being sent in 1948 to Seoul where he gathered intelligence on Communist North Korea, Communist China and the Soviet Far East. He was captured and imprisoned when North Korean troops took Seoul after the Korean War began in 1950. It was during his time in a North Korean prison that he became a committed Communist, reading the works of Karl Marx and feeling outrage at heavy US bombing of North Korea.After his release in 1953, he returned to Britain and in 1955 was sent by MI6 to Berlin, where he collected information on Soviet spies but also passed secrets to Moscow about British and US operations.“I met a Soviet comrade about once a month,” he said in a 2012 interview published by Russian government newspaper Rossiyskaya Gazeta.Blake described how, for these meetings, he had travelled to the Soviet-controlled sector of Berlin on a rail link joining different parts of the divided city. His contact would be waiting for him in a car and they would go to a safe house.“I handed over films and we chatted. Sometimes we had a glass of Tsimlyansk champagne (Soviet sparkling wine).”Blake was eventually exposed by a Polish defector and brought home to Britain, where he was sentenced and jailed.When he escaped from Wormwood Scrubs, he left behind his wife, Gillian, and three children. After Gillian divorced him, Blake married a Soviet woman, Ida, with whom he had a son, Misha. He worked at a foreign affairs institute before retiring with her to a dacha, or country house, outside Moscow.Sipping martinis with Philby Blake, who went by the Russian name Georgy Ivanovich, was awarded a medal by Russian President Vladimir Putin in 2007 and held the rank of lieutenant colonel in the former KGB security service, from which he received a pension.“These are the happiest years of my life, and the most peaceful,” Blake said in the 2012 interview marking his 90th birthday. By then, he said, his eyesight was failing and he was “virtually blind”. He did not voice regret about his past.“Looking back on my life, everything seems logical and natural,” he said, describing himself as happy and lucky.Though he worked separately from the Cambridge Five - a spy ring of former Cambridge students who passed information to the Soviet Union - Blake said that during his retirement he got to know two of them, Donald Maclean and Kim Philby.He reminisced about drinking martinis, the preferred cocktail of fictitious British spy James Bond, with Philby but said he was closer in spirit to Maclean. Maclean died in Russia in 1983, and Philby in 1988. Of the rest of the Cambridge Five, Guy Burgess died in Russia in 1963, and Anthony Blunt in London in 1983.John Cairncross, the last to be publicly identified by investigative journalists and former Soviet intelligence officers, died in England in 1995.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/george-blake-last-in-line-of-cold-war-spies-who-betrayed-britain-dies-at-98/story-tKm3EuoxAbtp5n4EYYeo8L.html
26-12-2020||World||China lowers age of criminal responsibility to 12 for ‘abominable’ crimes||China has lowered the age of criminal responsibility to 12 years old for “abominable” crimes such as murder or causing injury that leads to death or severe disabilities by extremely cruel means, the China Daily said.The revision was passed by the National People’s Congress Standing Committee on Saturday after a third review and will be effective from March 1. It applies to children aged between 12 and 14, the state-backed newspaper said.Children in China aged 14-16 can be held criminally liable if they intentionally commit serious violent crimes such as murder and rape. For most other offences, the age of criminal liability is 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-lowers-age-of-criminal-responsibility-to-12-for-abominable-crimes/story-wU07PJ9rdIaoYA2DDdADhM.html
26-12-2020||World||UK scientists trial instant immunity antibody drug treatment for Covid-19||Scientists in the UK have begun trials of innovative antibody drug treatments that they hope could provide instant protection against Covid-19.The University College London Hospitals NHS Trust (UCLH) said that the researchers in the Storm Chase study believe a Long Acting AntiBody (LAAB) known as AZD7442, developed by AstraZeneca, may offer immediate and long-term protection to people who have been recently exposed to the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus and prevent them developing Covid-19.The study, led by UCLH virologist Dr Catherine Houlihan, recruited the first participant in the world to the study earlier this month and has recruited 10 participants since then.“We know that this antibody combination can neutralise the virus, so we hope to find that giving this treatment via injection can lead to immediate protection against the development of Covid-19 in people who have been exposed – when it would be too late to offer a vaccine,” said Houlihan.UCLH said its new vaccine research centre is running two clinical trials testing a LAAB combination treatment to protect against Covid-19.The second Provent study is looking at the use of AZD7442 in people who may not respond to vaccination, for instance where someone has a compromised immune system or are at increased risk of Covid-19 infection due to factors such as age and existing conditions.“We will be recruiting people who are older or in long-term care, and who have conditions such as cancer and HIV which may affect the ability of their immune system to respond to a vaccine.“We want to reassure anyone for whom a vaccine may not work that we can offer an alternative which is just as protective,” said Dr Nicky Longley, UCLH infectious diseases consultant leading the Provent study.Antibodies are protein molecules that the body produces to help fight infections. Monoclonal antibodies are artificially produced in a laboratory and designed as possible medical treatments. They are designed to be injected directly into the body, unlike vaccines which “train” the immune system itself to produce antibodies.“These two clinical trials are an important addition to testing new therapeutic approaches, as antibody treatments may offer an alternative to patient groups who cannot benefit from a vaccine, such as immunocompromised patients,” said Professor Stephen Powis, the medical director of National Health Service (NHS) England.The LAABs have been engineered with AstraZeneca’s “proprietary” half-life extension technology to increase the durability of the therapy for six to 12 months following a single administration. The combination of two LAABs is also designed to reduce the risk of resistance developed by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19.“AZD7442 has the potential to be an important preventative and therapeutic medicine against Covid-19, focusing on the most vulnerable patients. This work complements our vaccine development programme,” said Mene Pangalos, AztraZeneca Executive Vice-President for BioPharmaceuticals Research and Development. “Storm Chaser is exploring the use of a combination of monoclonal antibodies given intramuscularly in those who have been exposed to SARS-CoV-2 – a setting where vaccination would not have time to work and we have no other proven therapies to date. This makes Storm Chaser an important study that may have a large impact on our ability to control this infection,” noted Professor Andrew Ustianowski, who is the chief investigator of the new studies.UCLH said that in both Provent and Storm Chaser, researchers will assess whether the treatment reduces the risk of developing Covid-19 and/or reduces the severity of infection compared to placebo.Key participant groups in the Storm Chaser trial will include healthcare workers, students who live in group accommodation, and patients who are exposed to anyone with the SARS-CoV-2 virus as well as residents of long-term care facilities and industrial/military settings.Both trials are taking place at the newly-created Vaccine Research Centre at UCLH, which opened this month to help accelerate the development of new vaccines and treatments during the Covid-19 pandemic.“Both Storm Chaser and Provent are crucial to finding a solution to this pandemic,” said Professor Vincenzo Libri, who leads the UCLH Clinical Research Facility backed by the UK’s National Institute for Health Research (NIHR).“The opening of our new Vaccine Research Centre will help to propel our fight against the virus, meet our aspiration to save as many lives as possible, and ensure a return to normality,” he said.“The recent progress on vaccines is hugely welcome, and developing these additional treatments will be vital to ensure everyone in society can be offered protection against Covid-19,” Professor Marcel Levi, UCLH Chief Executive, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-scientists-trial-instant-immunity-antibody-drug-treatment-for-covid-19/story-b75M7pwIYBcp7zun4xsyhK.html
26-12-2020||World||Russia revives Soviet-era lab to test weapons in Arctic climate: All you need to know||Russia has revived a Soviet-era research facility to test weapons in severe Arctic conditions as the Kremlin aims to boost its defence in the resource-rich region. This also comes at a time when the country faces military challenges along its western borders. Sergei Karasev, senior official at the Central Scientific-Research Institute for Precision Machine Engineering, Russia’s weapons maker, announced in a statement on Thursday that it had restored testing chambers at the facility to simulate extreme conditions, including extreme heat, cold and wet weather.Here’s everything you need to know about Russia’s decision to revive the lab:1. The laboratory, which has unique testing technology, was shut down in 1991 after the disintegration of the former Soviet Union. The Central Scientific-Research Institute for Precision Machine Engineering will run the facility.2. The lab can now test-fire small arms as well as special grenade launchers and small-cannon munitions at temperatures of between minus 60 and plus 60 degrees Celsius.3. Funding for maintenance of the testing chambers dried up in the early 1990s which resulted in the military company closing it, thus making the equipment outdated. “Certification was the final technical stage in restoring the unique testing technology that was lost after the Soviet collapse and that was only owned by our institute,” Sergei Karasev said.4. Russia’s President Vladimir Putin has repeatedly called the Arctic region crucial for the military interests and resource procurement of the country. As climate change continues to make the region more accessible, Putin has focused on building up military infrastructure in the area in response to the growing presence of Nato forces.5. This is not a new step for the country as efforts to reopen abandoned Soviet-era military, air and radar bases on remote Arctic islands as well as constructing new ones were found out by analysts in January 2017 amid reports that Moscow was engaged in the biggest military push in the Arctic since the breakup of the Soviet Union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-revives-soviet-era-lab-to-test-weapons-in-arctic-climate-all-you-need-to-know/story-IQgpneN54wChzvxqcgNeXJ.html
26-12-2020||World||Allergic reactions to Covid-19 vaccines ‘rare’, ‘in line with expectations’: Experts||The allergic reactions to vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are totally in line with expectations, an Indian American public health expert said on Friday. Dr Ashish K Jha, the dean of Brown University School of Public Health, said more than a million people have been vaccinated against Covid-19 and less than 10 people have had allergic reactions, highlighting that one in 2,000 courses of penicillin also leads to an allergic reaction.Jha’s comment came after media reports about a US doctor reportedly suffering a severe allergic reaction to Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine surfaced. US health agencies have already been investigating at least six cases of allergic reactions after receiving the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine.“To be clear, we absolutely should identify, publicly report these reactions...But this is the most high profile roll out of a vaccine in recent history...Am pleasantly surprised how well its going...Its early -- but so far, these reactions are totally in line with expectations,” he tweeted. To be clear, we absolutely should identify, publicly report these reactionsBut this is the most high profile roll out of a vaccine in recent historyAm pleasantly surprised how well its goingIts early -- but so far, these reactions are totally in line with expectationsPeter Hotez, a vaccine scientist, said that severe allergic reactions to vaccines based on mRNA technology have a potentially higher frequency than flu, HPV, MMR vaccines. However, the ratio is one in 50,000 or maybe a million, which is “still rare”, he tweeted.Also Read | Coronavirus: Here’s how our brains track where we and others goThe United States began its Covid-19 vaccination drive after the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) granted emergency use authorisation to Pfizer-BioNTech, followed by Moderna. Earlier this week, US President Donald Trump’s Covid-19 vaccine czar had reportedly said that the frequency of allergic reactions to Pfizer’s vaccine is greater than expected.“That frequency, as it stood yesterday (December 22), is superior to what one would expect with other vaccines,” Dr Moncef Slaoui, chief scientific adviser for Operation Warp Speed, was quoted as saying by CNN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/allergic-reactions-to-covid-19-vaccines-rare-in-line-with-expectations-experts/story-awWmz1spEJrB9vtra51vLP.html
26-12-2020||World||Turkey signs deal with BioNTech for Covid-19 vaccine||Turkey signed an agreement with Pfizer Inc. partner BioNTech SE for 4.5 million of doses their coronavirus vaccine, with an option to raise it to 30 million.Health Minister Fahrettin Koca said Friday that an initial 550,000 doses will arrive by the year end or in early January, state news agency Anadolu reported.Turkey made its first Covid-19 vaccine deal with Sinovac Biotech Ltd. for 50 million doses, saying it found the Chinese vaccine to be the safest as it’s manufactured using conventional methods. But the CoronaVac needs to be administered in two shots, which means the amount Turkey signed for will be enough only for 25 million of its citizens out of a population of more than 83 million people.Most vaccines either consist of inactive pieces of a virus or proteins from a virus made through genetic engineering. When injected into the body, they trigger a lasting immune response similar to that of a person who has been infected and recovered.By contrast, the mRNA technology being used by Pfizer and its partner BioNTech as well as Moderna Inc. relies on the body’s own cells to produce viral proteins. Once injected into the body, the RNA slips into human cells and tells them to make virus-like proteins, in this case the “spike” protein on the surface of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkey-signs-deal-with-biontech-for-covid-19-vaccine/story-h8SHAcDbLxyHVcMs8TXoMO.html
26-12-2020||World||China hails its ‘extraordinary’ success curbing coronavirus ahead of WHO probe||China’s ruling Communist Party leaders have congratulated themselves on their “extremely extraordinary” success in handling the Covid-19 outbreak domestically, ahead of a World Health Organization probe into the disease’s origins.China faced a barrage of criticism at home and abroad over its initial handling of the virus, which emerged in the central city of Wuhan last December.China’s Politburo, the top decision-making body of the Communist Party, said late Friday that the party leadership “played a decisive role in leading ... China in prevailing over the rare risks and challenges this year.”“At the critical moment ... the Party Central Committee took a long-term view ...achieving an extremely extraordinary glory in this extremely unusual year,” state news agency Xinhua reported, citing a statement issued after the two-day meeting.China has largely curbed the spread of the virus, and was one of the only major economies to report growth this year. But it has been accused of covering up the initial outbreak, and so contributing to the virus’ spread internationally.At home, Beijing has attempted to stifle criticism by punishing at least eight whistleblowers.A Chinese citizen journalist who reported on Wuhan’s outbreak, Zhang Zhan, has been detained since May and is expected to go on trial on Monday.Zhang is a former lawyer who travelled to the city in February to report on the chaotic initial stages of the outbreak, through livestreams and critical essays widely shared on social media platforms banned in China.The two-day Politburo meeting comes shortly before an international team of WHO experts is expected to arrive in China to investigate the animal origins of Covid-19, during which trip they will visit Wuhan.An expert from the team told AFP this week that the investigation was “not about finding a guilty country or a guilty authority”, but about “about understanding what happened to avoid that in the future”.Beijing has recently attempted to cast doubts on the origins of the virus -- the state-run People’s Daily newspaper said in a Facebook post in early November that “all available evidence suggests that the coronavirus did not start in central China’s Wuhan”.China has also tried to enhance its soft power push during the pandemic -- promising to share its vaccines with developing countries, and engaging in “mask diplomacy” -- donating personal protective gear to countries in need.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-hails-its-extraordinary-success-curbing-coronavirus-ahead-of-who-probe/story-1EJ7A2nMGShzBDaNt8hiQI.html
26-12-2020||World||Pelosi sets up showdown on Trump’s $2,000 checks after GOP balks||A surprise scuffle over pandemic relief is set to run up against a crucial federal funding deadline next week as Democrats side with President Donald Trump in his demand for $2,000 payments to most Americans and Republicans take up his criticism of government spending.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is planning a full floor vote Monday on pandemic aid that includes the $2,000 payments that Trump says he wants, replacing the $600 in the original legislation. Republicans blocked Majority Leader Steny Hoyer’s attempt to make that switch on Thursday.Trump renewed his insistence Friday on the larger sum while spending Christmas at his Mar-a-Lago resort, temporarily finding common cause with Pelosi as she maneuvers a vote that will force Republicans to accept the bigger payments or break with Trump. But unlike the speaker, Trump didn’t explicitly call attention to the fact that it was GOP lawmakers who had balked at spending more.“Why would politicians not want to give people $2000, rather than only $600?” Trump said in a tweet. “Give our people the money!”Pelosi pinned the blame on the GOP on Thursday after the failure of an initial gambit to pivot to $2,000 checks as part of the Covid-relief package.“House and Senate Democrats have repeatedly fought for bigger checks for the American people, which House and Senate Republicans have repeatedly rejected – first, during our negotiations when they said that they would not go above $600 and now, with this act of callousness on the Floor,” Pelosi said in a statement.The standoff over stimulus payments comes after months of intense negotiations finally yielded a compromise to inject $900 billion into the US economy -- including forgivable loans for small businesses, supplemental unemployment benefits, support for renters facing eviction and funds for vaccine distribution. Those measures were combined with $1.4 trillion in annual government spending, and now the entire package is in limbo.Trump hasn’t explicitly said he would veto the legislation, which Congress finished processing Thursday after it passed both chambers on Monday. The White House didn’t respond to multiple requests for comment. The bill has been flown to Florida, according to a person familiar with the matter.Trump played a Christmas Day round of golf at his private club in West Palm Beach with Republican Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president who has urged him to sign the measure.If the president doesn’t do so by Monday night, the government -- now operating under temporary funding -- would begin a partial shutdown starting on Tuesday. The House may attempt to pass another stopgap funding measure on Monday if Trump hasn’t acted.The president tweeted a video Tuesday criticizing the $2.3 trillion bill. His call for $2,000 payments, which most Republicans rejected as too costly, surprised GOP lawmakers.“Republicans in Congress and the White House can’t agree on what they want,” Hoyer told reporters Thursday at the Capitol. “Surely, the president of the United States, whether he is in Mar-a-Lago or someplace else, ought to empathize with the suffering and apprehension and deep angst people are feeling this Christmas Eve.”Senator Roy Blunt, a member of the GOP leadership, said there were not enough Republican votes in the Senate to pass the $2,000 payments.“I hope the president looks at this again and reaches that conclusion that the best thing to do is to sign the bill,” Blunt told reporters.The House will reconvene Monday to vote on the Cash Act, a bill introduced by Ways and Means Chairman Richard Neal to increase stimulus checks to $2,000. Democrats will have a video conference call before the vote to discuss Congress’s pandemic response, according to a person briefed on the plan.Republicans on Thursday tried to seek unanimous consent on a measure to examine taxpayer money spent on foreign aid, but Democrats blocked that move. In his complaint Tuesday about Congress’s combined virus aid and government spending bill, Trump criticized federal resources spent on international programs, even though such spending was included in his budget and was allocated as part of the bipartisan appropriations process.Trump’s conflict with Congress further escalated this week with his veto Wednesday of the National Defense Authorization Act, which passed both chambers by large bipartisan margins earlier this month. The House plans to vote to override Trump’s veto Monday, with the Senate following suit on Tuesday. It would be the first time Congress overrules Trump.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pelosi-sets-up-showdown-on-trump-s-2-000-checks-after-gop-balks/story-f3Kql79Q216ClXCbqKOmhJ.html
26-12-2020||World||From goods trade to travel norms: Key points of post-Brexit trade deal||After months of negotiation and deliberation, the European Union (EU) and the United Kingdom (UK) have agreed upon a post-Brexit trade deal. The deadline for the deal was by the end of the year and as days went by without any agreement, both the administration and the people of UK were worried about trade with the EU in the future.Here are the key points of the post-Brexit trade deal:Goods trade: The trade deal does not impose any tariffs or quotas on goods traded between the EU and UK, however, British exporters will have to contend with new regulatory hurdles which will make it costlier to do business with Europe.Financial services: The trade agreement does not shed much light on the operation of financial firms. It only features standard provisions on financial services, meaning it doesn’t include commitments on market access.Transparency: The EU and UK have both agreed to uphold their environmental, social, labour and tax transparency standards.Disputes: Any disputes on the trade between the two parties are subject to negotiation by both but EU courts will have no say in the matter.Fishing norms: This was one of the most disputed subjects of the trade deal. The agreement was that the UK would get 25% of the current EU catch in British waters in a phased manner over a period of five years. A phased transition period of five-and-a-half years will also be present during which time reciprocal access rights to each other’s waters would nit change.Customs: The EU and UK have agreed to limit customs red tape including through programs for trusted traders called Authorised Economic Operators (AEO).Aviation: As per the British government, the EU will no longer grant automatic recognition to British aerospace designs and products.Data flow: There is a temporary provision in the deal that allows the flow of data between the EU and UK until the bloc a data adequacy decision.Energy: The UK will no longer have access to the EU’s internal energy market. However, there will be new arrangements made on this front in 2022 to ensure smooth trading.Professional services: There will no longer be automatic mutual recognition of professional qualifications.Travel for business: Both parties have come to the agreement that people on short-term business trips would not need a work permit or undergo economic needs tests.Taxes: UK’s domestic tax regimes or tax rates would not be constrained as per the government and both sides were committed to upholding the global standards on tax transparency.Agriculture: Agricultural products would not be subject to tariffs or quotas, however, shippers would face new challenges and higher costs thanks to new border requirements.Law: There will be cooperation between the EU and the UK, especially in cases of investigating terrorism and other serious crime. Exchange of DNA, fingerprint and airline passenger information is allowed under the new deal.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/from-goods-trade-to-travel-norms-key-points-of-post-brexit-trade-deal/story-l0RpGFq3EBSPfGSAzDRoqI.html
26-12-2020||World||Pakistan using Taliban as ‘tool’ for dominance in Afghanistan, says Former senator||Pakistan is using Taliban as a “tool” for its dominance in Afghanistan under the pretext of strategic depth, said former Pakistan senator Afrasiab Khattak, adding that the terror group’s approach towards the peace process has remained unchanged as it favours violence in the country.“They [Pakistan] want dominance in Afghanistan under the pretext of strategic depth and they have pursued this policy. They see the Taliban as a tool for themselves,” Khattak said in an interview with TOLOnews this week.“We can say that their (the Taliban’s) approach has changed if they stop violence and say that they will feel the people’s pain,” Khattak said.Khattak remarks come on the heels of Taliban deputy political leader Abdul Ghani Baradar’s visit to Pakistan last week. A video released on social media showed Baradar among a group of people, apparently the Taliban members, in Karachi, Pakistan, where he said that all decisions about the peace process are being finalized in consultation with the Taliban’s leadership and the Taliban’s cleric council in Pakistan.Baradar said the Taliban’s leadership exists in Pakistan.The Taliban have so far not commented about the place of Baradar’s meeting with wounded members of the group.The Afghan Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Friday reacted to Baradar’s video in Pakistan and said the presence of the Taliban leaders and their fighters in Pakistan is a “clear violation of Afghanistan’s national sovereignty.”The ministry called on Pakistan to prevent terrorists from using its territory against Afghanistan, adding that closing the safe havens of insurgents and terrorists is pivotal for a peaceful end to the crisis in Afghanistan.Pakistan has been long blamed for providing support to Taliban terrorists in Afghanistan.The UN Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team to the 1988 Sanctions Committee, which oversees sanctions on the Taliban, in its 2019 report had acknowledged that nearly 5,000 terrorists belonging to Lashkar-e-Tayyiba, which is based in Pakistan, were active in Kunar and Nangarhar provinces of Afghanistan alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-using-taliban-as-tool-for-dominance-in-afghanistan-says-former-senator/story-D5YFTyohViyvI0b3L9OzfO.html
26-12-2020||World||Prez Xi sending team to stop the Nepal party split. It’s a last-ditch effort||China’s President Xi Jinping has ordered a high-level team of communist party officials to travel to Kathmandu to stop the Nepal Communist Party from splitting. President Xi’s decision to rush the four-member team to Kathmandu comes after an SOS message from ambassador Hou Yanqi who hadn’t succeeded in her attempts to stop the key players in the Nepal Communist Party (NCP) from pulling the party in different directions, people familiar with the matter said.The team led by Guo Yechau, vice minister of the International Department of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, will land in Kathmandu on Sunday and is scheduled to spend the next four days in the Himalayan nation.Also Read: China sells 50 armed drones to Pakistan, begins psyops. It’s a reminder | AnalysisAccording to sources based in Kathmandu, Ambassador Hou has already scheduled their meetings with prominent players in Nepal’s ruling party from both sides.It is, however, not clear yet if Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, who had earlier turned down requests from Ambassador Hou to meet her, would meet the Chinese delegation. Chances of PM Oli, who has taken a staunch Nepali nationalist role, meeting the visiting delegation are slim. He has already conveyed to Ambassador Hou that China should not interfere in internal affairs of Nepal since the legal challenge to the decision to dissolve Parliament is already before the Supreme Court.Also Read: Virtual summits’: PM Modi set the template, then nudged the world | AnalysisA Nepal watcher said the ambassador had been in touch with PM Oli camp but had been unable to get through to the prime minister. She has had more than one meeting with Prachanda, the last one on Thursday last week.On Sunday last, PM Oli had stunned his detractors within the party and China’s communist party when he dissolved Parliament amid a prolonged tussle for power between him and former prime minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ within the ruling dispensation. PM Oli, who also got President Bidhya Devi Bhandari to sign off on his cabinet’s recommendation to hold parliamentary elections on April 30 and May 10, later told the country in a televised address that his rivals within the party hadn’t been letting him function and had planned to move a vote of no-confidence against him.Also Read: Chinese ambassador steps up as Nepal’s communist party stares at a splitPushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ and PM Oli have been co-chairs of the Nepal Communist Party formed in 2018 by the merger of PM Oli’s Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist–Leninist) and Prachanda’s Communist Party of Nepal- Maoist Centre.India has adopted a hands-off approach to the developments in the neighbourhood, saying it was an internal matter that should be handled in keeping with the country’s democratic processes.“As a neighbour and well-wisher, India will continue to support Nepal and its people in moving forward on the path of peace, prosperity and development,” India’s external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a news conference on Thursday.China, however, has been determined to prevent a split in the ruling communist party and has intervened more than once this year to engineer a patch-up between PM Oli and Prachanda, his lead rival in the ruling Nepal Communist Party.Also Read: Nepal PM Oli seeks control of communist party, rivals ‘sack’ him as party bossDiplomats in Kathmandu who have been tracking the political developments said the Chinese team is expected to focus on leaders in both the factions who are in favour of the NCP staying united irrespective of the changes that might be required to achieve this objective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prez-xi-sending-team-to-stop-the-nepal-party-split-it-s-a-last-ditch-effort/story-ftnFGPYV1QV7cCOhkz2DdP.html
26-12-2020||World||Russia approves Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine for people over 60: Report||Russia on Saturday approved its main Covid-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, for use by people over the age of 60, Russian news agencies cited the health ministry as saying. People over 60 have thus far been excluded from Russia’s national inoculation programme, as the shot was tested on this age group separately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-approves-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-for-people-over-60-reports/story-7RalacVj0cHjD0FTAUOxRO.html
26-12-2020||World||Nepal’s Oli govt recommends calling winter session of upper house on Jan 1||Embattled Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli-led government has recommended the president to summon the winter session of Parliament’s upper house on January 1, nearly a week after the lower house was dissolved. Nepal plunged into a political crisis after President Bidya Devi Bhandari dissolved the House of Representatives and announced dates for mid-term elections at the recommendation of Prime Minister Oli on Sunday, sparking protests from a section of the ruling party and various opposition parties. The ruling Nepal Communist Party has now been virtually divided more than two years after it was formed following the merger of CPN-UML led by Oli and CPN-Maoist Centre led by Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ in May 2018. A Cabinet meeting held on Friday evening decided to recommend that the president summon the winter session of the National Assembly on January 1, Hridayesh Tripathi, who was made minister for health earlier on Friday, told Kathmandu Post. The meeting was held after Prime Minister Oli reshuffled the Cabinet to induct eight ministers, five of them former Maoist leaders, and change the portfolio of five of his ministers. On Sunday, after the dissolution of the House of Representatives, seven ministers close to Prachanda-led faction had resigned from their posts. The budget session of Parliament was prorogued on July 2 by the president on the recommendation of the government. According to the Constitution of Nepal, the gap between the two house sessions cannot exceed six months. Oli, who was increasingly under pressure from his opponents in the NCP to resign, was also facing pressure to call the winter session of Parliament. Instead, Oli on Sunday decided to dissolve the lower house, in a move that has been widely criticised by experts on constitutional matters as unconstitutional. The Supreme Court is hearing as many 13 writs against the house dissolution. On Friday, the Supreme Court issued a show-cause notice to the Oli government, asking it to submit a written clarification over its decision to abruptly dissolve the 275-member House of Representatives. The court also asked the government to submit an original copy of the recommendations made by it to dissolve the House and the decision made by the President to authenticate the government’s recommendations within 10 days. Both factions of the party have intensified efforts to retain official party recognition along with the election symbol. The two factions are now busy making strategies to wrest control of the party. The Election Commission will decide which faction of the NCP is legitimate to carry the party name and election symbol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-s-oli-govt-recommends-calling-winter-session-of-upper-house-on-jan-1/story-Xj2wPn0bHvcgM4ZdpVya0H.html
26-12-2020||World||Saudi Crown Prince gets Covid-19 vaccine||Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman received the Covid-19 vaccine on Friday, state media reported. The country’s Health Minister Dr Tawfiq al-Rabiah extended his gratitude to the Crown Prince for his “keenness and continuous follow-up” to provide vaccines to citizens.“Within the framework of Vision 2030, there is a policy of prevention is better than cure, which was represented by intensifying preventive measures, emphasising that human health is first, and providing safe and internationally approved vaccine in record time and providing it to citizens and residents. The Kingdom is one of the best countries in the world in facing the coronavirus pandemic,” Al Arabiya news channel quoted al-Rabiah as saying.This comes after Saudi Arabia received shipments of the coronavirus vaccine developed by Pzifer and BioNTech earlier this month, The Hill reported.According to the Health Ministry of the kingdom, there are 3,61,903 Covid-19 cases in the country while 352,815 cases have recovered from the illness. So far, 6,168 have died due to the Covid-19 related complications.Prince Mohammed is among the few world leaders who have received the vaccine. Last week, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was vaccinated on live television. Earlier this week, US President-elect Joe Biden had received the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine.“Today, I received the COVID-19 vaccine. To the scientists and researchers who worked tirelessly to make this possible -- thank you. We owe you an awful lot,” Biden had said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-crown-prince-gets-covid-19-vaccine/story-DrLq1DZeqB0DTmhrrlxUvL.html
26-12-2020||World||Covid-19: Beijing tells residents to stay put for holidays||Beijing has urged residents not to leave the city during the upcoming Lunar New Year holidays, implementing fresh restrictions after several coronavirus infections last week.Two domestic cases were reported on Friday, a convenience store worker and a Hewlett Packard Enterprise employee. Another two asymptomatic cases were discovered in Beijing earlier in the week.Beijing is conducting testing on a limited scale in the neighbourhoods and workplaces where the cases were found.To contain any new outbreaks, the Beijing government cancelled big gatherings such as sports events and temple fairs. It says applications will be strictly reviewed for any major events. Venues such as cinemas, libraries and museums have to operate at 75% capacity, the government said.It also called on companies not to arrange business trips outside the city and abroad.Lunar New Year is Feb. 12.Separately, officials in the northeastern port city of Dalian said Friday that they had tested over 4.75 million people for the coronavirus after 24 confirmed infections this month.Authorities have shut schools and all public spaces in five neighbourhood divisions in Dalian, and only essential workers can leave their compounds to go to work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-beijing-tells-residents-to-stay-put-for-holidays/story-A4253EwakWiwlJzubra78I.html
26-12-2020||World||Donald Trump made lasting impact on federal courts||On this, even President Donald Trump’s most fevered critics agree: he has left a deep imprint on the federal courts that will outlast his one term in office for decades to come.He used the promise of conservative judicial appointments to win over Republican skeptics as a candidate. Then as president, he relied on outside conservative legal organizations and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to employ an assembly line-like precision to install more than 230 judges on the federal bench, including the three newest justices of the Supreme Court. Trump never tired of boasting about it.Indeed, undeterred by Democratic criticism, the Senate was still confirming judges more than a month after Trump lost his reelection bid to Joe Biden.“Trump has basically done more than any president has done in a single term since (President Jimmy) Carter to put his stamp on the judiciary,” said Jonathan Adler, a law professor at Case Western Reserve University School of Law in Cleveland, Ohio, adding that Congress created around 150 new judgeships during Carter’s presidency.The impact will be enduring. Among the Trump-appointed judges, who hold lifetime positions, several are still in their 30s. The three Supreme Court picks could still be on the court at the 21st century’s midpoint, 30 years from now.Beyond the Supreme Court, 30 percent of the judges on the nation’s court of appeals, where all but a handful of cases reach their end, were appointed by Trump.But numbers don’t tell the entire story. The real measure of what Trump has been able to do will be revealed in countless court decisions in the years to come on abortion, guns, religious rights and a host of other culture wars issues.When it came to the president’s own legal challenges of the election results, however, judges who have him to thank for their position rebuffed his claims. But in many other important ways, his success with judicial appointments already is paying dividends for conservatives.When the Supreme Court blocked New York from enforcing certain limits on attendance at churches and synagogues in areas designated as hard hit by Covid-19, Justice Amy Coney Barrett, the newest member of the court, cast the decisive fifth vote. Previously, the court had allowed restrictions on religious services over the dissent of four justices, including the other two Trump nominees, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh.Five Trump appointees were in the majority of the 6-4 decision by the full 11th US Circuit Court of Appeals in September that made it harder for felons in Florida to regain the right to vote. The Atlanta-based court had a majority of Democratic-appointed judges when Trump took office.Last month, Judges Britt Grant and Barbara Lagoa, both named by Trump, formed the majority on a three-judge 11th circuit panel that struck down local Florida bans on therapy that seeks to change the sexual orientation of LGBTQ minors. Other appeals courts around the country have upheld the conversion therapy bans.In one early look at Trump’s appointees to federal trial courts, political science professors Kenneth Manning, Robert Carp and Lisa Holmes compared their decisions with more than 117,000 opinions published dating back to 1932.“Trump has appointed judges who exhibit a distinct decision-making pattern that is, on the whole, significantly more conservative than previous presidents,” the political scientists concluded in an October 2020 working paper.The one constant of the past four years — through impeachment, the coronavirus pandemic and Trump’s election loss — has been his nomination of and Senate confirmation of judges.The president has had several partners in the judicial effort, but none more important than McConnell, who takes particular pride in reshaping the Supreme Court.“I think it’s far and away the most consequential thing I’ve ever been involved in,’’ the 78-year-old McConnell said in an interview. “And it’s the most long-lasting accomplishment of the current administration, by far.’’They might not have called it a partnership at the time, but their mutually reinforcing work began even before Trump’s election in 2016.Trump used the issue of the federal judiciary to win trust with voters who might have questions about the conservative credentials of a billionaire real estate developer who had once supported abortion rights and did not have a track record in politics.He put in writing a list of potential nominees, provided by the conservative Federalist Society and Heritage Foundation, he would select from in filling a Supreme Court vacancy.Kellyanne Conway, who served as his campaign manager in 2016, said it was a move that people who had been in office for years and wanted to ascend to the presidency “didn’t have the courage to do, which is name names.”As it happens, there was a high court opening at the time, following the death of Justice Antonin Scalia in February.Enter McConnell. The Republican blocked President Barack Obama’s nomination of Merrick Garland, refusing so much as a hearing for the respected appeals court judge whom Republicans had previously identified as a high court nominee they could support.It was a gamble at a time when Trump’s electoral prospects seemed dim, but it paid off with his stunning victory over Hillary Clinton.And the high court seat wasn’t the only one waiting to be filled when Trump took office in January 2017. One hundred four judgeships were open after Republicans used their Senate majority to grind the nomination process to a near halt in Obama’s final two years in office. Only 28.6% of his nominees were confirmed in that stretch.The pace quickened almost immediately. Republicans moved with an urgency on confirmations that hasn’t let up. In Trump’s first two years, they pushed through 30 appellate court judges and 53 district court nominees. It was the highest number of appellate court confirmations in a two-year period since Ronald Reagan and nearly double the number that Obama secured in his first two years.McConnell and top Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee eliminated rules that had allowed the opposition party to delay confirmations, most notably requiring just a simple majority, instead of 60 votes, to move Supreme Court nominees. Democrats, bitter over the stalled Garland nomination, otherwise would have blocked Gorsuch’s confirmation in April 2017.Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, D-RI, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee and a sharp Trump critic, said Trump’s judicial legacy “is a lot less about what he’s done than what he’s allowed others to do in his name.’’Whitehouse said Trump essentially “outsourced” judicial nominations to McConnell and the Federalist Society, specifically the group’s leader Leonard Leo and former White House counsel Don McGahn, a Federalist Society member who made judicial nominations a top priority.At the same time, the Federalist Society and other conservative groups, including the Judicial Crisis Network and Americans for Prosperity, have taken millions of dollars in anonymous donations and waged public and behind-the-scenes campaigns for right-wing judges, Whitehouse said.Trump “opened the channel for special-interest interference in judicial selection. That I think is very novel and obviously lends itself to corruption,’’ Whitehouse said. “Right wing forces have for decades sought the kind of influence in judicial nominations that the Trump administration outright gave them.’’McConnell scoffed at the criticism. “The reason a lot of them belong to the Federalist Society is because that is sort of the core mission of the Federalist Society -- to get the courts back to doing what they’re supposed to do and not legislate from the bench,” he said.On the campaign trail and at White House events, Trump would often cite his record on judicial appointments as an example of accomplishment, while ignoring the obstructions that occurred during the Obama years.“You know, when I got in, we had over 100 federal judges that weren’t appointed. Now, I don’t know why Obama left that. It was like a big, beautiful present to all of us. Why the hell did he leave that? Maybe he got complacent,” Trump boasted at one point, omitting the essential fact that McConnell had blocked Obama’s nominees.The high court vacancy at the start of Trump’s term was, in essence, a gift from McConnell. Justice Anthony Kennedy’s decision to retire in 2018 allowed Trump to replace the court’s swing justice with the more conservative Kavanaugh, who survived his own bruising confirmation hearings that included allegations he sexually assaulted a woman when they were both in high school decades ago. Kavanaugh denied the claims.Less than two months before the 2020 election, Trump was handed another opening with the death of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Trump and Senate Republicans didn’t hesitate. He nominated Barrett even before Ginsburg was buried at Arlington National Cemetery and McConnell ensured the confirmation was done before the election.The Senate has continued confirming Trump nominees even after his defeat for reelection, breaking a norm that has stood since 1900 with one exception, said Russell Wheeler, a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution. Federal prosecutor Thomas Kirsch was confirmed as Barrett’s replacement on the federal appeals court based in Chicago on Dec. 15, on a mostly party-line vote.The exception was the Senate’s bipartisan acceptance in 1980 of a former Senate staff member as a federal appeals court judge. That nominee was Stephen Breyer, now a Supreme Court justice.Along with the question of legacy is whether Trump’s record on judges spurs major changes to the judiciary.Wheeler, at Brookings, said one of the most striking features of the teamwork of Trump and McConnell is that they acted as though they had the support of most Americans. They did not, he said.“My main beef with this current group is that there’s just no mandate to turn the judiciary so far to the right,” Wheeler said. “Trump lost the popular vote massively in 2016, but nevertheless has behaved as if he had a mandate to reshape the federal judiciary at the Supreme Court and Court of Appeals level and I think that’s just unfounded.”Liberal groups already have been pushing for changes at the highest level, including expansion of the Supreme Court and term limits for justices. The political prospects for both ideas are uncertain, at best.But there’s less doubt from any vantage point about what Trump has wrought.The US “will be living with the legacy of Donald Trump for decades to come as a result of his judicial appointments,’’ said Brian Fallon, executive director of Demand Justice, a liberal advocacy group. People who accepted judicial appointments from Trump will “wear the moniker of ‘Trump judge’ for the rest of their lives,’’ Fallon said.Not so, in Conway’s view. “It will be one of the most lasting pieces of his legacy, distinguished and durable,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-made-lasting-impact-on-federal-courts/story-s7LQrHg6c8lajugaQe18RK.html
26-12-2020||World||WHO releases list of 10 global health issues to track in 2021||The World Health Organization (WHO) released a list of global health issues that the world could have to deal with in 2021 as inadequacies of health systems across countries lay bare at the hands of the coronavirus disease that has claimed over 1.75 million lives worldwide.The pandemic could set back the global health progress achieved in the past 20 years and in 2021, the world would have to work hard to repair and reinforce their health systems if they want to effectively deliver vaccines, the WHO said.The ten ways to help countries strengthen preparedness for emergencies in 2021 are:1. Build global solidarity for worldwide health security: Countries need to work together to improve their preparedness for health emergencies. Support needs to be targeted to the most vulnerable communities, including in urban settings, small island countries and conflict settings. 2. Speed up access to Covid-19 tests, medicines and vaccines: WHO aims to achieve equitable access to vaccines and treatments and to ensure a smooth delivery to the needy. The WHO will distribute 2 billion vaccines; 245 million treatments; establish testing for 500 million people in low- and middle-income countries; and strengthen the health systems needed to support them.3. Advance health for all: During the next year, countries would need to strengthen their health systems so that they can respond to emergencies such as Covid-19.4. Tackling health inequities: WHO will work with countries to address health inequities related to income, gender, ethnicity, education, occupation/employment conditions, disability etc. 5. Provide global leadership on science and data: Countries would need to strengthen the capacity of their health data and information systems to report on progress towards their health-related goals, the WHO has said adding that it would monitor and evaluate all scientific developments around Covid-19 and other emergencies, identifying opportunities to harness those advances to improve global health.6. Revitalize efforts to tackle communicable diseases: Next year, the WHO will help countries get vaccines for polio and other diseases to the people who missed out during the pandemic. 7. Combat drug resistance: Countries will be able to beat infectious diseases only if they have effective medicines to treat them. WHO said it will improve global monitoring and continue to support national action plans, ensuring that antimicrobial resistance is factored into health emergencies preparedness plans.8. Prevent and treat NCDs and mental health conditions: According to the WHO, noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) were responsible for 7 of the top 10 causes of death in 2019 and 2020 taught us how people with NCDs were vulnerable to Covid-19. The year 2021 should focus on ensuring that that screening and treatment programmes for diseases are accessible to the needy.9. Build back better: Covid-19 has given us an opportunity to build back a “better, greener, healthier world” in 2021, WHO said.10. Act in solidarity: There is a need for everyone to demonstrate greater solidarity. Nations, institutions, communities and individuals should “close the cracks” in defences, the WHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-releases-list-of-10-global-health-issues-to-track-in-2021/story-RUubhFpkj9hUcJi3aTY8zO.html
26-12-2020||World||Politics blunts Christmas as US government shutdown nears, virus aid unsure||President Donald Trump spent Christmas Day golfing at his West Palm Beach club while millions of Americans faced the risk of losing jobless benefits on Saturday and the threat of a partial government shutdown next week if he refuses to sign a $2.3 trillion coronavirus aid and spending package.Trump stunned members of both parties when he unexpectedly announced this week his dislike of the spending bill, which had taken members of Congress months to negotiate. The bill provides $892 billion in coronavirus relief, and $1.4 trillion in regular government appropriations. A source familiar with the situation said many White House officials were caught by surprise. While Trump’s strategy going forward on the bill is unclear, he could still sign the package given he has not made an explicit veto threat.Trump, who had not objected to the terms prior to the votes in the House of Representatives and the Senate, complained that the package was too full of money for special interests and foreign aid, and said the $600 in direct payments to most Americans was too small, demanding that the amount be increased to $2,000.On Christmas Day, Trump spent most of the day golfing, with close ally and Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, according to a source familiar with his activities. In a tweet, he said he has had many telephone calls and meetings at his golf club and urged lawmakers to give people more money.“Why would politicians not want to give people $2000, rather than only $600? It wasn’t their fault, it was China. Give our people the money!” he said, referring to the coronavirus, which originated last year in China.The bill is now at Mar-a-Lago, Trump’s Florida resort, where he is spending the holidays, awaiting his decision. Without Trump’s signature on the coronavirus aid bill, about 14 million people will lose unemployment benefits on Saturday, and a partial government shutdown will begin on Tuesday.On Christmas Eve, Trump tweeted a series of grievances, repeating baseless claims about the election result, including one aimed at Senate Republicans, whom he accuses of abandoning him because many now publicly recognize Biden as the winner. On Christmas Day, Trump followed his tweet about aid payments to Americans with a flurry of posts, lashing out at the media in two with cries of “Fake News” as he said that he was going to hold a video conference with members of the military.Separately, the White House said Trump was briefed on a Nashville vehicle explosion Saturday morning that injured three people in what police described as an “intentional act.”Democratic President-elect Joe Biden, whose victory Trump still refuses to acknowledge nearly two months after the November 3 election, spent the day at his Delaware home and had no public events, according to his staff. Biden takes office on January 20.Americans face an unprecedented holiday season amid a pandemic that has killed more than 320,000 people in the United States, with a daily death toll now repeatedly well over 3,000 people, the highest since the pandemic began. Trump this week issued dozens of pardons, including to former aides and four private security guards convicted of killing unarmed Iraqi civilians.Meanwhile, Congress, which normally is adjourned the last week of December, will be preparing to return to work.On Monday, following the Christmas weekend, the House is scheduled to vote on overriding Trump’s veto of a $740 billion bill authorizing the country’s defense programs. If the House vote succeeds, the Senate could hold its vote as early as Tuesday..Trump could also choose to take advantage of a situation known as a “pocket veto,” rather than outright vetoing the coronavirus aid package. Because the current Congress expires on January 3, Trump could let the normal 10-day period that a president has to sign or veto a bill simply run out. Bills die if they are not enacted during the Congress in which they are introduced.If he does issue a veto, the House and Senate could try to override it next week. Congress might also have to pass a stopgap spending bill on Monday, before money that funds government operations expires at midnight. Also on Monday, the Democratic-controlled House plans to vote on legislation providing one-time, $2,000 checks to individuals to help them during the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/politics-blunts-christmas-as-us-government-shutdown-nears-virus-aid-unsure/story-a5qQOLePIc702RAOTATzKJ.html
26-12-2020||World||3 UN peacekeepers killed, 2 injured in attack in Central African Republic||Unidentified gunmen attacked United Nations peacekeepers in the Central African Republic on Thursday, killing 3 officials and injuring two, UN Secretary spokesperson Stephane Dujarric, said in a statement.UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres condemned the attack by unidentified armed combatants on Central African national defence and security forces, and the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (MINUSCA) in Dekoa, Kemo Prefecture, and Bakouma, Mbomou Prefecture, said Stephane Dujarric. “The Secretary-General expresses his deepest condolences to the families of the deceased peacekeepers, as well as to the people and Government of Burundi. He wishes a speedy recovery to the injured,” the statement read. The Secretary-General also recalled that attacks against United Nations peacekeepers may constitute a war crime.He called on the Central African Republic authorities to investigate these heinous attacks and swiftly bring perpetrators to justice.Guterres reaffirms the continued commitment of the United Nations, working closely with national, regional and international partners, to support efforts to advance peace and stability in the Central African Republic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-un-peacekeepers-killed-2-injured-in-attack-in-central-african-republic/story-oBHSsS2uOqjJEXSZSOiQrL.html
26-12-2020||World||Afghanistan: 2 explosions rock Kabul, 3 injured||An explosion took place in the Pul-e-Sokhta area of Kabul’s PD6 on Thursday morning, injuring three people, ToloNews reported citing security sources.The government is yet to confirm the blast. However, no fatalities have been reported so far. The explosion took place just after a blast in the Chaman-e-Hozoori area in Kabul. No casualties were reported in the Chaman-e-Hozoori blast, which had targeted security forces’ vehicle.There is a significant rise in the violence in Afghanistan in the past few months. The violence comes despite the peace talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-2-explosions-rock-kabul-3-injured/story-wmJfEkluP5PZujAzbfmJ9L.html
26-12-2020||World||Russia opens criminal case against ally of Kremlin critic Navalny||Russia launched a criminal case on Friday against Lyubov Sobol, an ally of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, over accusations she had violently entered a flat that her supporters said was linked to a secret agent involved in plot to kill Navalny.The move against Sobol is the latest in a clampdown on the Kremlin’s opponents before next year’s parliamentary election. Sobol aims to run for office, although outspoken critics of the Kremlin are often prevented from standing.Sobol was detained for 48 hours after questioning, Navalny, one of the Kremlin’s fiercest opponents, wrote on Twitter.Russia’s Investigative Committee, which handles serious crimes, said on its website on Friday it had launched a criminal case against Sobol. It did not mention any detention.Sobol’s supporters and the authorities gave different accounts of events leading up to Friday’s actions.Her supporters said she rang the doorbell on Monday of an apartment owned by the family of a man who Navalny has said was an FSB security service officer involved in a bungled attempt to poison him using a nerve agent.The FSB has dismissed Navalny’s account of the poisoning.In its account, the Investigative Committee said Sobol and several others tried to gain entry to an old woman’s flat in Moscow, wearing uniforms used by the state consumer health watchdog. It accused her of tricking a delivery courier to enter the apartment block before barging into the woman’s flat when she opened the door. It said Sobol was suspected of using violence to enter illegally, an offence that can carry a jail term of up to two years.Navalny wrote on Twitter: “They are locking up the mother of a small child for two days to tell everybody: don’t dig into this case. Don’t dare to mess with our killers and poisoners and knock on their doors. These killers are untouchable.”Germany and other Western nations say Navalny was poisoned with a Soviet-style Novichok nerve agent in a murder attempt. The Kremlin has repeatedly denied the accusations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-opens-criminal-case-against-ally-of-kremlin-critic-navalny/story-yfxjbkwOAV7sqVseJBnqHO.html
26-12-2020||World||Israeli Air Force strikes Hamas facilities in Gaza Strip||The Israeli Air Force has conducted strikes at the rocket manufacturing site, underground facilities and a military post of the Hamas Islamist movement in the Gaza Strip in response to rocket fire from the Palestinian exclave, the Israel Defense Forces said on Saturday.On late Friday, air raid sirens sounded in the southern Israeli city of Ashkelon and the areas near the border with the Gaza Strip. According to the IDF, two rockets have been fired from the exclave and both of them have been intercepted by the Iron Dome aerial defence system.“In response to the rockets fired from Gaza toward Israel tonight, the Israeli Air Force struck Hamas terror targets including rocket manufacturing site, underground infrastructure, a military post,” the IDF wrote on its Twitter page.Hamas, a Palestinian Sunni militant organization in control of the Gaza Strip, has been locked in a protracted on-and-off conflict with Israel, which still refuses to recognize Palestine as an independent political and diplomatic entity. Israel holds Hamas responsible for any attack coming from the Gaza Strip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israeli-air-force-strikes-hamas-facilities-in-gaza-strip/story-WHmgbECX2YXE7gHHJ6OCAO.html
26-12-2020||World||Donald Trump golfs in Florida as Covid relief hangs in the balance||President Donald Trump spent his Christmas golfing in Florida as a government shutdown looms and Covid relief hangs in the balance.Trump, at his Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach for the holidays, had no events on his public schedule after throwing the future of a massive Covid relief and government funding bill into question. Failure to sign the bill, which arrived in Florida on Thursday night, could deny relief checks to millions of Americans on the brink and force a government shutdown in the midst of the pandemic.The White House declined to share details of the president’s schedule, though he played golf Friday with South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham, a close ally.White House spokesman Judd Deere said Trump was briefed on the explosion in downtown Nashville early Friday that authorities said appeared to be intentional, but the president said nothing publicly about it in the hours after.Trump tweeted that he planned to make “a short speech to service members from all over the world” by video conference Friday to celebrate the holiday, but declared: “Fake News not invited!” Without giving details, the White House said only that Trump would work “tirelessly” during the holidays and has “many meetings and calls.”Trump’s vacation came as Washington was still reeling over his surprise, eleventh-hour demand that an end-of-year spending bill that congressional leaders spent months negotiating give most Americans $2,000 Covid relief checks — far more than the $600 members of his own party had agreed to. The idea was swiftly rejected by House Republicans during a rare Christmas Eve session, leaving the proposal in limbo.Also Read| Human remains found near Nashville explosion: ReportThe bipartisan compromise had been considered a done deal and had won sweeping approval in the House and Senate this week after the White House assured GOP leaders that Trump supported it. If he refuses to sign the deal, which is attached to a $1.4 trillion government funding bill, it will force a federal government shutdown, in addition to delaying aid checks and halting unemployment benefits and eviction protections in the most dire stretch of the pandemic.“Made many calls and had meetings at Trump International in Palm Beach, Florida. Why would politicians not want to give people $2000, rather than only $600?” he tweeted after leaving the golf course Friday afternoon. “It wasn’t their fault, it was China. Give our people the money!”Graham tweeted Friday night that Trump was still intent on getting changes in yearend legislation before signing it.“After spending some time with President @realDonaldTrump today, I am convinced he is more determined than ever to increase stimulus payments to $2000 per person and challenge Section 230 big tech liability protection.” he said in his tweet “Both are reasonable demands, and I hope Congress is listening. The biggest winner would be the American people.”In addition to the Covid aid, Graham was referring to another Trump priority: to get a repeal of Section 230 of the 1996 Communications Decency Act, a law that protects online platforms from liability for content posted by users.Trump’s decision to attack the Covid bill has been seen, at least in part, as political punishment for what he considers insufficient backing by congressional Republicans of his campaign to overturn the results of the Nov. 3 election with unfounded claims of voter fraud.“At a meeting in Florida today, everyone was asking why aren’t the Republicans up in arms & fighting over the fact that the Democrats stole the rigged presidential election?” Trump tweeted Thursday.“I will NEVER FORGET!” he later added.Trump for weeks now has refused to accept the results of the election and has been pushing new, increasingly outrageous schemes to try to overturn the results. He has been egged on by allies like his lawyer, former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani, who accompanied the president to Florida aboard Air Force One.Also Read: Japan urges Biden to be strong in support of Taiwan against ChinaTrump has provided no credible evidence to support his election claims, which have been refuted by a long list of officials, among them judges, former Attorney General William Barr, Republican governors and local election administrators.Meanwhile, the nation continues to reel as the coronavirus spreads, with record infections and hospitalizations and more than 327,000 now dead. And millions are now going through the holidays alone or struggling to make ends meet without adequate income, food or shelter thanks to the pandemic’s economic toll.The Justice Department said Acting Attorney General Jeff Rosen also was briefed on the Nashville blast and directed that all department resources be made available to help. The FBI will be taking the lead in the investigation, agency spokesman Joel Siskovic said.Three people were treated in hospitals after a recreational vehicle, blaring a recorded warning of an imminent detonation, exploded in Nashville’s downtown. The blast caused widespread communications outages that took down police emergency systems and grounded flights at the city’s airport.To mark the holiday, the president and first lady Melania Trump tweeted out a pre-recorded video message in which they wished Americans a merry Christmas and thanked first responders and members of the military.“As you know, this Christmas is different than years past,” said Mrs. Trump, who focused on the acts of “kindness and courage” the pandemic had inspired .Trump hailed the vaccine doses now being delivered and thanked those responsible. “It is a truly a Christmas miracle,” he said.Meanwhile, Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin have been trying to salvage the year-end legislation to try to prevent a shutdown. Democrats will call House lawmakers back to Washington for a vote Monday on Trump’s $2,000 proposal, though it would probably die in the Republican-controlled Senate. They are also considering a vote Monday on a stop-gap measure at least to avert a federal shutdown and keep the government running until Democrat Joe Biden is inaugurated Jan. 20.In addition to the relief checks, the Covid bill that passed would establish a temporary $300 per week supplemental jobless benefit, provide a new round of subsidies for hard-hit businesses, restaurants and theaters and money for schools, and provide money for health care providers and to help with Covid vaccine distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-golfs-in-florida-as-covid-relief-hangs-in-the-balance/story-AufSe9TtX3vX9QUy4Zsf7H.html
26-12-2020||World||China to overtake US as world’s biggest economy by 2028: Report||China will overtake the United States to become the world’s biggest economy in 2028, five years earlier than previously estimated due to the contrasting recoveries of the two countries from the Covid-19 pandemic, a think tank said.“For some time, an overarching theme of global economics has been the economic and soft power struggle between the United States and China,” the Centre for Economics and Business Research said in an annual report published on Saturday.“The Covid-19 pandemic and corresponding economic fallout have certainly tipped this rivalry in China’s favour.” The CEBR said China’s “skilful management of the pandemic”, with its strict early lockdown, and hits to long-term growth in the West meant China’s relative economic performance had improved.China looked set for average economic growth of 5.7% a year from 2021-25 before slowing to 4.5% a year from 2026-30.While the United States was likely to have a strong post-pandemic rebound in 2021, its growth would slow to 1.9% a year between 2022 and 2024, and then to 1.6% after that.Japan would remain the world’s third-biggest economy, in dollar terms, until the early 2030s when it would be overtaken by India, pushing Germany down from fourth to fifth.The United Kingdom, currently the fifth-biggest economy by the CEBR’s measure, would slip to sixth place from 2024.However, despite a hit in 2021 from its exit from the European Union’s single market, British GDP in dollars was forecast to be 23% higher than France’s by 2035, helped by Britain’s lead in the increasingly important digital economy.Europe accounted for 19% of output in the top 10 global economies in 2020 but that will fall to 12% by 2035, or lower if there is an acrimonious split between the EU and Britain, the CEBR said.It also said the pandemic’s impact on the global economy was likely to show up in higher inflation, not slower growth.“We see an economic cycle with rising interest rates in the mid-2020s,” it said, posing a challenge for governments which have borrowed massively to fund their response to the Covid-19 crisis. “But the underlying trends that have been accelerated by this point to a greener and more tech-based world as we move into the 2030s.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-overtake-us-as-world-s-biggest-economy-by-2028-report/story-uXapBHkvj9GqpIRVX6pC8I.html
26-12-2020||World||US doctor suffers severe allergic reaction to Moderna vaccine||A doctor in Boston with a shellfish allergy developed a severe allergic reaction after receiving Moderna’s coronavirus vaccine on Thursday, the New York Times reported on Friday, citing the doctor.Dr. Hossein Sadrzadeh, a geriatric oncology fellow at Boston Medical Center, said he had a severe reaction almost immediately after being vaccinated, feeling dizzy and with a racing heart, the NYT reported.It is the first severe reaction publicly linked to Moderna’s vaccine, which is in its first week of a nationwide rollout. David Kibbe, a spokesman at the Boston Medical Center, said in a statement on Friday that Dr. Sadrzadeh “felt he was developing an allergic reaction and was allowed to self-administer his personal epi-pen. He was taken to the Emergency Department, evaluated, treated, observed and discharged. He is doing well today.”A US Food and Drug Administration official said last week that the FDA is investigating around five allergic reactions that occurred after people were administered Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE’s Covid-19 vaccine in the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boston-doctor-suffers-severe-allergic-reaction-to-moderna-vaccine/story-kEhwl1j2JxwAn79nuPBEMO.html
26-12-2020||World||Air Canada Boeing 737-8 MAX suffers engine issue||An Air Canada Boeing Co 737-8 Max en route between Arizona and Montreal with three crew members on board suffered an engine issue that forced the crew to divert the aircraft to Tucson, Arizona, the Canadian airline company said in an emailed statement on Friday. Shortly after the take-off, the pilots received an “engine indication” and “decided to shut down one engine,” an Air Canada spokesman said. “The aircraft then diverted to Tucson, where it landed normally and remains.” The incident took place on December 22.The crew received a left engine hydraulic low pressure indication and declared a PAN PAN emergency before diverting the flight, Belgian aviation news website Aviation24.be reported.“Modern aircraft are designed to operate with one engine and our crews train for such operations”, the Air Canada statement added. In a response to a Reuters request for comment, a Boeing spokeswoman referred to Air Canada for information on the incident and did not provide any additional comment.Boeing and operators are bracing for heightened scrutiny as the MAX returns from a 20 month safety grounding, but safety experts say such glitches are common and usually go unnoticed.The ‘MAX was grounded following two crashes linked in part to flawed cockpit software. The engines were not implicated.The United States lifted a 20-month-old flight ban on the 737 MAX last month, with the US Federal Aviation Administration outlining details of the software, system and training upgrades Boeing and airlines must complete before carrying passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/air-canada-boeing-737-8-max-suffers-engine-issue/story-KrbiMyz58wsr68OrbCguJN.html
26-12-2020||World||Chinese vaccine CoronaVac efficacy at 50%-90% in Brazilian trials: Official||The CoronaVac Covid-19 vaccine developed by China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd showed efficacy between 50% and 90% in Brazilian trials, Sao Paulo’s state health secretary said, and its Brazilian producer said full trial results will be released by January 7.Results of trials in Brazil are known exclusively by Sao Paulo state’s Butantan Institute biomedical research center, which has an agreement with Sinovac to produce the vaccine, said health secretary Jean Gorinchteyn. First trials showed efficacy above 50%, the minimum required by Brazilian health regulator Anvisa, and below 90%, Gorinchteyn said in an interview with CBN radio aired late on Thursday.At Sinovac’s request, Sao Paulo’s health department has not received the Chinese drugmaker’s full trial results, he said, adding that the company will review the data before announcing final results.Butantan will disclose the data trial results in up to 15 days, or by January 7, the institute said in a note on Friday.The South American country has registered 7,448,560 confirmed coronavirus cases and 190,488 deaths from Covid-19, the country’s Health ministry said on Friday.On Wednesday, Butantan had declined to specify the efficacy rate from a trial with 13,000 volunteers, citing contractual obligations with Sinovac, raising questions about transparency.The CoronaVac vaccine showed 91.25% efficacy in Turkey, according to an announcement on Thursday of interim data from a late-stage trial in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-vaccine-coronavac-efficacy-at-50-90-in-brazilian-trials-official/story-ep1M1E9ynZ9ZN39fpaG5HI.html
26-12-2020||World||Japan urges Biden to be strong in support of Taiwan against China||A top Japanese defence official on Friday urged US President-elect Joe Biden to “be strong” in supporting Taiwan in the face of an aggressive China, calling the island’s safety a “red line.”“We are concerned China will expand its aggressive stance into areas other than Hong Kong. I think one of the next targets, or what everyone is worried about, is Taiwan,” State Minister of Defense Yasuhide Nakayama told Reuters.In an interview, Nakayama, Japan’s deputy defence minister, urged Biden to take a similar line on Taiwan as outgoing President Donald Trump, who has significantly boosted military sales to the Chinese-claimed island and increased engagement.Japan’s engagement with Taiwan has also flourished in recent years on a largely non-governmental basis. Tokyo maintains a “one China” policy, delicately balancing its relationships with neighbouring giant China and its longtime military ally in Washington.Japan shares strategic interests with Taiwan, which sits in sea lanes through which much of Japan’s energy supplies and trade flow.“So far, I haven’t yet seen a clear policy or an announcement on Taiwan from Joe Biden. I would like to hear it quickly, then we can also prepare our response on Taiwan in accordance,” Nakayama said.During the presidential campaign, Biden called for strengthening ties with Taiwan and other “like-minded democracies.”Decades ago as senator, Biden questioned whether the United States had an “obligation” to defend Taiwan. But many in his foreign policy circles acknowledge that US imperatives have changed as a rising, authoritarian China has become more assertive and sought to shape global institutions.An official in Biden’s transition team said the president-elect believes US support for Taiwan “must remain strong, principled, and bipartisan.”“Once in office, he will continue to support a peaceful resolution of cross-strait issues consistent with the wishes and best interests of the people of Taiwan,” the official said.Beijing has been angered by increased US support for Taiwan, including arms sales and visits to Taipei by senior U.S. officials, further straining already poor Sino-US ties. China considers democratically run Taiwan one of its provinces and has never renounced the use of force to bring it under Beijing’s control.“Taiwan is China’s internal affair,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said on Friday. “We firmly oppose interference in China’s internal affairs by any country or anyone by any means.”In Taipei, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Joanne Ou noted the strong bipartisan US support for Taiwan based on the “shared language” of freedom and democracy.“Taiwan looks forward to working closely with the Biden team, to continue to steadily improve Taiwan-US relations on the basis of the existing solid friendship,” she said.US officials in Tokyo could not be reached as the embassy was closed for Christmas.“There’s a red line in Asia - China and Taiwan,” Nakayama said, citing a red line that former President Barack Obama declared over Syria’s use of chemical weapons - a line Damascus then crossed. Biden was Obama’s vice president.“How will Joe Biden in the White House react in any case if China crosses this red line?” said Nakayama, who attended a memorial for the late former Taiwanese president Lee Teng-hui in August, before taking his defence position. “The United States is the leader of the democratic countries. I have a strong feeling to say: America, be strong!”Chinese fighter jets in recent months have conducted waves of forays, including crossing the sensitive mid-line between China and Taiwan, ratcheting up pressure tactics to erode Taiwan’s will to resist, say current and former senior Taiwanese and US military officers.Taiwan deployed its navy and air force on Sunday as a Chinese aircraft carrier group led by the country’s newest carrier sailed through the sensitive Taiwan Strait, a day after a U.S. warship transited the same waterway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-urges-biden-to-be-strong-in-support-of-taiwan-against-china/story-gQkQijzgjxbBg5vqIWDLPO.html
26-12-2020||World||Judge delays execution of only woman on US death row||A federal judge said the Justice Department unlawfully rescheduled the execution of the only woman on federal death row, potentially setting up the Trump administration to schedule the execution after president-elect Joe Biden takes office.US District Court Judge Randolph Moss also vacated an order from the director of the Bureau of Prisons that had set Lisa Montgomery’s execution date for January 12. Montgomery had previously been scheduled to be put to death at the Federal Correctional Complex in Terre Haute, Indiana, this month, but Moss delayed the execution after her attorneys contracted coronavirus visiting their client and asked him to extend the amount of time to file a clemency petition.Moss prohibited the Bureau of Prisons from carrying out Lisa Montgomery’s execution before the end of the year and officials rescheduled her execution date for January 12. But Moss ruled on Wednesday that the agency was also prohibited from rescheduling the date while a stay was in place.“The Court, accordingly, concludes that the Director’s order setting a new execution date while the Court’s stay was in effect was ‘not in accordance with law,’” Moss wrote.A spokesperson for the Justice Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Under the order, the Bureau of Prisons cannot reschedule Montgomery’s execution until at least January 1. Generally, under Justice Department guidelines, a death-row inmate must be notified at least 20 days before the execution. Because of the judge’s order, if the Justice Department chooses to reschedule the date in January, it could mean that the execution would be scheduled after Biden’s inauguration on January 20.A spokesperson for Biden has told The Associated Press the president-elect “opposes the death penalty now and in the future” and would work as president to end its use in office. But Biden’s representatives have not said whether executions would be paused immediately once Biden takes office.Montgomery was convicted of killing 23-year-old Bobbie Jo Stinnett in the northwest Missouri town of Skidmore in December 2004. She used a rope to strangle Stinnett, who was eight months pregnant, and then a kitchen knife to cut the baby girl from the womb, authorities said.Prosecutors said Montgomery removed the baby from Stinnett’s body, took the child with her, and attempted to pass the girl off as her own. Montgomery’s legal team has argued that their client suffers from serious mental illnesses.“Given the severity of Mrs. Montgomery’s mental illness, the sexual and physical torture she endured throughout her life, and the connection between her trauma and the facts of her crime, we appeal to President Trump to grant her mercy, and commute her sentence to life imprisonment,” one of Montgomery’s lawyers, Sandra Babcock, said in a statement.Two other federal inmates are scheduled to be executed in January but have tested positive for coronavirus and their attorneys are also seeking delays to their executions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/judge-delays-execution-of-only-woman-on-us-death-row/story-MMfqjuYsOCvvOe7zkadMUO.html
26-12-2020||World||First case of new Covid variant found in France as cases rise||France recorded its first case of the new variant of coronavirus, as the number of cases and deaths from Covid-19 mounted in the country, increasing concerns of a new wave of the virus hitting the euro zone’s second-biggest economy.The French health ministry said a Frenchman who recently arrived back in France from London had tested positive for the new variant of the coronavirus.The ministry said the case - the first in France - had been found in the city of Tours. The man in question arrived from London on Dec. 19. He was currently self-isolating and felt alright, the ministry added.British Health Secretary Matt Hancock had said on Dec. 14 that a spike in Covid cases in the United Kingdom might have been linked to the new variant of the virus in the country.Hancock said more than 1,000 cases of the new variant had been identified, mainly in southeastern England.Countries around the world have in recent days closed their borders to both Britain and South Africa following the identification of cases of the new, fast-spreading variant of the coronavirus in those countries.France registered 20,262 new, confirmed Covid-19 cases and 159 more related deaths in hospitals in the last 24 hours.France’s number of confirmed Covid-19 cases now stands at 2,547,771 while its Covid-19 death toll stands at 62,427 - the seventh-highest in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-case-of-new-covid-variant-found-in-france-as-cases-rise/story-o2d8QYR19gL571XMmBkDoJ.html
26-12-2020||World||US requires tests for UK flyers on worry over Covid variant||(Bloomberg) -- The US will require passengers flying from the UK to show proof of a negative test for coronavirus, amid rising concerns over a more-contagious Covid-19 strain that is spreading after first emerging in England.Travellers arriving from the UK need to get a negative polymerase chain reaction or antigen test no more than 72 hours before leaving, according to a statement from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The CDC said the order will be signed by President Donald Trump on Friday and come into effect Dec. 28.Regions from Hong Kong to Canada have temporarily suspended travel from the UK as the new coronavirus variant alarmed scientists and governments around the world. Early analysis suggests it may be as much as 70% more transmissible than other circulating strains.Passengers from the UK must provide written documentation of their test to their airline, according to the CDC statement. Carriers must confirm the negative result for all passengers boarding, and deny entry to those who don’t take a test. The CDC said earlier this week that the new variant described in the UK could already be circulating in the US undetected.Governments around the world are also taking action as a fast-spreading variant sweeps through South Africa, with the UK banning flights from that country. Hong Kong banned all recent travellers from South Africa and extended a mandatory quarantine for most other visitors in an attempt to prevent a spread of Covid-19 cases in the city.South Africa, meanwhile, has pushed back against the UK, rejecting allegations that a new Covid variant was contributing to a second wave of UK infections.A new virus variant that was detected in the UK has a mutation occurring at a site common with the South African strain, known as 501.V2, but they are “two completely independent lineages,” Health Minister Zweli Mkhize said in a statement late Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-requires-tests-for-uk-flyers-on-worry-over-covid-variant/story-OVRDODLkxOhRyVUsezhZZN.html
26-12-2020||World||‘Many just want a hug for Christmas this year,’ says Queen Elizabeth||All many people want for Christmas this year is a simple hug, Britain’s Queen Elizabeth said in her annual festive message, saying it would be hard for those who lost loved ones to Covid-19 pandemic or were separated by curbs on social mixing.In her traditional pre-recorded Christmas Day address to the nation, the 94-year-old monarch repeatedly spoke of hope for the future whilst acknowledging millions of Britons would be unable to have their usual family celebrations this year. “Of course for many, this time of year will be tinged with sadness; some mourning the loss of those dear to them, and others missing friends and family members distanced for safety when all they really want for Christmas is a simple hug or a squeeze of the hand,” Elizabeth said. “If you are among them, you are not alone. And let me assure you of my thoughts and prayers.” The queen herself has had to eschew her traditional Christmas celebrations, and is spending the festive season quietly at Windsor Castle with her husband Prince Philip, 99.Usually, all the Windsors gather at her home on the Sandringham estate in eastern England, the walk to a nearby church for a Christmas Day service is a staple of the royal calendar.However, Britain is currently battling to curb the spread of a new variant of the novel coronavirus, with the number of new infections reaching record levels this week and the number of hospital admissions and death soaring.Much of the country has been placed under tight restrictions, and for London and the surrounding areas, households are not allowed to mix at all over Christmas, while for other areas there are strict curbs limiting contact to just a single day.“Remarkably, a year that has necessarily kept people apart has in many ways brought us closer,” said the queen, adding the royals had been inspired by stories of those who volunteered to help others in need.“In the United Kingdom and around the world, people have risen magnificently to the challenges of the year and I’m so proud and moved by this quiet indomitable spirit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/many-just-want-a-hug-for-christmas-this-year-says-queen-elizabeth/story-dc3fp5fVLnD0xo3j0FAjhN.html
26-12-2020||World||Japan ex-PM Shinzo Abe apologises for making ‘repeated false denials’ in parliament on funding scandal||Former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Friday corrected statements he had made in parliament, apologising for what he said were mistakes regarding a political funding scandal that has also cast a pall over the current premier.Abe said he felt deeply responsible for making repeated false denials that his political funding group had subsidised cherry blossom viewing parties for his supporters, in possible violation of the country’s strict political funding laws.Also Read: Shinzo Abe, Japan’s longest-serving PM, quitsJapan’s longest-serving leader said he had known nothing about the payments and pledged to work to regain public trust. The apology came after his secretary was on Thursday summarily indicted over the issue and fined 1 million yen ($9,650).“Even though the accounting procedures happened without my knowledge, I feel morally responsible for what happened,” Abe told a parliamentary committee. “I reflect on this deeply and apologise from my heart to the citizens and to all lawmakers.”Abe also filed corrected political funding reports for the last three years.The public apology marks a sharp reversal of fortune for Abe, a political blue-bloods whose grandfather and great-uncle also served as premiers. He quit as prime minister on health grounds in September after serving nearly eight years as prime minister.Also Read | ‘Deeply touched by your warm words’: Shinzo Abe tweets after PM Modi’s recovery wishesThe scandal threatens to damage his successor, Yoshihide Suga, who was Abe’s right-hand man throughout his term and has defended his former boss in parliament. Suga, who has been beset by other controversies and seen his support ratings slide less than a year before the next lower house election must be called, has apologised for making inaccurate statements.Abe did not respond to questions from opposition MPs about whether he would take political responsibility for the scandal by resigning as an MP. He struggled to explain why he was able to file detailed updated funding reports even though he says his office does not have the underlying receipts for the parties.Abe’s statements to parliament from the end of 2019 contradicted the findings of the prosecutors at least 118 times, several domestic media reported, citing a parliamentary research bureau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-ex-pm-shinzo-abe-apologises-for-making-repeated-false-denials-in-parliament-on-funding-scandal/story-h6PUjyruwMucHNwpZZQFdL.html
26-12-2020||World||Human remains found near Nashville explosion: Report||Two law enforcement officials tell The Associated Press that authorities have found human remains in the vicinity of the explosion that rocked downtown Nashville early Christmas morning.It is unclear how the remains are related to the Friday explosion or whether they might belong to the person believed to be responsible or a victim.The officials could not discuss an ongoing investigation publicly and spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity.Authorities have said they believe the blast was intentional.The city’s police chief said officers responded to a report of a shots fired before discovering the RV that was blaring a recorded warning that a bomb would detonate in 15 minutes. Police evacuated nearby buildings and called in the bomb squad. The RV exploded shortly afterward.THIS IS A BREAKING NEWS UPDATE. AP’s earlier story follows below.NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — A recreational vehicle parked in the deserted streets of downtown Nashville exploded early Christmas morning, causing widespread communications outages that took down police emergency systems and grounded holiday travel at the city’s airport. Authorities said they believe the blast was intentional.Police were responding to a report of shots fired Friday when they encountered the RV blaring a recorded warning that a bomb would detonate in 15 minutes, Metro Nashville Police Chief John Drake said. Police evacuated nearby buildings and called in the bomb squad. The RV exploded shortly afterward, Drake said at a midday news conference.“It looks like a bomb went off on Second Avenue,” Nashville Mayor John Cooper said after touring the area.Police did not immediately indicate a possible motive or the target.Surveillance video published on a Twitter account Friday that appeared to be across the street from the blast captured the warning issuing from the RV, “... if you can hear this message, evacuate now,” seconds before the explosion.The blast sent black smoke and flames billowing from the heart of downtown Nashville’s tourist scene, an area packed with honky-tonks, restaurants and shops. Buildings shook and windows shattered streets away from the explosion near a building owned by AT&T that lies one block from the company’s office tower, a landmark in downtown.“We do not know if that was a coincidence, or if that was the intention,” police spokesman Don Aaron said. Aaron said earlier that some people were taken to the department’s central precinct for questioning but declined to give details.AT&T said the affected building is the central office of a telephone exchange, with network equipment in it. The blast interrupted service, but the company declined to say how widespread outages were.“Service for some customers in Nashville and the surrounding areas may be affected by damage to our facilities from the explosion this morning. We are in contact with law enforcement and working as quickly and safely as possible to restore service,” AT&T spokesman Jim Greer said in an emailed statement.The AT&T outages site showed service issues in middle Tennessee and Kentucky, including Bowling Green about 65 miles (105 kilometers) north of Nashville. Several police agencies reported that their 911 systems were down because of the outage, including Murfreesboro and Knox County, home to Knoxville about 180 miles (290 kilometers) east of Nashville.The Federal Aviation Administration temporarily halted flights out of Nashville International Airport because of telecommunications issues associated with the explosion.Three people were taken to area hospitals for treatment after the blast, although none were in critical condition, Aaron said. Authorities don’t know whether anyone was in the vehicle when it exploded. Cooper said the city was lucky that the number of injuries was limited.The FBI will be taking the lead in the investigation, agency spokesman Joel Siskovic said. Federal investigators from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives were also on the scene. The FBI is the primary law enforcement agency responsible for investigating federal crimes, such as explosives violations and acts of terrorism.A Philadelphia man staying in a nearby hotel said that when he heard the blast, he was knew it wasn’t harmless.“We tried to rationalize it that it was an earthquake or something, but it was obvious it wasn’t an earthquake,” Joseph Fafara said. He said he traveled to Tennessee with his family on Christmas because the state has looser COVID-19 restrictions than Philadelphia.When he went to look at the damage, police barricades had already been put in place. At noon, police dogs continued to search cars and buildings in the nearby area.Buck McCoy, who lives near the area, posted videos on Facebook that show water pouring down the ceiling of his home. Alarms blare in the background along with cries of people in distress. A fire is visible in the street outside.McCoy said he heard gunfire 15 minutes before the explosion rocked his building, set cars in the street on fire and blew trees apart.“All my windows, every single one of them got blown into the next room. If I had been standing there it would have been horrible,” he said.“It felt like a bomb. It was that big,” he told The Associated Press.President Donald Trump has been briefed, according to White House spokesperson Judd Deere. The U.S. Justice Department said Acting Attorney General Jeff Rosen was also briefed and directed all department resources be made available to help with the investigation.Tennessee Gov. Bill Lee said on Twitter that the state would provide the resources necessary “to determine what happened and who was responsible.”The American Red Cross of Tennessee announced that it was working with officials to open a shelter for victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/human-remains-found-near-nashville-explosion-report/story-DhMpdOYJdrVNlgCOifaBsN.html
26-12-2020||World||Don’t squander sacrifices of 2020: WHO chief||The sacrifices made to protect people during the coronavirus pandemic must not be squandered over the festive period, the World Health Organization’s chief said in a Christmas message.Millions were making “heart-wrenching sacrifices” by staying away from loved ones on Christmas Day, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a video clip posted to Twitter late Thursday, while others will have a missing face at the family table.He said vaccines, now beginning to be deployed in countries around the world, were starting to offer a way out of the crisis that has engulfed the planet this year.“As 2020 draws to an end, a pandemic of historic proportions is preventing many of us from celebrating in the ways we would like,” Tedros said.“Instead, hundreds of millions of people are today making great, heart-wrenching sacrifices by staying apart to stay safe.“But in doing so, they are giving the most precious gifts: the gifts of life and health.”The novel coronavirus has killed at least 1.7 million people since the outbreak emerged in China last December, while almost 78.7 million cases have been registered, according to a tally from official sources compiled by AFP.“All around the world, throughout this most trying of years, we have seen over and over again the sacrifices of so many people to protect and preserve life,” said Tedros.“We must not squander their sacrifices, nor those made by so many families who, this holiday season, will sit at family tables missing a familiar face.“Despite so much loss, we have built so much hope. Vaccines are offering the world a way out of this tragedy. But it will take time for the whole world to be vaccinated.”According to the WHO’s overview of different candidate vaccines, 61 have entered human trials, 16 of which have reached final-stage mass testing.A further 172 candidate vaccines are being developed in laboratories with a view to eventual human testing.Tedros said: “We must continue taking comfort in the fact that by caring for others, through acts of solidarity and safety, we can share the greatest gift of all: the gift of life.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/don-t-squander-sacrifices-of-2020-who-chief/story-hcUcUPtvXvLiml7vHRTL1O.html
26-12-2020||World||US will require negative Covid-19 tests for all UK passengers||The US government will require all airline passengers arriving from the United Kingdom to test negative for Covid-19 within 72 hours of departure starting Monday amid concerns about a new coronavirus variant that may be more transmissible.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said in a statement that all airline passengers arriving from the UK must test negative in order to fly to the United States. The decision was a turnaround after the Trump administration told US airlines on Tuesday it was not planning to require any testing for arriving UK passengers. The decision follows the emergence of a highly infectious new coronavirus variant in Britain that has prompted many countries to shut their borders to travelers from there.The British Embassy in Washington did not immediately respond to a request for comment late on Thursday.Earlier on Thursday, United Airlines and Delta Air Lines said they were requiring all passengers on flights from the United Kingdom to the United States to present a negative Covid-19 test taken within 72 hours of departure.The CDC said late on Thursday passengers must test negative via either a PCR or Antigen test. The CDC said “viruses constantly change through mutation, and preliminary analysis in the UK suggests that this new variant may be up to 70% more transmissible than previously circulating variants.”The CDC noted that in March President Donald Trump suspended entry of nearly all foreign nationals who visited the United Kingdom in the past 14 days, which has reduced air travel to the US from Britain by about 90%.Under the new policy, passengers departing from the UK for the United States must provide written documentation of their laboratory test result (in hard copy or electronic) to the airline, the CDC said. Airlines must confirm negative test results for all passengers before they board. If passengers choose not to take a test, the airline must deny boarding.The CDC said the order will be signed on Friday and is effective Monday.Delta’s policy, expanded from its decision on Monday to require the screenings on UK flights to New York’s JFK Airport, is effective Dec. 24, while United’s requirement begins Dec. 28.On Monday, the three airlines that fly from London to JFK Delta, British Airways and Virgin Atlantic - agreed to a request from New York Governor Andrew Cuomo that they screen passengers from Britain.US airlines have already drastically scaled back flying to the United Kingdom, as well as the rest of Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-will-require-negative-covid-19-tests-for-all-uk-passengers/story-wufc4dJFqvxXOKikGOYf5L.html
26-12-2020||India||JD(U) national executive begins, Arunachal defections, Bihar results on agenda||The two-day JD (U) national executive committee meeting began in Patna on Saturday evening with the party’s national office-bearers deliberating on the agenda.The agenda will be placed before the national executive and endorsed by the party’s national council on Sunday. The JD (U) national executive comprises 225 members.Party sources said that Saturday’s meeting broadly decided to discuss the party’s performance in Bihar polls, forthcoming assembly elections in West Bengal, the developments in Arunachal Pradesh where six of the party MLAs defected to the BJP.Party sources said that Sunday’s meeting would be crucial as the party’s performance in Bihar assembly polls and Arunachal Pradesh developments are likely to overshadow other discussions.Party leaders said that the political resolution that is to be placed on Sunday will approve the party’s plan to expand in other states as party’s national president Nitish Kumar is the most acceptable face in the country. The JD (U), at present has units in 28 states.“It will also contest forthcoming elections in West Bengal and Assam,” said a party leader.Though party national president Nitish Kumar on Friday had downplayed the issue, a sense of despondence has engulfed the party leaders. “It was unfortunate and not necessary. The party was friendly opposition in the state,” was how JD (U) national principal general secretary K C Tyagi reacted to a news agency.The JD-U now has just one MLA in the 60-member Arunachal assembly. BJP and JD-U are allies in the coalition government in Bihar.“We were in friendly opposition in Arunachal Pradesh. There was no danger to the state government by our MLAs. I think it was not necessary. Whatever happened is unfortunate,” Tyagi, who is also the party spokesperson, said.JD (U) sources said that in the recent municipal corporation election at Itanagar, JD (U) won nine out of 20 seats and the BJP 10 seats whereas one seat went to NCP. “This must have made the BJP jittery as both the parties are not in alliance there,” said a party leader.Party sources said that the national executive meeting becomes all the more important as this is the first time since 2005 that the JD (U) is playing second fiddle in the NDA government behind the BJP in Bihar. “So far, it has been the senior partner in 2005, 2010 and in 2017 when JD (U) and the BJP joined hands again,” said a party functionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jd-u-national-executive-begins-arunachal-defections-bihar-results-on-agenda/story-gCnPvX5vSoCqp96UjkW9nN.html
26-12-2020||India||After 9 months, Nagaland to allow domestic tourists from December 27||Nagaland will open entry to domestic tourists for the first time since the Covid-19 pandemic, from December 27 following health protocols. The reopening of tourism in the state in the first phase will be only for domestic tourists and entry point via road, rail and air will be restricted to the state’s commercial hub, Dimapur.According to a tourism department official, the state sees a huge number of domestic tourists. Last year, the department witnessed 1,25,949 tourists visiting from different states.As per the latest guidelines, tourists will have to produce inner line permit (ILP) obtainable on www.ilp.nagaland.gov.in along with a negative report of Covid-19 test (RT-PCR/TrueNat/CBNAAT) conducted not earlier than three days before arrival. Also read: More muscle to IAF with at least 3 more Rafales flying-in next month“Any tourist having symptoms of Covid-19, even with a Covid-19 negative report, will be mandatorily tested on arrival/entry as per the protocols of the Health and Family Welfare Department and he/she will be charged for the test,” a government order said.Tourists, after obtaining the ILP and having in possession a Covid-19 negative test report, will be required to register on www.tourism.nagaland.gov.in or install Nagaland Tourism official app available both on the Google Play Store and the Apple Store and provide required details, it added. However, only pre-booked or package tours will be allowed, the government stated.Ever since the country went into Covid-19 induced lockdown in late March, the state’s tourism was also shut. On Sunday, it will open for the first time in 9 months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-9-months-nagaland-to-allow-domestic-tourists-from-december-27/story-oUsMOFe9lSEqMiMJGyOgLI.html
26-12-2020||India||Political patronage writ large: Irani’s lawyer on case filed by shooter||Union Minister Smriti Irani’s legal counsel Kirat Nagra on Saturday said the case filed against her by shooter Vartika Singh is based on “the most bizarre and mischievous set of falsehoods” and that “political patronage” is writ large on the matter. Nagra said the case is a concerted attempt to bring disrepute to and defame the minister and that she will take legal recourse against it. Singh has moved a court in Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh accusing Irani and two others of demanding money to make her a member of the central women’s commission, days after she was herself named in a police complaint. In November this year, a complaint was filed against the shooter and another person at Musafirkhana police station in Amethi district. Reacting to the matter, Nagra said in a statement, “This is a concerted attempt to bring disrepute to and defame my client on the basis of the most bizarre and mischievous set of falsehoods which also included brazen forgeries of official documents by this individual.” Nagra said that to deflect attention from the investigation into the FIR against her for forging official documents, Singh has “lodged some fictitious case which we have read about in the press.” “A malicious attempt has been made at seeking publicity by a habitual criminal offender wherein political patronage is writ large for this slander and defamation,” Nagra said. Nagra said Irani would take legal recourse in the matter, “including availing both civil and criminal prosecution remedies as available in law to my client.” PTI JTR SMN SMN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-patronage-writ-large-irani-s-lawyer-on-case-filed-by-shooter/story-Naer8OKfJkrpxYSl4I52iP.html
26-12-2020||India||Amartya Sen lashes out at Visva-Bharati VC ‘empowered’ by Centre||At the centre of a raging row over his family being in “illegal” possession of land at Visva-Bharati, a livid Nobel laureate Amartya Sen has accused its vice chancellor of acting at the behest of the Centre “with its growing control over Bengal”.Sen was born in 1933 at Santiniketan, which is home to Visva-Bharati, the university founded by Rabindranath Tagore, another Nobel prize recipient and literary giant from Bengal. Sen, in a media statement late Friday, said the entire land occupied by him on the hallowed campus was registered on a long term lease that was nowhere close to expiry.“I could comment on the big gap between Santiniketan culture and that of the V.C., empowered as he is by the central government in Delhi with its growing control over Bengal,” Sen wrote.A huge controversy had erupted on Thursday, the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati when media reported that the university has written to the West Bengal government alleging dozens of land parcels owned by it were wrongfully recorded in the names of private parties including Sen.These people had set up restaurants, schools and other businesses on its land, the varsity said, according to the report.Referring to the reports, Sen said Visva-Bharati authorities had never complained to him or his family about any irregularity in holding the land.The Nobel laureate asserted that the Visva-Bharati land on which his house stands is on a long-term lease, which is nowhere near its expiry.“Additional land was bought by my father as free hold and registered in land records under mouja Surul,” he said.A freehold land is a land parcel over which the owner has complete control for perpetuity.“I would prefer to use Indian laws as they exist. For mental strength, I may clutch the beautiful old picture of our home by Abanindranath Tagore, among others,” he said.Abanindranath was a nephew of Rabindranath Tagore and a famed painter of the Bengal School of Art.Amartya Sen’s maternal grandfather Kshitimohan Sen was a pupil at Santiniketan that evolved into a university over time, and was honoured with ‘Deshikottam’, a coveted award, in 1952. Kshitimohan Sen was the award’s first recipient.On media reports about the VC’s claim to the faculty that Sen had called him up deprecating eviction of hawkers who sell their wares in front of his house ‘Pratichi’, Sen said, “He would be spared the necessity of inventing completely imagined conversations with me, beginning impossibly with me introducing myself as ‘Bharat Ratna’ something that no one has ever heard me do”.Taking a swipe at Chakrabarty, Sen called him “an inventive artist”.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had reacted angrily to the media reports on Thursday, saying, “Because of his ideological anti-BJP stance, Amartyada has been subjected to such vicious attack by the present authorities of university.“I respect Amartya da. Do you believe Amartya Sen has occupied land? I am offering apology to Amartya da on behalf of Bengal,” Banerjee said.She also wrote a letter to Sen and asked him to consider her a “sister and friend” in his war against “intolerance and totalitarianism”.BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh had Friday cautioned Sen against being “used” by people with political interests. “We may disagree with him ideologically but we have respect for him. We urge him not to be (allowed to be) used by anti-development political forces in West Bengal,” Ghosh said.The US-based economist, an icon of Bengali achievement on world stage, has often been critical of the Narendra Modi government’s economic policies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amartya-sen-lashes-out-at-visva-bharati-vc-empowered-by-centre/story-m87NkUSVVZz11lFLyWW4fI.html
26-12-2020||India||‘Railways will meet operating expenditure from earnings despite Covid-19’: Board chairman||Indian Railways is set to meet its operating expenditure despite having suffered a significant loss through passenger revenue this year, railways board chairman and CEO VK Yadav said on Saturday.The national transporter has incurred 87 per cent loss in passenger revenue, down from Rs 53,000 crore last year to just Rs 4,600 crore, owing to suspension of regular passenger trains due to Covid-19 pandemic.“This year has been a “Year of Grit and Victories” for Indian Railways. Faced with daunting and unprecedented Covid related challenges, under the guidance and vision of PM, Indian Railways has not only been able to keep the national supply chain running and move millions of people back home in most adverse circumstances but has also been able to usher in an unprecedented growth in the development of infrastructure, innovation, capacity expansion of network, freight diversification and transparency matters. Railways has used the Covid challenge as an opportunity to lay the foundation for future development and the next level of travelling experience for passengers,” the ministry said in a statement on Saturday.Yadav said that it expects an increase in freight loading revenue, compensated by the enhanced transportation of non-traditional commodities like food grain and fertilisers.“Due to several expenditure controlling measures and the earnings from freight revenue, we will be able to compensate for the revenue loss from the passenger segment,” Yadav said at a press conference.Also read: Kumaraswamy bats for farm legislation, Deve Gowda criticises Congress“Railways has so far spent 12 per cent less than the last year. We have controlled our expenditure and are saving on fuel and inventory. Despite Covid, we will meet our operating expenditure from our revenue... We have almost surpassed both freight loading and freight revenue of last year. So, this year’s revenue would be more than last year’s from freight,” he said.The chairman said railways’ biggest achievements this year was that it managed to maintain the supply line of essential commodities, ferried more than 60 lakh migrant workers through Shramik Special trainsHe added that the ministry has also managed to clear the backlog of all maintenance and safety works.Speaking on the bullet train project, Yadav said that the Maharashtra government has assured the ministry of providing necessary land clearances for the remaining portion lying in the state in the next four months. So far, 68 per cent land has been acquired for the project.“Once that is done, we can start work on the entire line and then bullet train from both the states can be commissioned together. We will get the full picture over the next four months and then decide if the commissioning will be done in phases or at once. However, if the Maharashtra land acquisition is delayed, then a 325 kilometre-long stretch till Vapi will be commissioned. The decision will be taken in four months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-will-meet-operating-expenditure-from-earnings-despite-covid-19-board-chairman/story-0Ksu3k9tm5oDepQDnQYXvJ.html
26-12-2020||India||14 UK returnees test Covid-19 positive in Karnataka, samples sent to NIMHANS for further tests||The Karnataka government has said that 14 people of the 2500 returnees from the United Kingdom to the state have tested Covid-19 positive and that their swab samples have been sent to NIMHANS for gene sequencing to find out whether it is the new strain of the virus.Karnataka medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar said that 1,638 out of 2,500 returnees from the UK have been tested and 14 of them have been found positive. “This process needs 48 hours. Once we get the reports it will be sent to the Central government. About 38,500 people have returned from the UK to India. ICMR will collate reports from all states and then come up with a report,” he said. The rest of the people are also being tested.Stating that the health department will discuss with the home ministry regarding prevention and containment of the new variant of coronavirus and come up with guidelines, the Health Minister added all necessary precautions are being taken at airports. “We have also made arrangements to test people who do not have a negative report at the airports,” he said.’Responding to questions about vaccine trails, Dr Sudhakar said that third stage trials are being conducted in several states including in Karnataka. “Anyone can volunteer to take the vaccine at this stage. I have personally appealed to many frontline warriors especially medical students to volunteer for trials,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-uk-returnees-test-covid-19-positive-in-karnataka-samples-sent-to-nimhans-for-further-tests/story-OpftqbDFRmFVXjrsiEzS1K.html
26-12-2020||India||External affairs minister S Jaishankar to visit Qatar on December 27||Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar will be on a two-day visit to Qatar from December 27 to 28 wherein he will be meeting Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al-Thani, Qatari Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister.According to an official statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), Jaishankar will be meeting Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al-Thani and also call on other important dignitaries of the State of Qatar.This will be Jaishankar’s first visit to Qatar as External Affairs Minister.“During the visit, he will hold talks with his counterpart on bilateral issues as well as regional and international issues of mutual interest. He will convey special gratitude to the State of Qatar for taking care of Indians during the Covid-19 pandemic,” said the Ministry.India and Qatar have maintained close high-level contacts during the Covid-19 pandemic.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amir of the State of Qatar Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani have spoken thrice on the telephone in the past few months. EAM and other Cabinet Ministers have also spoken with their Qatari counterparts.The Ministry further said that India and Qatar enjoy strong economic, cultural and people-to-people ties. “Qatar hosts more than 7 lakh Indians. The bilateral trade was USD 10.95 billion in 2019-20. Both sides remain committed to intensifying bilateral cooperation in various fields including energy and investments,” the statement said.India and Qatar have also worked together to face the Covid-19 pandemic and coordinated smooth operation of flights under an Air Bubble arrangement, the ministry added. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/external-affairs-minister-s-jaishankar-to-visit-qatar-on-december-27/story-3FVJetBNB6TSlDOwITaAdM.html
26-12-2020||India||Rajasthan prepared for vaccination drive, says CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan is all geared up for the Covid-19 vaccination drive under the government’s protocol and guidelines, according to chief minister Ashok Gehlot.“The preparations of Covid vaccination are going well in the state. We have prepared the state under the protocol and the guidelines of the government,” Gehlot tweeted in Hindi.The Chief Minister also said that Congress MLA Mahendra Jeet Singh Malviya has volunteered to get himself vaccinated in a trial of Covid vaccine, and now senior IAS officer Dr Prithviraj is getting himself vaccinated.This will encourage other people to get themselves volunteering for the vaccination, he tweeted.The third phase trial of the country’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, ‘Covaxin’ prepared by Bharat Biotech launched in Jaipur has been funded by Indian Council of Medical Research in cooperation with National Institute of Virology, Pune.Gehlot further stated that he completely believed that the act of volunteering will increase the confidence of the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-prepared-for-vaccination-drive-says-cm-ashok-gehlot/story-ogUtaFv6maR11VT4280IcL.html
26-12-2020||India||‘After BTC poll, BJP to gain majority in Assam polls’: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday expressed confidence of the Bharatiya Janata Party forming a government in Assam with full majority in the 2021 assembly polls. Shah arrived in Assam on Saturday early morning where he was welcomed by chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and other BJP leaders.“The Bodoland poll, won by the NDA, was only a semi-final. The final is Assam polls which is ahead. In this poll too, BJP will have full majority,” said Amit Shah while addressing at a public rally held at Amingaon in Kamrup district on Saturday. He said that Assam was earlier known for movements and violence, but chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and state finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had unified people in the region with rest of the country through the promotion of traditions, culture and heritage. He further said that there was a time when the separatist factions used to give arms to the youths, but have now joined the mainstream to become part of Assam’s growth engine. Also read: More muscle to IAF with at least 3 more Rafales flying-in next month“Bodoland accords was the biggest success. I am very much proud to say that in the recently conducted Bodoland polls, eighty per cent polling took place with no bloodshed,” he said. Stressing on “ideological chance,” he said that it can happen only through development. He added that the northeast has turned into a growth engine of the country under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who keep the northeast region in focus.“Modiji visited the northeast thirty times in six years. Every time he visited, he came with gifts,” said Shah. He launched an attack on the former government led by Congress for not working for the development of Assam. In his visit, Shah is expected to meet BJP’s core committee’s newly-elected members, the ruling coalition of Bodoland Territorial Council, 23-member delegation of the United Peoples Party Liberal-BJP-Gana Suraksha Party combine, said Himanta Biswa Sarma, according to news agency PTI. Shah laid foundation stones of Rs 186 crore beautification programme of Vaishnav Saint Srimanta Sankardeva at Batadrava, one medical college and hospital to be set up in the capital city by combining Mahendra Mohan Choudhury hospital and the Kalapahar Covid Care hospital at the cost of Rs 860 crore and 11 law colleges across Assam, including providing Rs 2.5 lakhs each to 8,000 Vaishnava monasteries. Shah is scheduled to offer prayers at Kamakhya Temple in Guwahati on December 27. He would visit Manipur to launch various schemes before leaving for New Delhi. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-btc-poll-bjp-to-gain-majority-in-assam-polls-amit-shah/story-UOegGiiaLSiJzyZGBjQqpI.html
26-12-2020||India||Northeastern states to play leading role in post-Covid India: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Saturday said Northeastern states are going to play a leading role in post-Covid India and the entire country will look up to the region for avenues of business entrepreneurship, start-up initiatives and livelihood opportunities.   Singh also said that the Northeast has distinguished itself as a model for development and Covid management for the rest of the country.  The Northeastern states are going to play a leading role in post-Covid India and the entire country will look up to the region for avenues of business entrepreneurship and start-up initiatives, he told reporters here.The Union Minister for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) appreciated the Northeastern states for taking disciplined, timely and effective measures against the Covid-19 pandemic which have enabled even the impartial agencies to rate the states of the region among the best Covid managed states.   Ever since Narendra Modi took over as prime minister, it was his clear instructions that we have to raise the Northeastern states at par with the more developed states and regions of the country, he said.Singh, who is on a two-day visit to the region, said in the last seven years, a structured institutionalisation of various sectors was possible because of the high priority given by the prime minister and the same reflected in the form of instant preparedness to meet the sudden challenge posed by the Covid pandemic.   The pace of development has been on such a fast track that when the Modi government came to power in 2014, there were at least three Northeastern states which had never seen a train.Today, there is a broad gauge rail track being built in all states and they are going to have its first train to Bangladesh, which will take off from Agartala in Tripura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northeastern-states-to-play-leading-role-in-post-covid-india-jitendra-singh/story-yNMje43rhytLlJXEIAdNlM.html
26-12-2020||India||No devotees to be allowed inside Cossipore Udyanbati for Kalpataru Utsav this year||The Ramakrishna Math at Cossipore here which attracts lakhs of devotees on January 1 every year for ‘Kalpataru Utsav’ will be out of bounds for people this time due to the pandemic, the RKM authorities said in a statement Saturday.People gather at the Cossipore Udyanbati in north Kolkata to mark ‘Kalpataru Utsav’ - an annual event to commemorate Sri Ramakrishna Paramahansa’s attainment of ‘Kalpataru’, also called ‘Kalpavriksha’, meaning the wish fulfilling tree in the heavens.“While special puja and other rituals will continue to be held as usual for Shri Shri Thakur (Ramakrishna Paramhansa), devotees will not be allowed access into the compound. The gate of Udyanbati will be closed till January 3,” the statement signed by Ramakrishna Math head Swami Bagishananda said.This is for the first time that the Ramkrishna Math and Mission authorities have decided to hold the function without devotees.However, arrangements have been made for live streaming of the rituals, which will begin at 4.30 am and continue till 5.20 pm, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-devotees-to-be-allowed-inside-cossipore-udyanbati-for-kalpataru-utsav-this-year/story-eRBeQI12HbjWDLdidQUcWJ.html
26-12-2020||India||14 UK returnees to Karnataka test positive for Covid-19; samples sent for genetic sequencing||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Saturday said 14 people who have come to the state from the UK so far have tested positive for Covid-19 and their samples have been sent for genetic sequencing to find whether it is a new strain of virus that has infected them.“A total of 2,500 people have come (from the UK), of them 1,638 have been tested. According to information I received last night 14 of them have tested positive. All the 14 (samples) have been sent to NIMHANS for (genetic sequencing),” he said.Speaking to reporters here, he said, the Central government has notified ten designated labs in the country for genetic sequencing, out of them two are in Bengaluru- NIMHANS and National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS).“The 14 samples are undergoing genetic sequencing. The second variant of virus in the UK is said to have undergone 17 mutations, the genetic sequencing will test in detail about mutations, which may require 48 hours, probably it (report) will come tomorrow,” he said.A total of 2,500 people have come to the state from the UK from November 25 till December 22 in two flights of Air India and British Airways- that operate, and efforts were on to trace, monitor their health and subject them to tests.The Minister however, said information regarding the genetic sequencing test reports as per the Prime Minister’s Office message will be sent to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) which is likely to share the information to the public in a day or two.“...a total of 38,500 passengers have come to the country from the UK since November 22 and after gathering information about samples, positives and final report after genetic sequencing from all states, ICMR either tomorrow or the day after will share the information to the media,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-uk-returnees-to-karnataka-test-positive-for-covid-19-samples-sent-for-genetic-sequencing/story-5eDMZyMqXl3MrQmK7hmCLM.html
26-12-2020||India||In Madhya Pradesh, panchayat and local body polls deferred for 3 months||Local body and three-tier Panchayat elections have been deferred for the next three months in Madhya Pradesh due to the ongoing Covid 19 pandemic, said an official of the MP State Election Commission. In an order released on Saturday, MP State Election Commission deputy secretary Arun Parmar said, “In view of public health, the deferred election will be conducted after February as departments of the MP government has not completed necessary preparations.” “After analyzing the condition of Covid 19 cases in MP, the Commission has decided to defer the elections of eight municipal corporations and 407 municipalities which were slated to be held between January and February 2021 and three-tier panchayat elections which were slated to be held from December 2020 to February 2021,” said Parmar. “Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, assembly elections were conducted in Bihar and local body elections were held in J&K, Hyderabad and Rajasthan. The local body polls in Haryana have also been declared. It is a constitutional duty of the Commission to conduct the election but MP departments have not completed important preparations required to conduct local elections during the ongoing Covid 19 pandemic,” said the order. The election schedule will be announced after February. Till then, the state government has been asked to complete all the preparations needed, reads the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-madhya-pradesh-panchayat-and-local-body-polls-deferred-for-3-months/story-AkURFkzfTMIdztAhLDviVL.html
26-12-2020||India||Former Haryana CM Hooda demands special session of Haryana Assembly||Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday again demanded convening of a special session of the Assembly and said his Congress party will move a no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government. “The government has lost the support of the people and many MLAs backing it,” the Leader of Opposition in Haryana said in a statement here. Hooda said that he has requested the Governor to convene a special session of the Assembly “as the government is not wanting a session of the House because it wants to avoid facing a no-confidence motion”. He claimed Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had earlier said there was no need to call a special session of the Assembly and that the Opposition did not have any specific issue to raise. Hooda said “today the farmers of the state are protesting on roads all over Haryana and at Delhi borders. Every day one of the agitators sitting under the open sky is dying due to the bitter cold. In such a situation, we ask if the state government does not consider such a big agitation of farmers as an issue?” “Does the government not consider the martyrdom of farmers an issue that merits a discussion? What can be a bigger issue for the government,” he asked. Hooda reiterated his stand of bringing a no-confidence motion against the government in the Assembly, saying “many Independent MLAs have withdrawn support from the government”. Two Independent MLAs -- Sombir Sangwan and Balraj Kundu -- have withdrawn support to the state government, while many of the 10 legislators of the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) have openly come out in support of the farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws. “In this battle between the farmers and the government, many legislators of coalition partner JJP have also spoken in support of the farmers. It is clear that the BJP-JJP coalition government has lost not only support from the public, but also the confidence of its own legislators,” Hooda said.  “If a motion of no confidence comes in the legislative Assembly, then their allies in the government itself will vote against the government. That is why we have demanded a special session from the Governor. The government fears that many legislators will vote against it if a motion of no confidence comes and is avoiding a special session,” he claimed. Recently, Hooda had claimed that some MLAs were playing a “double role” -- making statements against the government but are continuing to support the government. “This will make it clear who stands with the farmers,” he had said, referring to the planned no-trust motion. At present, the Khattar government enjoys a comfortable majority in the 90-member State Assembly. The BJP has 40 MLAs and its ally JJP 10. There are 31 Congress MLAs and one each from the Indian National Lok Dal and Haryana Lokhit Party. Seven members are Independents, out of whom five, including Power Minister Ranjit Singh Chautala, support the ruling combine. Thousands of farmers are protesting at Delhi’s borders for a month now, demanding repeal of the three agri-marketing laws enacted in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-haryana-cm-hooda-demands-special-session-of-haryana-assembly/story-6BAFMQMD0M8iREzwG3CkxN.html
26-12-2020||India||Time has come to expand scope of Congress-led UPA: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Rauton Saturday called for expanding the scope of the Congress-led UPA bloc, saying the Opposition should unite against the “dictatorial attitude” of the Centre and provide a “formidable alternative” to the Narendra Modi government.Speaking to reporters here, Raut also said that Sonia Gandhi effectively led the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) all these years and now the time has come to expand its scope by inducting more allies.Responding to a query on a speculation that NCP chief Sharad Pawar may head the UPA, Raut said there was no dearth of leaders in the country.“What is important is the support of people. Apart from Sonia Gandhi,Sharad Pawar has support from a cross-section of people,” he said.“All Opposition parties should come together against the dictatorial attitude of the Central government. A weak opposition is bad for democracy,” the Rajya Sabha MP said.Calling the UPA and the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), of which Shiv Sena was part earlier, as the “empty match boxes”, Raut said nobody knows which party is part of which bloc.Queried on who should lead the UPA, Raut said, “ Congress interim president) Sonia Gandhi had led the UPA very ably all these years. Now the time has come to widen the UPA’s scope”.He said many regional parties in different states had fought against the BJP but are still not members of the UPA.“All Opposition parties should come under one umbrella to provide a formidable alternative to BJP and PM Narendra Modi, which is strong enough,” he said.The Sena chief spokesperson said non-BJP governments in various states are facing a lot of challenges like non- cooperation from the Central government in carrying out developmental works.“You all know what happened to Metro car shed (in Mumbai),” he said.The Shiv Sena heads the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, of which the NCP and the Congress are also constituents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-has-come-to-expand-scope-of-congress-led-upa-sanjay-raut/story-AyfT5saML2Ie01Ma2w1RWO.html
26-12-2020||India||BTP, Owaisi come together for Gujarat local polls, target Congress vote bank||In what could be music to the BJP in Gujarat, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) has struck an alliance of sorts with the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) of Chhotubhai Vasava who is already smarting after “treachery” by the Congress in neighbouring Rajasthan.This comes over a week after Asaduddin Owaisi of the AIMIM declared his support to the BTP in Rajasthan, triggering speculations of his party making forays in the desert state after Bihar and more recently Uttar Pradesh. Gujarat tribal leader Chhotubhai Vasava’s BTP, which has two assembly seats in Rajasthan, withdrew support to the Ashok Gehlot government after the Congress and the BJP ganged up to ensure the BTP candidate in Dungarpur did not win as zila parishad president. Both parties also joined hands to defeat the BTP on three panchayat samiti seats.Not only did Vasava, an MLA from Jhagadia in Bharuch district who had bailed out Congress veteran Ahmed Patel in the 2017 Rajya Sabha elections, pull out support in Rajasthan, he also did so in two local panchayats in the tribal region. However, the BTP is known to have backed BJP nominees in the Rajya Sabha polls in Gujarat this year. The BTP, which also has two MLAs in Gujarat, has announced that joining hands with Owaisi’s party and would jointly contest the local body elections in the state likely to be held in February 2021.Also read: To push for ‘one nation, one election’, BJP to hold 25 webinars over next few weeks“We have come together and would contest the local body elections to restore democracy and teach the two opportunistic parties (BJP and Congress) a lesson,” Chhotubhai Vasava told reporters in Bharuch. The already beleaguered Congress knows this is bad news for the party in Gujarat. Leader of Opposition in state assembly Paresh Dhanani told Hindustan Times, “This is a frustrated BJP’s B team. BTP plus AIMIM equals BJP. We know this well. But Congress will win, people have seen through the game.”Gujarat BJP president CR Patil appeared quite nonchalant. “Let them fight the elections, it is a democracy. We will fight them too.” Asked if this wasn’t an advantage for the BJP, Patil said, “We don’t see anything from such a prism. We work hard, our development agenda speaks, we go to people with that.”Political analysts see this as a clear marriage of convenience that may lead to electoral polarisation in Gujarat. Political and social scientist Vidyut Joshi says, “All these alliances are largely positioning, and have little to do with ideology. The BTP will fight only tribal seats, while Owaisi would look at Muslim dominated seats in major cities. However, in both cases, this will lead to consolidation of non-tribal and non-Muslim vote in favour of the BJP.”Former state Congress president and senior leader Arjun Modhwadia told Hindustan Times, “AIMIM has become a national B Team of the BJP. They did it in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and now they are coming to Gujarat. But this time, BJP’s tricks won’t work, you will see it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/btp-owaisi-come-together-for-gujarat-local-polls-target-congress-vote-bank/story-CpIqNyJ88PGBhoPwngOjlO.html
26-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: VP Venkaiah Naidu asks lawmakers to choose politics of conviction over convenience and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Choose politics of conviction over convenience’: Venkaiah Naidu at Vajpayee memorial lecturePolitical parties should put an end to populism, introspect on the growing tendency to field candidates with criminal backgrounds, and choose the politics of conviction over convenience said vice president M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘It was almost as if he was giving catching practice’ - Michael Hussey believes Steve Smith is ‘unsure’ while facing AshwinFormer Australia batsman Michael Hussey has expressed concern at the technique adopted by Australia’s batsmen against Indian spinners on Day 1 of the MCG Test on Saturday. Read moreFan asks Mira Rajput if she is expecting her third child with Shahid Kapoor, here is her replyShahid Kapoor’s wife Mira Rajput recently interacted with fans via an Ask Me Anything session on Instagram. She fielded a number of questions, ranging from food preferences to her favourite holiday destination. Read moreGovt agencies can still break into Apple iPhones regardless the security updatesApple is usually known for its security and privacy features in iPhones, iPads, Macs and other devices. In the past we have seen the company, fighting against government agencies to preserve private information on iPhones as well. Read moreCoolie No 1 promotions: Sara Ali Khan planks in orange crop top, mini skirtSara Ali Khan is having quite a busy Christmas this year and is occupied with the shoot of her upcoming Atrangi Re as well as the promotions of her latest release, Coolie No 1. Read moreVideo of woman jamming out on electric guitar wows netizens. May leave you in awe tooAre you a fan of rock music? Do you like to watch clips of Slash or Jimi Hendrix’s guitar solos on YouTube in your free time? If so, then here’s a recording you must check out. Read moreAmid severe winter, ITBP soldiers on alert at LAC; using yaks in ArunachalAs tension with China continues, soldiers remain on high alert along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tawang. Personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police were seen patrolling and training in the winter chill. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-vp-venkaiah-naidu-delivers-third-vajpayee-memorial-lecture-and-all-the-latest-news/story-oerpOXBRzu1jMRqq1gw71K.html
26-12-2020||India||Jharkhand CM to deliver lecture on tribal rights at Harvard||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren will deliver a keynote lecture on “tribal rights, sustainable development and welfare policies in Jharkhand” virtually during the 18th annual “India Conference” at Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, to be held from February 19 to 21, 2021.According to the official Twitter handle of the office of the chief minister, Soren has accepted the invitation sent to him on Friday.“The Chief Minister has accepted the invitation and thanked the organisers. He will be speaking on tribal rights, sustainable development and welfare policies in Jharkhand,” the tweet read. The tweet also attached a picture of the invitation, sent to the chief minister on Friday, seeking his consent to be a part of the “India Conference” as a speaker on a keynote panel.“India Conference” is the largest student-run meeting in North America focusing on India and one of the world’s leading forums for dialogue, debate, and networking around issues pertaining to contemporary India.Suraj Yengde, a PhD scholar and senior fellow at Harvard Kennedy School, sent the invitation letter, saying his work, in particular, has been of keen interest “to most of us as you merged a proud tribal indigenous politics with a development agenda...for strengthening of democracy that is locked in caste and feudalistic nepotism”.“We are looking to have Hemant in the chief ministers’ panel virtually to discuss on the issues of governance, state-centre relations, handling of Covid-19 and the intersections of caste and tribal identities in the current politics,” the letter read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-cm-to-deliver-lecture-on-tribal-rights-at-harvard/story-son5GssgdIp3w7lqPzXNDL.html
26-12-2020||India||‘Choose politics of conviction over convenience’: Venkaiah Naidu at Vajpayee memorial lecture||Political parties should put an end to populism, introspect on the growing tendency to field candidates with criminal backgrounds, and choose the politics of conviction over convenience said vice president M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday. Delivering the third Atal Bihari Vajpayee memorial lecture organised by the think tank India Foundation, the vice president said, “The hunger for power and entry of people with a criminal background is leading to violence in the political arena and debasing politics...Unless these undesirable trends are checked, there will be further deterioration and cause irreparable damage to the country’s polity.” Referring to Vajpayee as the father of coalition politics in India, for leading a coalition of 23 parties, Naidu said, political parties will do well to imbibe the qualities of consensus building from the late PM. “He (Vajpayee) epitomized the politics of conviction and consensus...For Vajpayee consensus was not an expedient political tool, it was a core element of his convictions,” Naidu said. Referring to Vajpyee’s governance he said, the late PM fast tracked development in various sectors ranging from Gram Sadak Yojana to air connectivity to even political connectivity. “He got many parties together for the first time in India’s history and was able to provide able leadership and a stable government.” “He took pragmatic initiatives and the reforms that were undertaken were aimed at making the life of the common man better. He wanted to make a difference, it was a golden era for economy, there was 8% growth per year, and he pushed several reforms. He used to say empowering the individual is empowering the nation,” the VP said. On the growing trend of defections, Naidu said loopholes in the anti-defection laws need to be addressed. “In a democracy one has the right to change parties if you don’t like the policies or the leader, but that should be on issues. Defection matters cannot remain undecided for long periods of time; it will be making a mockery of democracy. Time has come for political parties to think, introspect and bid goodbye to politics of convenience and follow politics of conviction and politics of consensus,” he said. He also called upon political parties to introspect on the tendency to field candidates with a criminal background; the instance of politicians indulging in violence and the emergence of caste-based politics. He went on to add that people should elect their representatives on the basis of character, caliber, capacity and conduct and not caste, community, cash and criminality. “We need to raise the level of debates, the level of discourse. It is time to reflect on what is happening, the standard of speeches…avoid unruly behaviour, physical fights also. Media has a responsibility too… this (unruly) behaviour should not be reported in a positive manner, you create disturbance you get prominence. Some MPs who prepare well and contribute to debates are not reported. Only unruly behaviour is reported, giving them prominence,” he said. Urging political parties and governments to give priority to long-term development instead of populist policies, he said it is the duty of governments to help the weaker sections and give a helping hand to them. “Governments should show a little bias in favour of the poor, the unorganised, the rural people and women because they have been discriminated against.” The VP who is also the chairperson of the Rajya Sabha also frowned on the tendency to disrupt the proceedings in the house. He said, “Disruption should be avoided. Let the government propose, the opposition oppose and let the house decide.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/choose-politics-of-conviction-over-convenience-venkaiah-naidu-at-vajpayee-memorial-lecture/story-mMTNoAU7NF4xcaKEHuJOLL.html
26-12-2020||India||40 companies of central paramilitary forces to be deployed for Kumbh in Haridwar||Forty companies of central paramilitary forces will be deployed for the Kumbh Mela starting here next month, a senior police official said.The Centre has given its approval for the deployment of 40 companies of paramilitary forces, including seven companies each of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), six of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), 10 each of the Border Security Force (BSF) and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), for the mela, Inspector General (IG) of Police (Kumbh Mela) Sanjay Gunjyal said. Five companies of the central paramilitary forces will arrive on January 1. The next batch of seven companies will be received on February 1, Gunjyal said.On the main bathing days or ‘Shahi Snan’ days, twelve-fourteen companies of the central paramilitary forces will be deployed in the mela area, the IG said. Besides these, he said, the Centre is also sending NSG commandos, snipers and bomb disposal squads with anti-sabotage sniffer dogs on the state government’s request. Gunjyal also attended a seminar with Ganga Sabha representatives to review the preparations for Kumbh and invited suggestions from them on how to improve the arrangements, calling them one of the principal stakeholders in the organisation of the event. Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha suggested that Har ki Pairi ghat should be declared a shoe-free zone during the event.Devotees staying at hotels and dharmashalas during the event should by asked by their managements to visit Har ki Pairi without their shoes on, he said.Gunjyal said police personnel deployed at Har ki Pairi can also be asked to wear shoes and belts made of material other than leather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-companies-of-central-paramilitary-forces-to-be-deployed-for-kumbh-in-haridwar/story-PbKrrpUpU29jO7ZYNnkQAL.html
26-12-2020||India||More muscle to IAF with at least 3 more Rafales flying-in next month||The Indian Air Force’s solitary Rafale squadron will add more muscle with the arrival of at least three more fighter jets in January, a shot in the arm for the IAF that is grappling with a shortage of combat planes, people familiar with developments said on Saturday on the condition of anonymity.Also Read: Rafale’s deep-strike cruise missile gets an upgrade for targets in mountainsThis batch of Rafale fighters will be the third set of deliveries of the French-origin aircraft to the air force, which has ordered a total of 36 warplanes (equivalent of two squadrons) at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore.“At least three Rafale jets will arrive in India next month. The dates are still being worked out. The planes will be flown to Jamnagar from France without a stopover on the way. Refuelling support will be provided by Indian and French tankers,” the people said.The jets were ordered from France in September 2016 under a government-to-government deal. The delivery of the three jets in January will take the number of Rafales in the IAF’s inventory to 11.Also read: Farmers’ group seek resumption of talks on Tuesday over new farm lawsThe second batch of the IAF’s three Rafale fighter jets had reached the Jamnagar airbase in Gujarat from France in early November before they flew to their homebase in Ambala. The first batch of five Rafale jets of the 36 ordered by the IAF reached the Ambala airbase on July 29 after a stopover at the Al Dhafra airbase near Abu Dhabi, although a formal induction ceremony took place later on September 10.Also Read: China’s new road cuts travel time to Karakoram Pass, raises red flags in DelhiThe arrival of more fighters will further boost the IAF’s capability to rapidly deploy the advanced jets in the Ladakh theatre amid military tensions with China, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.The IAF has been operating the fighter jets - equipped with advanced weapons and sensors - in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on high alert to deal with any provocation by China amid a lingering border dispute. The IAF will induct three to four jets every two months, with all the 36 planes likely to join its combat fleet by the year-end. The second Rafale squadron will be based at Hasimara in West Bengal to strengthen the IAF’s capabilities in the eastern sector.Also Read: China sells 50 armed drones to Pakistan, begins psyops. It’s a reminder | AnalysisThe Rafale fighters are the first imported jets to join the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 jets entered service in June 1997.The twin-engine Rafale jets are capable of carrying out a variety of missions – ground and sea attack, air defence and air superiority, reconnaissance and nuclear strike deterrence. The fighters can carry almost 10 tonnes of weapons. India-specific enhancements on the Rafales include cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, jammers and towed decoys to ward off incoming missiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-muscle-to-iaf-at-least-3-more-rafales-to-fly-in-next-month/story-mrU4vkeBNw9osQvcdOogEL.html
26-12-2020||India||MP cabinet approves bill against forced conversions. Here are other states with similar laws||The Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Saturday approved the Madhya Pradesh Dharm Swatantrey (Freedom of Religion Act) 2020 with a provision for a maximum of 10 years in jail for anyone “forcing women, minors, and people from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribe to undergo religious conversion”. The proposed legislation, which will replace the 1968 Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act, seeks to prohibit religious conversions or an attempt of conversion by means of misrepresentation, allurement, threat, undue influence, coercion, marriage, and any other fraudulent means.Forcing someone to convert their religion will attract up to 5 years of imprisonment and a minimum Rs 25,000 fine. Madhya Pradesh is not the first state to propose such legislation.Here’s a look at other states that have a similar law or may introduce one:Uttar PradeshUttar Pradesh has a similar law. In fact, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath batted for the law ever since he formed the government in the state. The law came into effect on November 27 and 35 people have been apprehended under the law in the state so far. Himachal PradeshHimachal Pradesh brought a law into force last week which requires a person to give prior notice to authorities for converting to another religion and outlawing conversions solely for marriage. This is very similar to the law in force in Uttar Pradesh. Section 7 of the Himachal Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act, 2019, requires an individual to submit a “declaration” of intention to the district magistrate when converting from one religion to the other.HaryanaAnother Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled state has been contemplating legal provisions against conversion into another religion. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced that his government is mulling over formulating such legislation after Uttar Pradesh introduced the law.KarnatakaKarnataka’s home minister Basavaraj Bommai has also announced that the state will have a similar law like that in UP. He said, “When Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh governments started mulling over it (a law), we too started thinking about it- how to do it, how to ensure that there was pressure or force involved (in conversion)- it is the main thing.” Chief minister B S Yediyurappa has repeatedly cited the need for such a law.UttarakhandThe Uttarakhand government also passed a similar law and is planning to end monetary benefits extended for inter-faith marriages in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cabinet-approves-bill-against-forced-conversions-here-are-other-states-with-similar-laws/story-IAm8bDimQqsbBopxVP6RuL.html
26-12-2020||India||Omar alleges NC candidate forced to join Apni Party, claims to have phone recording||National Conference (NC) leader Omar Abdullah on Saturday alleged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre is interfering with the outcome of the recently-concluded District Development Council (DDC) polls in Jammu and Kashmir. Abdullah also alleged that a lawmaker of the NC was forced to join the Apni Party. He pointed out that shortly after the results were announced two members of his party were also detained.Also Read: J-K administration interfering to change DDC results, says Omar Abdullah“The government has started to harass those who fought the election in Shopian. They are being put under preventive detention for no reason,” the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. “Two senior leaders of the National Conference were detained after the declaration of the DDC poll results. One lady of our party who won in the election in Shopian was forced to join the Apni Party. We have a phone recording to prove it,” said Omar Abdullah.The NC leader was referring to the induction of Yasmeena Jan to the Apni Party, led by former J-K finance minister Altaf Bukhari. Jan had contested and won the polls as a National Conference candidate from Imam Sahib-I in south Kashmir’s Shopian district.Abdullah had earlier on Friday blamed the police and Jammu and Kashmir administration of facilitating horse-trading after the results of the DDC polls were declared. He also took to Twitter to criticise the J-K administration.Also Read: The Number Theory| Understanding the DDC election results in Jammu and Kashmir“This explains why our leaders in Shopian district are being put under “preventive arrest” by the police. J&K police & the administration are facilitating horse trading & defections. The woman shown here joining the BJP’s B-team contested & won elections on an NC mandate,” Omar said on Twitter.The DDC elections were held in Jammu and Kashmir across eight phases and the results were released on Tuesday. The BJP secured victory with 75 seats and the People’s Alliance of Gupkar Declaration won 110 seats. Independent candidates have secured wins in 50 constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omar-alleges-nc-candidate-forced-to-join-apni-party-claims-to-have-phone-recording/story-toVrkLZdPnwoEZxbfD50RP.html
26-12-2020||India||PM Modi dresses in ‘pheran’ gifted by JK farm labourer to launch scheme for UT||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has often chosen to dress in the traditional attire of a region while attending an event related to it, and it was a Kashmiri ‘pheran’ on Saturday as he launched the Ayushman Bharat scheme to extend health insurance benefits to all residents of Jammu and Kashmir.Sources close to the prime minister said he had received the pheran as a gift in winters last year from a farm labourer from Jammu and Kashmir.Modi had planned to wear this during his visit to the region, but the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic meant that such a trip could not materialise.He took the opportunity of the launch of the scheme through video-conference on Saturday to wear the “special gift”, the sources said.He has also been recently donning Bengali shawls multiple times in his virtual programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-dresses-in-pheran-gifted-by-jk-farm-labourer-to-launch-scheme-for-ut/story-UgnQEZ6ymNCALnoUZxYyhL.html
26-12-2020||India||Farmers’ group seek resumption of talks on Tuesday over new farm laws||Farmers’ groups on Saturday proposed to hold another round of talks with the Centre over the three farm bills on Tuesday, listing the demands they have outlined for the government ahead of the discussions. Farmers’ rights activist and Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav said that the farmers are ready to hold another set of discussions at 11am on Tuesday.“The first two points in our agenda for talks are modalities to repeal the three farm laws and mechanism and procedure to bring a law for providing a legal guarantee on MSP (Minimum Support Price),” Yadav was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Also Read: No corporation can snatch your land: Amit Shah to farmersYadav’s proposal on behalf of the protesting farmers is similar to what the farmers have earlier demanded as they continue to press the government to withdraw the recently passed laws. Though the agitating farmers have demanded a legal guarantee on minimum support price, the Centre has on several occasions assured the farmers that the MSP system will not be disturbed because of the new laws.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday highlighted that the MSP system will continue to run while disbursing funds to farmers under the PM-KISAN scheme at a virtual event on Friday. “The Opposition is misleading farmers regarding MSP. If farmers want to sell at MSP, they can go to mandis. If they think they are getting a price from private traders, they have the freedom,” Modi had said during the event. He also highlighted that farmers will continue to get assured prices for their produce under his government.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Will there be 6th round of talks soon? 10 pointsBharatiya Kisan Union chief Rakesh Tikait also said that the modalities to repeal the laws will be one of the primary points of discussion when talks resume. “Modalities for the repeal of three farm laws and legal guarantee for MSP should be part of agenda for talks with the government,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. The government has earlier outlined that it is ready for the long haul over the farm laws and have continued assuring the farmers that the laws are reformatory in nature.The farmers’ groups also said a tractor march has been scheduled on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal highway on December 30 to protest against the farm laws. Farmer leader Darshan Pal told ANI, “Toll plazas in Punjab and Haryana will remain permanently open. On December 30, we will organise a tractor march from Singhu border.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-group-seek-resumption-of-talks-on-tuesday-over-new-farm-laws/story-RIsjoNexOvyGNIGlTC0xbK.html
26-12-2020||India||To push for ‘one nation, one election’, BJP to hold 25 webinars over next few weeks||To build consensus for simultaneous elections in the country, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will organise 25 webinars over the coming weeks on the merits of one nation, one election, people aware of the details said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has pushed for conducting simultaneous elections to the Lok Sabha and the state assemblies over the last few years on the ground that it does away with the obstruction in carrying out development work that is hampered by the model code of conduct, imposed due to frequent elections. To allow a level playing field, during the implementation of the MCC, incumbent governments are forbidden from making new announcements of schemes and policies. The MCC, however, does not prohibit the completion of ongoing work. According to a senior BJP leader, the webinars that are aimed at creating awareness about the benefits of simultaneous elections will be addressed by senior party leaders, and will be attended by academics and legal experts. Since coming to power in 2014, PM Modi has advocated simultaneous elections. Recently, while addressing the concluding session of the 80th All India Presiding Officers Conference, the PM pitched for one nation, one election, pointing out it is the need of the hour as elections are being held every few months, impacting development work. “Elections are held at different places every few months and the impact it has on development work is known to all. Therefore, it is a must to have deep study and deliberation on ‘one nation, one election’,” Modi had said. In 2016, the government think tank, Niti Aayog in a discussion paper, ‘Analysis of Simultaneous Elections: The What, Why and How’, also lent support to the idea of simultaneous elections, stating that frequent polls change the focus of policy making because “short-sighted populist” and “politically safe” measures are accorded higher priority over difficult structural reforms. Instead of holding elections in two to five states every year, the report proposed elections in two cycles with an interregnum of 30 months: 14 states to go to polls along with that of the Lok Sabha in one phase and the remaining states in the next cycle two-and-a-half years later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-push-for-one-nation-one-election-bjp-to-hold-25-webinars-over-next-few-weeks/story-ii3Lj90RoLfGkuYyclkHaO.html
26-12-2020||India||After threatening to quit NDA, ally RLP joins farmers’ protest at Shahjahanpur||A large number of supporters of the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), an ally of the NDA, on Saturday joined the farmers’ protest being held on the Jaipur-Delhi National Highway in Shahjahanpur of Alwar district along the Rajasthan-Haryana border. At about 3.00 pm on Saturday afternoon, hundreds of vehicles reached the border from Kotputli area of Jaipur rural. The RLP workers have put up a separate pandal on the highway next to the farmers supporting RLP. “I request the Central government not to play with fire. Any government who has dared to go against the people has been dethroned. Because of this act agriculture mandis will end, why didn’t the government consult the farmers? Because of these laws, land mafias will increase. I don’t understand why the government is not withdrawing the farm laws,” said RLP chief Hanuman Beniwal at the protest site. He said he was the son of a farmer but the Central government wants to muscle down the farmers’ protest. “This (farmer protest) is the issue of sustenance and pride of farmers and we are standing with them,” he said. Earlier, RLP chief Hanuman Beniwal had threatened to quit the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) if the three farm laws were not repealed. But, he did not make any such announcement on Saturday.On Friday, farmers from Maharashtra had also reached Shajahanpur to lend their support to those protesting farmers against the three farm laws. The farmers had covered a distance of 900 km since Monday, after they undertook their journey from Nashik. Addressing famers at the protest site in Shahjahanpur, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Joginder Singh said the prime minister doesn’t care for the children of farmers. “He only cares for the children of a few corporates. He does not understand us,” he said. “BJP is calling us Khalistani and Pakistanis. Shame on them. Each of us are from Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. We have seen bodies of freedom fighters and soldiers who died for the country. Senior judges, officers, people’s representatives, are coming to our protests and telling us that they support us. The regime is crumbling,” Singh said. National President of Kisan Mahapanchayat, Rampal Jat, said on the lines of the Singhu border protest, the farmers’ movement in Rajasthan has progressed. “Peace is our strength. A large number of farmers have started coming to the border. The march towards Delhi will be held peacefully,” he added. Due to increasing number of farmers at the border, the traffic jam on the highway has increased and traffic has been diverted to new routes connecting Jaipur and with the national capital. While coming from Jaipur to Shahjahanpur, traffic has been diverted from four places in between. Similarly, vehicles coming from Delhi are diverted from Bawal. Due to this, the pressure of heavy vehicles has increased on the second road leading out from the highway. Farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana and Gujarat had started proceeding towards Delhi earlier this month but were stopped by the Rewari police at the Haryana-Rajasthan border. Since then, they have been protesting at Shahjahanpur in Alwar district, near the Rajasthan-Haryana border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-threatening-to-quit-nda-ally-rlp-joins-farmers-protest-at-shahjahanpur/story-0tAvTrCOexcGZS9Ycf90KL.html
26-12-2020||India||Kashmir under grips of ‘Chillai-Kalan’ with temperatures falling below freezing point||There was no let-up in cold wave conditions in Kashmir on Saturday as the minimum temperature stayed below the freezing point, even as the meteorological department said the valley is likely to receive light rain and snow over the next few days.The weather across Kashmir has remained dry and cold since the snowfall on December 12, with the night temperature staying several degrees below the freezing point, MeT department officials said.The officials said Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 3.7 degrees Celsius, slightly up from the previous night’s minus 4.3 degrees Celsius.In the south Kashmir tourist resort of Pahalgam, the mercury settled at minus 4.5 degrees Celsius, up from minus 5.9 degrees Celsius the previous night.The famous ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir was the coldest place in the valley at minus 6.5 degrees Celsius, down from minus 5.6 degrees Celsius the previous night, according to the officials.Qazigund recorded a minimum temperature of minus 4 degrees Celsius, Kupwara minus 3.6 degrees Celsius and Kokernag minus 4.0 degrees Celsius, the officials said.Kashmir is currently under the grip of ‘Chillai Kalan’ -- a 40-day period of harshest winter when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies, as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley.The chances of snowfall are the maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall, the officials said.The ‘Chillai-Kalan’, which began on December 21, will end on January 31. However, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day ‘Chillai-Khurd’ (small cold) and a 10-day ‘Chillai-Bachha’ (baby cold).The weather department said there is a possibility of light rain and snowfall in the valley for the next few days starting Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-under-grips-of-chillai-kalan-with-temperatures-falling-below-freezing-point/story-rPH6QHN8Y29QI4WlUDY6iL.html
26-12-2020||India||Ahead of Amit Shah’s visit to Manipur, a look at ILP system||Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh has said his government will honour Union home minister Amit Shah for his role in introducing the Inner Line Permit (ILP) system to the northeastern state. Shah will be in Imphal on Sunday as part of his visit to the northeast. “We’re also appealing to the people to attend the programme which is being planned as an appreciation to Union home minister Amit Shahji’s role in introducing the ILP (Inner Line Permit) system in the state,” Biren Singh has said.Outsiders, including people from other states of the country, need to take permission to visit states that come under the ILP regime. The objective of the ILP system is to prevent settlement of other Indian nationals in the states that come under it so as to protect the indigenous population in terms of land, jobs, and other facilities.Here’s everything you need to know about the Inner Line Permit (ILP) system:1. ILP is issued to grant inward travel permission to an Indian citizen into a protected area for a limited period. The system was formally introduced in Manipur on January 1, 2020.2. Manipur is the fourth state in the northeast where this system is applicable. Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Mizoram also come under the ILP regime.3. No Indian citizen can visit any of these states unless they belong to that state, nor can they overstay beyond the period specified in the ILP.4. The concept of the ILP comes from the colonial area. Under the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation Act, 1873, the British framed regulations restricting the entry and regulating the stay of outsiders in designated areas and was done to protect their own trading interests in these areas.5. An ILP is issued by the state government concerned and can be obtained after applying either online or physically. Dates of travel and areas that the ILP holder can travel to are mentioned in the document.6. Demands for an ILP system have also been made in various other northeastern states.7. The system was also discussed in light of the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill which makes it easier for non-Muslim refugees from Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Afghanistan to obtain Indian citizenship. If CAB is implemented with provisions excluding the states under the ILP regime, it means that beneficiaries under CAB will become Indian citizens but will not be able to settle in these three states. No clear decision with respect to the status of the ILP has been taken by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-amit-shah-s-visit-to-manipur-a-look-at-ilp-system/story-aHn53E295mq9rFORsOIEjK.html
26-12-2020||India||Bihar cabinet approves 111 new urban bodies, 5 more municipal corporations||In a bid to boost urbanization, the Bihar cabinet on Saturday approved the urban development department’s (UDD) proposal to amend the Bihar Municipal Act to pave the way for creation of over 100 new urban local bodies and upgrade the status of existing ones.The exercise would also lead to creation of five more municipal corporations in the state. Currently, there are 12 municipal corporations in the state, which includes Chapra that was accorded the status of a municipal corporation in 2016.At the cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar, the government gave its approval for the upgradation of Nagar Parishads of Motihari, Sasaram, Bettiah, Madhubani and Samastipur as municipal corporations. It also approved the UDD’s proposal to expand the limit of 12 urban bodies, including those of the Bihar Sharif municipal corporation, Masaurhi Nagar Parishad, Buxar Nagar Parishad and Hajipur Nagar Parishad.UDD officials said that the process to develop 103 new Nagar Panchayats and eight new Nagar Parishads would start after the cabinet decision. Similarly, 32 Nagar Panchayats would be upgraded as Nagar Parishads.A total of nine new Nagar Panchayats would be created in Darbhanga, followed by eight each in Nalanda and Purnia, seven in Muzaffarpur and five each in Gaya and Katihar. Punpun and Paliganj would be notified as new Nagar Panchayats in Patna.Currently, the state has 49 Nagar Parishads (also called city councils) and 80 Nagar Panchayats (administratively known town councils), said an UDD official.The official said that the government’s decision to create new urban bodies and upgrade the existing ones to bigger entities would lead to huge investments in infrastructure development, development of business activities and enhancement of civic amenities. However, the people falling under the jurisdiction of these urban bodies need to pay taxes for availing civic amenities.Bihar has about 11.27% urban population against the national average of 31.16%. Once the new urban areas are notified and infrastructure is enhanced according to their new status, the state’s urbanization will grow to about 20%, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-cabinet-approves-111-new-urban-bodies-5-more-municipal-corporations/story-QfiV4oWxU8anDcZSExiQ2O.html
26-12-2020||India||Top Maoist carrying Rs 10 lakh reward arrested with AK-47, 5 associates in Jharkhand||Giridih police in Jharkhand achieved a major breakthrough with the arrest of Prasant Majhi, identified as a high-ranking member of banned CPI (Maoists), with a reward of Rs 10 lakh on his head, along with his five associates in hilly terrain of Parasnath under Khukhra police station.Giridih superintendent of police (SP) Amit Renu on Saturday admitted the arrest but refused to share details saying that he was busy in the process of action and would talk later on the matter.Officials of local police station said a special squad also seized AK-47 rifle from Prasant Majhi. Among the arrested Maoists activists, two are women and three men.Majhi’s arrest is said to be one of the major breakthroughs of Renu who has launched an all-out operation for eliminating Maoists from the region.Also read: Kerala gold smuggling case: Customs to move high court against jail deptPolice official said that after getting a tip-off, SP Amit Renu set up a special squad which arrested Majhi hiding in between Parvatpur-Pandeydih villages on the border of Giridih- Dhanbad districts under Khukhra police station.Sources said the police arrested Prasant Majhi and his associates on Friday and secretly took him away to an unknown location for interrogation to avoid Maoists-triggered protest.A CRPF picket is being set up in Parvatpur-Pandeydih, the village of dreaded Maoist Ajay Mahto who is carrying a reward worth Rs 25 lakh on his head.Maoists are launching agitation against the picket in the village. On December 23, Maoists-triggered villagers carried out a violent attack at the construction site of the CRPF picket.Police official said Maoists are active in the region. Prasant Majhi had reportedly come to Pandeydih village to intensify agitation of villagers against the CRPF picket when he was arrested with AK-47 and five associates.Hilly terrain of Parasnath of Jharkhand’s Giridih district and its adjoining Topchachi block of Dhanbad district are considered den of Maoists activists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-maoist-carrying-rs-10-lakh-reward-arrested-with-ak-47-5-associates-in-jharkhand/story-jhEfAeOBNfTLV2y5gxGG6H.html
26-12-2020||India||J-K administration interfering to change DDC results: Omar Abdullah||National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah has accused the Jammu and Kashmir administration of attempting to “change” the district development council (DDC) election results by arresting leaders and forcing the winning candidates to join parties other than the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD).Abdullah said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Apni Party and both state and central governments should accept that the majority of seats in the DDC elections have been won by the PAGD.“After the results, repeatedly from Delhi, government and BJP spokespersons said that it was a victory of democracy. Even today the PM, during a health programme inauguration, said, it is the win of democracy. Then the next steps should also be taken democratically, which unfortunately is not happening,” he said.He alleged that some officers of the government were interfering with the electoral process after the declaration of the DDC results.“On whose command we don’t know. There are arrests, detentions and threats; the districts in Kashmir, where they can change the results using detentions and make DDC chairman from parties other than the Gupkar Alliance, they are doing it with vim and vigour,” he said. In the first DDC elections, the PAGD-- a conglomerate of six J&K regional parties including the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party-- have won 110 of the 240 seats. BJP was successful in 75 constituencies, Congress on 26 seats and the newly-floated Apni Party, considered close to the BJP, managed to get 12 seats, while the Independents emerged as a major force with 50 seats.“We want to tell the J&K government and the central government not to play with democracy. J&K has already paid a heavy price for these things. If the PM himself is saying that in these elections democracy has won, then he should tell his administration, his police, civil officers that they should not interfere in these things (election results). My colleagues should be released and the harassment of the families of the winning candidates should stop,” he said.HT’s attempt to get a reaction from Kashmir divisional commissioner, Pandurang K Pole, did not elicit any response. Also Read: Parties woo Independents as they emerge key players for at least four J&K DDCs Abdullah alleged that in south Kashmir’s Shopian district, his two senior colleagues-- ex-MLC of Wachi, Showkat Ganai and segment in-charge Shopian Shabir Ahmad Kulle-- have been picked up after the results.“They are saying that they have been taken into preventive detention. What are they preventing we don’t understand. Except democracy, nothing else is being prevented there,” he said.He said that the winning candidates from Shopian are being brought one by one to Srinagar to make them join the Apni Party.“They include independents, members of the Congress, PDP and unfortunately we also saw a woman, who won on the NC mandate; she was forcibly made to join the Apni Party yesterday,” he said.Abdullah played an audio of a purported telephonic conversation between an NC leader and the husband of the party’s winning woman candidate. It alleged that the woman’s brother has been detained and her husband was asked to make her join the Apni Party to ensure his release within three days. HT can’t independently verify the authenticity of the audio clip.“The woman went and the Apni Party members garlanded her and the murder of democracy started,” Abullah said, and added that the J&K administration was using the police to make arrests and detentions to force candidates to join the Apni Party.He demanded that the NC’s woman candidate be disqualified under the anti-defection law.Also Read: 4G ban extended in Jammu and Kashmir till January 8; Udhampur, Ganderbal exemptedHe said the BJP scored a higher vote percentage since it contested more seats than the PAGD and because voters turned out in greater numbers in Jammu-- about 70%-- compared to around 30% polling in Kashmir.“In elections, to form a government, we see seats only, and not vote share,” he said.Abdullah reiterated that the PAGD will continue to fight against the revocation of special rights enshrined under Article 370 and the bifurcation of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories. Demanding that the detained and arrested leaders are immediately released, Abdullah said the developments were a discredit to democracy and institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-administration-interfering-to-change-ddc-results-omar-abdullah/story-DbthAeoSjbjuZUQAsez2iL.html
26-12-2020||India||PM Modi to flag off India’s first ‘driverless’ train next week. Know more||India will soon get its first driverless fully-automated Metro train and which will be flagged off by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, December 28. The announcement was made by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday evening. The train service will be operated on the Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line, which connects Delhi’s Janakpuri West with Noida’s Botanical Garden line. PM Modi will also launch a fully-operational National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) for travel on the Airport Express Line of Delhi Metro, DMRC said.Here’s everything you need to know about India’s first driverless Metro train:1. The trials for the train were started along the 20-km stretch on the Pink Line in December 2017. The trials were equipped with Unattended Train Operations (UTO) and Communication Based Train Control (CBTC) signalling systems.2. The automatic trains will only be limited to Line 7 and Line 8 of the DMRC network as driverless train operation (DTO) or unattended train operation (UTO) modes can only be implemented on lines which came up under the Phase III expansion as these corridors are equipped with advanced signalling technology. The first driverless train will run on Line 7.3. The train will be controlled entirely from DMRC’s three command centres, without any human intervention. The Communication Based Train Control (CBTC) signalling technology will also make it possible to monitor and troubleshoot every aspect of train operations remotely and manual intervention will be required only in cases of hardware replacement.4. At the command centres, information controllers will handle the passenger information system as well as crowd monitoring. With access to CCTV feed, all rolling stock controllers will monitor train equipment in real-time, download faults and other events captured by CCTVs and assist traffic controllers in executing commands remotely.5. DMRC has also engaged a consultant, a consortium of Systra MVA and Systra France, for inspection and review of the entire system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-flag-off-india-s-first-driverless-train-next-week-know-more/story-U6G9QGcuCYVsglvTGdZxoK.html
26-12-2020||India||From Hisar to Delhi: 10 coldest places in northwestern plains||India has been witnessing biting cold conditions, which are projected to continue further in the upcoming week by the weather department. The northwestern plains of the country are expected to see mercury dropping below 2-3 degrees Celsius, as forecasted by the department. While some minimum temperatures have shown rising trends, most places are still gripped by the chilly waves.Also Read | Rain in northern states, cold wave conditions likely during year-endIndia Meteorological Department (IMD) has said active movements of western disturbances are likely to affect the western Himalayan region from Saturday that can lead to scattered to fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad. Rain showers during the next two days in isolated parts of the northwestern plains of India have also been forecasted by the department.IMD has also projected chilly conditions in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana and said these places could see dense to very dense fog in the mornings during the weekend and that fresh spells of dense fog probably over plains of north India can start from December 29. “Dense to very dense fog are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi in morning hours during on 28th to 30th December and Dense fog also likely over Uttar Pradesh in morning hours on 29th and 30th December 2020,” IMD said.Here are 10 cities in the plains that were the coldest on Saturday, according to Skymet Weather:1. Haryana shivered the most with Hisar’s temperature at 2.2 degrees Celsius and Narnaul freezing at 3 degrees Celsius.2. Madhya Pradesh’s Umaria recorded next lowest of 3.5 degrees Celsius, followed by Punjab’s Amritsar at 3.8 degrees celsius.3. Chandigarh along with Haryana’s Rohtak witnessed a cold of 4 degrees Celsius.4. Churu and Ganganagar in Rajasthan recorded the minimum temperature of 4.1 degrees Celsius.5. Ludhiana in Punjab and Delhi braved the cold at 4.4 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-hisar-to-delhi-10-coldest-places-in-northwestern-plains/story-Xrs5Lxm84kQy1PffDpJ2jP.html
26-12-2020||India||Dharavi model underlines importance of community participation: Senior health official||A collective effort by the people and authorities helped Mumbai’s Dharavi, once a hotspot of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), reduce the number of infection, a senior health official said on Saturday, a day after the area reported zero positive cases for the first time since the pandemic in the country. The slum-dominated Dharavi did not report a single Covid-19 infection on Friday for the first time since April 1 when the first patient of the viral disease was detected in the area.“Dharavi model underlines the importance of community-based model and community participation in any public health crisis,” Dr Pradeep Awate, Maharashtra’s state surveillance officer, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. “The model of tracing, testing and treatment was found to be useful due to community participation and the vital role played by private doctors in Dharavi with the guidance of bureaucracy and public health department,” Awate, who heads the epidemiology cell of the state health department, added. The total case count of Dharavi now stands at 3,788, with the number of active cases at only 12. The coronavirus caseload of Mumbai stood at 289,800 on Friday with 596 new cases being recorded in the last 24 hours. The death toll reached 11,056 after 11 new fatalities were reported in the city. Currently, Mumbai has 8,219 active Covid-19 cases with a growth rate of 0.21 per cent. Maharashtra reported 3,431 new coronavirus disease cases on Friday, taking the tally of infections to 19,13,382. There were 71 new fatalities pushing the state’s death toll to 49,129.Dharavi modelAsia’s largest slum saw its first positive case on April 1, when a 56-year-old man with no history of foreign travel died from the coronavirus disease. Hindustan Times had reported that eight of his family members were quarantined and were set to undergo tests. The man was a resident of a building commissioned under the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) project. Dharavi is spread over 239-hectares and housing close to one million people, making it next to impossible to enforce social distancing norms. According to a report by the think tank Observer Research Foundation (ORF), Dharavi houses 20,000 small-scale work units, while the rest are made up of shanties with community toilets, one toilet complex shared by about 1,400 people on average. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) relied on three tactics - tracking, testing, and treating, which came to be known as the Dharavi model and was driven by Kiran Dighavkar, an assistant municipal commissioner with BMC. When HT interviewed the man at the helm of the Dharavi model, Dighavkar spoke at length about community toilets rendering contact-tracing efforts futile. “WHO or ICMR direct contact-tracing on a massive scale. But in Dharavi, contact-tracing is difficult because 5,000 people are using one toilet block. The only thing in our control is proactive work. We are chasing the virus, as opposed to people identifying they are unwell, doing a test and coming to us. We arrange a large number of fever camps, screen residents, identify suspected Covid-19 cases and shift them to institutional quarantine facilities,” he said. Dighavkar said the Dharavi model is made for locations where social distancing and home quarantining of patients and high-risk contacts is not possible, like in slums. “Aspects of this model can be used in dense urban areas with high cases, such as organising fever camps, early detection, quarantining suspected Covid cases and institutional quarantine of a large number of high-risk contacts,” he added. Private hospitals and practitioners were taken on board as stakeholders in the fight against coronavirus. As a result, the average growth rate of Covid-positive cases plummeted from 12 per cent in April to 4.3 per cent in May to 0.83 per cent in June and just 0.38 per cent in July and yesterday Dharavi reported zero cases for the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak. Way forwardThe Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Mumbai, did a seroprevalence survey in July, which found that more than half the population at Dharavi had Covid-19 antibodies, meaning they had already been exposed to the virus. Mumbai has experience when it comes to dealing with highly contagious diseases, it is after all the home to the largest drug-resistant tuberculosis cluster in the country. Keeping talks of herd immunity aside commissioner Dighavkar told HT in July that screening and testing efforts will be continued along with an emphasis on hygiene and healthcare infrastructure. “We will keep screening and testing. We are working on behavioural change of residents for cleanliness and sanitary habits, especially while using community toilets,” he had said.“I also want to create a permanent Covid health care infrastructure in Dharavi, like we built a 200-bed hospital in front of Maharashtra Nature Park, with oxygen supply beds in a record 15 days in April. This will be converted into a permanent structure,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dharavi-model-underlines-importance-of-community-participation-senior-health-official/story-F2oG5XLfHKEvapGg2beVvN.html
26-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: IMD says rainfall, snowfall likely in north Indian states towards end of the year and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rain in northern states, cold wave conditions likely during year-endThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that widespread rainfall or snowfall is very likely over northern parts of India in Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Read MoreStart of a golden chapter: Nadda after PM Modi launches PMJAY SEHAT scheme for J-K residentsBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda said on Saturday the launch of Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) SEHAT scheme in Jammu and Kashmir was the start of a “golden chapter” for the residents of the Union territory. Read MoreFrom goods trade to travel norms: Key points of post-Brexit trade dealAfter months of negotiation and deliberation, the European Union (EU) and the United Kingdom (UK) have agreed upon a post-Brexit trade deal.  Read MoreIndia vs Australia: ‘Should have got an opportunity couple of years back’, Ajit Agarkar praises Shubman Gill’s heroics on debutUnder the leadership of stand-in captain Ajinkya Rahane, India dominated the opening day of the Boxing Day Test in Melbourne. After losing the toss, India bundled up the hosts for 195. Read More‘Monolith’ appears in San Francisco, this time with a gingerbread twistUnless you stay far away from the Internet, there’s a high possibility that you may have heard about the monoliths making headlines across the world. From Utah to Romania, these shiny metal objects appeared at random places. There is a latest addition to that list but this time with a Christmas twist. Read MoreSalman Khan puts up a special message for fans outside his residence, ahead of his birthday. WatchEvery year, hordes of fans flock to Salman Khan’s Galaxy Apartments residence in Mumbai on his birthday, hoping to catch a glimpse of him. This year, he put up a notice for them outside his building. Read More‘Some farmers misguided by their political masters’: Javadekar attacks oppnUnion Minister Prakash Javadekar said that ‘some’ agitating farmers were misguided by their ‘political masters’. He added that they were showing as if it was the stand of all farmers of the country. The union environment minister also hit out at Congress’ Rahul Gandhi for his criticism over farm laws. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-imd-predicts-rainfall-or-snowfall-in-india-s-northern-states-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5IEupxtIYEzlIxWas9DLRP.html
26-12-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Customs to move high court against jail dept||The customs department is planning to move the Kerala high court against the state jail department’s decision not to allow its officials along with visitors who want to meet the prime accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case-- Swapna Suresh. Lodged in a women’s prison in the state capital under Cofeposa (Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act), recently, the customs had issued a directive to the jail that it should be informed about anyone visiting her and a customs official will accompany the visitor. Also Read: Sivasankar assisted in gold smuggling, says ED charge sheetBut the jail department had refused and sent back a customs official last week who accompanied her relatives to the jail. State jail chief Rishiraj Singh said such a move will set a new precedent and demoralise jail officials. But customs officials fear that it is an attempt to weaken the high-profile case. “We have already informed the Cofeposa board about this. We will move the High Court next week. She had already complained that she was facing serious threats and some people met her in the jail and forced her to change her statement,” said a senior official who did not want to be named. He said if the situation continued like this the department may move the apex court to shift the case to another state. He also said state police and jail officials were not fully co-operating with ongoing probe. But the jail department maintained that normal jail procedures and laws were applicable to Cofeposa detainees also and officials can’t be allowed with visitors every time. Also Read: Everything but effective probe’: Kerala CM asks PM to rein in central agenciesIn December first week, Suresh had told a court dealing with economic offences in Kochi that her life was in danger and sought special protection in jail and for her family members too. She said she was under pressure not to take big names and some people met her in jail a couple of times to pressurise her in this regard. Later, the court directed the prisons department to provide enough security for her in jail. Following the court directive her security was beefed up in jail. Central agencies probing the case had expressed concern over her revelations and later customs had issued a directive to the jail authorities that it should be informed about all visitors to her and an official will accompany them. But the jail department said it cannot be allowed and it will also question the integrity of its officials. The gold smuggling case came to light on July 5 after 30 kg of gold was seized by the customs from a package camouflaged as diplomatic consignment addressed to the UAE consulate in the state capital. Later PS Sarith Kumar, a former public relations officer of the consulate who came to receive the baggage, was arrested by the customs. Five days later two other suspects, Swapna Suresh and her accomplice Sandip Nair, were arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru by the National Investigation Agency. Later, senior IAS officer M Sivasankar, Kerala CM’s principal secretary, was arrested after his alleged links with Suresh surfaced. During the probe it was discovered that smuggling through the consular office was continuing for more than a year. Currently, a multi-agency team involving five central agencies is probing the case and has arrested 34 people. The Enforcement Directorate had interrogated another secretary of the chief minister, CM Raveendran and state minister K T Jaleel a couple of times earlier in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-customs-to-move-high-court-against-jail-dept/story-64IxtIfuOM1WvEaguqHLmO.html
26-12-2020||India||Rain in northern states, cold wave conditions likely during year-end||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that widespread rainfall or snowfall is very likely over northern parts of India in Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The weather bureau has also said that cold wave to severe cold wave conditions would prevail over some states due to strengthening of northwesterly/northerly lower-level winds from December 29.In a series of tweets, the weather bureau updated its forecasts for north Indian states till the end of December, saying the cold wave conditions are likely to extend to parts of western and central India towards the end of this month. “Under the influence of the approaching Western Disturbance Scattered to Fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan & Muzaffarabad,” IMD said. Significant Weather Features on dated 26/12/2020.♦ Under the influence of the approaching Western Disturbance Scattered to Fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan & Muzaffarabad.Similarly, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand would also experience rainfall or snowfall and thundershowers are expected in Punjab and Haryana, on December 27 and 28, IMD said. Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan and West Uttar Pradesh are also set to experience cold wave or severe cold wave conditions because of “the strengthening of cold and dry northwesterly/northerly lower level winds,” IMD said.Cold day conditions are predicted for these states on December 28 and 29 and on December 29 and 30 for northern Rajasthan. Dense to very dense fog during morning hours is also expected during the morning hours in these states from December 28 till the year end. “Ground Frost conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh during 28th-29th December, 2020,” IMD tweeted.Towards the end of December, these cold wave conditions are also expected to spread towards western India. “Northern parts of Saurashtra & Kutch and West Madhya Pradesh also likely to experience cold wave conditions on these days,” IMD said.Also read: As La Nina peaks, longer, harsher winter likelyIMD had earlier forecast that a new western disturbance might affect the western Himalayan region and the plains in northwestern India starting December 27 and isolated or scattered rainfall or snowfall in many northern and northwestern states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-in-northern-states-cold-wave-conditions-likely-during-year-end/story-aF2nUbL0HhxIffnCCvwbYP.html
26-12-2020||India||‘Wake up’: Digvijaya Singh calls upon Congress members to join farmers’ stir||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Saturday asked members of his party to wake up and join the farmers’ protests to speak up against the new farm laws brought in by the Centre. “Farmers of Haryana, Punjab, UP and Rajasthan are protesting against farm laws because PM Modi is doing injustice to them. Farmers of Madhya Pradesh are innocent but even Congressmen are sleeping. Wake up, join the stir and raise voices against these laws,” ANI quoted the former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh as saying.Singh’s remarks on the farmers came after Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said there was no confusion in the state regarding the farm laws, adding that the agriculturists support Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Also Read | No confusion over new farm laws in Madhya Pradesh, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan“The Centre’s three farm laws have been implemented in Madhya Pradesh and there’s no confusion over it. In all 313 blocks of the state, we will organise training on these laws, so our farmers can understand them better and learn how to benefit from them,” the chief minister had said earlier in the day.Singh’s comments also came after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that the government will have to listen to the farmers protesting against the new farm laws. “Mitti ka kann kann goonj raha hai, sarkar ko sunna padega (Even the dust particles are speaking up, the government will have to listen (to the farmers),” Gandhi said as he posted a video of protesting farmers. मिट्टी का कण-कण गूंज रहा है,सरकार को सुनना पड़ेगा। pic.twitter.com/yhwH6D8uWOPrime Minister Modi on Friday had blamed opposition parties of misleading the farmers during his outreach to the agriculturists. Farmers from various states have been protesting on Delhi borders for more than a month against the three farm laws introduced by the Centre and passed by Parliament in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wake-up-digvijaya-singh-calls-upon-congress-members-to-join-farmers-stir/story-t4PaPhMh74mSPaoToSCVqM.html
26-12-2020||India||Bihar cabinet approves proposal for creation of 103 new nagar panchayats||Bihar Cabinet has approved a proposal for creation of 103 new nagar panchayats and eight new nagar parishads, upgradation of 32 nagar panchayats to nagar parishads and five nagar parishads to municipal corporations.The State Cabinet has also approved a proposal for the expansion of 12 Nagar Nikay.Earlier, the Bihar Cabinet had approved a proposal to provide free Covid-19 vaccine to people of the state when it is available.It is to mention that this was one of the poll promises of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the recently concluded Bihar Assembly polls. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) secured a 125-seat majority in the 243-seat strong Bihar Legislative Assembly.As promised in Nitish Kumar-led JDU’s manifesto -- ‘Saat Nishchay-2’, the Cabinet also gave its nod for a proposal to create 20 lakh job opportunities in the public and private sectors.The state government will also introduce a special scheme for promotion of entrepreneurship among women.For this, the government would provide an interest-free loan up to 50 per cent of their project or a maximum of Rs 5 lakh in addition to the subsidy of 50 per cent or Rs 5 lakh of the project cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-cabinet-approves-proposal-for-creation-of-103-new-nagar-panchayats/story-42ZalRmWj0XpyaaGLNkhxI.html
26-12-2020||India||Start of a golden chapter: Nadda after PM Modi launches PMJAY SEHAT scheme for J-K residents||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda said on Saturday the launch of Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) SEHAT scheme in Jammu and Kashmir was the start of a “golden chapter” for the residents of the Union territory. Nadda congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who launched AB-PMJAY SEHAT scheme virtually and interacted with the beneficiaries of the Ayushman Bharat Yojana.“Respected Shri @narendramodi ji, who has been committed for the development of Jammu and Kashmir for years and the welfare of the people, has started a golden chapter by launching Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY Health Scheme for all the people of Jammu and Kashmir today. Thank you very much to the Prime Minister for this,” Nadda said in one of his tweets in Hindi.The BJP president also hailed the removal of Articles 370 and 35A, which was done in August 2019 by the Narendra Modi government. “Since Independence, the development of Jammu and Kashmir, which has always been neglected, has today started on a new path due to the removal of Articles 370 and 35A. Today, the central government, under the leadership of the respected Prime Minister, Mr @narendramodi ji, is rapidly working to connect Jammu and Kashmir with the mainstream,” Nadda wrote in another tweet. आजादी के बाद से जिस जम्मू-कश्मीर में विकास सदैव उपेक्षित रहा वो आज आर्टिकल 370 और 35A के हटने के कारण एक नई राह पर आगे बढ़ चला है। आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी के नेतृत्व में आज केंद्र सरकार, जम्मू-कश्मीर को मुख्यधारा से जोड़ने का काम तेजी से कर रही है।Nadda also congratulated the people of Jammu and Kashmir mentioning the recently-concluded District Development Council (DDC) polls. The BJP emerged as the single largest party winning 75 of the 280 seats that went to polls. The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), which is an amalgamation of seven regional parties of Jammu and Kashmir, finished as the largest pre-poll alliance with 110 seats.“The enthusiasm with which the people of Jammu and Kashmir participated in the local body elections and made them successful is highly appreciated. The people of the state have shown confidence in the policies of the respected Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi ji, who won the Panchayat elections will leave no stone unturned to uphold them,” Nadda also tweeted.AB-PMJAY is a flagship health scheme of the central government, which was launched in 2018, and provides a cover of up to Rs 500,000 per family every year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/start-of-a-golden-chapter-nadda-after-pm-modi-launches-pmjay-sehat-scheme-for-j-k-residents/story-6Tn4M99vea878cpOjkI3jP.html
26-12-2020||India||‘It’s time to strengthen UPA’: Sena’s Sanjay Raut hits out at BJP||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena has urged opposition parties to unite to take on the “autocratic” Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre.“Opposition unity is the need of the hour,” Sena lawmaker Sanjay Raut said. He said the Centre was taking lightly the farmers’ agitation at Delhi’s borders against three farm laws enacted to liberalise the farm sector in September. “...The situation at the Delhi borders is very serious and for the last one month, there has been no attempt to solve the issue of the farmers. The government is not taking them seriously and many making fun of the agitation. Hence the opposition parties need to come together and raise voice against this autocratic government,” said Raut. “Currently there is a UPA [United Progressive Alliance] led by Sonia Gandhi and it is time to strengthen it.” Raut said more parties need to join the alliance and their leaders should raise voice against the Centre. “In addition to Sonia Gandhi, there is also Sharad Pawar’s leadership and they can provide an effective alternative.”Raut accused the Centre of targeting the non-BJP state governments and not allowing them to function. “In Maharashtra, they are working to ensure that the Metro project does not take off.”BJP leader Ram Kadam said instead of blaming the Centre, the Maharashtra government should introspect over its performance in the last one year. “There were no developmental works at all and all it did was blame the central government for its failure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-s-time-to-strengthen-upa-sena-s-sanjay-raut-hits-out-at-bjp/story-onGGBjvumgNtQJcB5uxg3M.html
26-12-2020||India||Haryana municipal elections tomorrow: All you need to know||The stage is set for a direct fight between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) combine and the Congress in the municipal elections in Haryana, which will be held on Sunday, December 27. This will be the first elections which will be held in Haryana after the BJP-JJP alliance came to power in the state in 2019 making Manohar Lal Khattar the chief minister of the state for the second time. JJP president Dushyant Chautala was sworn in as the deputy chief minister.Here’s all you need to know about the Haryana municipal elections:1. The seats of the mayor and members of all the wards municipal corporations (MCs) of Ambala, Panchkula and Sonepat, president and members of the municipal council of Rewari, and municipal committees of Sampla (Rohtak), Dharuhera (Rewari) and Uklana (Hisar) will go to the polls in these elections. All three MCs have 20 wards each, while the Rewari council has 31 wards, and committees of Sampla, Dharuhera and Uklana have 15, 17 and 13 wards each, respectively.2. Polling will be conducted from 8am to 5.30pm with strict Covid-19 guidelines in place. Mandatory sanitisation of the polling station will be done before the polling and every person involved in the election activity, as well as the voters, will have to wear face masks.3. Everyone will be scanned thermally at the entry point of polling stations and hand gloves will be provided to the voter, for signing on the voter register and pressing the button of the electronic voting machine (EVM).4. Last one hour of the polling time has been fixed for Covid-19 patients and those having symptoms of the coronavirus disease.5. The election for municipalities will be conducted through EVMs while ballot papers will be used for mayor and president elections. None of the above (NOTA) option will also be used in these elections.6. The election expenditure limit for mayors has been increased from Rs 20 lakh to Rs 22 lakh while the election expenditure limit for members of corporations has been increased from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 5.50 lakh. For the position of the president of municipal council and committees, the expenditure has been fixed at Rs 15 lakh and Rs 10 lakh respectively.7. Adequate police force will be deployed to maintain law and order at the polling stations and in sensitive and hypersensitive areas.8. Om Prakash Chautala’s Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) has boycotted these elections in protest against the “atrocities” allegedly committed on farmers by the centre and the state’s BJP-JJP government.9. The ruling alliance is fighting these elections on the plank of development made in the state while the Congress has targeted the coalition on a range of issues associated with farmers, employees and law and order.10. In the 2019 assembly elections, the BJP emerged as the single largest party and formed the government in a post-poll alliance with the JJP and seven Independent MLAs.11. Counting of votes will be done on December 30.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-municipal-elections-tomorrow-all-you-need-to-know/story-Cp80vNqbi5iuOFYLxMJJ5H.html
26-12-2020||India||Modi govt helped youth in northeast leave arms, participate in developing the region: Shah||Home minister Amit Shah on Saturday launched a scathing attack on Congress and opposition parties in Assam alleging that the earlier governments under Congress did not do anything to bring back the youth of northeast from the path of insurgency. Shah said, “Assam saw several agitations over the past few decades. Lots of Assamese youth died during these agitations. It disturbed Assam’s peace and halted the region’s development.”Shah said that several separatist factions in the northeast forced the youth to take up arms and the central government has ensured that these factions join the mainstream. He listed the India-Bangladesh land boundary agreement, ending the blockade in Manipur, Bru-Reang refugee settlement and the recently concluded Bodoland territorial council elections as important steps taken to ensure peace and stability in the region. “I am proud to say that in the recently concluded Bodoland elections there was a turnout of more than 80% and there was not a single incident of bloodshed reported. This tells that if there is determination for development and respect towards peace and stability then the government can work with the people. PM Modi has commitment towards peace and determination to develop the region.”The union home minister pointed out that it was the Modi government that restored normalcy in the region and the government is determined that development in the region will pave the way for people to change their mindset and join the mainstream. Shah also lauded the chief minister Sarabananda Sonowal and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma for their role in bringing separatist voices back into the mainstream. He remained confident that BJP will win the upcoming elections and said that the Himanta Biswa Sarma and Sarabananda Sonowal duo have led the state towards achieving new milestones. The home minister lauded the government for its handling of the Covid-19 crisis and said that the state was able to contain its Covid-19 death rate. Also Read: BJP undecided on naming CM candidate for Assam polls: Himanta Biswa SarmaShah also asked the people of Assam to vote for BJP and alleged that Congress is taking help of separatist elements to return to power. “Elections are approaching, once more people with divisive agenda will reappear in a new form, they will try to convince us to take the path of agitation. I want to question them if their agitation ever brought any development to Assam.”“Few people who were responsible for the deaths of Assamese youth are now forming political parties. The ones who were responsible for firing bullets are indirectly supporting the Congress party. They want to dent BJP’s vote share and want to restore the Congress government’s rule in the state,” Shah further added. During his address, Shah said the Modi government kept northeast region in focus during its 6 year rule. “In the last six years, PM Modi visited the northeastern states thirty times. The government is committed towards developing the region. Every time he visited the region he brought gifts for the people of the region to spur growth and development.”Shah also attacked the Congress for allowing poachers a free hand which led to fall in the rhino numbers in the state and said that the BJP government addressed this concern to restore the pride of the Assamese people. “These poachers during the Congress rule in Assam hunted rhinos with protection from the state and the ruling BJP government has now dealt with this issue firmly and Kaziranga is free of infiltrators.”During his speech, Shah also appealed to the protesting farmers in Delhi’s borders to resolve their issues regarding the agriculture laws through discussions. Shah laid foundation for a medical college in Guwahati and 9 law colleges across Assam during his two-day visit. Amit Shah is on a two-day visit to Assam and Manipur to take stock of the party’s preparedness ahead of the 2021 legislative assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-helped-youth-in-northeast-leave-arms-participate-in-developing-the-region-shah/story-F4zp0jU5eSYp56oQYoPcHM.html
26-12-2020||India||Central Vista revamp: MPs’ offices to come up in place of two buildings||The Shram Shakti Bhavan and Transport Bhavan in Lutyens’ Delhi will be the first two buildings to be razed to pave the way for the construction of chambers of Members of Parliament there as part of Central Vista redevelopment project.An official from HCP Design, Planning and Management Pvt Ltd, which has prepared the master plan of the ambitious project, said that MP offices will come up where Shram Shakti Bhavan and Transport Bhavan are currently located on Rafi Marg and Sansad Marg respectively.Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone of the new Parliament building where the Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while the Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats for members. The National Emblem will crown the new Parliament building.According to the plan, a tunnel would be constructed to connect the building with chambers of MPs in the Parliament complex.“The new Parliament will have six committee rooms to conduct business,” the HCP official said.The government has identified around four locations -- in Gole Market, K G Marg, near Africa Avenue and near Talkatora Stadium -- in central Delhi for the temporary shifting of offices of various ministries.Government sources said that the demolition of buildings will be carried out in phases to ensure smooth functioning of various ministry offices.To construct Common Central Secretariat for ministry offices, several buildings like Shastri Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan, Nirman Bhawan and Krishi Bhawan among others are likely to be demolished.The redevelopment project of Central Vista -- the nation’s power corridor -- envisages a new triangular parliament building, a common central secretariat and revamping of the 3-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate.According to the CPWD’s latest proposal for the redevelopment of Central Vista, the prime minister’s new residential complex will have 10 four-storey buildings with a maximum height of 12 metres.The Central Public Works Department (CPWD), which is executing the project, has revised the estimated cost from Rs 11,794 crore to Rs 13,450 crore.The prime minister’s new residence will be built on a 15-acre plot and it will have 10 buildings and they will have ground plus three floors, the CPWD said in its proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-revamp-mps-offices-to-come-up-in-place-of-two-buildings/story-sMRnhr5TGTo8kMA6TQel4N.html
26-12-2020||India||Pakistan explored Rajasthan, Gujarat borders extensively in 2020 for infiltration: Report||Pakistan in the year 2020 tried multiple routes for infiltration apart from sending terrorists through borders in Jammu and Kashmir or Punjab only. According to the Border Security Force (BSF), attempts were made by Pakistan from Gujarat and Rajasthan borders as well to infiltrate terrorists into the Indian side.Data compiled by the BSF also says that the number of infiltration has increased.Last year, there were no incidents of attempts of infiltration from Gujarat and Rajasthan borders recorded by the BSF till the first week of November.Interestingly, the Kashmir Frontier of BSF has recorded just one infiltration in comparison with a previous year where 4 infiltrations took place till the first week of November.This year, the Rajashthan and Gujarat frontier of the BSF has recorded infiltration incidents in August and September.Officials claimed that Pakistan is exploring other ways to send terrorists but the BSF round the clock keep a strict vigil and regularly updating positions as per the intelligence input.“We have seen incidents of infiltration attempt s from Gujarat and Rajasthan borders as well this year. Last year, no such incidents were recorded in the same period of time,” a senior BSF official said.BSF officials said that 11 infiltration incidents have recorded this year till the first week of November from Jammu, Kashmir, Punjab, Rajasthan and Gujarat border.This year, the highest 4-4 each infiltration incident happened from Jammu as well as Punjab borders.In November, a 150-metre long underground tunnel suspected to be used by terrorists for infiltration was detected near International Border in Jammu and Kashmir’s Samba.The tunnel was detected in a joint operation by the BSF and Jammu and Kashmir police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-explored-rajasthan-gujarat-borders-extensively-in-2020-for-infiltration-report/story-Fo9K2mueennEbakUf4M6vO.html
26-12-2020||India||Physical participation in crime not a must for conviction over common intention: HC||Physical participation in the crime is not necessary for an accused facing “common intention” charges to be convicted in murder cases, the Bombay high court’s Nagpur bench observed on Tuesday while convicting a labourer from Bhandara district. Virendra Fule, 32, was accused of carrying a sword, which his two accomplices later used to kill a woman in 2008.“Accused no.3 [Fule] did not commit any overt act during the assault, but the evidence on record is sufficient to hold that he shared the common intention with the other two accused,” said the bench of justices ZA Haq and Amit Borkar while setting aside Fule’s acquittal.In January 2016, an additional sessions’ judge at Bhandara convicted Fule’s accomplices for the murder and sentenced them to life imprisonment. The trial court acquitted Fule saying no overt act was attributed to him. He merely waited outside the slain woman’s house with the sword, it added.The high court held the trial court was unjustified in acquitting Fule. It added Fule was at the crime scene with the other two convicts, carrying a sword. “It appears that the accused no.3 was standing at veranda as a cover to accused nos.1 and 2, which proves that he shared a common intention with the other accused [to kill the woman]),” the high court said. “Therefore, the accused no.3 is also liable to be convicted...as the prosecution has proved common intention of all the accused.” The high court sentenced Fule to life imprisonment and directed him to surrender before the trial court by January 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/physical-participation-in-crime-not-a-must-for-conviction-over-common-intention-hc/story-te24bSaYCHLdaFHeIybgFN.html
26-12-2020||India||Life equation 2020: Pandemic plus social exclusion equals slide into poverty for millions in informal sector||They have long battled job insecurities and temperamental employers but 2020 was particularly tough for domestic workers, rickshaw pullers and daily wage workers who confronted not just a pandemic but also social exclusion -- and the sombre realisation their jobs were expendable.While the virus affected all classes, the economic fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic was particularly devastating for those in the informal sector who found themselves on the streets, without their livelihoods and sometimes without their homes too.“The economic crisis of the proportion of contraction of more than 20 per cent in the second quarter and potential livelihood losses leading to approximately 400 million people sliding back into poverty according to ILO warrants a radically new model if we are sincere about ensuring a minimum floor of dignity for every citizen of the country,” said Oxfam India CEO Amitabh Behar.Mamta, a 69-year-old domestic worker, is living that inexorable slide into poverty in a society that has deemed her and others like her “high risk”.She had been working as a house help in Noida since her husband died 15 years ago but was turfed out in April without any notice.“My employers in April told me they cannot keep a help in view of the infection and fear of contracting it from people like us. Since then, the financial crunch has been so acute that I had to borrow money from a loan shark but am now unable to repay him,” she told PTI.With no wages and no money to pay back the money lender, Mamta is caught in a vicious debt circle. She said she thought things would improve when the unlock period started but that did not happen because people are still wary of hiring help and letting them into their homes.“I don’t even have money to buy medicines and have begun to lose weight. I have not been keeping well,” said the woman who came to the big city from Siliguri 25 years ago.Mamta is not alone.Thousands of part-time and full-time domestic helps lost their jobs and went without any money for months when they were fired because people feared contracting Covid-19 from them.Hina said she has been reduced to going door to door asking people if they need help with anything.“When I started working as a domestic help, my mother told me this line of work would mean a good consistent income but this year proved her wrong. I am desperately looking for work but people are still scared of hiring domestic help,” said the 24-year-old who lives in east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar locality.“My previous employers fired me after telling me they can’t be exposed to me since I live in a slum and share a bathroom with others. What should people like us do?” she asked despairingly.It has been a traumatic year for rickshaw pullers and cab drivers too.Raja Ram, 34, the sole earner for his family of six, said nobody wants to get on to his rickshaw and he feels like an untouchable.“There was absolutely no income in March, April and May. Even now, people do not want to use rickshaws because they fear catching the infection from us. I even started keeping a sanitiser with me and sanitise the seat in front of the customer but this is not helping either. We feel like untouchables,” he said.Ram has now started doing any odd job he finds in his area in Noida.“I have started delivering groceries for people at home. I also have some work as a daily wage worker but it is not much,” he said.Cab drivers, in a higher income bracket than rickshaw pullers like Ram, are caught in the same trap with business plummeting despite scrupulous adherence to all Covid appropriate behaviour.“Just last year, I would earn up to Rs 1 lakh per month but now my income for this year has not been more than Rs 30,000 per month,” said Sanjay Singh, a driver working for a cab hailing service in Delhi who follows all the dos and don’ts required to ensure customer confidence in times of a pandemic.“We were seeing the trend of people preferring a cab hailing service rather than buying their own vehicles. But that changed this year with this pandemic,” Singh said.Singh is hoping for a better 2021 but realises the future is bleak, saying Covid-19 has made people more apprehensive about health safety in cabs.According to Oxfam India’s Behar, the pandemic-led crisis has accentuated the “inherent obscene inequality of our economic model” and there is need to recognise this and reboot a fundamentally different economic model to ensure a just and green future.Poonam Muttreja, public health expert and executive director of Population Foundation of India (PFI), said Covid-19 is far bigger than just a health crisis. The pandemic and subsequent national lockdown has resulted in a health, social and economic emergency that is nothing short of a catastrophe. “The economic crisis has had a significant impact on informal workers. Almost 90 per cent of workers in India work in the informal economy -- that part of the economy which thrives on daily work, and daily cash, with little provisions of employment protection. Like demonetisation, the current lockdown has exposed millions of workers and their families to starvation and very bleak future prospects,” Muttreja said.She said the impact on vulnerable populations, particularly women, is profound.“Domestic workers, a vast majority of whom are women, have been placed on unpaid leave since the pandemic began, due to hygiene issues raised by their employers and are concerned about making ends meet,” she said.Going forward, the government must ensure income support to families of those working in the informal sector so that they are able to sustain themselves.“Support could also include cash transfers, food or in-kind distributions, as well as distance support (e.g. radio campaigns) to raise awareness and listen to their needs. Specific measures should be designed for women workers. Increased investment in education and vocational training for women is imperative as it can lead to higher female labour force participation in the formal sector in the long run,” Muttreja added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/life-equation-2020-pandemic-plus-social-exclusion-equals-slide-into-poverty-for-millions-in-informal-sector/story-5uFHm16Soz4XjLavbk39RN.html
26-12-2020||India||Amit Shah to review election preparedness in Assam||Union home minister Amit Shah who is on a two-day tour of Assam reached Guwahati on Saturday morning. He was welcomed by folk artists outside Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport in Guwahati. Shah is set to inaugurate a slew of projects for the state during his visit. Shah tweeted “Reached Guwahati! I wholeheartedly thank the people of Assam for such a warm welcome.” along with snaps of the welcoming committee of folk artists. The minister is all set to distribute financial grants to 8,000 traditional Vaishnavite monasteries of the state under the Assam Darshan programme. He will also lay foundation stones for the development of Batadrava Than as a cultural and tourist destination, nine law colleges to be established across Assam, and a new medical college in capital city Guwahati. “I heartily welcomed Hon’ble Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah Ji at Guwahati airport and thanked him on behalf of the people of Assam as he is set to launch several developmental projects for the state,” Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal tweeted.Shah is scheduled to hold a meeting with party leaders and review the election preparation ahead of the assembly polls scheduled to be held next year in Assam. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) vice president and Assam in-charge Baijayant Panda has said many opposition leaders from Assam are in touch with the party. “A large number of MLAs in West Bengal have joined us. This is happening all over the country and in other states also. In Assam too, several elected representatives at the local level in recent few weeks have joined us. This is because all over the country the undeniable popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is exceptional,” Panda said, according to ANI.“So in Assam, many leaders are contacting us on a daily basis from those parties which are opposing us so we will take that into consideration and surely you will see many people joining the BJP very soon. As assembly polls in Assam are nearing, a large number of Congress leaders are making a bid to join the ruling BJP in Assam,” Panda added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-review-election-preparedness-in-assam/story-7Vg1hwFIsjm92jc37JMwbK.html
26-12-2020||India||NGT extends term of oversight committee to monitor pollution of Ganga||The National Green Tribunal has extended the term of an oversight committee to monitor pollution of Ganga river and oversee compliance of environmental norms in Uttar Pradesh. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said that unless the UP government sets up any other effective alternative mechanism, it may not be advisable to close the committee abruptly. Accordingly, the term of the oversight committee, for the time being, will be extended for six months. If the State of UP has any other suggestion, it will be open to put forward the same, it said. “We also request the oversight committee to monitor compliance of directions to oversee preparation of District Environment Management Plans (DEMPs) and their execution by the District Environment Committees (DECs) in terms of order of this tribunal,” the bench said. The tribunal noted that initially the tenure of the oversight committee headed by former high court judge Justice SVS Rathore was for six months which was subsequently extended at different intervals. The oversight committee replaced earlier committees appointed by the tribunal to monitor pollution of Ganga, rejuvenation of river Hindon and associated issues, sand mining at Allahabad, pollution of thermal power stations in Singrauli, pollution of Ramgarh lake and River Ami in Gorakhpur, solid and biomedical waste management norms etc. In the course of time, the committee has been requested to monitor compliance of some other environmental issues also such as relating to water bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-extends-term-of-oversight-committee-to-monitor-pollution-of-ganga/story-2vEdhsFgm9lHoQkQeQUT5L.html
26-12-2020||India||India to become 5th largest economy in 2025, 3rd largest by 2030||India, which appears to have been pushed back to being the world’s sixth biggest economy in 2020, will again overtake the UK to become the fifth largest in 2025 and race to the third spot by 2030, a think tank said on Saturday. India had overtaken the UK in 2019 to become the fifth largest economy in the world but has been relegated to 6th spot in 2020. “India has been knocked off course somewhat through the impact of the pandemic. As a result, after overtaking the UK in 2019, the UK overtakes India again in this year’s forecasts and stays ahead till 2024 before India takes over again,” the Centre for Economics and Business Research (CEBR) said in an annual report published on Saturday.  The UK appears to have overtaken India again during 2020 as a result of the weakness of the rupee, it said. The CEBR forecasts that the Indian economy will expand by 9 per cent in 2021 and by 7 per cent in 2022. “Growth will naturally slow as India becomes more economically developed, with the annual GDP growth expected to sink to 5.8 per cent in 2035.” “This growth trajectory will see India become the world’s third largest economy by 2030, overtaking the UK in 2025, Germany in 2027 and Japan in 2030,” it said. The UK-based think tank forecast that China will in 2028 overtake the US to become the world’s biggest economy, five years earlier than previously estimated due to the contrasting recoveries of the two countries from the Covid-19 pandemic. Japan would remain the world’s third-biggest economy, in dollar terms, until the early 2030s when it would be overtaken by India, pushing Germany down from fourth to fifth. The CEBR said India’s economy had been losing momentum even ahead of the shock delivered by the Covid-19 crisis. The rate of GDP growth sank to a more than ten-year low of 4.2 per cent in 2019, down from 6.1 per cent the previous year and around half the 8.3 per cent growth rate recorded in 2016. “Slowing growth has been a consequence of a confluence of factors including fragility in the banking system, adjustment to reforms and a deceleration of global trade,” it said. The Covid-19 pandemic, the think tank said, has been a human and an economic catastrophe for India, with more than 140,000 deaths recorded as of the middle of December. While this is the highest death toll outside of the US in absolute terms, it equates to around 10 deaths per 100,000, which is a significantly lower figure than has been seen in much of Europe and the Americas. “GDP in Q2 (April-June) 2020 was 23.9 per cent below its 2019 level, indicating that nearly a quarter of the country’s economic activity was wiped out by the drying up of global demand and the collapse of domestic demand that accompanied the series of strict national lockdowns,” it said. As restrictions were gradually lifted, many parts of the economy were able to spring back into action, although output remains well below pre-pandemic levels. An important driver of India’s economic recovery thus far has been the agricultural sector, which has been buoyed by a bountiful harvest. “The pace of the economic recovery will be inextricably linked to the development of the Covid-19 pandemic, both domestically and internationally,” it said. As the manufacturer of the majority of the world’s vaccines and with a 42-year-old vaccination programme that targets 55 million people each year, India is better placed than many other developing countries to roll out the vaccines successfully and efficiently next year. “In the medium to long term, reforms such as the 2016 demonetisation and more recently the controversial efforts to liberalise the agricultural sector can deliver economic benefits,” the think tank said. However, with the majority of the Indian workforce employed in the agricultural sector, the reform process requires a delicate and gradual approach that balances the need for longer-term efficiency gains with the need to support incomes in the short-term. The government’s stimulus spending in response to the Covid-19 crisis has been significantly more restrained than most other large economies, although the debt to GDP ratio did rise to 89 per cent in 2020.  “The infrastructure bottlenecks that exist in India mean that investment in this area has the potential to unlock significant productivity gains. Therefore, the outlook for the economy going forwards will be closely related to the government’s approach to infrastructure spending,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-become-5th-largest-economy-in-2025-3rd-largest-by-2030/story-hokHBcnuIoomZu7r9OGKjN.html
26-12-2020||India||News Updates from Hindustan Times: Cracks begin to show as Congress delays review of Bihar poll results and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.As Congress delays review of Bihar poll results, cracks begin to showEven a month and a half after the Bihar Assembly election results were declared, the Congress party is yet to assess the reasons for its flop show despite being blamed by ally, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), for the Grand Alliance or Mahagathbandhan’s narrow loss to the NDA. Read more Railways installs devices in trains to assist drivers in foggy conditionsTrain mishaps due to inhibited visibility from thick foggy conditions is a peril to passengers and crew members that could easily result in loss of life and damage of property. Read more Madhya Pradesh cabinet approves Dharma Swatantrya (Religious Freedom) Bill 2020Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Saturday approved the Dharma Swatantrya (Religious Freedom) Bill 2020. The controversial ordinance outlaws marriages with an aim of religious conversions. Read more WHO releases list of 10 global health issues to track in 2021The World Health Organization (WHO) released a list of global health issues that the world could have to deal with in 2021 as inadequacies of health systems across countries lay bare at the hands of the coronavirus disease. Read more WATCH: Ashwin outfoxes Steve Smith again, gets him for a duck. Sunil Gavaskar says ‘it was a plan’Ravichandran Ashwin once again emerged as India’s most successful bowler after Australia won the toss and elected to bat first on Day 1 of the Boxing Day Test match at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. Read more Android updates ‘Fast Pairing’ interface for Bluetooth devices, makes it look like that in iPhonesIt looks like Google is trying to copy Apple when it comes to ‘Fast Pairing’ of Bluetooth accessories on Android phones. The Fast Pairing feature was launched on Android back in 2017. Read more Gauahar Khan-Zaid Darbar host lavish wedding reception: Sanjay Leela Bhansali, Nigaar Khan, Gautam Rode attend. See picsGauahar Khan married Zaid Darbar in a traditional nikaah ceremony on Friday, and threw a lavish wedding reception in the evening. Filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali, and several television stars attended the function. Read more Plane ‘flies’ for the last time with excavator’s ‘help’. WatchThere are some videos that may make you say “That’s so bizarre” but at the same time also leave you thoroughly impressed. This video involving a plane and an excavator perfectly fits that category. Read more Sonu Sood pays surprise visit to fan’s roadside food stall in HyderabadBollywood actor Sonu Sood surprised a fan by visiting his roadside food stall. The ‘Dabangg’ star is referred to as one of the most humble celebrities in Bollywood. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cracks-begin-to-show-as-congress-delays-review-of-bihar-poll-results-and-all-the-latest-news/story-HNpd5kgxv0PmkHnRIuNj7I.html
26-12-2020||India||Some people in Delhi are trying to teach me democracy every day, says PM Modi||The peaceful election of Jammu and Kashmir’s District Development Council is a mirror to those who teach me democracy every day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday, attacking the opposition once again. “Jammu and Kashmir elected their representatives within such a short span after it became a Union Territory. But Puducherry is not conducting elections despite Supreme Court order and those who are in power there teach me democracy every day,” PM Modi said.His veiled attack comes after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi recently said there is no democracy in India. “We were in J&K government. But you know why we walked out of the government.Our demand was panchayat elections should be held and people be given their due rights to choose their representatives. Now you have your representatives who will work for you. Braving Covid-19, cold, voters came out and the election was peaceful. People of J&K upheld Mahatma Gandhi’s vision of gram swaraj,” PM Modi said.After launching the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) SEHAT scheme for the residents of Jammu and Kashmir which will benefit 21 lakh eligible people with free treatment up to Rs 5 lakh, PM Modi interacted with two beneficiaries of Ayushman Bharat scheme.“When people for whom we are working for praise me, those words become blessings for me,” PM Modi said.“This is a historic day for J&K. Every people of J&K will get benefits of Ayushman Bharat scheme. I wanted to launch this scheme yesterday on the occasion of Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary. Atalji had a special connection with J&K, which is now prospering on his way of ‘Insaniyat, Jamhuriyat and Kashmiriyat,’” PM Modi said.Lauding the leadership of PM Modi, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha said 10 lakh 70,000 farmers have been benefitted by Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. “From August last year, there has been a new wave of development in Jammu and Kashmir,” the L-G said listing out the new development projects in the Union Territory.All preparation for Covid-19 vaccine has also been done in J&K, Sinha said. “Today is a very significant day for J&K. This is being launched a day after Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary. Everyone is aware of Vajpayeeji’s sentiment for Kashmir,” Union home minister Amit Shah said.“The scheme is in force everywhere. But everywhere else, it is only meant for the poor. J&K is the first place where all residents will be able to reap the benefits of this scheme,” Amit Shah said.According to a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), the SEHAT scheme would work in convergence with Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY). “The scheme would operate in insurance mode in convergence with Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY),” the statement read, adding that the benefits of the scheme would be portable across all 24,148 hospitals enlisted under ABPM-JAY in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-sehat-healthcare-for-j-k-significant-day-says-amit-shah/story-IkoaSlwHeh2Chv48y2j7bP.html
26-12-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh cabinet okays bill against forced conversions||The state Cabinet on Saturday approved the Madhya Pradesh Dharm Swatantrey (Freedom of Religion Act) 2020 with a provision for a maximum of 10 years in jail for anyone “forcing women, minors, and people from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribe to undergo religious conversion”. The draft bill says Ghar Wapsi, or conversion to Hinduism, will not be treated as conversion. “Under this legislation, the re-conversion to the ancestral religion will not be treated as conversion,” said the draft. The proposed legislation will replace the 1968 Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act, said state home minister Narottam Mishra. He said the bill seeks to prohibit religious conversions or an attempt of conversion by means of misrepresentation, allurement, threat, undue influence, coercion, marriage, and any other fraudulent means. Mishra said it provides for one to 10 years of imprisonment and a maximum fine of 1 lakh for conversions. “The forceful conversions and marriages will be a cognisable offence and non-bailable. There will be a provision for declaring such marriages null and void. Before conversion, the person and religious gurus have to inform district magistrate at least 60 days prior,” said MishraThe bill provides for a five-year jail term for religious gurus, who perform conversion ceremonies, says the draft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-cabinet-okays-bill-against-forced-conversions/story-1mGDJ2T3P0LlfMONc3fPfP.html
26-12-2020||India||About 35 arrests, dozen FIRs as UP ‘love jihad’ law completes one month||Going full steam, the Uttar Pradesh police have made more than one arrest a day since the controversial anti-conversion ordinance came into effect a month ago, having apprehended about 35 people so far. Nearly a dozen FIRs have been lodged since the Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, was notified on November 27. Eight arrests were made from Etah, seven from Sitapur, four from Greater Noida, three each from Shahjahanpur and Azamgarh, two each from Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor and Kannauj and one each from Bareilly and Hardoi, officials said here. The first case was registered in Bareilly just a day after the legislation came into force. The police cracked the whip following a complaint of Tikaram Rathore, the father of a 20-year-girl and resident of Sharif Nagar village in Bareilly. He alleged that Uwaish Ahmad (22) had become friends with his daughter and was trying to “coax, coerce and lure” her to convert. An FIR was lodged at Deorania police station in Bareilly district and the accused was arrested on December 3. Acting swiftly after being tipped off about interfaith marriages, the Lucknow Police stopped a ceremony in the state capital, asking the couple to meet the legal requirements first. In Muzaffarnagar district, one Nadeem and an accomplice were arrested on December 6 for allegedly trying to force a married Hindu woman to convert. Nadeem, however, got reprieve when the Allahabad High Court directed the police not to take any coercive action against him. Likewise, in Moradabad, two brothers, arrested earlier this month under the anti-conversion law, were released on an order of a CJM court. Rashid and Salim were arrested on December 4 after they visited the registrar’s office in Moradabad to record Rashid’s marriage to a Hindu woman whose family had filed the complaint. Shabab Khan aka Rahul (38), who is married, was picked up in Mau district on December 3 and 13 of his accomplices booked for allegedly abducting a 27-year-old woman on the eve of her wedding on November 30 with an intent to change her religion. An FIR was lodged at Tambor police station in Sitapur district and 22-year-old Zubrail along with five of his family members and two locals was accused of kidnapping a 19-year-old girl and converting her. All, barring Zubrail, were arrested on December 5. In Bijnor, 22-year-old labourer Afzal was arrested on December 13 for allegedly kidnapping a girl from her home. A 19-year-old woman lodged an FIR with Shahabad police station in Hardoi district on December 11 alleging that she was raped on the pretext of marriage and also pressured to convert by one Mohammed Azad. She also alleged that she was being sold by Azad in Delhi.  Azad was booked for rape, for flouting UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Law, 2020 and for human trafficking. He was arrested on December 16. Rashid Ali (22) and Saleem Ali (25) were arrested under the new law in Moradabad district on similar charges. A man was sent to jail in Bijnor on December 16 for ‘love jihad’, a term coined by BJP leaders and right-wing activists to describe the crime against which Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has also spoken out. Addressing bypoll rallies in Jaunpur and Deoria, Adityanath had used the Hindu funeral chant of ‘Ram Naam Satya Hai’ to threaten those who do not respect daughters and sisters. Amid a hue and cry over the law, social activist Shantanu Sharma said, “We have no problems with the new law but its enforcement should not cause harassment to people. It should be ensured that it is not misused.” “Making a new law doesn’t mean that forcible conversions will be checked easily. Ultimately, it will be the police which will enforce it. It’s too early to predict whether it will succeed in its purpose or not, but it should be used carefully,” he said. Former UP Director General of Police Yashpal Singh said that when a girl flees, there is pressure for her recovery. “It (law) is good as per the social structure and with this there will be not exploitation. However, as per modern social outlook, people can feel stripped off their freedom.” High court lawyer Sandeep Chowdhury said, “The law impinges upon the fundamental right to choice and the right to change of faith. It militates against the fundamental rights to individual autonomy, privacy, human dignity and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 (right to life and personal liberty) of the Constitution.” He pointed out that a PIL has already been filed in the Allahabad High Court challenging the law and now it is for the court to decide. The high court has asked the state government to respond to a petition which contended that the new law impinges upon the fundamental right to choice and the right to change of faith. During the hearing, the high court refused to grant any interim relief and directed the state government to file a counter affidavit by January 4. The ordinance aimed at curbing forcible or fraudulent religious conversions, including those for the sake of marriage, got the assent of UP Governor Anandiben Patel just within days of the state cabinet approving its draft.  The law provides for a jail term of up to 10 years for any violations. Under the law, which deals with different categories of offences, a marriage will be declared “null and void” if the conversion of a woman is solely for that purpose. The onus to prove that the conversion has not been done forcibly will lie on the accused and the convert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/about-35-arrests-dozen-firs-as-up-love-jihad-law-completes-one-month/story-Z6PvZOZXnRo4VakO6Uf51L.html
26-12-2020||India||Govt launches competition seeking solutions in vaccine distribution system from startups||As the country prepares for the first round of Covid-19 vaccination, the government is offering start-ups a chance to develop solutions for better implementation and strengthening of the vaccine distribution system.The Union ministries of health and information technology have sought these solutions as part of a grand challenge for strengthening the COVID Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) system. Co-WIN, a digitalised platform, will be used to roll out and scale up the mechanism for the vaccine distribution system nationally, said information technology ministry’s senior director Ajay Garg.The health ministry has identified seven focus areas of technology development to address the likely limitations associated with the effective vaccine distribution system and its seamless administration across India. “These challenges try to broadly address the priority areas relating to infrastructure, monitoring, and management, dynamic learning and information systems, constraints of human resources, including technical capacities, vaccine logistics management and tracking enlisted beneficiaries for any adverse event following the immunisation on a real-time basis,” Garg said.The challenge was launched on December 22 on a collaborative platform developed for building synergies in the Indian tech start-up space. Participation has been invited from start-ups and emerging technology specialists to augment and scale the Co-WIN platform.Registrations are open till January 15. The top five applicants will be provided the Co-WIN Application Programming Interface to prove the efficacy of their solutions for possible integration with the platform. Each shortlisted applicant will get Rs 2 lakh to cover their logistical requirements. The final two winners will get a reward of Rs 40 lakh and Rs 20 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-launches-competition-seeking-solutions-in-vaccine-distribution-system-from-startups/story-fzefOTWnpBxPtUdNrPJJdK.html
26-12-2020||India||16 years of Indian Ocean tsunami: What India has learnt||December 26 marks the 16th anniversary of the massive Indian Ocean tsunami. On this day, a 100-foot high tsunami triggered by an earthquake of magnitude 9.1, one of the largest ever recorded, from under the Indian Ocean killed more than 230,000 people in South Asia. With the epicentre near Sumatra, Indonesia, the earthquake triggered a tsunami that hit Thailand, Sri Lanka, India, Indonesia.A tsunami researcher and forecaster with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Center for Tsunami Research, Vasily Titov cites the destructive capacity of the 2004 tsunami to the earthquake in the megathrust fault, ‘where heavy oceanic plates subduct beneath lighter continental plates’. “They are the largest faults in the world and they’re all underwater,” History reported him saying. He added that the tsunami waves could be seen like a large pebble falling in the ocean causing mega ripples.The Sumatra earthquake and tsunami are considered to be an eye-opener for India as it introduced the Indian coastline to tsunami and its destructible power. Learning from the unprecedented natural disaster that led to such heavy damage to life and property, the Ministry of Earth founded the Indian Tsunami Early Warning System (ITEWS) at Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS), Hyderabad in October 2007. Scientists in India are now able to predict and project movements in Indian ocean through real-time seismic monitoring with Bottom Pressure Recorders (BPR), tide gauges and 24x7 operational tsunami warning system to detect tsunamigenic earthquakes as to provide early advisories to the most vulnerable. A community performance-based programme known as Tsunami Ready has also been started by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) of UNESCO to promote tsunami preparedness by actively involving the public, community leaders, and national and local emergency management agencies. As part of the UNESCO-IOC framework, the ITEWC now offers advisories to all Indian Ocean rim countries.India is the first country to establish an early warning system for tsunami detection, while Odisha is the first state in the country to get Tsunami Ready recognition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-years-of-indian-ocean-tsunami-what-india-has-learnt/story-ek5f9RQTVLUR4pwNO49kHJ.html
26-12-2020||India||With masks, sanitisers and Covid tests, Bengal readies for Ganga Sagar Mela||The West Bengal government is gearing up to receive millions of pilgrims in mid-January for the Ganga Sagar Mela, the second largest congregation of pilgrims in India after the Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj. It has also made arrangements for live streaming of the holy dip during the mela in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Pilgrims can book online a tirtha samagri pack comprising Ganga Jal in a container, prasad, and the holy tika. “E-snan [bath] is a first initiative by the district administration through which people can take a bath with Ganga Jal at the convenience while watching live Ganga Sagar on the website and take the feel of the sahi snan,” said P Ulaganathan, district magistrate of South 24 Parganas, where the mela is held every year. More than four million people take the holy dip at the confluence of River Ganges and Bay of Bengal in mid-January to celebrate Makar Sankranti, the first major Hindu festival in the Gregorian calendar. “As this is a pandemic year, apart from the usual healthcare facilities that are available every year for the pilgrims, this time we need to set up a separate infrastructure for Covid-19 suspects and patients,” said an official of the district administration. Suspected Covid-19 pilgrims would be tested at various check-points, starting from Kolkata. Wrist bands would be provided to pilgrims who undergo Covid-19 tests for easy identification and their health would be monitored. The vehicles of pilgrims would be sanitized. Masks and sanitizers would be also be provided. “For pilgrims who develop [Covid-19] symptoms in the mela ground, there would be safe homes, Covid hospital and quarantine centres. Additional medical professionals are being deployed this time,” said the official. An app named Atithi Path has been launched which would provide all details of the mela including route charts, timings of the tide, and puja and act as a virtual tour guide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-masks-sanitisers-and-covid-tests-bengal-readies-for-ganga-sagar-mela/story-BMCTMrZZed1xUFVvF492wN.html
26-12-2020||India||2 terrorists killed in encounter in J-K’s Shopian, operation underway||Two unidentified terrorists have been killed in an encounter that broke out at Kanigam area of Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir, Kashmir Zone Police has said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the area in south Kashmir following information about the presence of militants in the area, a police official said. He said as the forces were conducting searches, militants fired upon them. The forces retaliated and an encounter ensued.The operation began on Friday night following specific inputs. Two army jawans were also injured in the operation last night, ANI quoted Dilbagh Singh, DG, J-K Police as saying. The two terrorists neutralized today belonged to Al-Badr, while the operation is still underway there is no casualty from our side, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-militants-killed-in-shopian-encounter-operation-underway/story-1MtPGs9sNjf8K2EK9fPlYN.html
26-12-2020||India||Railways installs devices in trains to assist drivers in foggy conditions||Train mishaps due to inhibited visibility from thick foggy conditions is a peril to passengers and crew members that could easily result in loss of life and damage of property. To meet this challenge, the Indian Railways has installed a fog safety device in trains to assist drivers tackle poor visibility due to thick fog during the season. General Manager of Northern Railways, Ashutosh Gangal, outlined the procedure by which a fog condition is declared at a station. “Several departments in railways make arrangements due to fog. Visibility test object placed at railway stations. station masters declare fog conditions if the object isn’t available. Fog conditions are withdrawn after the object becomes visible. Signal location booklet has been given to the crew,” he said. The visibility test object is placed at a distance of 180 metres from the starter and if it is not visible to the station master or the station superintendent, fog conditions are declared. When such a condition is declared, a fog signal is registered and the time when the condition was declared is recorded. Once the visibility test object comes within sight again, fog conditions are withdrawn. Speaking about train crews, Gangal said that foggy conditions might cause the crew to miss signals due to impaired visibility. To counter this challenge, fog sensing devices have been placed in between the gaps of a signal and signal location booklets are also given to the crew so that they are aware of a signal’s location and if it is not visible, the drivers are to regulate the speed of the train until the see it and then proceed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-installs-devices-in-trains-to-assist-drivers-in-foggy-conditions/story-qFgusV0ceaHvLyydywgDQP.html
26-12-2020||India||Prakash Javadekar challenges Rahul Gandhi, DMK for debate on farm laws||Hitting out at the opposition leaders for criticising the three farm laws, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar has challenged Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) for an open debate on whether the farm reforms introduced by the Centre are in the interest of farmers or not.“Rahul Gandhi suddenly said you will (Centre government) have to withdraw the new farm laws. I am giving him an open challenge for a debate, whether the laws are good, in the interest of farmers or not. I am giving challenge to Rahul Gandhi and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) to debate,” Javadekar said while addressing farmers in Chennai.Rahul Gandhi on Thursday called the farmer protests a ‘Satyagraha’ and urged the people to support the farmers agitating against the three farm laws passed by the Central government.Citing a media report alleging the new laws used to dupe farmers, Rahul Gandhi had tweeted: “Farmers in India are agitating against anti-agricultural laws to avoid such a tragedy. In this Satyagraha, we all have to support the annadata of the country.”The ‘Delhi Chalo’ farmers’ protest along Delhi’s borders has entered the 31st day on Saturday. Meanwhile, several rounds of talks between ministers and farmers’ leaders have failed to produce a breakthrough so far.Hundreds of farmers have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prakash-javadekar-challenges-rahul-gandhi-dmk-for-debate-on-farm-laws/story-YYKqtouN4SBa4GdWt4OmWP.html
26-12-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh cabinet approves Dharma Swatantrya (Religious Freedom) Bill 2020||Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Saturday approved the Dharma Swatantrya (Religious Freedom) Bill 2020. The controversial ordinance outlaws marriages with an aim of religious conversions. “Under the new Bill, forcing religious conversion on someone will attract 1-5 years of imprisonment and a minimum Rs 25,000 fine,” said state home minister Narottam Mishra.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, while batting for the bill, had called it his government’s Beti Bachao Abhiyan or save the daughter mission. No one will be able to convert anyone from one religion to another through marriage or “any other fraudulent means by seducing or intimidating anyone” if the bill was passed, he had said. “Government belongs to everyone, all religions and castes. There is no discrimination but if someone tries to do anything disgusting with our daughters, then I’ll break you,” the chief minister had added. This approval comes after Uttar Pradesh’s governor’s assent to the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, against forcible or fraudulent religious conversions last month.Section 3 of the bill states anyone found guilty of abetment to religious conversion shall face imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of not less than Rs 25,000. Attempt to hide one’s religion will be punishable by imprisonment of three to 10 years and a fine of at least Rs 50,000. If a minor or a woman from Scheduled Tribe and Scheduled Caste categories is forced into conversion, the perpetrator will be imprisoned for two to 10 years and fined up to Rs 50,000. Blood relatives of victims of such religious conversion can file a complaint, the bill further states.Provision for the imprisonment of five to 10 years and fine of at least Rs 100,000 is being made for attempting mass religious conversion (of two or more persons).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-cabinet-approves-dharma-swatantrya-religious-freedom-bill-2020/story-V2aFPFRxQmzmA4k8qQUd1H.html
26-12-2020||India||4G ban extended in Jammu and Kashmir till January 8; Udhampur, Ganderbal exempted||An order issued by the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Friday stated that the ban on 4G internet services in the Union Territory (UT) has been extended till January 8, except Udhampur and Ganderbal districts. Earlier, the ban on 4G services was imposed till December 25 by the administration. Friday’s order said that internet speed will continue to be restricted to 2G apart from the districts of Udhampur and Ganderbal- where internet connectivity will be made available without any speed-related restrictions. “The aforesaid directions shall be effective December 26, 2020, and remain in force till January 8, 2021, unless modified earlier,” it added.Further advocating the stoppage of 4G services in Jammu and Kashmir, the order pointed out that there was information that a large number of terrorists were trying to infiltrate from across the border and the curbs on high-speed internet had blocked their attempts to do so. Meanwhile, People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) chief and National Conference (NC) Patron Farooq Abdullah on Thursday requested the Centre to restore 4G immediately adding that people of Kashmir — students, business people and others — were suffering due to the restrictions.“We request the government that 4G should be restored immediately. It is unfortunate that the people of this state, our children, students, business people are suffering because now everything is online. When the Prime Minister is talking about 5G, we do not even have 4G. This should be restored as quickly as possible,” he said. Mobile internet services had been suspended in Jammu and Kashmir since August 5, 2019 due to security reasons when the central government had abrogated Article 370 and Article 35A and J-K transitioned from a state into a UT on October 31, 2019.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4g-ban-extended-in-jammu-and-kashmir-till-january-8-udampur-ganderbal-exempted/story-AoGZdQzohiylOYoZ9EJU7L.html
26-12-2020||India||MNS workers allegedly vandalise Amazon warehouse in Pune||An FIR (First Information Report) has been registered on Friday allegedly against 8 to 10 Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) workers for vandalising Amazon’s Godown in Pune, police said.MNS workers allegedly vandalised godown of Amazon based warehouse in Pune’s Kondhwa over notice sent by Mumbai court to Raj Thackeray asking him to remain present in court on January 5 over controversy on adding Marathi language on Amazon’s website.“The notice sent to Raj Thackeray by Amazon yesterday (Thursday) is illegal. If one has to do business in Maharashtra they must provide an option in Marathi language and if they don’t do it in future as well....then the way this (Amazon’s godown) has been vandalised similarly Maharashtra Navnirman Sena will not let their shops, vehicles operate in Maharashtra,” said MNS worker Amit Jagtap, who was allegedly leading the group which vandalised the godown.The e-commerce company had approached Dindoshi court in the city after which a notice was issued to MNS chief Raj Thackeray directing him to appear in court on January 5.MNS had recently written a letter to Amazon chief asking him to include Marathi language as an option on their website for Maharashtra customers.The case has been registered with Kondhwa police station of Pune under section 143,147,149,427,452 of IPC along with several other relevant sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mns-workers-allegedly-vandalise-amazon-warehouse-in-pune/story-w13yuUTHHIcvvlb8Rj9ULN.html
26-12-2020||India||China sells 50 armed drones to Pakistan, begins psyops. It’s a reminder | Analysis||This month, China’s state media publicised its decision to supply 50 Wing Loong II armed drones to Pakistan, which it prophesied, would be a nightmare for Indian ground formations in high-altitude areas as India’s military does not have the ability to respond to the new-age stand-off weapons.Arguing that armed Chinese and Turkish drones had played a crucial role in Libya, Syria and Azerbaijan conflicts by decimating the enemy defences and conventional armour, the Chinese media said Indian ground formations would be unable to parry an attack by a large number of armed drones.Also Read: China’s offer for disengagement in East Ladakh is a trap. RejectedWhile the Chinese emphasis on the success of Wing Loong II in African and Asian theatre is a matter to be noted, Indian military officials point out that the armed drones perform optimally in uncontested air spaces or where it has air dominance. Like in Afghanistan and Iraq where the United States drones have been used to carry out strikes against insurgents or terrorists because the US was dominating the air space.This isn’t going to be the case with China or Pakistan’s border with India.“Whether it is Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir or the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, the airspace is very closely monitored by radars and hotly contested with fighters. The armed drones will simply be shot down if they cross the lines,” said a former Indian Air Force chief.But Pakistan’s acquisition of the armed drones from China does underscore the need for India to acquire weaponised drones and anti-drone systems since the unmanned aerial vehicles can be used to launch air-to-ground weapons without crossing the LoC or LAC. The drones can discharge the weapons beyond the engagement envelopes of the Indian guns or surface-to-air missiles on the ground.Also Read: Apologise, Afghanistan tells China after busting its espionage cell in KabulAs of now, India does not have any armed drone system.The navy is acquiring two US Predators on lease for maritime domain awareness for friend or foe identification. And the Israeli weaponisation upgrade of the Heron drone will take time.India had accepted the necessity for the armed forces to have Close-in weapon systems in 2015 and floated the tender for the system that detects and destroys incoming missiles or enemy aircraft three years later. The Russian S-400 system, which made the cut, is expected to be available next year.The defence public sector company Bharat Electronics, meanwhile, has come up with an anti-drone radar-based system but it is still to be validated by the users.While it suits the Chinese media and military to compare the Indian army with Armenian, Syrian or Government of National Accord (GNA) forces in the Africa-Asian theatre for its psychological warfare, the Bharat Electronics-manufactured medium-powered radar detects even birds in flight. Besides, it is cost-effective to shoot down an infiltrating drone by using L-70 or ZU-23 air defence guns.After all, a Chinese Wing Loong II drone is one-tenth the cost of a fighter and it does not make sense to shoot them down using million-dollar US air-to-air missiles.To ensure that the troops are protected from stand-off weapons, the Indian Army is using tunnel defences with huge concrete Hume pipes to provide the defence in case of the first strike on the front-line. But a lucky strike from an enemy drone can unravel the best of defence plans without a properly integrated air defence network in place..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-pla-tries-to-psyche-indian-army-by-supplying-armed-drones-to-pak/story-tySb4UnKimFUYIxJdP3xGL.html
26-12-2020||India||India records 22,273 new Covid-19 infections in last 24 hours, 3.4% lower than yesterday; daily toll falls below 300||India on Saturday recorded 22,273 new Covid-19 infections, 3.4% lower than yesterday. In the last 24 hours, 22,274 people were discharged which pushed the tally of active cases down to 2,81,667. The daily Covid-19 toll on Friday fell below 300 — 251 deaths were reported on Friday — taking the death rate to 1.45%. Kerala on Friday reported over 5,000 cases with the test positivity rate touching 11.4 per cent. In the last 24 hours, 48,853 samples were tested and 5,397 people tested positive for the virus, while 4,506 persons have been cured, Health minister K K Shailaja said in a press release.Continuing the trend of the decreasing number of Covid-19 infections, Delhi on Friday recorded 758 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest in over four months. The highest single-day spike till date — 8,593 cases — was reported on November 11. In the ongoing door-to-door contact drive being conducted by the Delhi government to test UK-returned persons for prevalence of Covid-19, eight have so far been found infected with the coronavirus.Maharashtra reported 3,431 new coronavirus infections on Friday, taking the tally of cases to 19,13,382. In a marked achievement, the Dharavi area of Mumbai which became a hotbed of the infection because of the congested settlement did not report a single new infection on Friday.On December 28 and 29, a dry run of vaccination drive will be carries out in Punjab, Assam, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-22-273-new-covid-19-infections-in-last-24-hours-3-4-lower-than-yesterday-daily-toll-falls-below-300/story-MyMZwEWCAvyggECwEPK6mI.html
26-12-2020||India||News Updates from Hindustan Times: 1 dead, 3 rescued after fire breaks out at mask manufacturing unit in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi: One dead, 3 rescued after fire breaks out at mask manufacturing unitOne person died while three others were rescued after a fire broke out at a mask manufacturing unit in Mayapuri area of the national Capital on Saturday morning. Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said that the call was received at 3.54am and six fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Read morePM Modi to launch AB-PMJAY SEHAT scheme for Jammu and Kashmir todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday launch the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) SEHAT scheme for the residents of Jammu and Kashmir. The scheme will benefit as many as 21 lakh eligible people on the basis of Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC) 2011, officials said. Read moreRipple lawsuit worries Indian crypto exchangesA US lawsuit against Ripple Labs Inc., the issuer of the world’s third-largest cryptocurrency, has sent the value of the XRP currency plunging but Indian exchanges have refrained from restricting its trading although they are closely monitoring the case. Read moreJapan urges Biden to be strong in support of Taiwan against ChinaA top Japanese defence official on Friday urged US President-elect Joe Biden to “be strong” in supporting Taiwan in the face of an aggressive China, calling the island’s safety a “red line.” Read moreIndia vs Australia: The long and short of Rishabh Pant’s return and Wriddhiman Saha’s departureRishabh Pant is 23, Wriddhiman Saha is 36. Pant averages over 38 with the bat, Saha just 29. Pant has a Ranji Trophy triple century, Saha’s highest is 203*. Pant is the only Indian wicketkeeper to have scored a century (159) in Australia. Read moreFrom Paatal Lok to The Queen’s Gambit, the top 10 TV shows of 2020In hindsight, as creatively fulfilling as 2020 was for underexposed filmmakers, it was unfortunately quite ordinary in terms of television. This is odd, wouldn’t you say? The streaming industry has seen a well-documented boom this year. Read moreWhatsApp inches closer to launching multi-device supportWhatsApp has been working on providing multi-device support on its platform for quite sometime now. Over the course of this year, reports have detailed the progress that the company has made in improving various aspects of this upcoming feature. Now, a new report gives us more information about this feature. Read moreMan swims 662 feet underwater with one breath in Denmark. Video may take your breath wayThe Guinness World Records’ social media handles are home to some awe-inspiring videos. This clip, which shows a Danish swimmer Stig Severinsen swimming 662 feet, 8.7 inches or 202 meters underwater with just one breath, is a fine addition to that set. Watching the recording may take your breath away, pun intended. Read moreStudy reveals why an early start is key to developing musical skill later in lifeIs there, as some have suggested, a developmental period early in life when the brain is especially receptive to musical training? The answer, according to new research, is probably not. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-1-dead-3-rescued-after-fire-breaks-out-at-mask-manufacturing-unit-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-KvDVM6VuHnJpOXZCwk7suN.html
26-12-2020||India||Covid-19 variant updates: France reports first case of the new variant, Norway extends flight ban||As the world is continuing the fight against the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) crisis which has infected over 80 million people and killed nearly 1.8 million, the detection of a new variant of the virus in the United Kingdom (UK) has further aggravated the situation and the new variant has been reported in eight European nations, Japan, Australia etc. Reported first by the authorities in the UK in mid-December, the new variant (B-117) is found to be more 70 per cent transmissible with the World Health Organization (WHO) adding that it is spreading among the young population. WHO is continuing to monitor the situation and it is crucial to strengthen the existing protocol measures social distancing, wearing masks and staying in core support bubbles, the organisation’s Regional Director for Europe Hans Kluge said.Here are the latest developments on the new Covid-19 variant: 1. Health authorities in France confirmed the first case of the new variant detected in the UK. The public health agency said in a statement that a French man had arrived in France from England on December 19 and tested positive for the variant on Friday. He currently has no symptoms and is isolating at his house. The statement added that authorities were tracing the man’s contacts and labs were studying tests from other people who may have also tested positive for the new variant.2. In India, nine more passengers from the UK who arrived in Telangana after December 9 tested positive for coronavirus, which pushed the tally of cases among UK returnees to 16. Samples of all these passengers have been sent to the Centre for Cellular and Micro Biology (CCMB) for genome sequencing to confirm the variant and the results are expected in two days, Dr G Srinivasa Rao, the Director Public Health of Telangana said.Also Read| Covid-19: UK, South Africa strains spark a battle of mutations3. World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) Regional Director for Europe Hans Kluge said that the new strain has been detected in eight countries of the continent adding that the WHO was continuing to monitor the situation. “The variant also seems to be spreading among younger age groups, unlike previous strains,” Kluge wrote on Twitter.4. The United States, which continues to be the worst-hit nation from the pandemic has ordered that passengers arriving from the UK will be required to show proof of a negative Covid-19 test amid concerns of the new variant. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said that these passengers would need to get a negative polymerase chain reaction or antigen test no more than 72 hours before leaving. The order will come into effect from Sunday and will be signed by President Donald Trump.5. Norway on Friday extended its ban on flights from Britain until Sunday as the new variant is spreading rapidly across Europe. The government had first imposed the ban on December 21. The health ministry further added that flights might be suspended after New Year.Also Read: Seven UK returnees, one contact tested positive for Covid-196. Japan has confirmed the first cases of the new variant with Shigeru Omi, head of a government task force, calling for tighter border control to prevent its spread. Five people arrived in Japan from December 18-21, before the government stepped up border control for arrivals from Britain. Out of these five people, a man in his 60s had developed fatigue while the remaining four were without any symptoms. Health minister Norihisa Tamura said all of them were sent to quarantine straight from the airports.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-variant-updates-france-reports-first-case-of-the-new-variant-norway-extends-flight-ban/story-gix6ObPe5QCzQVzmPqLozN.html
26-12-2020||India||RT-PCR test mandatory for Sabarimala pilgrims from today||Devotees visiting the hill shrine of Lord Ayyappa at Sabarimala will have to carry with them a Covid-19 negative certificate after undergoing an RT-PCR test, the Kerala High Court and state government have directed. The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), which manages the temple, has also said the RT-PCR test certificate, taken not more than 48 hours prior to their visit to the temple, is must for pilgrims from December 26.“Covid-19-negative certificate after a RT-PCR test, taken not more than 48 hours prior to their visit to the temple, is a must for the pilgrims to visit the shrine. Else they will not be permitted to undertake the pilgrimage,” N Vasu, TDB president, said in a release.The recent directive by the High Court has also raised the number of pilgrims permissible daily to 5,000. In the view of the increase in the number of permitted pilgrims at the hill shrine, the state Health Department has intensified the antigen testing in Sabarimala.  The TDB, however, limited to 100 the number of people taking part in the three-day procession carrying the Thiruvabharanam to be adorned on the idol of Lord Ayyappa during the Makaravilakku ceremony. The receptions to the procession at various points on the way to Sabarimala have been cancelled, TDB said. The temple will remain closed after the Mandala Puja on December 26 and reopen for the Makaravilakku pooja on December 31. This is the first annual pilgrimage season at the hill temple after the coronavirus outbreak.Meanwhile, over 5,000 fresh cases of coronavirus were recorded in Kerala on Friday, including 46 health workers, and the test positivity rate touched 11.4%. The death toll mounted to 2,930 with 16 deaths being added to the tally. With this, the Covid-19 caseload in the state mounted to 7,32,084 and the total recoveries touched 6,64,951.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/south/rt-pcr-test-mandatory-for-sabarimala-pilgrims-from-today/story-5s2Wbsx4hn1dpzSBJSg2IP.html
26-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Will there be 6th round of talks soon? 10 points||The farmers’ unions on Friday indicated that talks with the Centre on the three agriculture laws might begin soon though the unions are yet to reply formally to the last letter of the agriculture ministry. A decision regarding the further course of action is likely to be taken on Saturday.Here are the latest updates:1. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other Union ministers on Friday reached out to farmers across the country, making it clear that repealing the laws — what the protesting farmers want — is not on the table.2. In a major development, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday urged farmers to try the new laws as an experiment. “Let farm laws be implemented for a year or two. Let’s try this as an experiment, and if found not beneficial for farmers, the government will be ready for all possible amendments,” he said.3. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the government is ready to talk with opposition parties as well if the discussion is based on facts.4. The protesting farmers are thinking of resuming talks with the Centre at this stage as they feel that the Centre has not clearly understood their demands.5. In their last letter to the ministry, farmers raised the demand for a higher MSP. The ministry, in its reply, said as MSP is not under the purview of the three agriculture laws that are being discussed by the two parties, including MSP in the agenda is not “logical”.6. Reacting to PM Modi’s address on Friday, farmers’ unions asked why the government doesn’t give in writing that MSP will have a legal guarantee. “In public speeches, the prime minister said the MSP will remain. Then why is he afraid of giving a legal guarantee for it? Why cannot the government give it in writing?” Shiv Kumar Kakka, a senior leader of Sankyut Kisan Morcha said.7. Farmers also dismissed PM Modi’s claim of implementing the recommendations of the MS Swaminathan Committee. “In election rallies, he says his government has fixed MSP as per the recommendations of the M S Swaminathan Committee. But in court, they say it was not possible to do so,” Shiv Kumar Kakka said.8. The protesters on Friday picketed at highway booths, allegedly ransacked the venue of a BJP event at Bathinda. From December 26, there will be protests against corporates.9. Amid reports that power supply to mobile towers was being disconnected by protesting farmers in different parts of the state, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday appealed to them to not inconvenience the general public with such actions.10. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday claimed the Centre’s new agricultural reform laws will not benefit farmers in any way and do a lot of harm. “BJP says that these laws will not harm farmers. But what is their benefit? They say that now the farmers will be able to sell their crop anywhere outside the market. But outside the market, the crop is sold at half the price. How is this a benefit? The truth is that these laws will do a lot of harm and don’t have a single benefit,” Kejriwal tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-will-there-be-6th-round-of-talks-soon-10-points/story-IqTK4pkaUcF1HZj1bkxJZO.html
26-12-2020||India||PM Modi to launch AB-PMJAY SEHAT scheme for Jammu and Kashmir today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday launch the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) SEHAT scheme for the residents of Jammu and Kashmir. The scheme will benefit as many as 21 lakh eligible people on the basis of Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC) 2011, officials said. The beneficiaries will get the Universal Healthcare Coverage (UHC) as per the SECC 2011database, they added.A senior government official told news agency ANI that with the launch of AB-PMJAY SEHAT, all residents of Jammu and Kashmir, irrespective of their socio-economic status, will be covered under the scheme. “The government is collecting details of beneficiary families who may be missing from the SECC 2011 database. This will ensure that all beneficiaries are enrolled at the earliest so that they can avail free healthcare services,” the official said.According to a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO),  the scheme would work in convergence with Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY).“The scheme would operate in insurance mode in convergence with Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY),” the statement read, adding that the benefits of the scheme would be portable across all 24,148 hospitals enlisted under ABPM-JAY in India.The PM-JAY, world’s largest health insurance/assurance scheme fully financed by the government, provides a cover of Rs 500,000 per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation across public and private empanelled hospitals in India. The benefit of Rs 5,00,000 is on a family floater basis, which means that it can be used by one or all members of the family. It covers medical procedures such as oncology, cardiology, nephrology etc and up to three days of pre-hospitalisation and 15 days post-hospitalisation expenses such as diagnostics and medicines are also included in the scheme.Union home minister Amit Shah and Jammu and Kashmir’s Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha will be participating in the virtual event.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-ab-pmjay-sehat-scheme-for-jammu-and-kashmir-today/story-9KaBtprMebauxnBddAQ3VN.html
26-12-2020||India||PM Cares ‘owned, controlled and established’ by govt, says Centre||The central government, in a reply to an application under the Right To Information (RTI) act on 24 December, said that PM-CARES fund is “owned by, controlled by and established by the Government of India”.In its response the office of the Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemption) said that “PM Cares Fund has been registered under the Registration Act, 1908 and being a body owned by, controlled by and established by the Government of India,” but that it does not meet the definition of a so-called “public authority.” In an earlier reply, the government had said the fund was not owned, controlled or “substantially financed by any government”. The fund was established to collect donations to raise funds for emergencies (beyond natural disasters), such as the Covid-19 pandemic. The Prime Minister is Chairperson (ex-officio) of the PM-CARES Fund . All contributions towards the PM CARES Fund are 100% exempt from Income Tax.The trust deed of the fund issued on March 17 had stated that the fund isn’t controlled by the government. “The trust is neither intended to be or is in fact owned, controlled or substantially financed by any government or any instrumentality of the government,” the deed said.As per the PM CARES website, ₹3,076.62 crores were collected by the fund in 2019-20. The RTI reply, however, maintains that the fund is beyond the purview of the Right to Information Act as it is not a “public authority”. “ I have no doubts that the PM CARES Fund” registered as a ‘Public Charitable Trust’, akin to an NGO, ought to be transparent as it has been provided with many government services and facilities,” said RTI activist Commodore Lokesh Batra (retd.). HT reached out to the officer on special duty to the PM by email but did not receive a response immediately. The government has said that divulging details about the fund is not viable as it is “personal in nature”, not related to any “public authority or interest” and would cause an “unwarranted invasion of privacy”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-cares-owned-controlled-and-established-by-govt-says-centre/story-IsM4n2ZFtZL0saPwmzmcmN.html
26-12-2020||India||EC gears up to launch digital voter ID cards||From two QR codes for additional security, to free duplicate copies, the Election Commission is gearing up to launch digital voter ID cards by January 25, marked as national voters’ day in India. While digital voter ID cards will be optional, the commission has extended the provision to all electors and will also allow them to store the card on the government’s digital document safe — Digilocker. “Delivery of election ID cards has been a cumbersome process,” said a person familiar with the matter. “Now, immediately on approval, EPIC (Electors Photo ID Card) will be downloadable. Elector can print the card or store it as per convenience.”Voter ID card delivery through normal means will also continue, this person added, asking not to be named. Registered electors seeking a digital card will need to register with their mobile number or email ID on the voter helpline app. Once the verification is done with a one time password, the digital card will be downloadable. The same verification process will also apply for overseas electors. To ensure security of the digital voter card, there will be two QR codes. The first code will contain the photo and demographic data of the individual, while the second will contain dynamic data. Ahead of the election, the second code will get updated with information regarding the date and time of the poll. It will serve the purpose of the photo voter slip, although the Commission will continue paper slip distribution as well. “The code can be scanned and the voter will be provided real-time data about the ongoing election,” said a second person familiar with the matter who too asked not to be identified. The digital voter IDs will be verified by the Commission and can only be downloaded on the registered mobile number. Not more than six digital voter ID cards can be downloaded on one phone. The many benefits the Commission envisages for the e-EPIC include ease of carrying, downloading and self-print outs. Moreover, in case a voter migrates, the single card will suffice. Only the address associated with the QR code will change and a fresh copy can be immediately downloaded. At present, a payment of Rs 25 is made for a duplicate card. With the advent of the digital voter ID, duplicates will be provided free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-gears-up-to-launch-digital-voter-id-cards/story-Wd5sLkP8C31TrkajvddaRK.html
26-12-2020||India||Arunachal Pradesh: 6 JD(U) MLAs join BJP before local poll results||The Janata Dal (United), or JD(U) received a major jolt in Arunachal Pradesh, with six of its seven MLAs shifting allegiance to the ruling the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), a bulletin issued by the state legislative assembly said.The lone MLA from the People’s Party of Arunachal (PPA), Kardo Nyigyor from Likabali constituency, has also joined the saffron party.JD(U) national president and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, however, downplayed the development and said: “It’s not a big issue. The national executive is meeting on December 26 and 27.” “Right now, we are focusing on our proposed meeting. They have gone their own way,” he said in Patna.The development comes a day ahead of the announcement of the panchayat and municipal poll results. The JD(U) MLAs who switched sides are Talem Taboh from Rumgong Assembly Constituency, Hayeng Mangfi (Chayang Tajo), Jikke Tako (Tali), Dorjee Wangdi Kharma (Kalaktang), Dongru Siongju (Bomdila) and Kanggong Taku from Mariyang-Geku constituency, the bulletin said.On November 26, the JD(U) had issued show-cause notices to Siongju, Kharma and Taku for “anti-party” activities, and suspended them. The six JD(U) MLAs had earlier elected Talem Taboh as the new Legislature Party leader, allegedly without the knowledge of senior party members.The PPA MLA was also suspended by the regional outfit earlier this month. “We have accepted their letters conveying the intention to join the party,” BJP’s Arunachal Pradesh president B R Waghe said.Following the switchover, the BJP now has 48 MLAs in the 60-member House, while the JD(U) is left with only one.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-pradesh-6-jd-u-mlas-join-bjp-before-local-poll-results/story-y98z2ty6FdfDR7W4813ZJM.html
26-12-2020||India||‘Apologise to farmers’: Opposition hits back at PM Modi||The Opposition on Friday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his allegations that vested interests were misleading farmer protests, with the Congress party asking the PM to apologise to farmers for enacting three contentious agriculture laws that have sparked protests. “Instead of inventing excuses, indulging in event management, the Modi Government should seek apologize to the farmers and should immediately withdraw these three black laws,” Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said. The party’s attack came on a day the PM interacted with farmers and strongly defended the three laws, blaming Opposition parties of hijacking the protests and misleading cultivators. The PM also pointedly accused the West Bengal government of denying central government benefits to seven million farmers in the state.Hours later, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee hit back. “While he (PM Modi) publicly claimed his intention to help farmers of WB (West Bengal) through his PM Kisan Yojana and alleges non-cooperation of the state government, the fact is that he is trying to mislead the people with half-truth and distorted facts,” Banerjee said.The Bengal government was always ready to cooperate in the interest of farmers, she added.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal claimed the laws will harm farmers. “BJP says that these laws will not harm farmers. But what is their benefit? ...The truth is that these laws will do a lot of harm and don’t have a single benefit,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MPs Sanjay Singh and Bhagwant Mann raised slogans in the presence of the PM, demanding the repeal of the farm laws. The incident took place in the Central Hall of Parliament when Modi arrived to pay floral tributes to Madan Mohan Malaviya and former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee on their birth anniversaries.Surjewala said that the central government was the enemy of farmers. “The bitter truth is that it is taking shelter behind political dishonesty, slyness and dramatics is not at all interested in solving the problems of farmers. The Prime Minister Modi who dug roads, attacked farmers with water cannons and lathi charge is today indulging in the drama of ‘Samman Nidhi’,” he said.He slammed the government for calling farmers “terrorists, parasite, tukde-tukde gang, misguided gang, and khalistanis”.“Modi Ji, it is a matter of deep anguish that the farmers whom you are treating with cruelty and apathy, they are the same people, who brought you to this throne and this position of glory,” Surjewala said. “Today, this BJP is branding these farmers brothers as terrorists, parasite, tukde-tukde gang, misguided gang, khalistani and misguided lot. It is shameful that the minister of agriculture has gone to the extent of calling them political puppets in his letters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apologise-to-farmers-opposition-hits-back-at-pm-modi/story-Gf2igiCqjQ6XbTYbiI5R4M.html
26-12-2020||India||No corporation can snatch your land: Amit Shah to farmers||No corporate can snatch away any farmer’s land so long as Narendra Modi is Prime Minister, Union home minister Amit Shah said on Friday as part of a massive outreach by top ministers and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders to defend three recently enacted agriculture laws that have sparked fierce protests. Addressing a gathering in Delhi’s Mehrauli on former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary, Shah promised that the government will continue to provide assured prices for crops and support state-regulated agricultural markets, or mandis. He blamed the Opposition, including Congress, for spreading lies about the minimum support price (MSP) and other provisions.“The Opposition is brazenly lying...farmers’ welfare is the top priority of the Modi government,” Shah asserted.Shah said farmers from all parts of the country backed the laws and added that if any farm organisations felt that any provision was against their interests, the government was ready to discuss and consider it with an open mind. “Neither MSP will end, nor anyone can snatch your land. I want to tell farmers that as long as Narendra Modi is PM, no corporate can snatch away your land, this is BJP’s promise to you,” he said.Other top ministers also addressed similar events. In Delhi’s Dwarka, defence minister Rajnath Singh suggested that farmers try the three new farm laws as an “experiment” for a year or two and if they are found not beneficial, the government would bring necessary amendments. Union ministers Prakash Javadekar and Smriti Irani separately interacted with farmers at Chennai in Tamil Nadu and Amethi in Uttar Pradesh, respectively, and also joined in to PM Modi’s video address to farmers. Union agricultural minister Narendra Singh Tomar appealed to farmers to end their protest and hold talks with the government. I hope they will understand the importance of the new farm laws, and the issue will be resolved soon,” said Tomar.“There is an attempt to deceive the farmers. The protests are being used for political ends,” said railway minister Piyush Goyal. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) plan to field other senior ministers, including road transport minister Nitin Gadkari, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, social justice minister Thaawar Chand Gehlot, education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank”, who will travel across the country to convince people about the benefits of the new law. In his speech, Shah said the government was committed to MSP and had raised the quantum of funds provided for farm welfare. “I want to tell farmers in the whole country that opposition leaders have no issues and they are spreading lies that MSP will end. The Prime Minister has clarified and now I again clarify that MSP is there and will continue,” he said.Opposition leaders, including former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, demanded loan waiver for farmers when the government started PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme.“In 10 years, the UPA government waived loans or Rs 60,000 crore. In just two and a half years, Modi ji provided Rs 95,000 crore to ten crore farmers,” Shah said.He claimed the opposition was trying to manufacture issues and spreading “lies” . “The mandis will also continue. They are spreading lies that mandis will be closed. I want to ask the opposition which provision tells them that the mandis will be closed? In Dwarka, Singh called himself a farmer’s son and said the government will never hurt the interest of farmers. “People are trying to mislead farmers about these farm laws that they are not in their interest. I am the son of a farmer and have worked in farms. I want to assure there is not a single provision in these laws that is against farmers,” he added.Minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said in Rampur, Uttar Pradesh, that the government was committed to the “protection and promotion” of farmers’ welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-corporation-can-snatch-your-land-amit-shah-to-farmers/story-Kz1hQXntwiIzNFgLFoltHJ.html
26-12-2020||India||Delhiwale: Guarding a Delhi garden||In these times of coronavirus, many people are advised to work from home as much as possible. But not all jobs have this luxury — say if one’s a hospital nurse, or an airline pilot, or a newspaper reporter, or a security guard.And that’s why guard Mamta Singh is manning her post, checking the tickets of visitors as they step into this balmy central Delhi garden filled with few people this afternoon. “At least these days I don’t have to get my kids ready for the school in the morning,” she says, explaining that their school is closed due to the pandemic.In her early 30s, Ms Singh is dressed in blue shirt, black pants and a tie in stripes of red and blue. The parting in her hair is covered with red sindoor (traditional vermilion red). Her black shoes are polished so thoroughly that you can almost see your reflection. She has a plastic chair to sit but is obliged to get up to check the tickets each time a person approaches the entrance. There’s no rush at the moment and the kind guard finds time to respond to a few queries.“Very often in the morning he prepares the breakfast while I get busy with the children,” she says, referring to her husband. Pratap Singh is a “supervisor mechanic” in an automobile firm. The couple, natives of the mountainous Bageshwar in Uttarakhand, live in south Delhi’s Dakshinpuri. During the day when both of them are at work, the children are looked after by Ms Singh’s sister, who lives in the facing house.It is a fact of Indian society, cutting across social and economic divides, that in households where both husband and wife have day jobs, the wife still ends up doing most kitchen chores.Not true in Ms Singh’s case.“Whoever among us manages to reach home early starts with the cooking,” she says, shrugging her shoulders with a smile. And eventually, both she and her husband end up sharing the kitchen work daily. Although sometimes when Ms Singh has to stay late at work, her husband does the entire cooking alone. Today Ms Singh is hopeful of reaching home well in time. And now two visitors arrive. She politely checks for their ticket and smiles, reflexively gesturing towards the entrance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-guarding-a-delhi-garden/story-GzWRiAtMnOEkyJ8egVbxtM.html
26-12-2020||India||Court asks for footage of police raid on lawyer appearing in riots cases||A Delhi court on Friday ordered the Special Cell of Delhi Police to produce the entire video footage of the raid conducted at the office of Mehmood Pracha, a lawyer associated with multiple cases in connection with the north-east Delhi riots who has alleged that the police action was aimed at preventing him from getting justice for those affected by the violence. The court also directed the Investigating Officer (IO) to submit a status report on investigations against Pracha, who is being probed in an FIR relating to the alleged use of forged documents on judicial record in one of the riots matters. Citing a victim’s statement, police have also accused Pracha of tutoring victims to give false statements in riot-related cases – a charge he denies. Pracha is representing nearly 80 people in the Delhi riots cases.Several senior legal experts members have contended that the action by the police could amount to a breach of attorney-client privilege given the related cases Pracha is appearing in, and described it as an attempt to create pressure on lawyers fighting for the rights of several riots victims and accused.On Friday, Duty Magistrate Anshu Singhal took up two applications by Pracha, who contended that the Special Cell officials did not only breach the attorney-client privilege by taking away the entire data from the computers in his office but also violated the court order which specifically ordered the police to produce “forthwith” any evidence, if found, before the court. The lawyer further relied upon Section 165(6) of the Criminal Procedure Code to assert that he was entitled in law to get a copy of the records, collected as evidence by the police. Admitting his application, the magistrate sought production of record of the evidences taken during the raid and posted the matter for further hearing on December 27, and asked the Special Cell IO to come before it with the detailed footage.Pracha also pressed for a court-monitored probe of the FIR against him, pointing out that the FIR was registered way back in August but the raid conducted now is with an ulterior design to deter him from appearing in riots cases. On this, the magistrate asked the Special Cell IO to present a status report before the court concerned on January 5. Speaking to HT after the hearing, Pracha said that the police have displayed an egregious example of lawlessness and illegalities under the guise of investigation into a forgery FIR registered against unknown persons. “I am not even aware if I have been named as an accused or not in this FIR. It has been almost four months since registration of the FIR and there is no charge sheet till date. They took away details of all the cases and clients, which are privileged communication between a lawyer and his clients. If this is not a witch-hunt what else can be? I was assaulted but I am now being told that another FIR is lodged against me at the instance of the raiding team,” he said. Meanwhile, Delhi Police on Friday confirmed that they have registered a case at Hazrat Nizamuddin police station against Pracha on charges of obstructing government officials from doing their duty. The police raid on Pracha’s office began around noon on Thursday and continued till 2.30am on Friday.In response to Pracha’s allegation of assault by police personnel during the raid, deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Manshi Chandra denied the allegations. The officers said that police had a search warrant from the court to search locations of two lawyers. Police said that while the process went off smoothly at the premises of advocate Javed Ali in east Delhi, they faced stiff resistance at Pracha’s office. Former additional solicitor general Indira Jaising condemned the raid at Pracha’s office, saying such actions will lead to a denial of justice to various accused and victims in the Delhi riots cases who are entitled to a free and fair trial. “The omnibus raid is also an attack on the attorney-client privilege that Mr Pracha is entitled to, especially for those being represented by him in connection with the February riots cases. What has now happened with Mr Pracha appears to be a continuing trend of attacking the basic right of legal representation by attacking their lawyers,” added Jaising. Advocate Rizwan, who represents suspended councillor Tahir Hussain, said that the raids conducted at Pracha’s office is unfortunate and is a deliberate attempt to create pressure on the lawyers representing the accused and victims of the Delhi riots. “Today, it is Pracha, tomorrow it can be someone else,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-asks-for-footage-of-police-raid-on-lawyer-appearing-in-riots-cases/story-ShGpRhhfIFEgcSV2o6cL6N.html
26-12-2020||India||‘Don’t get misled’: Modi leads govt’s mega farmer outreach||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said his government was open to talks so long as they were based on “tark” and “tathya” (arguments and facts), while blaming opposition parties for misleading farmers about three new agriculture laws for their “political agenda”.Modi staunchly defended his farm-reform agenda, which he said was needed to “modernise” the agrarian sector. On the occasion of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary, the Prime Minister released the year’s last tranche of PM-KISAN, the direct income-transfer scheme started by his government for farmers, making payments worth ₹18,000 crore to 90 million cultivators. Under the programme, farmers are provided income support of ₹6,000 a year, paid in three equal cash transfers of ₹2,000 -- one every four months. “I bow to farmers. A majority of them have supported the laws. I will never allow farmers’ interests to be compromised at any cost,” Modi said. “We have brought changes to benefit farmers. We don’t claim we have all knowledge and only we know best. But there should at least be talks. I humbly request everyone, even to those opposed to our politics that we are ready for talks but talks should be based on ‘tark’ and ‘tathya’ (argument and facts).” He added: “The country must modernise the farm sector and prepare for challenges to farming in the 21st century.” Prior to a 51-minute virtual address to farmers, the PM chatted with farmers from six states via video conferencing -- interactions geared to showcase achievements of farmers who have embraced new business models unleashed by the recent farm reforms. For almost a month, farmers from Punjab, Haryana and elsewhere in northern India, have camped on the borders of Delhi to press the government to repeal the laws they fear will weaken their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of powerful agribusinesses. Six rounds of talks between the government and farm unions have failed to break the impasse. In his speech, Modi framed the ongoing agitation as a political “event”, in which his opponents were instigating “innocent farmers” with falsehoods. “I don’t blame farmers but those misleading them.” Modi accused the Opposition of politicking, and said while at the beginning, the issues raised were genuine – such as that of minimum support prices (MSP) – the protests were “hijacked” by those with political agenda. “MSP was pushed aside and now they are demanding release from jail of those accused of violence... They want highways toll-free… Why have they shifted from farmer’s issues to new demands?” he asked. “The Opposition is misleading farmers regarding MSP. If farmers want to sell at MSP, they can go to mandis. If they think they are getting price from private traders, they have the freedom,” said Modi, stressing that farmers will continue to get assured prices under his government. He said some people were furthering their “political goals and ideologies” through the farmer protests. “The people (politicians and activists opposing the laws) who are talking about mandis, agricultural produce market committees (APMC) are the ones who destroyed West Bengal, Kerala. There are no APMCs and mandis in Kerala. So, why are no protests in Kerala? Why don’t they start a movement there?” Both Bengal and Kerala are ruled by parties opposed to Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Farm unions slammed the speech and accused the PM of trying to divide farmers. “He addressed farmers of only six states. He did not once address the farmers who are protesting. It’s his prerogative to decide who he wants to represent as PM. His speech was a fusion of false, fabricated and fake news,” said Avik Saha of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. Opposition parties accused Modi of not addressing farmers’ demands.“The Prime Minister is giving clarifications on television and his ministers are offering excuses through letters, but, the fact remains that he is busy in the servility of a handful of crony capitalists,” said Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala. Modi mounted a sharp attack on the Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government for “being the only state” to not implement the PM-KISAN scheme. “I regret that while all farmers getting it (cash support), only West Bengal government has deprived 70 lakh farmers of it. They are not benefiting because the West Bengal government due to political reasons are depriving them. It is a central scheme, its free for state government.” The West Bengal government doesn’t implement the cash transfer scheme launched by Modi on 24 February 2019. It has said that it prefers to run its own income-support scheme for farmers. “Instead of protesting against the West Bengal government for not implementing the PM-KISAN scheme, some people from Bengal are protesting in Punjab (against the farm laws),” Modi said. Assembly polls in West Bengal are due in April-May next year and the BJP is looking to unseat the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress. The PM also took on the Communist Party of India (Marxist), which ruled Bengal for three decades. “If you listen to a 15 years old speech of Mamata ji, then you will know how much this ideology has ruined Bengal,” he said. “For the Opposition, the ongoing protests by farmers is an event management, a selfie moment,” Modi said. The PM’s virtual interaction with farmers, which was broadcast nationally at panchayat offices, served as a platform to highlight the promises of a new agricultural economy that the laws purport to build. “I have sold 85 quintal of soya to ITC Ltd. They assess the quality of produce in front of us and pay us accordingly on the same day. If there are impurities or excess moisture, the company tells us to and grade and sort out produce before selling,” Manoj Patedar, a farmer from MP, told the PM. Gagan Pering of Arunachal Pradesh said he sold his produce through contract farming. In response, the PM mocked the claim of protesters that the new laws would allow corporations to grab the lands of small farmers. “Okay, so the buyer took your produce. Did he also take your land? Some people are saying the new laws will allow traders to take away your land too,” the PM said. Analysts said Modi’s speech craftily avoided implicating the farming community, an influential voting bloc, while laying the blame on political opponents. “He has sought to pitch it as a political battle, not as a battle of livelihoods and economics of farming. He avoided blaming farmers. That is the strategy the government appears to have adopted to deal with the protests,” said Abhinav Barbora, a political analyst with Silchar University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-get-misled-modi-leads-govt-s-mega-farmer-outreach/story-ogQH81gf54nSgTFPIa2oWI.html
26-12-2020||India||Ashwini Kumar Choubey seeks CM Nitish Kumar’s help to end strike of Bihar’s junior doctors||Agitating junior doctors of government medical colleges of Bihar received a shot in the arm on Friday when Union minister of state for health Ashwini Kumar Choubey said that he would seek chief minister Nitish Kumar’s intervention to resolve the issues leading to the strike. Choubey was in Patna to inaugurate the two-day national seminar organised by the Government Ayurveda College and Hospital, Patna, on ‘the role of rasaushadhi in management of Covid-19’. The Union minister appealed to the junior doctors to call off the strike for the sake of embattled humanity, as he would soon talk to the CM and resolve their demands for hike in their stipend. Around 1,000 junior doctors from nine government medical colleges in the state went on an indefinite strike from December 23 in support of their demand of a raise in their monthly stipend. They are demanding an increase in the monthly stipend for PG courses to Rs 80,000 in the first year, Rs 85,000 in the second year, and Rs 90,000 in the third year. They currently get Rs 50,000, Rs 55,000, and Rs 60,000 for the three years respectively. Earlier, speaking at the seminar, the Union minister assured all possible help to develop the college as a national level institution. He also said that his ministry would support the state government’s initiative to build another Ayurvedic institution at Rajgir. Choubey lauded the concept of Ayurvedic therapy and said that herbs always played an important role in curing various types of infections since time immemorial. “Ayurveda and Yoga help human beings develop immunity against many unexplained diseases,” he added. Principal of the College Dineshwar Prasad, Superintendent Vijay Shankar Dubey and many prominent Ayurveda experts from across the country participated in the seminar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashwini-kumar-choubey-seeks-cm-nitish-kumar-s-help-to-end-strike-of-bihar-s-junior-doctors/story-BwUXEmhPq8i8NWLwLsBbwM.html
26-12-2020||India||Shamsur Rahman Faruqi (1935-2020) ‘Link uniting old, new cultures’: Tributes pour in for literary icon||He wrote in Urdu and English, and his library was probably one of the most impressive ones in Allahabad, with its 10,000 books in both languages — along with every single issue of the New York Review of Books, going back to its founding in 1963.Writer Shamsur Rahman Faruqi, who died on December 25, aged 85, was revered in the world of contemporary Indian literature, but the awe he commanded sat easily on his shoulders. Though he is identified with serious literature, he told this reporter once, while showing his e-Reader, “This holds my thriller reads. John Grisham on Kindle is my daily candy.” In more solemn moments, however, he confessed that his natural affinity was for pre-18th century sensibilities, yet untouched by Western influences, emphasising that he had a particular fondness for Urdu and Persian poets.A retired officer of the Indian Postal Service, Faruqi’s best known novel, The Mirror Of Beauty, was a weighty Mughal-era epic, largely set in Delhi. He originally wrote it in Urdu (Kai Chaand The Sar-e-Aasmaan, 2006) and translated it into English himself, in 2013. His next book, The Sun That Rose From The Earth, containing fictionalized stories of great Urdu poets, was a part of his life’s extensive oeuvre, which includes a staggering four-volume treatise on poet Mir Taqi Mir. In fact, one of the projects he was busy with in his final years was translating Mir’s poems into English.“His contribution is immense in Urdu adab (literature and history), tanquid (criticism) and tehqeeq (research),” says poet Iffat Zarrin, who has read all of Faruqi’s Urdu works. “He was the roshan sitara (bright star) of Urdu, a last link uniting the old and the new tehzeeb (culture) and tareekh (period).”Author TCA Raghavan, who frequently corresponded with Faruqi while working on an acclaimed biography of poet Abdul Rahim, describes him as an extraordinary writer and scholar, who was also one of our great storytellers. “His immense knowledge about the culture of North India during the period of Mughal decline enabled him to create a universe different from the conventional view of the previous centuries. Through Faruqi’s marvellous prose, we enter a world not of decadence and decay but of refinement, literary achievement and enormous creativity.”Faruqi located his fiction in the cultural and literary past of the Indo-Muslim way of life of the 18th and 19th centuries, but he never regarded it as a dead past. “I’m not writing historical fiction. I am writing about poetry, love, death, what it meant to be a poet, or a lover, or an Indian at that time. It was a very rich and significant period of our history, even though it has lapsed from our memory,” he once told this reporter.Very possessive about his book collection, Faruqi was especially proud of his 46 volumes of the Urdu oral romance, the Dastan-e Amir Hamza, that were printed by Munshi Nawal Kishore in Lucknow and Kanpur from 1888 to 1917. He was also fond of many English language novelists and poets. Jane Austen’s Pride and Prejudice was the first English novel he read from cover to cover as a young boy of 14 — he was, by then, already very well-read in Urdu literature. At one point, he especially loved Thomas Hardy, so much so that he would read everything he could manage to find by and about the author in the small town of Gorakhpur, where he (Faruqi) grew up.Despite becoming a towering figure of Urdu literature, Faruqi didn’t think of himself as part of the establishment. In fact, through the long-defunct literary magazine Shabkhoon, which he once founded, published and edited, he would challenge the “hegemony” of the Urdu Progressives by encouraging new writers to free themselves from the standard doctrines.In later years, he divided his time between Allahabad and Delhi, where one of his two daughters is an English professor in Jamia Millia Islamia University. His wife, Jamila, died in 2007. Faruqi himself had recently recovered from Covid. An easy-going man, Faruqi was nevertheless a sophisticated snob. On being asked why he lived in Allahabad, when he could easily have settled in cosmopolitan Delhi, he answered: “Delhi and Allahabad are almost alike. I’d prefer New York.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shamsur-rahman-faruqi-1935-2020-link-uniting-old-new-cultures-tributes-pour-in-for-literary-icon/story-SyX9zpLh1a9sMEXu1bGiRK.html
26-12-2020||India||Key Supreme Court judgments that marked 2020||The Supreme Court , once a hive of activity, remains quiet, but since March 23, when the courts started virtual hearings, life has returned to some sort of new normal : the court rooms have been substituted by virtual courts; paper books by computer files; judges conduct hearings through video conferencing; and technology largely determines success of a hearing, if not the outcome. But the year 2020 was as striking as any other year for the Supreme Court of India. A rundown of the outgoing year shows an assortment of crucial judgments , including a few that changed the landscape of judicial history. Access to Internet equivalent to a fundamental right The first month of 2020 witnessed a three-judge bench ruling against the telecommunication blackout in Jammu and Kashmir following the scrapping of Article 370. The judgment did not directly order for restoration of the services in the backdrop of the security concerns, but laid down an important principle in law – right to access Internet is a fundamental right by extension. Therefore, it can be demanded as such before a constitutional court. Further, every blackout order must specify reasons and has to be reviewed regularly by the authorities concerned, the court said. Consider taking away power of disqualification from the Speaker The Speaker also belongs to a political party, emphasised the court, requesting Parliament to amend the Constitution and strip Legislative Assembly Speakers of their exclusive power to disqualify MLAs. The court was hearing an appeal by a Congress MLA from Manipur, who complained against a delay by the Speaker in deciding a disqualification petition against another MLA who won on a Congress ticket but later joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The court maintained that disqualification cases of either MPs or the MLAs should be decided by an independent tribunal, outside Parliament or legislative assemblies. In this case, the court said it was bound by existing laws and thus asked the Speaker to decide the disqualification petition preferably within three months.  Anticipatory bail cannot have a deadlineA five-judge bench cleared the confusion on whether the protection given to a person through anticipatory bail was time-bound, as it ruled that a pre-arrest bail cannot be subject to time constraints and that it can very well continue till the end of trial. The bench added a caveat that if there are any special or peculiar features necessitating the court to limit the tenure of anticipatory bail, it is open for it to do so. No fundamental right to reservation In February, the top court ruled that there is no fundamental right to claim reservation in public jobs; it added that no court could ask a state government to provide reservation. Explaining the constitutional mandate on providing reservation, the court held that it is within absolute discretion of a state government to decide whether or not to provide for reservation, and that there is no obligation on the states to mandatorily do so. It also clarified that a previous five-judge bench ruling on the necessity to collect data regarding inadequacy of representation of Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) in government services was confined only to situations when a state wants to provide reservation but not otherwise. The judgment came when the court dealt with a bunch of cases on reservations for people from SCs and STs in promotions in a government department in Uttarakhand. Permanent Commission for women in armed forces The year 2020 also saw the Supreme Court smashing the glass ceiling in services as it granted Permanent Commission (PC) to women officers in army, navy and air force. The deeply entrenched stereotype that men are dominant and women are primarily caretakers must end, said the court in a series of rulings in February when it struck down a 2019 circular that foreclosed the chances of women officers to apply for PCs. It directed the government to give PC to all serving women officers who have completed 14 years of service and to also give pensionary benefits to those who were retired on account of not being granted the commission. It added that service conditions of men and women officers would be the same and that the latter shall also be provided with choices of specialisations. Even for command assignments, there can’t be an absolute exclusion of women officers and they should be considered on a case-by-case basis, the court said. Cloud over land acquisition law clearedFollowing a stark difference of opinion between different benches of the apex court and a stalemate across various high courts where land acquisition cases remained pending, a five-judge bench overturned a 2014 ruling that was being followed widely. The bench held that land acquisition proceedings under the 1894 Act will not lapse if compensation payable to the landowner has been tendered by depositing it in the treasury, and not in the court or with the landowner. The 2014 ruling held that compensation would be treated as “paid” only if it were deposited in the court, not the treasury. The previous ruling had said that the land acquisition proceedings would have to be initiated again under the new law, Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation Act, 2013 and the acquisition process under the old 1894 Act would automatically lapse if the developer had not taken control of the land for five years, or if compensation was not paid to displaced farmers. Acquisition proceedings under the 2013 Act gave land owners a chance to demand higher compensation for acquisition of their land by the government. Political parties must publish criminal records of selected candidates on websites Pushing for electoral reforms as it always has, the Supreme Court directed political parties to publish the entire criminal history of their candidates for assembly and Lok Sabha elections, along with the reasons that prompted them to field suspected criminals . The court held that the information should be published in a local as well as a national newspaper as well as on the parties’ social media handles. It should mandatorily be published either within 48 hours of the selection of candidates or less than two weeks before the first date for filing of nominations, whichever is earlier, the court said. Amendments in the SC/ST act upheld After a smaller bench tweaked some mandatory provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act (SC/ST Act) and laid down several requirements before registration of an FIR and arrest of an accused, a three-judge bench affirmed the Central government’s amendments to restore the original provisions of the law. The bench held that a preliminary inquiry is no longer a must when a complaint under this law is made. Also, no prior approval of appointing authority or a senior police officer is required before registration of an FIR. Further, there cannot be anticipatory bail in these cases until a court is satisfied that no case under the SC/ST Act is prima facie made out. RBI ban on cryptocurrency set aside The Supreme Court left the door ajar for cryptocurrency in India as it quashed a 2018 circular by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) putting a complete ban on banking services for the virtual currency. The court held the 2018 circular as unreasonable and disproportionate to the objective sought to be achieved by RBI, clearing the decks for a regulatory regime of cryptocurrency in India instead of a complete ban. The 2018 circular stated that the entities regulated by RBI are prohibited from providing any service in relation to virtual currencies, including those related to the transfer or receipt of money in accounts relating to the purchase or sale of virtual currencies. SC disapproves ex post facto’ Environmental Clearance The Supreme Court held that the concept of ‘ex post facto’ Environmental Clearance (EC) is against the fundamental principles of environmental jurisprudence. In its judgment in April, the court said that allowing industrial projects operate without EC would prove detrimental to the environment and lead to irreparable degradation. It further noted that a retrospective or an ex post facto environment clearance is “alien to environmental jurisprudence” because, before the issuance of an EC, the statutory notification (EIA notification 2006) warrants careful application of mind and a study into the likely consequences of a proposed activity on the environment. Significantly, this verdict came at a time when the draft of the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification 2020, to replace the EIA notification 2006, was floated. The new law proposed a lifeline for industrial projects that start operating without a valid EC. NEET will be the only entrance for medical admissions The Supreme Court put an end to all speculation and confusion when it ruled in April that the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) would be the only uniform entrance test for medical admissions in the country, and that no institution could hold its separate exam. It held that minority institutions, deemed universities, and private colleges must also abide with the pertinent regulations and that they cannot claim violation of their rights to admit students since NEET is in the larger national interest. The court dismissed a clutch of petitions by religious and linguistic minority institutions, which opposed various notifications and rules made in the Medical Council of India Act and Dentist Act in order to prescribe NEET as the all-India exam for admissions to graduate and post-graduate medical courses. Nine-judge bench should decide Faith vs Right to pray By referring the issue to a bench of nine judges, the apex court kept the issue of entry of women of all ages to Kerala’s Sabrimala temple alive without setting aside the previous ruling allowing such access. It turned down objections by a set of parties, pointing to a bunch of other cases raising the similar issues relating to entry of women in places of worship of various religions, including mosques and fire temples. Holding that no matter is beyond the jurisdiction of the apex court, the nine-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde, noted that the reference was required to “do complete justice” in a pending matter, namely Sabarimala. While the matter was referred to the larger bench in February itself, the reasons behind the decision were released only in May. Suo motu public interest litigation on migrants’ crisis during Covid-19 lockdown Initially hesitant, the Supreme Court in May commenced suo motu (on its own) proceedings in a bid to ameliorate the problems faced by migrant workers left stranded in different parts of the country due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. After hearing the Centre and states, it directed that all migrant workers wishing to go back home must be transported within a fortnight. For those who had already returned, the court ordered states and union territories to ensure registration (of around 10 million migrant workers) at village and block levels to identify their employability and provide them jobs in the home states. This order, however, came at least a month after a different bench in the Supreme Court expressed satisfaction at the steps being taken by the government and said the situation did not seem to be a “crisis” -- a term used in the suo motu order though. The court has since initiated two other suo motu cases with respect to treatment facilities and spread of the infection in the child protection homes. Contempt petition against noted lawyer Prashant Bhushan and Re 1 fine Anguished at two of his tweets targeting Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and the former CJIs, the top court initiated criminal contempt petition against activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan. Bhushan did not apologise and stood firm on his assertions regarding the last four CJIs and their alleged role in destruction of democratic values. “To assume and suggest that ‘CJI is the SC, and SC is the CJI’, is to undermine the institution of SC,” said the lawyer as he opted not to yield despite repeated exhortation by the judges on the bench that the proceedings could be dropped the moment he said sorry. In August, Bhushan was finally held guilty of the contempt, only be sentenced to a fine of Re 1 . The lawyer deposited the fine but also sought a right of intra-court appeal to challenge this order. Bhushan’s petition to reconsider his conviction under contempt charge is also pending. Daughters’ right in a Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) property In 2005, a watershed amendment was made in the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 to give daughters the same rights in the coparcenary (parental) property as the sons. But two judgments by the top court gave conflicting decisions as to whether it was necessary for a man to be alive on the date of the 2005 amendment to give his daughter the right in the parental property. A three-judge bench settled this dispute in August when it ruled that a right of the daughter is secured at the time of her birth. The father being alive or not on the date of the amendment will not affect her rights in any manner. It said: “A son is a son until he gets a wife. A daughter is a daughter throughout her life...The eligibility of a married daughter must be placed on a par with an unmarried daughter (for she must have been once in that state) to claim the benefit...(Otherwise, it would be) unfair, gender-biased and unreasonable.” CBI probe in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case While the mystery remains to be solved, the Supreme Court in August ordered for a CBI investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death , and directed the Maharashtra government to render all assistance. The court rejected Maharashtra government’s argument that Rajput’s father could not have got an FIR registered at Patna, which later formed the basis for the Bihar government to recommend a CBI probe. The top court delivered the verdict on a plea of actor Rhea Chakraborty who sought transfer of FIR lodged against her at Patna to Mumbai where the 37-year-old Rajput was found dead inside his apartment in suburban Bandra. Public spaces cannot be occupied indefinitely by protesters In the context of protests in Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh area against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the apex court held that occupation of public roads and public spaces in exercise of the right to protest is not permissible under the law. It added that notwithstanding the fact that the right to protest is a right guaranteed under the Constitution, protests have to be in designated areas after due approvals from the authorities concerned. The court also obligated the law enforcement agencies to act, saying the administration must keep public spaces free from obstructions and that they cannot wait either for an order from the court or go on having endless talks with the protesters. A woman’s right to a shared household By a judgment in October, the Supreme Court broke new ground when it ruled that a woman facing domestic violence has a right to reside in a shared household even if it is owned or rented by her in-laws and the husband has no legal right in the property. It said the household may even belong to a joint-family or be rented by the woman’s in-laws but the complainant still has a right to reside in it if she has been living there after her marriage. It would also not matter if she has been compelled to move out after the discord since the house will still be treated as a shared household, entitling her to live in it once she files a complaint under the Domestic Violence Act. In a recent judgment, the top court extended this right to hold that an aggrieved woman cannot be evicted summarily even by a tribunal under the Senior Citizens Act and that she must be heard when the shared household belongs to her in-laws. Bail to Arnab Goswami In November, the Supreme Court protected Republic TV founding editor Arnab Goswami from arrest in connection with a case of abetment to suicide. The charge related to the suicide of an interior designer who was owed money by Goswami’s company. The apex court held that the Bombay High Court – which declined Goswami’s request for interim bail – “abdicated its constitutional duty and function as a protector of liberty” by not conducting a prima facie evaluation of the FIR against Goswami and the other accused in the case. It further underlined that the criminal law should not become a weapon for the selective harassment of citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-sc-judgments-that-marked-2020/story-QbCKCUKVe9ePpuNR2hUWNP.html
26-12-2020||India||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat to release book on Mahatma on January 1||A new book on Mahatma Gandhi’s discovery of his Hindu identity during his stay in South Africa will be released by Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat at Rajghat in New Delhi on New Year’s Day. The office of Union culture minister Prahlad Patel has confirmed that he will be present at the release along with the minister of state for external affairs, V Muraleedharan.The book, Making of A Hindu Patriot, published by ‘Har Anand’, is over 1,000-pages long and described by its authors JK Bajaj and MD Srinivas as an academic study. Written over the last decade, it was meant to be released in October to coincide with the 151st anniversary of the Mahatma’s birth but was delayed due to the pandemic. The authors also worked on the Gujarati, Hindi and English editions of Mahatma’s Hind Swaraj, which was released in 2011 by then Chief Minister Narendra Modi and Bhagwat.Bajaj attributed the term “Hindu Patriot” to Leo Tolstoy, with whom Gandhi exchanged letters in 1909 and 1910. “Tolstoy told his diarist that ‘this Gandhi is quite a good fellow except for his Hindu Patriotism’”, said Bajaj, who is also a member of the government-appointed commission examining the sub-categorisation of OBCs , the first step of ensuring that the benefits of reservation aren’t being monopolised by a few groups. According to him, Gandhi responded to Tolstoy’s words later by saying, “My patriotism is patent enough, my love for India is evergrowing but it is derived from my religion and is therefore in no sense exclusive.”While an RSS spokesperson didn’t respond to HT’s queries seeking comment, Bhagwat referred to Hind Swaraj in a piece in HT last year. “In his Hind Swaraj, he envisioned a dream picture of Bharat’s progress and performance based on the pure swadeshi (made in India) vision, which was free from this slave mindset,’’ Bhagwat wrote. In the introduction to Making of a Hindu Patriot, the authors write: “We have tried to tell the story of the evolution of Hind Swaraj as a text of religious patriotism and of the parallel evolution of Gandhiji as a Hindu Patriot, perhaps the greatest Hindu Patriot, Deshbhakta Mahatma, of our times. We tell this story largely in his own words.’’ They add that they chose the term because Gandhi always perceived himself as a Hindu, and that is how his contemporaries saw him. They quote Gandhi as saying the “fight is on behalf of religion, that is, for religion which underlies all religions”The book covers the period before 1914 when Gandhi was fighting for the rights of Indians in South Africa. “To us, the treatment meted out to him in South African prisons was also new. They made him break stones on the road, paraded him in handcuffs through the streets and put him in an isolation cell for months. He could suffer all this and come out stronger because his religious faith and anchorage,’’ said Bajaj.The book says that In South Africa, Gandhi was under pressure to convert from some of his Christian and Muslim well-wishers, during which he discovered the “meaning and responsibility of being a Hindu.”Bhagwat’s presence at Rajghat is interesting as the RSS has had a complicated link with the Mahatma. The RSS was temporarily banned in the wake of the assassination of the Mahatma by Nathuram Godse, although the organisation disowned the latter and said he left it in the 1930s. The ban was lifted a year after the assassination in 1949. Gandhi’s grandson and former governor Gopalkrishna Gandhi declined comment.Tushar Gandhi, the great grandson of Mahatma Gandhi, said: “It’s an irony of our times that the chief of RSS is releasing a book on Bapu that to one dealing with his life in South Africa and Bapu’s discovery of his faith. The journey of Bapu’s discovery of the objective and ideal of his life started from his reading of John Ruskin’s ‘Unto This Last’ a book which espouses sustainable ethical and moral commerce and an almost Socialist way of life but illustrates it with Biblical references. The head of an organisation like RSS which rejects all else but ‘Hindutva’ accepting the influence of the Church in the transformation of Bapu. I hope while talking on the book he desists from Hindutvaising Bapu and accepts the fact that the transformation in Bapu came about because he realised that the Kingdom of God was within himself and his adherence to the ideal of Unity of humankind above the narrow confines of region, race and religion.”He added: “To me what is ironical is that the ideology that birthed Bapu’s murderer, has realised that eventually it is Gandhi who is inevitable, unavoidable and inescapable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-chief-to-release-book-on-mahatma-on-jan-1/story-y4Kj4tNYTqySpixoq3x3NK.html
26-12-2020||India||Protesters aside, even farmers who support laws want price assurance||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech on Friday, in which he defended the new agricultural laws and renewed his offer for talks to farm leaders, has been spurned by the protesting farmers camped on Delhi’s borders even as some other farm organisations said they are willing to give the changes a chance. However, most farmers, whether part of the protest or not, seem to agree on one basic point: the need for assured prices. Satpal Singh, a member of Bharatiya Kisan Majdoor Sangh, sat through the PM’s speech at his home in Balia, Uttar Pradesh. “The Prime Minister has said he will never allow interests of farmers to be harmed. I think these laws will benefit us by giving us more options. But farmers should get minimum prices,” Singh said. To be sure, the organisation Singh is a member of has publicly supported the government’s reform agenda and its leader Chaudhury Ram Kumar Balia has met agriculture minister Narendra Tomar last well to pledge support for three farm laws that other unions, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, want scrapped.  Several small farmers unaligned to any large political party or farm unions, said they didn’t understand the laws. “We watched the speech at the panchayat office. If farmers are protesting for better prices, I support them. I don’t understand the laws, but I feel big buyers should come to us. Local markets are in a bad shape,” said Kadam Barua, a paddy grower in Assam’s Lakhimpur district. Modi, in a major address to farmers on Friday, said his government was open to talks with farm unions and even opposition parties who have pressed on with a massive pushback against his farm policies so long as discussions were based on “tark” and “tathya” (Hindi for ‘arguments and facts’), but staunchly defended his farm-reform agenda needed to “modernise” the farm sector. Farm unions protesting the laws, who have hunkered down on the capital’s borders, slammed the PM’s speech. “Not once did the PM address the protesting farmers. The issues he raised did not address the main problem. Farmers want assured prices,” said Avik Saha of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, a leading platform of protesting farm unions. Even those who said they agreed with the Prime Minister said farmers should get minimum prices, underscoring a common gripe of farmers. “We have said we support the laws but mandis should strengthened so that farmers get minimum support prices,” said Satpal Singh of the Farmer Producer Organisation Association of Kurukshetra. He is a different person from his namesake mentioned above. His organisation, too, has supported the laws. The massive farmers’ rebellion was set off by three laws pushed by the government in September that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules. Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices. The prime minister in his speech on Friday insisted that the reforms would not impact the MSP mechanism, which would continue as before. He however hasn’t committed to offer a legal backing for it. “The Opposition is misleading farmers regarding MSP. If farmers want to sell at msp, they can go to mandis. If they think they are getting price from private traders, they have the freedom,” the PM said.On Wednesday, Darshan Pal, a senior farm leader, had spelt out why the assurance on minimum prices was not enough. The government sets minimum prices for 23 commodities but mainly buys wheat and rice at these floor prices. The so-called minimum support prices or MSP is calculated using a measure of cultivation cost known as A2+FL, which is a narrower measure of costs of farming that takes into account all expenses of farming a particular crop plus the value of family labour. Pal said the farm unions want the government to adopt a comprehensive measure of cultivation costs that include the imputed cost of capital and the rent on the land, called ‘C2’ in economic parlance. Farmers also want the government to buy all 23 commodities, which would bloat its food subsidy bill hugely. “The problem is that the government cannot buy all 23 commodities, as demanded by farmers. This makes little economic sense. Farmers need assured prices and support, but they have to be supported through less market-distorting means,” said Pravesh Sharma, former agriculture secretary of Madhya Pradesh and fellow of the think-tank ICRIER||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-backing-laws-also-see-need-for-price-assurance/story-kpAIuikrww0Wncq0jLBg6H.html
26-12-2020||India||Mumbai’s Dharavi reports no new Covid-19 case for the first time since April||Dharavi, once a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspot in Mumbai, did not report a single infection in the last 24 hours for the first time since April when the first patient was detected in the area, news agency PTI reported on Friday. The caseload of Dharavi now stands at 3,788, though the number of active cases is 12, eight of them in home isolation and four in a Covid care centre, PTI cited a civic official as saying. So far, 3,464 people have recovered in Dharavi, where 650,000 people are crammed into shanty colonies spread over 2.5 square kilometres. Also read | Risk of mutation can’t be ignored, danger yet to pass: Uddhav ThackerayThe first Covid-19 case in Dharavi was reported on April 1, nearly 20 days after the first such case was detected in Mumbai.Maharashtra recorded 3,580 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 1,909,951. The death toll breached the 49,000 mark after 89 new casualties. Maharashtra has controlled its daily caseload and has not crossed 5,000 cases for the past 20 days. A total of 98,503 cases have been reported in December, against the 109,166 from November 1 to November 24.Mumbai clocked 643 cases, taking the count to 289,204, and 12 deaths, taking the toll to 11,045. Pune city recorded 299 cases, pushing the tally to 189,338. Nagpur city stands third after Mumbai and Pune in terms of daily caseload with 237 new cases.Also read | Maharashtra tweaks quarantine rules for fliers on new strain watchlistThe state has completed 12,341,204 Covid tests with 62,728 tests conducted on Thursday. The overall positivity rate of the state stood at 15.48%. The number of recovered patients reached 1,804,871 with 3,171 recorded in the past 24 hours. The recovery rate remains at 94.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-s-dharavi-reports-no-new-covid-19-case-for-the-first-time-since-april/story-5AoEc4avk6ZPOQnzVFGZ0H.html
26-12-2020||India||Noted Urdu poet Shamsur Rahman Faruqi passes away||Eminent poet, critic and writer Shamsur Rahman Faruqi passed away at his home on Friday morning. He was 85.He will be buried next to his late wife Jamila at the Newada graveyard in Ashok Nagar amid the presence of family members and friends in the evening, informed his nephew and writer Mahmood Farooqui.“He had been Covid-19 positive but was discharged on November 23 after test results came negative. However he developed complications and fungal infection, mycosis, which further worsened his condition. He was being treated at a hospital in Delhi. He wanted to come to his beloved city where he spent all his life. He arrived in his home town Prayagraj in an air ambulance on Friday morning and died shortly afterwards around 11.15am,” the nephew said.Faruqi was considered a fine Urdu critic, poet, writer, and theorist. His works ranged from literary history and criticism to poetry and fiction. Considered an authority on llm-e bayan (the science of poetic discourse) and classical poetry, he was also a noted lexicographer. Faruqi’s book ‘Kai Chaand The Sar-e-Asmaan’, written in 2006, has been hailed as a masterpiece of Urdu fiction. An English version of this book ‘Mirror of Beauty’ was published in 2013. He has also translated his stories into English which are included in a book titled ‘The Sun That Rose from the Earth’ in 2014. He has also been credited with spearheading the revival of the Dastangoi - an urdu oral storytelling art form. He was awarded the Saraswati Samman in 1996 for his work ‘Sher-e Shor-Angez’, a study of the major eighteenth-century poet Meer Taqi Meer published in four volumes. He was honoured with the Padma Shri in 2009.Born on September 30, 1935 in a village in Azamgarh, Faruqi completed his MA (English) from Allahabad University in 1955 and began writing in 1960. He worked for the Indian Postal Service also. He was also editor of his literary magazine Shabkhoon and part-time professor at the South Asia Regional Studies Center at the University of Pennsylvania, US.Some of his well-known works include Early Urdu Literary Culture and History (2001), The Flower-Lit Road: Essays in Urdu Literary Theory and Criticism (2005), Urdu Ka Arambhik Yug (2007) and The Mirror of Beauty (2013).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noted-urdu-poet-shamsur-rehman-faruqi-passes-away/story-m4Z7hva6yUFaHFWb1jbaZP.html
