01-04-2021||India||Ahemdabad-Mumbai Tejas Express suspended amid Covid-19 surge||The railways have decided to suspend Ahmedabad-Mumbai Central-Ahmedabad Tejas Express from April 2 amid a massive spike in daily Covid-19 cases in both Gujarat and Maharashtra. The decision is in the larger public interest, the IRCTC (Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation), which runs the services, said in a statement on Thursday. The services will remain suspended for a period of one month, it said.Temporary suspension of ADI-BCT-ADI Tejas Express due to recent COVID-19 Rising cases. pic.twitter.com/cVmRlqNOShIn November, both Delhi-Lucknow and Mumbai-Ahmedabad services were suspended owing to low occupancy. The Delhi-Lucknow one will be in service, as the IRCTC has not mentioned anything about this.However, the surge in the number of cases has led the authorities to review the decision as both Ahmedabad and Mumbai are seeing a steady uptick in the number of daily infections. "Night curfews have also been implemented in both the connecting states, which may cause inconvenience to passengers in general," an IRCTC official told news agency PTI.The decision comes as both Ahmedabad and Mumbai saw a huge spike in the number of cases on Thursday. Gujarat reported its highest single-day spike of 2,410 Covid-19 cases, with Ahmedabad reporting the highest in the state — 626 cases.Mumbai, on the other hand, saw the highest-ever spike with 8,646 new infections. Gujarat has made negative RT-PCR test mandatory for anyone entering the state while Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot are under night curfew till April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahemdabadmumbai-tejas-express-suspended-amid-covid-19-surge-101617297576964.html
01-04-2021||India||‘Have to give them food, shelter’: Mizoram CM on Myanmar refugees entering state||Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga said on Thursday he told Union home minister Amit Shah that refugees coming into the state from Myanmar, which is facing violent protest against the military coup, are like "our brothers and sisters", adding that the government has to give them food and shelter from a humanitarian point of view. “We have family ties with most of them,” Zoramthanga was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He also pointed out that the Centre should be more open towards the people of Myanmar and said his delegation will go to Delhi to discuss the issue. “We will request the government to change the foreign policy to accept the Myanmar refugees not to send them back. The exodus of refugees increasing,” the Mizoram CM told ANI.Zoramthanga comments come weeks after the Union home ministry wrote a letter to all states and Union Territories (UTs) on March 13, where it asked them to take appropriate action in accordance with the law to monitor illegal influx from Myanmar into the country. Security forces were also directed by the ministry to stay alert and take requisite action. I have told Union Home Minister Amit Shah that the people who came from Myanmar are our brothers & sisters. We have family ties with most of them. Once they enter Mizoram, we have to give them food & shelter from the humanitarian point of view: Mizoram CM Zoramthanga pic.twitter.com/p6M6cUbjJPEarlier, the chief minister held a meeting with Myanmar foreign minister in-exile Zin Mar Aung on March 21. There has been no official statement on the meeting. However, Hindustan Times reported that the two leaders talked about February’s military coup and the influx of refugees to Mizoram.More than 500 citizens have died in Myanmar during the anti-coup protests while thousands have been displaced after the leaders of the National League of Democracy were ousted by country’s military on February 1. In a recent development, the military junta ordered the shutdown of wireless internet services across the country with telecom company Ooredoo telling AFP that only fiber line will be working from Friday.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-to-give-them-food-shelter-mizoram-cm-on-myanmar-refugees-entering-state-101617296843380.html
01-04-2021||India||CBI arrests 3 for posing as TRS MP’s staff to accept bribe||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested three people who posed as the personal staff of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) Member of Parliament - Kavitha Maloth and demanded a bribe of ₹1 lakh from a man claiming they could get his work done in the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD), people familiar with the development said. The accused – Shubhangi Gupta, Rajib Bhattacharya and Durgesh Kumar Maurya – had assured the complainant – Manmeet Singh Lamba - that they could get the demolition of his illegal construction stopped as they had contacts in MCD.They were nabbed from 401, Saraswati Apartments, which is allotted to Maloth, MP from Mahbubabad constituency in Telangana. In his complaint, Lamba alleged that Bhattacharya, who claimed to be the PA of the MP, called him on his mobile number threatening to demolish his illegal construction in Sardar Nagar area with the help of his contacts in the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD), the officials said. Bhattacharya had claimed that one “Malik Saab” in the MCD can help Lamba if he pays ₹five lakh to him, they said. He also introduced Gupta as a “coordinator” of the MP. Maurya, Bhattacharya and Gupta together demanded ₹five lakh from Lamba. The amount was later reduced to ₹one lakh, according to the officials. Lamba was asked to bring the money to 401, Saraswati Apartments, the officials said. Maloth, while distancing herself from the accused persons, told HT over phone - “I have not appointed a PA in Delhi even after winning my constituency two years back. I only know Durgesh because he very recently joined as a driver but he mostly picked me from the airport and dropped me to a friend’s place in Gurugram.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-3-for-posing-as-trs-mp-s-staff-to-accept-bribe-101617296518948.html
01-04-2021||India||India backs WHO chief's call for further investigations into Covid-19 origin||India on Thursday joined a growing number of countries demanding a comprehensive investigation into the origins of the Covid-19 outbreak in China as it backed the World Health Organization (WHO) chief’s proposal to deploy additional missions.Without naming China, India noted that WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus had raised the issue of “delays and difficulties in accessing raw data” for the UN health agency’s report on the origins of the Coronavirus. It also sought “more timely and comprehensive data sharing” for future investigations.WHO and China released the long-awaited report on the origins of Covid-19 on Tuesday, listing four hypotheses in order of probability. The report said the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 most probably jumped from bats to humans via an intermediary animal. It also said it was “extremely unlikely” that the virus had been leaked from a laboratory.“We share the need for a comprehensive and expert-led mechanism that would expeditiously investigate the origin of Covid-19 in cooperation with all stakeholders,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.“It is pertinent to note that the director-general of the WHO has separately raised the issue of delays and difficulties in accessing raw data for the team conducting the study. We fully support the director general’s expectation that future collaborative studies will include more timely and comprehensive data sharing,” he said.Also read: Mumbai records highest spike with 8,646 cases, State sees jump of 43k infectionsIndia also welcomes the WHO chief’s readiness to deploy additional missions, Bagchi said.Ghebreyesus, who has for long been accused of being soft on China, has called for further investigation of the theory that Covid-19 began from a laboratory leak and also rebuked Beijing for sitting on crucial data. China has consistently rejected the hypothesis that the virus leaked from a lab.“Although the team has concluded that a laboratory leak is the least likely hypothesis, this requires further investigation, potentially with additional missions involving specialist experts, which I am ready to deploy,” the director-general told WHO’s 194 member states during a briefing on the report.“I do not believe that this assessment was extensive enough...Further data and studies will be needed to reach more robust conclusions,” he added.The US and 13 other countries have raised concerns about the report in a joint statement, saying the WHO team was “significantly delayed and lacked access to complete, original data and samples”. These countries have also backed an “independent analysis and evaluation, free from interference and undue influence” of the origins of the pandemic.Bagchi said the WHO report is an “important first step” in establishing the origins of the pandemic as it has stressed the “need for next-phase studies across the region”. He said, “The report also stresses the need for further data and studies to reach robust conclusions.”He added, “We join other stakeholders in voicing their expectations that follow up to the WHO report or further studies, including on an understanding of the earliest human cases and clusters by the WHO on this critical issue, will receive the fullest cooperation of all concerned.”India will continue to work with WHO to strengthen capacity and improve global health security so that the current report and further studies will provide inputs for developing protocols and building a knowledge base and expertise that facilitate genomic surveillance to track virus mutations and proactively respond to the next global pandemic, Bagchi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-responds-to-who-study-on-covid-19-origin-calls-for-comprehensive-mechanism-101617295739356.html
01-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Telangana, Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat among states lagging in RT-PCR tests||Amid the second peak of Covid-19 being witnessed across the country, the Union health ministry has identified the states which are not doing enough RT-PCR tests to track Covid-19 infections. The list includes Puducherry, Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Mizoram, Tripura, Manipur, Jharkhand, Kerala, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chhattisgarh, Assam, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Odisha, Bihar and Telangana — Telangana accounting the lowest percentage of RT-PCR test of only 15.50.Telangana, which is conducting the least number of RT-PCR tests in respect of its total tests, and has also reported the highest vaccine wastage, reported the highest single-day spike of this year with 887 fresh infections. State health minister Eatala Rajender reviewed the Covid-19 situation and asked officials to go into a warlike mode like that of the last year, PTI reported.In Gujarat, where over 2,000 new infections are being reported daily, the percentage of RT-PCR test remains as low as 23,89. In Delhi, the percentage is 46.04, while the Centre has asked all states and Union territories to bring the percentage to at least 70, while the rest can be rapid antigen testing.Rapid antigen testing is easier to be carried out on a mass scale as it is cheaper and quicker than RT-PCR, while it may produce false-negative tests. As several states are testing randomly in crowded areas, this rapid testing is convenient, but RT-PCR testing is considered the gold standard in Covid-19 testing.Initially, the cost of the RT-PCR testing was over 1,000 but now many state governments have capped the price. Maharashtra has been the latest state to slash the price of Covid-19 testing. In Maharashtra, for giving samples at the collection centre, ₹500 will be charged. For the same test at a Covid Care Centre or a quarantine centre, the charges will be ₹600 and to collect the swab from home, the labs can charge ₹800.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-telangana-bihar-delhi-gujarat-among-states-lagging-in-rt-pcr-tests-101617295166840.html
01-04-2021||India||‘Time to boot out tainted LDF, UDF from Kerala’: JP Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president, JP Nadda, on Thursday said time was ripe to throw out two corrupt coalitions of Kerala. Nadda, while addressing a public meeting in Karunagapally in Kollam district, said people of the state are fed up and turning to the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in a big way. Nadda said the time has come to show doors to scamsters and smugglers. “This land is known for cashew industry, coir and many other small scale units. But wrong policies of both destroyed these sectors. One is neck-deep in solar scam and the other in gold smuggling. Both have tried to hamper cultural and traditional aspects of the state,” he said.Also read: Cong releases list of 4.3 lakh alleged double voters in Kerala, EC says ‘clerical error’Nadda took out a roadshow in Attingal and Kazhakootam (south Kerala) for NDA candidates.Raking up the Sabarimala issue, he said party workers were at the forefront to protect age-old customs of the hill temple and suffered a lot at the hands of the repressive regime.“The Congress was nowhere when the stir peaked. Now the party is making a lip service saying it will protect customs,” he said, adding that the BJP’s prospects were rising steadily which was quite visible in the last local body poll.Nadda said in the last few years, the party’s poll percentage grew from 5 per cent to 17 and will make a big jump in April 6 election. This is his second visit to the state in the last two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-to-boot-out-tainted-ldf-udf-from-kerala-jp-nadda-101617293278668.html
01-04-2021||India||Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov to arrive in India on Monday||Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov will visit New Delhi from April 5-6, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova said on Thursday."On April 5-6, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov will pay a working visit to New Delhi, during which he will hold talks with his counterpart (External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar)," the spokesperson said at a briefing, as reported by Sputnik."The heads of the foreign affairs agencies will discuss the current state of bilateral relations, the preparation of the upcoming high-level meeting this year, including cooperation in the fight against the pandemic, will consider key topics on the regional, global agenda, assess approaches to the interaction between Russia and India on the international arena, including at the UN, BRICS," Zakharova added.After India, Lavrov will visit Pakistan from April 6-7, as reported by Sputnik.The foreign minister's visit to India comes as Indian Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla visited the country in February this year where he met minister Lavrov and discussed wide-ranging Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership between the two countries and ways to further strengthen it.Shringla said they discussed some regional and international issues of interest including cooperation in the UN and UNSC where India is a non-permanent member now."We also spoke about issues like Afghanistan, which both countries have a direct interest," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russian-foreign-minister-sergey-lavrov-to-arrive-in-india-on-monday-101617289013734.html
01-04-2021||India||BIMSTEC finalises major connectivity master plan for Bay of Bengal region||Foreign ministers of the Bay of Bengal Multi Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) grouping on Thursday endorsed an ambitious air, land and sea connectivity master plan that is expected to be adopted at a summit later this year.The BIMSTEC Master Plan for Transport Connectivity is the outcome of more than a decade of discussions among members of the grouping – India, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar, Sri Lanka and Thailand – and studies by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) in 2007 and 2014 that identified 167 connectivity projects in the region at an estimated cost of about $50 billion.The virtual ministerial meeting endorsed the master plan for adoption at the BIMSTEC summit to be held in Sri Lanka in the next few months. It also endorsed three agreements to be signed at the summit – a convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, an MoU on cooperation between diplomatic academies of member states, and a memorandum of association for establishing a technology transfer facility in Colombo.Addressing the meeting, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said the master plan will be an important step towards fulfilling the people’s aspirations for better connectivity and integration. He said the grouping should put in place a legal framework for smooth connectivity by speedily finalising the BIMSTEC coastal shipping agreement and motor vehicles agreement.“Next year will be the silver jubilee of the establishment of the BIMSTEC. It is high time that we dwell upon how to make a paradigm shift in raising the level of our cooperation and regional integration,” Jasihankar said. <blockquote class=”twitter-tweet”><p lang=”en” dir=”ltr”>Participated at the 17th BIMSTEC Ministerial Meeting. <br><br>Recognise the progress made by BIMSTEC in recent years, including:<br><br>1. Implementation of BIMSTEC Startup Conclave, Ministerial Conclave and Seminar on Climate Smart Farming Systems <a href=”https://t.co/OaOYDAHNcl”>pic.twitter.com/OaOYDAHNcl</a></p>&mdash; Dr. S. Jaishankar (@DrSJaishankar) <a href=”https://twitter.com/DrSJaishankar/status/1377640796283924483?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw”>April 1, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src=”https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js” charset=”utf-8”></script>Though the ADB studies identified 167 connectivity projects, BIMSTEC has prioritised 66 of them to establish seamless multi-mode transport links and smooth and simplified transit facilities through the development and modernisation of highways, railways, waterways and sea and air routes. The BIMSTEC master plan will also promote synergy with other connectivity frameworks such as the ASEAN master plan on connectivity 2025.Some of the arterial links included in the master plan are the India-Myanmar-Thailand trilateral highway, Kolkata-Birgunj and Kolkata-Kathmandu links, Kolkata-Siliguri-Guwahati-Imphal link, and Kandy-Colombo link. India’s northeastern states form a key part of the master plan, with several road and river links passing through the region.Jaishankar reiterated India’s commitment to build on the momentum for regional cooperation under the BIMSTEC framework and to make the grouping more result-oriented. India has turned to regional groupings such as the BIMSTEC to drive connectivity and economic initiatives after its differences with Pakistan held up cooperation under the umbrella of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC). “BIMSTEC enjoys the unique strength of connecting South and Southeast Asia. It has steadily gained prominence in our foreign policy. Participation of BIMSTEC leaders at our government’s swearing-in ceremony in May 2019 was a testament to it,” Jaishankar said.However, he cautioned that members of the grouping face traditional and non-traditional security challenges. “Our NSAs have met thrice since 2017. They have been working closely and have moved forward in several aspects of security cooperation, including counter-terrorism, intelligence-sharing, coastal security [and] cybersecurity... in a tangible manner,” he said.The BIMSTEC convention on cooperation in combating international terrorism, transnational organised crime and drug trafficking came into force last month, and will provide a legal basis to strengthen cooperation in this field, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bimstec-finalises-major-connectivity-master-plan-for-bay-of-bengal-region-101617291898647.html
01-04-2021||India||Assam tries to deport 14-yr-old Rohingya girl; Myanmar doesn’t open border gate||Myanmar on Thursday refused to accept a 14-year-old Rohingya girl who had arrived in India nearly two years ago under unclear circumstances.A team of Assam Police from Cachar district accompanied her to the Indo-Myanmar border in Manipur’s Moreh where she was supposed to be handed over. But the immigration department of the neighbouring country refused to open the gate of the international border saying that the situation is not appropriate for any deportation currently.An immigration official from India confirmed the report and assured that the girl will be sent back to Silchar for now. He said, “We all know that the situation in Myanmar is not peaceful and it is not safe to send this minor girl now. But there are some procedures in these cases, and we have to follow them. When Myanmar immigration officials refused to open the gate, we agreed. In fact, they had closed the border gate due to the Covid-19 pandemic last year and it may take some months to reopen the gate. We are planning to send the girl to a shelter home in Silchar where she was residing.”The official further added, “The girl is not willing to go to Myanmar as her parents are in Bangladesh at present.”The minor girl belongs to Myanmar’s Rohingya community and is believed to be a victim of human trafficking. She had earlier written to India’s Ministry of External Affairs and requested to be sent back to her country. Her parents are reportedly staying in a refugee camp in Bangladesh.Cachar police officials have confirmed that after bilateral talks between officials of India and Myanmar, they took the girl to the international border to deport her. A team of eight police officers accompanied her on Thursday morning.Silchar-based human rights activist Kamal Chakraborty called this attempt to deport the girl inhuman. He said, “Report suggest that her parents are in a Bangladeshi refugee camp and the situation in Myanmar is volatile, so how did the Indian government even think of sending a minor girl to that country? This is a clear case of human rights violation. We are going to write a letter to the Ministry of External Affairs about it. We are also going to give her proper shelter so that she doesn’t become a victim of such attempts in future.”According to Cachar police, the minor girl was found in an unconscious condition at Rongpur area near Silchar town in 2019. After rescuing her, the police handed her over to the Ujjala Shelter Home for Girls and Women for counselling. She stayed there for almost a year and was later sent to the Nivedita Nari Sanstha.Diba Roy from Nivedita Nari Sanstha said, “She was sent to our shelter home last year. She wanted to go back to her country so she had written a letter to the Centre. A response came from the ministry and the girl was taken to court. Later, the process of sending her back started.”A counsellor from the Ujjala Shelter Home, Puja Das informed that the girl came to their centre in an almost unconscious condition. She did not understand the local languages. She was provided counselling and she learnt Bengali and English quickly. She once indicated that she had gone to Bangladesh from her country with her parents, who are still living there. But she does not know how she arrived in India.Several Myanmar nationals who illegally entered Indian territory were arrested in the last few years. During lockdown last year, a group of Rohingyas were arrested near the Assam-Manipur border in Cachar district. During interrogation they revealed that many Rohingyas are residing in various parts of Jammu and Kashmir and they were also staying there.Some of the detained Myanmar migrants have been deported in the last few years. The first deportation happened in 2018. Till date, around 40 Myanmar nationals have been sent back from Assam and a few from Manipur as well. At present, 22 illegal Myanmar migrants are staying in detention centres inside Silchar Central Jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-tries-to-deport-14-year-old-rohingya-girl-myanmar-refuses-to-accept-her-101617291661746.html
01-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Demands for special status to Andhra rise after BJP promises to Puducherry and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After BJP promises special status to Puducherry, demands rise for Andhra PradeshThe demand for special status to Andhra Pradesh is back to the fore again soon after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in its election manifesto for Puducherry released by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman on March 27, promised special status to the Union territory. Read moreMilitary gets new node in Mumbai for better logistics integrationThe Indian military on Thursday operationalised a new joint logistics node (JLN) in Mumbai to provide integrated logistics support to the three services, a move that will bolster jointness as well as help cut costs and better utilise manpower, the defence ministry said. Read moreHeat wave likely in Andhra, Telangana, temperatures may touch 43 degrees CelsiusBoth Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are likely to witness heat wave conditions in many parts in the next three days with the day temperatures being two to three degrees Celsius above normal, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted. Read moreIPL 2021: KKR issues statement on Nitish Rana's Covid tests and his availability for IPL 2021Ahead of the upcoming season of the Indian Premier League (IPL), the Kolkata Knight Riders' star batsman Nitish Rana has returned a negative Covid test, a release from KKR said on Thursday. Read moreDia Mirza expecting first child with husband Vaibhav Rekhi: 'Blessed to cradle this purest of all dreams in my womb'Dia Mirza has announced her first pregnancy with husband Vaibhav Rekhi. She took to Instagram to share an update with her fans. Read moreDoggos remind how to wear masks properly in advisory post by Ohio hospitalIn an adorable post shared by the Cincinnati Children’s Hospital, two doggos show how to wear a mask properly. And their adorable demonstration has won the hearts of netizens. Read moreWatch | Nandigram: Mamata complains of 'poll-rigging' to Guv amidst 'Jai Shri Ram' chant||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-demands-for-special-status-to-andhra-pradesh-rise-after-bjp-s-promise-to-puducherry-and-all-the-latest-news-101617289539265.html
01-04-2021||India||After BJP promises special status to Puducherry, demands rise for Andhra Pradesh||The demand for special status to Andhra Pradesh is back to the fore again soon after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in its election manifesto for Puducherry released by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman on March 27, promised special status to the Union territory.The demand for a special status for Andhra Pradesh has been raised by all major political parties in the state since the bifurcation of combined Andhra Pradesh in 2014 - something rejected by the BJP government at the Centre several times.The BJP said it would accord ‘Special Union Territory’ status to Puducherry to increase devolution of funds from 25 per cent to 40 per cent as was done in the case of Jammu and Kashmir to ensure development.The party also promised to revise cost-sharing of projects under centrally sponsored schemes in the ratio of 70 per cent by the central government and 30 per cent by the UT government in place of the current 30:70 formula.Telugu Desam Party (TDP) general secretary and MLC Nara Lokesh on Thursday wondered why did Centre declare a special status for Andhra Pradesh a closed chapter while promised the same to Puducherry.He demanded YSR Congress party president and chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy mount pressure on the Centre for special category status to Andhra Pradesh. “During the assembly elections in 2019, Jagan vowed to bend the necks of the Centre and secure special status to Andhra. But after coming to power, the chief minister has gone totally silent,” Lokesh said.The special category status to Andhra Pradesh was promised by former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh on the floor of Rajya Sabha on February 20, 2014, at the time of passage of the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Bill, 2014, which sought to carve out Telangana from the combined Andhra Pradesh.However, the Narendra Modi government rejected the same on the ground that the 14th finance commission had suggested that no state can be granted a special category status because of the increased devolutions from the Centre.The TDP, which was part of the NDA government, initially accepted the special financial package to the state in lieu of the special category status. But the Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP) took it up as a major political issue and the TDP, too, started demanding the same, severing its alliance with the BJP in April 2018.Though the YSRCP came to power riding on the plank of special category status, it could not insist on the same in the last two years, though it has been mentioning the demand in all its representations to the Centre submitted periodically.Now, with the BJP promising a special status to Puducherry, the TDP is seeking to turn the tables on the BJP and the YSRCP. “How can the BJP, which denied the special status to Andhra Pradesh, promise the same to Puducherry? How can BJP leaders in AP justify this change in their stand?” asked senior TDP leader and MLA Gorantla Buchaiah Chowdary.Congress Andhra Pradesh unit president S Sailajanath wondered why the BJP’s state leadership remained silent when their central leadership promised special status to Puducherry. “Has the BJP forgotten the same status to AP? What is the stand of Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan who has allied with the BJP?” he asked.While YSRC leaders could not be reached for comment, BJP Andhra Pradesh unit president Somu Veerraju said the demand of the TDP leaders for special status to AP was meaningless.“How can they compare the special category status demand for AP and the special status promise to Puducherry? It is a very small union territory, not a state. The Central government will anyway have to spend money on Puducherry. It is promising more funds. That’s all,” Veerraju said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bjp-promises-special-status-to-puducherry-demands-rise-for-andhra-pradesh-101617288778510.html
01-04-2021||India||Mumbai records highest single-day spike with 8,646 cases, Maharashtra sees jump of 43,183 infections||Mumbai on Thursday reported 8,646 fresh Covid-19 infections, in the highest ever single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic. On March 28, the city recorded 6,923 cases which was the highest so far. On March 29, there were 5,890 new infections and on March 30, a dip was reported in the number of fresh cases as the city recorded 4,760 fresh infections; the dip being attributed to fewer tests on the occasion of Holi.Maharashtra too on Thursday saw a record spike of 43,183 new infections in the last 24 hours — the highest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic. A total of 139 deaths were reported from all across the state. Nagpur reported 3,630 new coronavirus cases and 60 deaths in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra's Covid-19 task force head Dr Sanjay Oak said Maharashtra should be allowed to start door-to-door vaccination. "There are reports that some states have started door-to-door vaccination, and Maharashtra should also be allowed to do so. The state should be able to vaccinate maximum population by June for better control on the virus and its spread," Dr Oak told news agency PTI.Covid-19 situation in MumbaiThursday's spike took the tally of the city to 4,23,360, while the number of active patients is 55,005. In the last 24 hours, the city reported 18 deaths. A total of 82 per cent of active cases are asymptomatic, the BMC data revealed.At present, the city has a recovery rate of 84 per cent. There are 80 active containment zones (slums and chawls) in the city while 650 buildings have been sealed. KW ward has the highest number of sealed buildings - 157, followed by the FS ward, which has 73 sealed buildings.Covid-19 vaccinations to be carried out on all days of April, says Union health ministryDharavi, the slum which became a cause of concern during the first phase of the pandemic because of the living condition of the people there, reported 71 new infections in the last 24 hours.The entire state of Maharashtra is under night curfew between 8pm and 7am. Mumbai being the centre of commercial activities is facing resistance to any idea of restrictions.Multiplex Association of India (MAI), Retail Association of India (RAI), and Shopping Centres Association of India said they were following all the safety protocols of the government but a lockdown will hit the business, which was in the recovery process, news agency PTI reported.Restaurants and hotel owners of Mumbai took out a silent protest at Oshiwara on Thursday. Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam took part in the protest and said restrictions are doing harm to business owners of the city. "Night curfew means the end of the business for hotels in the city. I don't know whether this virus spreads more at night," the Congress leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-records-8-646-new-covid-19-infections-in-highest-single-day-spike-101617287731009.html
01-04-2021||India||No students to be called in schools in Delhi in new academic year, says govt||Amid the ongoing surge of Covid-19 cases in the Capital, the Delhi government on Thursday issued an order asking schools to not hold physical classes for the academic session 2021-22 till further orders. Non-compliance with the order will be viewed seriously, the order issued on April 1 said.Students of classes 9,10, 11, 12 of the earlier session (2020-21) may be called to the schools in case their project works and internal assessment etc., are pending. But for that, strict adherence to Covid-19 Standard Operating Procedure and the consent of the parents will be required.New school session to be online for all classes for now, says govtClasses for the new session will continue online till further orders, director of education Udit Prakash Rai said."Heads of all government, government-aided, and recognised un-aided schools are hereby directed to comply with the above instructions and disseminate this information to all teachers, students and parents through SMC/Mass SMS facility/phone calls etc.," the order said.Physical classes for the students of class 10 and 12 resumed in Delhi from January 18. From February 5, offline classes of 9 and 11 resumed.In view of the rising number of cases in the Capital, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has called an emergency meeting at his residence on Friday. The city has been witnessing nearly 2,000 daily infections for the past few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-students-to-be-called-in-schools-in-delhi-in-new-academic-year-101617283529170.html
01-04-2021||India||Military gets new node in Mumbai for better logistics integration||The Indian military on Thursday operationalised a new joint logistics node (JLN) in Mumbai to provide integrated logistics support to the three services, a move that will bolster jointness as well as help cut costs and better utilise manpower, the defence ministry said. This is the third JLN to be set up in three months, with the aim of integrating the military’s logistics set-up and improving its war-fighting ability. Logistics nodes were operationalised in Guwahati and Port Blair on January 1, 2021. The government sanction letter for setting up these nodes came on October 12, 2020. Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, who inaugurated the Mumbai JLN via a video link on Thursday, said, “Establishment and operationalisation of JLNs is a very important first step in the direction of logistics integration of our three services. Acceptance of each other’s limitations and learning from each other’s strengths and best practices is essential to help improve the functioning and efficacy of these nodes.” The Joint Operations Division (JOD) under the Headquarters Integrated Defence Staff pursued and enabled the establishment of the JLNs. “All future wars will be conducted by tri-service in an integrated manner. To enable our armed forces to conduct successful operations, it is essential that they be provided with sound logistics support during all stages of war,” the ministry said in a statement. “This is the precursor to the joint logistics command which is being planned and is imperative for the optimisation of the combat potential of integrated theatres,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations. India is set to begin a formal roll-out of its long-awaited theaterisation plan to best utilise its military’s resources amid growing security threats, with the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command set to be launched by May. Apart from the Air Defence and Maritime Theatre Commands, India is expected to have three other integrated commands to secure its western, northern and eastern fronts — these will be rolled out by December 2022. In addition, a logistics command is in the works to avoid duplication of efforts and resources. The CDS’s mandate includes bringing about jointness in operations, logistics, transport, training, support services and repairs and maintenance of the three services. The JLNs will provide integrated logistics cover to the armed forces for their small arms ammunition, rations, fuel, general stores, civil hired transport, aviation clothing, spares and also engineering support in an effort to synergise their operational efforts, the ministry said. “This initiative would accrue advantages in terms of saving of manpower, economise utilisation of resources, besides financial savings,” the statement said, adding that more such nodes would be launched across the country. Rawat emphasised the need to work towards greater logistics integration with national logistics to benefit from the infrastructural and logistics improvements taking place at the national level. “Through this, we will bring to bear the actual ‘Whole of the Nation’ effort on our adversaries,” he said. The government expects Rawat, who took charge as India’s first CDS on January 1, 2020, to bring about jointness among the three services in a three-year time frame (by January 2023). One of the means to achieve jointness is the setting up of integrated theatre commands for the best use of military resources to fight future battles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-gets-new-node-in-mumbai-for-better-logistics-integration-101617281518075.html
01-04-2021||India||At BIMSTEC meet, Jaishankar says intra-regional tourism badly hit by Covid-19||External affairs minister Dr S Jaishankar on Thursday took part in the 17th Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) ministerial meeting, which comprises seven countries. Five of these seven countries- India, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and Bangladesh-- are from South Asia while the remaining two, Thailand and Myanmar, are from Southeast Asia.Addressing the meeting virtually, Jaishankar said the collaboration in intra-regional tourism has been badly hit by the ongoing coronavirus disease pandemic (Covid-19) adding that as the overall situation becomes normal, strong emphasis should be laid on developing the BIMSTEC’s brand of tourism and also focus on developing modalities for using the initiative’s tourism fund.The BIMSTEC was formed in 1997 and is headquartered in Bangladesh’s capital Dhaka. The objective of the initiative is to harness shared, accelerated growth through mutual cooperation in multiple areas of common interests by using regional resources and geographical advantages, according to BIMSTEC’s website.Pointing out that robust connectivity is an essential prerequisite of the economic integration of the region with a smooth cross-border movement, Jaishankar said he was delighted that all members finalised a BIMSTEC master plan for transport connectivity.Robust connectivity is an essential pre requisite of economic integration of the region with smooth cross-border movement of people & goods. I'm delighted that the member states have finalised a BIMSTEC master plan for transport connectivity: EAM S JaishankarCurrently, the BIMSTEC is involved in 15 sectors including trade, technology, agriculture, tourism, fisheries, energy and climate change among others, for sectoral cooperation. In 1997, it started with just six sectors and later expanded to the remaining nine sectors in 2008.“I’m glad that the region is witnessing rapid economic growth, with growing economic and political cooperation among the member states,” Jaishankar said. He also highlighted that BIMSTEC steadily gained prominence in India’s foreign policy and the participation of its members during the Modi government’s swearing-in ceremony in 2019 was a testament to it.Nearly 1.5 billion people or 22 per cent of the global population comes under the BIMSTEC and has a combined gross domestic product (GDP) of $2.7 trillion. The website also added that in the last five years, BIMSTEC’s members were able to sustain an average 6.5% economic growth despite the global financial crisis.With a focus on intra-regional cooperation, the BIMSTEC has also formed a platform with the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) member countries.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-bimstec-meet-jaishankar-says-intra-regional-tourism-badly-hit-by-covid19-101617279228895.html
01-04-2021||India||People must elect their representatives on basis of character, calibre: Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday said people should elect their representatives on the basis of '4Cs' -- Character, Conduct, Calibre and Capacity and not other considerations.Unfortunately, the other 4CsCaste, Community, Cash and Criminalitywere replacing Character, Conduct, Calibre and Capacity, which are essential for providing good governance, he said."Citizen-centric governance will come from governance-centric electorate," he said.He was speaking after releasing a book 'Suparipalana', the Telugu translation of "Echo T Calling: Towards People- Centric Governance," written by former Telangana Chief Secretary S K Joshi.The Vice President said good governance was essential to fulfill the aspirations of the people and in ensuring that various schemes were implemented effectively.Good governance was also equally important to fulfill the aspirations of the people."Happiness comes with good governance," an official release quoted him as saying.Describing elected governments as 'holders of public trust', Naidu advised them to act responsibly and serve the people conscientiously.He also called for streamlining government's efforts to make the ease of living better for all citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-must-elect-their-representatives-on-basis-of-character-calibre-naidu-101617279382663.html
01-04-2021||India||Cong releases list of 4.3 lakh alleged double voters in Kerala, EC says ‘clerical error’||With just four days left for the crucial assembly elections, Kerala opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala on Wednesday night released a list of over 4.3 lakh voters whose names allegedly appear multiple times in the voters’ list - a move that has left the Election Commission red-faced. The list of multiple entries was released through a website named ‘operation twins.com.’It carried a constituency-wise list of multiple entries - one can easily enter the district and a particular constituency to get the list of alleged double voters.While hearing a plea, the Election Commission had told the High Court on Wednesday that it found only 38,586 double entries and cited most of the entries as clerical errors. Later, the Court had upheld its views and asked it to take strict measures to curb the malpractice. “It took months to unravel this. It was a laborious job. We have no intention to delay or postpone the poll but we believe this is necessary for the existence of democracy in the country,” said Chennithala after releasing the website.He said he was shocked to hear the EC’s tepid response that out of three lakh suspected votes that were scrutinised, there were only 38,586 multiple entries. The ruling CPI(M) criticised the opposition leader’s decision and said it was a ploy to delay the poll in the state. “We find it is a serious breach of data. Personal information of many voters was leaked. We found that details came from a foreign country. We will investigate this after we assume power,” said senior party leader MA Baby.Chennthala, however, continued to ridicule the ruling party saying, “it was running after alibis after getting caught red-handed”. The EC said there will be a strict vigil this time to contain any bogus voting. Interestingly, many constituencies in Kerala usually witness a close fight and wafer-thin margins. In such cases, duplicate votes play a key role. The opposition leader had earlier alleged that government officials having allegiance to the left trade unions were behind the move. In north Kerala in party villages, complaints of bogus voting are rampant in every election. In most cases, voters were not even aware of having more than one vote leaving party workers to cast these double votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-releases-list-of-4-3-lakh-alleged-double-voters-in-kerala-ec-says-clerical-error-101617279178122.html
01-04-2021||India||Govt withdraws order to cut interest rates, cites oversight; faces flak||Less than 12 hours after announcing sharp cuts in interest rates of small savings schemes, such as Public Provident Fund (PPF), senior citizen savings, Sukanya Samriddhi Scheme and Kisan Vikas Patra, the government withdrew the order on Thursday morning.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday morning tweeted that the order was an “oversight” and there would not be any change in the interest rates. “Interest rates of small savings schemes of GoI [Government of India] shall continue to be at the rates which existed in the last quarter of 2020-2021, i.e; rates that prevailed as of March 2021. Orders issued by oversight shall be withdrawn,” she said. While a spokesperson of the finance ministry did not respond to HT’s queries, one person who works in the ministry said the order to cut interest rates was issued after the “competent authority” had approved the proposal. “The bureaucracy acts on the basis of well-laid procedures and no decisions could be taken without proper approvals. The withdrawal appears to be due to political compulsion,” the person said. Two people with direct knowledge of the matter said, requesting anonymity, that the decision was taken fearing a political fallout in the ongoing assembly elections. Also Watch | Govt rolls back decision to cut interest rates on small saving schemesThe withdrawal, however, faced severe backlash from the Opposition on social media. “Really @nsitharaman ‘oversight’ in issuing the order to decrease interest rates on GOI [government of India] schemes or election driven ‘hindsight’ in withdrawing it?” tweeted Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra minutes after the order was withdrawn.Former minister of finance and external affairs Yashwant Sinha said the government had outdone even him in terms of roll-backs.“I am very sad today. I thought I alone had the monopoly of roll backs. This govt has outdone even me. Labour laws, small savings interest rates are a couple of examples. Roll Back Modi,” he tweeted.Congress leader Salman Soz also took a jibe at the inconsistency of decisions of the minister and tweeted: “I am joining BJP.” In another tweet, Soz said his earlier comment was an “oversight”.Congress leader P Chidambaram alleged that Sitharaman’s claim of the decision of lowering interest rates on small savings schemes being an “inadvertent error” is baseless, pointing out that such announcement “for the next quarter is a regular exercise”.“Announcement of interest rates on savings instruments for the next quarter is a regular exercise. There is nothing ‘inadvertent’ about its release on 31st March,” he tweeted.“The BJP government had decided to launch another assault on the middle class by slashing the interest rates and profiting itself. When caught, the FM is putting forward the lame excuse of ‘inadvertent error’,” he added.Chidambaram added that the current interest rate on saving schemes is still lower than the inflation rate and thus is “hitting the savers and the middle class below the belt”.“When inflation is at about 6 per cent and expected to rise, the BJP government is offering interest rates below 6 per cent hitting the savers and the middle class below the belt,” the Congress leader said.Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien also took to Twitter slamming the PM Narendra Modi-Amit Shah combine, saying, “Egg on the face again. Because MO-SHA too busy throwing petals from trucks and cracking April Fool jokes of false promises at election rallies.”Trinamool Congress lawmaker Mahua Moitra cited Sitharaman’s statement and tweeted: “What is the biggest April Fool’s joke here? That a now-rolled back small savings rate cut was issued by ‘oversight’? Or that Nirmala Sitaraman is Fin Min of this country?”Congress leader Randeep Surjewala wrote Sitharaman has “no moral right to continue as a finance minister”. “Madam FM [finance minister], Are u running a ‘Circus’ or a ‘Govt’? One can imagine the functioning of economy when such duly approved order affecting crores of people can be issued by an ‘oversight’. Who is the competent authority referred in order?”Gopal Agrawal, BJP’s spokesperson on economic affairs, responding to the Opposition’s sarcasm, said, “I appreciate the concern of FM Nirmala Sitharaman [regarding the] interest rate cut for small savings. Post Covid19, interest income is one of the main sources of income for the common man. Any reduction is uncalled for. Surely the FM will look into the faux pas on the issue by the ministry officials.”The office memorandum, issued on March 31, 2021 by the department of economic affairs (DEA) of the Union finance ministry said that the interest rates for “various” small savings schemes were revised “for the first quarter of financial year 2021-22 starting from 1st April, 2021 and ending on 30th June, 2021”. It also said: “This has the approval of competent authority.” HT reviewed the order issued late Wednesday evening. The interest rate on Public Provident Fund was lowered from 7.1% to 6.4%, and that on National Savings Certificates from 6.8% to 5.9% for the June quarter. The Senior Citizens Savings Scheme rate was cut from 7.4% to 6.5%. The rate on Sukanya Samriddhi Scheme, the highest paying small savings instrument, was lowered from 7.6% to 6.9%.“The politically sensitive Senior Citizens Savings Scheme (SCSS) saw its rate cut from 7.4% to 6.5%, which is a major political constituent and the government cannot afford to alienate this segment,” a second person said. According to the Wednesday order that was later withdrawn, the Sukanya Samriddhi Scheme, which was the highest paying small savings instrument, saw its rate cut from 7.6% to 6.9%. Also, the Kisan Vikas Patra (KVP) that has a tenure of 124 months would mature in 138 months, amounting to a rate cut of 6.2% from 6.9%. Other small savings products with interest rate reductions, according to the Wednesday order, included post office term deposits, post office savings accounts and post office monthly income scheme. The rates on post office term deposits were reduced from 5.5%-6.7% for tenures of 1-5 years to 4.4%-5.8%. The post office savings account saw its rate reduced from 4% to 3.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-withdraws-order-to-cut-interest-rates-cites-oversight-faces-flak-101617278457951.html
01-04-2021||India||India begins third phase of vaccination drive by including all above 45||India began the third phase of its Covid-19 vaccination drive on Thursday by opening it up to people above 45 years, irrespective of comorbidities. This, experts said, will not only improve overall vaccination numbers, but will also help in slowing down disease transmission as the country grapples with the second wave of infection. India recorded its highest-single day rise in cases since October 2020, as per the Union health ministry data on Thursday.Union health ministry issued a statement on Thursday on including those aged 45+ in the vaccination drive which read, “This step has been taken after detailed deliberations with the States/Union Territories on 31st March, 2021, to optimally utilise all Covid Vaccination Centres across the public and private sectors to ensure rapid increase in the pace and coverage of Covid vaccination. This decision is in line with the graded and pro-active approach employed by the Government of India along with the States/UTs for Covid-19 vaccination.”Earlier, explaining the process of registering for vaccine shot, a senior health ministry official who did not wish to be identified, said, “People who are eligible will be able to register, and book appointments, on the Co-Win portal and through the Aarogya Setu app from April 1, when the facility will be thrown open for the 45-plus category also. It will be a massive number, and we urge eligible beneficiaries to come forward and get vaccinated. Safety and efficacy of both the vaccines approved for use in India has been well established.”Also Read | Another session begins in Delhi, but schools still emptyCovid vaccines will be offered throughout the month of April, including gazetted holidays, at both the private and public Covid vaccination centres. The Centre has written to all states to make necessary arrangements for the same, aiming to exponentially expand the countrywide vaccination drive. Walk-in registrations will also be open, but only after 3pm.Since government-specified comorbidity isn’t a criterion anymore,a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner is not required. Vaccination is being held in close to 50,000 centres across the country, of which about 6,000 are in the private sector.Earlier, only people 45 years and above with government-specified comorbidities, individuals aged 60 years and above, and healthcare and frontline workers were eligible for vaccination.However, around 88% of Covid-19 deaths in the country have been reported from the 45+ age group, prompting the government’s decision to open the drive further to include this age group as well.At least 65 million vaccine doses have been administered in the country since the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination began on January 16 with healthcare workers as the beneficiaries. Vaccination of frontline workers began on February 2. The second phase started on March 1 to also include people above 60 and those between 45 and 59 years of age with specific comorbidities. So far, first doses of vaccine have been administered to 8,260,293 healthcare workers, and 5,250,704 have got the second dose as well. As many as 9,174,171 frontline workers have taken the first dose and 3,945,796 of them have got the second dose as well.Meanwhile, amid the surge in Covid cases, India recorded 72,330 new infections within 24 hours, taking its total tally to 12,221,665.As per the Union health ministry data updated at 8am, the single-day rise in cases is the highest since October 11, 2020. The death toll rose to 162,927 with 459 single-day new casualties, the highest in 116 days. Maharashtra reported the highest daily new cases at 39,544, followed by Chhattisgarh with 4,563, and Karnataka reported 4,225 new cases.The country’s active caseload reached 584,055.Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, and Punjab account for 78.9% of the total active cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-begins-third-phase-of-vaccination-drive-by-including-all-above-45-101617277677724.html
01-04-2021||India||Tirupathi temple board to get land in Jammu for temple, spiritual growth centre||The Administrative Council (AC), which met under the chairmanship of Jammu and Kashmir’s lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha, approved the proposal to allot 496 Kanal 17 Marla of land to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) for building a temple and allied infrastructure including pilgrims amenities complex, Veda Patasala (Vedas School), spiritual/meditation centre, office, residential quarters and parking.The land will be given on lease for a period of 40 years. Medical and educational facilities are also proposed to be built on the campus in future.TTD, a board established by the government under the TTD Act, 1932 is a charitable organisation with activities in the spiritual, cultural, social, and educational sphere. It hopes to tap the religious tourism potential in Jammu, the City of Temples, besides enhancing economic activities in the region. Once developed, the TTD infrastructure will be another religious centre of attraction in the region apart from the famous Mata Vaishno Devi shrine and Amarnathji Shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tirupathi-temple-board-to-get-land-in-jammu-for-temple-spiritual-growth-centre-101617276757905.html
01-04-2021||India||In the Tata-Mistry battle, how and why the court swung in favour of Ratan Tata||With its final judgment last week, the Supreme Court not only set aside set aside a tribunal’s 2019 order reinstating Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman of the corporate giant, Tata Sons, but also ruled all the questions of law in favour of Ratan Tata and the ­Tata Group. The five issues framed by the top court and their answers present an interesting chapter on interpretation of law, hinging on the change in dynamics of relationship between Cyrus Mistry and Ratan Tata, with the court describing Mistry as a man who set his own house on fire. A detailed reading of the judgment helps give a sense of why one of corporate India’s most bitter battles in recent years ended the way it did, in favour of Tata. Here are the five questions and their answers by the top court: One — Whether Tata Sons’ affairs were conducted in a manner prejudicial and oppressive to some members and that the facts otherwise justify the winding up of the company on just and equitable ground under Sections 241 and 242 of The Companies Act? Also Read | Tata values SP stake at over ₹94,000 croreThis turned out to be the most important question that swung the entire case in favour of Ratan Tata. A substantial part of the 282-page judgment was devoted to scrutinise and eventually negate the accusations relating to oppression and prejudice. The court answered this question in negative and cited a simple example: “If the company’s affairs have been or are being conducted in a manner oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of the SP Group, we wonder how a representative of Mistry’s Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) Group holding a little over 18% of the share capital could have moved up to the topmost position within a period of six years of his induction.” Referring to Sections 241 and 242 of the Act, the court underlined that scheme of the law provides for making an application to the National Company Law Tribunal when the company’s affairs are being conducted in a manner prejudicial to the interest of any member, public interest or interest of the company; or when it is oppressive to any member. It enumerated eight grounds on the basis of which Mistry alleged prejudice and oppression but noted that six of these grounds have be considered as settled since neither the appellate tribunal reversed the findings of the NCLT as regard to them nor had the SP Group assailed them in their appeal before the SC. Therefore, the court said, allegations relating to these must be rejected. These allegations included transactions with Siva and Sterling Group of Companies; the losses suffered by Tata Motors in the Nano car project; the acquisition of Corus Group Inc of UK; Air Asia transactions in which a deal was reportedly struck with Hamid Reza Malakotipour who was classified as a “global terrorist” by the United Nations; sale of a flat to Mehli Mistry and the grant of huge personal favours to the companies owned and controlled by Mehli Mistry, and dealings with NTT DoCoMo, which eventually led to an arbitration award for a huge sum of money. Also Read | Tatas win Mistry fight in top courtThe court then went on to focus on Mistry’s removal and existence of just and equitable grounds for winding up of Tata Sons, underlining that these were the only two issues that the appellate tribunal had specifically dealt with. Relying on case law and the statutory provisions, the court held that removal of a person from the post of executive chairman cannot be termed as oppressive or prejudicial. “It is an irony that the very same person who represents shareholders owning just 18.37% of the total paid up share capital and yet identified as the successor to the empire, has chosen to accuse the very same Board, of conduct oppressive and unfairly prejudicial to the interests of the minorities,” maintained the court, adding that the subsequent conduct of Cyrus Mistry in leaking his email and sending some documents to the Income Tax department enhanced the firepower of the management of Tata Sons “with regard to their claim relating to lack of confidence and trust”.About the existence of “just and equitable grounds”, which would justify winding up of Tata Sons, the top court noted that a winding up petition would hold water only if there is a breakdown in mutual trust and confidence impeding the management of a company. The lack of confidence, said the court, “must spring not from dissatisfaction at being out­voted on the business affairs or on what is called the domestic policy of the company”.It highlighted that winding up could be ordered when there is a “functional deadlock” leading to an inability of the company to function at Board or shareholder level, or where a company is a corporate quasi partnership and an irretrievable breakdown in trust and confidence between the participating members has taken place. “In the case in hand there was never and there could never have been a relationship in the nature of quasi partnership between the Tata Group and SP Group. SP Group boarded the train half­way (in 1965) through the journey of Tata Sons. Functional deadlock is not even pleaded nor proved,” ruled the court, rejecting Mistry’s contentions regarding winding up plea. It further noted that the NCLAT lost sight of the most important aspect that Tata Sons is a principal investment holding Company, of which the majority shareholding is with philanthropic Trusts — Sir Ratan Tata Trust and Sir Dorabji Tata Trust. “Therefore, NCLAT should have raised the most fundamental question whether it would be equitable to wind up the Company and thereby starve to death those charitable Trusts, especially on the basis of un­charitable allegations of oppressive and prejudicial conduct,” said the court, terming NCLAT’s findings as completely flawed. Here, the court once again reminded Mistry that “it was the very same complaining minority whose representative was not merely given a berth on the Board but was also projected as the successor to the Office of Chairman.” Two — Whether the relief granted, and the directions issued by the appellate tribunal, including the reinstatement of Mistry into the Board of Tata Sons and other Tata companies, are in consonance with the pleadings made, the reliefs sought and the powers available under Sub­section (2) of Section 242? Apart from underscoring that the scheme of Section 242 does not envisage reinstatement of a chairman or a director, the court wondered how NCLAT reinstated Mistry as the executive chairman of Tata Sons, despite there being no prayer for reinstatement either as a director or as an executive chairman. It further found fault with the judgment restoring his chairmanship for the “rest of the tenure” when there was no tenure left at all. It pointed out that the appointment of Mistry as executive chairman of Tata Sons with effect from December 29, 2012, was for a tenure of five years. The judgment of the NCLAT was passed on December 18, 2019, by which time, a period of nearly seven years had passed from the date of Mistry’s appointment. “Therefore, we fail to understand as to how the NCLAT could have granted a relief not apparently sought for (though wished for); and what NCLAT meant by reinstatement ‘for the rest of the tenure’. That the question of reinstatement will not arise after the tenure of office had run its course, is a settled position,” held the court. It also criticised the NCLAT for reinstating Mistry not only on the Board of Tata Sons but also on the Board of some other Tata group companies, “without they being parties, without there being any complaint against those companies under section 241 and without there being any prayer against them.” The court added that by virtue of the impugned order, Mistry was reinstated even on the Board of a few companies from which he had resigned. “NCLAT appears to have granted the relief of reinstatement gratis without any foundation in pleadings, without any prayer and without any basis in law. By doing so, the NCLAT has forced upon the appellant an executive chairman, who now is unable to support his own reinstatement... The relief of reinstatement granted by the Tribunal, was too big a pill even for the complainant companies (and perhaps Mistry) to swallow,” said the court, highlighting that even Mistry had pleaded that he was not looking to be reinstated. In law, the apex court, citing Sections 241 and 242 of the Companies Act, said that these provisions do not specifically confer the power of reinstatement, nor is there any scope for holding that such a power to reinstate can be implied or inferred from any of the powers specifically conferred. “It is interesting to note that at the time of his appointment in December 2012, what Mistry saw and acknowledged, was a ‘great learning experience he had under the direct guidance of Ratan Tata’, but at the time of departure in October 2016, what he saw was only a conduct for over 10 years, that was oppressive and prejudicial to the interests of the company and of the minority. The NCLAT failed to take note of this, while granting reliefs neither sought for nor feasible in law,” ruled the court. Three — Whether the appellate tribunal could have, in law, muted the power of the Company under Article 75 of the Articles of Association, to demand any member to transfer his ordinary shares, by simply injuncting the company from exercising such a right without setting aside the Article? Article 75 of the Articles of Association of Tata Sons relates to the company’s power of transfer of shares. It states that the company may, at any time, by Special Resolution, resolve that any holder of ordinary shares transfer his ordinary shares and that such member would be deemed to have served the company with a sale­ notice in respect of his ordinary shares. The court held that the NCLAT could not have muted Article 75, which has the effect of sending it into comatose, especially when Mistry and SP Group had not challenged its validity. The complainant companies, the court noted, did not make a grievance out of Article 75 on the ground that it had been misused in the past or that such misuse tantamount to conduct oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some of the members. “No single instance even of invocation of Article 75, leave alone misuse, is averred in the main company petition or in the application for amendment. Therefore, NCLAT could not have and should not have made Article 75 completely ineffective by passing an order of restraint,” said the court. It also noted NCLAT agreed that it has no jurisdiction to declare any of the Articles of Association illegal but it neutralised Article 75 merely on the basis of likelihood of misuse, even though Section 241 provides for a remedy only in respect of past and present conduct or past and present continuous conduct. “NCLAT has stretched Section 241(1)(a) to cover the likelihood of a future bad conduct, which is impermissible in law. Section 241 is not intended to discipline a Management in respect of a possible future conduct,” ruled the court. About the history of the Article of Association, the court also highlighted that it was amended in its present form in September 2000 in the presence of and with the consent of Mistry. “A person who willingly became a shareholder and thereby subscribed to the Articles of Association and who was a willing and consenting party to the amendments carried out to those Articles, cannot later on turn around and challenge those Articles. The same would tantamount to requesting the Court to rewrite a contract to which he became a party with eyes wide open,” said the court, reversing NCLAT’s finding. Four — Whether the affirmative voting rights available to the directors nominated by Sir Ratan Tata Trusts and Sir Dorabjee Trust were oppressive and prejudicial? The affirmative voting rights, according to the SP Group, disabled the nominee directors from acting independently in the best interests of the company and its stakeholders and that once appointed, the loyalty of the nominee directors should be to the company and not solely to the Trusts which nominated them. Under Article 104B, the two Trusts, acting jointly, have a right to nominate one-third of the prevailing number of directors on the Board, so long as the Trusts hold at least 40% of the paid-up share capital. Further, Article 121 provides that matters, which require to be decided by a majority of the directors, shall require the affirmative vote of the majority of directors appointed under Article 104B. The court held that affirmative voting rights for the nominees of institutions, which hold majority of shares in companies, have always been accepted as a global norm. “So long as these special rights are incorporated in the Articles of Association and so long as they are not in contravention of any of the provisions of the Act, the same cannot be attacked on these grounds,” it said. Noting that around 66% of the equity share capital of Tata Sons is held by philanthropic Trusts including Sir Dorabji Tata Trust and Sir Rata Tata Trust that support education, health and livelihood generation, the court ruled that “there is nothing abhorring about the validity of the affirmative voting rights”. The court held that Tata Group was guided by the principle of “Corporate Governance” even without a statutory compulsion since it was not a listed public company, and this was evidenced by the fact that Mistry was the first one outside the Tata family to be crowned as the executive chairman and the Board of Tata Sons had many persons who could be ranked outsiders. “If the idea was to run Tata Sons purely as a family business, Ratan Tata need not have stepped down from the chairmanship. Today, nobody wants to step down from any office, except if afflicted by brain stroke or sun stroke,” said the court. It also reproached Mistry for calling Ratan Tata a “shadow director” in Tata Sons, saying that when the Board, of which Mistry was a chairman, had nominated Ratan Tata as chairman emeritus and recorded their desire of his support and guidance, it was not open to Mistry and the SP Group to call Ratan Tata a shadow Director. The apex court also shot down Mistry’s claim for a proportionate representation on the Board, saying it is neither statutorily or contractually sustainable nor factually justified since the SP Group boarded the journey only in 1980 when Mistry’s father was made a director. Further, it said, there was nothing to show a pre­existing relationship between the Tata Group and the SP Group before the incorporation of the company or any agreement in the nature of a partnership. And finally — Whether the re­conversion of Tata Sons from a public company into a private company was bad in law? While allowing the appeals of the SP Group, NCLAT had declared the action of the Registrar of Companies in issuing the amended Certificate of Incorporation as illegal with a further direction to the Registrar of Companies to make necessary corrections in the records showing the Tata Sons as a public company. The court commenced its adjudication by underlining that even SP Group does not dispute that Tata Sons satisfies the parameters of Section 2(68) of the 2013 Act that defines a private company — but contentions revolve around the procedure followed for reconversion. NCLAT held that Tata Sons ought to have followed the process of a special resolution and amendment of its Articles under Section 14 and 14(1) of the Companies Act. The court found NCLAT’s reasoning to be flawed. “What NCLAT failed to see was that Tata sons did not become a public company by choice but became one by operation of law. Therefore, we do not know how such a company should also be asked to follow the rigors of Section 14(1)(b) of the 2013 Act,” it noted. The court said that Section 14(1), primarily, deals with the issue of alteration of Articles of Association of the company but “Tata Sons wanted a mere amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation, which is not something that is covered by Section 14 of the 2013 Act.” It said that the NCLAT mixed up the attempt of Tata Sons to have the Certificate of Incorporation amended with an attempt to have the Articles of Association amended, while pointing out that Tata Sons satisfied the criteria prescribed in Section 2(68) of the Act by having restriction on the right to transfer shares, limitation on the number of members and prohibiting any invitation to the public to subscribe to shares/debentures. “The certificate is a mere recognition of the status of the company and it does not by itself create one. Once a new definition of the expression ‘private company’ came into force under section 2(68) of the 2013 Act, the only test to be applied is to find out if the company fits into the scheme under the new Act or not,” ruled the court. It was these five questions and the court’s detailed examination of the themes that swung the verdict in favour of Ratan Tata, bringing to an end a major acrimonious chapter in India’s corporate history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-the-tata-mistry-battle-how-and-why-the-court-swung-in-favour-of-ratan-tata-101617276897762.html
01-04-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: BKU’s Rakesh Tikait says farmers’ protest to go on for 8 more months||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers' protest will go on for 8 more months, says BKU’s Rakesh TikaitBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Thursday the agitation against the Centre’s three new farm laws will have to go on for eight more months as it is a question of their rights and lands. The movement will pick up speed after May 10, as till then farmers will remain engaged in harvesting wheat crops, Tikait said. Read moreTwitter reacts after govt withdraws decision to lower small savings rateUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s comments blaming oversight for cutting interest rates on small savings schemes to an over four-decade low drew flak from the Opposition on social media. The comments came as the government rolled back its decision to lower the rates. Read moreStep inside Rajkummar Rao's home with calm decor, huge private spaces filled with booksActor Rajkummar Rao took fans on a tour of his beautiful abode in Mumbai, one that he recently bought. Having grown up in Gurgaon, in a joint family of 16 people, Rajkummar is now living in a sprawling house spread across two floors. In a new video for a paint brand, he has shared his journey of finalising the design and artefacts of the house. Read moreVicky Kaushal has breakfast of champions made with 10 eggs, oats and chocolate, hits gym after thatActor Vicky Kaushal has lately been sweating it really hard in the gym as he prepares for his upcoming role. From box jumps to horse riding, archery and a lot of weight training in the gym, Vicky Kaushal's routine includes various forms of exercises. Read more'Before him, I had never heard of it being spoken': Ishant credits Kohli for changing Indian cricket's 'system'It is no secret that Virat Kohli is responsible for bringing about a cultural change in the Indian cricket team. While MS Dhoni started the importance of fitness, Kohli took it forward to a whole new level – introducing the importance of what to eat and what not for cricketers to survive long in international cricket. Read moreHyundai, Tata Motors, Toyota eyeing NTPC's hydrogen fuel cell vehicle projectSeveral automakers including Hyundai, Tata Motors, Toyota, Ashok Leyland, and KPIT Technologies have shown their interest in India’s maiden and ambitious initiative to run hydrogen-powered fuel cell electric cars and buses. Read moreWoman finds daffodils she had ordered in fridge. Here’s how they landed up thereMost people, when they don’t receive an item they ordered, call up the provider to get their money refunded. This is exactly what Helen Newman did when she didn’t get the daffodils that she ordered. However, what happened next is a story which has now left people giggling hard. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-bku-s-rakesh-tikait-says-farmers-protest-to-go-on-for-8-more-months-101617274108746.html
01-04-2021||India||Yes Bank fraud: ED files charge sheet against Mumbai realty firm owners, others||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a charge sheet in connection with its money laundering probe against Mumbai-based realty group Omkar Realtors and Developers linked to alleged illegal diversion of Yes Bank loan funds worth over ₹400 crore.In a statement, the central probe agency said the prosecution complaint (charge sheet) has been filed under various sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) before a special court in Mumbai.The charge sheet names chairman of Omkar Realtors and Developers Kamal Kishore Gupta, its managing director Babulal Varma, actor-producer Sachin Joshi (also the promoter of Viiking Group) and their companies.The ED had earlier raided the premises of Omkar Group promoters and arrested all three accused in the case.The central agency's case is based on an FIR of Aurangabad Police (Maharashtra) against Gupta and Varma on charges of cheating and diversion of Yes Bank loan funds of ₹410 crore which were taken for the redevelopment of Anand Nagar SRA (Slum Rehabilitation Authority) CHS."As per the terms and conditions of Yes Bank, the loan amount of ₹410 crore was to be utilised for the construction of rehab buildings at Anand Nagar SRA CHS, Wadala."However, instead of constructing SRA buildings, the whole amount of ₹410 crore was diverted by the accused to group companies," the ED claimed in its statement.Out of this ₹410 crore, an amount of ₹80 crore was further layered to Joshi and his Viiking Group of companies in the guise of service fee and investment."However, during the investigation, it was found that neither Sachin Joshi nor his companies were ever engaged in any such business and the said transactions were found to be sham," the ED alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yes-bank-fraud-ed-files-charge-sheet-against-mumbai-realty-firm-owners-others-101617275458628.html
01-04-2021||India||Schools across Kashmir report fresh Covid cases, parents worried||At-least 50 students from two south Kashmir schools including 36 students in a private school in Kulgam district and 14 in a government school in Anantnag district were found infected with coronavirus along with a handful of teachers and staff during random testing drives in schools in Kashmir over the past couple of days. Concerned parents are now requesting the government to close the schools to safeguard children’s health.Apart from the two south Kashmir schools, which reported high number of infections among the students, two staff members of a prominent girl’s higher secondary school in Srinagar, a teacher and two students in two government schools of central Kashmir’s Budgam, a staff member and a student of a higher secondary school in north Kashmir’s Bandipora were also reported positive for the disease.All the six schools which reported fresh infections have been closed for various durations. Two schools in the city outskirts were already closed a few days back after their staff members tested positive.“These are scary reports and we don’t want the lives of our children to be at stake. I am confused whether to stop sending my child to school for the time being or to allow her to continue,” said Shameema, mother of a class-10 girl student in Srinagar.The schools were opened for the students of 9th to 12th classes from March 1, 2021 and for 6th to 8th classes from March 8, almost a year after they were closed in March 2020 owing to the pandemic. The government also allowed opening of primary schools after March 15. Fresh concerns are also triggered by rapidly rising Covid-19 numbers in the Kashmir valley, particularly in capital Srinagar. For the past six days, the Union Territory has reported over 200 cases daily, ranging from 210 cases on Friday last to 373 cases on Wednesday, which was the highest daily count in 103 days.Overall, the month of March saw 4,519 coronavirus infections in the UT, an increase of 133% compared to February, and 37 deaths. In February, there were 1,935 cases and 21 deaths.“Many schools have closed owing to Covid. The schools were opened after a year and now they have scheduled unit examinations next week. If we don’t send our wards they will miss their exams. There is too much tension. Government should close all the schools for the time being and postpone unit exams,” said Zubaida Noor, elder sister of a class-8 student.Most of the schools have asked the parents to send their wards on alternate days to maintain Covid protocols such as social distancing. Some schools have also decided to run two shifts in the day to reduce the class strength by half. Some schools have not yet opened primary classes.“What shall we do? We have given a consent letter to school that they won’t be responsible in case of any health emergency. If cases continue to rise, the government should think of closing schools or ensuring that standard operating procedures (SoPs) are enforced. It is not possible for small children to follow SoPs,” said Javaid Ahmad, whose child studies in class-1.Calls to director school education M Younis Malik and additional secretary school education department Nasir Ahmad Wani yielded no response.A senior official of the education department told a local daily on Wednesday that the government has issued fresh guidelines suggesting schools should prefer online classes.“The school education department will reiterate the government directions so that schools prefer online classes. We can put offline classes on hold,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-across-kashmir-report-fresh-covid-cases-parents-worried-101617275587739.html
01-04-2021||India||Pakistan does U-turn on resuming trade ties with India||Pakistan on Thursday did a U-turn on a move for limited resumption of trade with India, with two federal ministers linking the normalisation of bilateral ties to the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status by New Delhi.A Cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Imran Khan rejected a decision made by a government panel on Wednesday to allow imports of sugar and cotton from India to control prices and overcome a shortage.Pakistan’s interior minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed told reporters in Islamabad after the cabinet meeting that the move to permit imports from India was “deferred till Article 370 is not restored”. Speaking in Urdu, he added, “Till then, [imports of] cotton and sugar will not happen.”Watch | Imran Khan govt red-flags resumption of trade with India; rakes up Article 370Ahmed was referring to the Indian government’s decision of August 5, 2019, to scrap Article 370 of the Constitution, which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir, and to split the state into two union territories.Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said in a video statement that the Cabinet deferred the move to import cotton and sugar from India so that there could be further deliberations on the matter.“At the same time, there was an impression that relations with India are moving towards normalisation and trade has opened up. There was a discussion on this and there was a unanimous opinion among everyone, including the prime minister, that it will not be possible to normalise relations with India till India reviews the unilateral steps it had taken on August 5, 2019,” Qureshi said.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the Pakistan government’s decision. India had earlier rejected Pakistan’s stand on the changes in Jammu and Kashmir by saying it was an internal matter.Also Read | Pakistan green-lights sugar, cotton trade with IndiaThe Pakistani flip-flop came hours after human rights minister Shireen Mazari, known for her anti-India stance, tweeted that all decisions made by the ECC have to be approved by the Cabinet.“Just for the record – All ECC decisions have to be approved by cabinet & only then they can be seen as ‘approved by govt’! So today in the cabinet there will be a discussion on ECC decisions including trade with India and then the government decision will be taken!” Mazari said in her tweet.On Wednesday, the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC) of Pakistan’s Cabinet decided to allow imports from India at a meeting chaired by the country’s new finance minister, Hammad Azhar. The panel approved imports of up to 500,000 tonnes of sugar by the private sector and allowed imports of cotton up to the end of June to meet the needs of small and medium enterprises.If the ECC’s decision had been implemented, it would have led to the resumption of trade between the two countries after almost two years. Pakistan had unilaterally suspended trade with India in August 2019 to protest against the changes in Jammu and Kashmir.If the ECC’s decision had been implemented, it would have led to the resumption of trade between the two countries after almost two years. Pakistan had unilaterally suspended trade with India in August 2019 to protest against the changes in Jammu and Kashmir.Trade between India and Pakistan has invariably taken a hit whenever tensions spike between the countries, and this was also case when the 2019 Pulwama suicide attack triggered a military standoff.The move by the Indian and Pakistani armies to strictly adhere to the ceasefire on the LoC from February 25 was the outcome of behind-the-scenes contacts between the two sides and led to a thaw in relations.In recent weeks, Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa has spoken of the need to “bury the past and move forward”, while Prime Minister Khan has said India will have to take the first step for improving ties by addressing Kashmir, the only issue standing in the way of better relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-does-u-turn-on-resuming-trade-ties-with-india-101617275277949.html
01-04-2021||India||Farmers' protest will go on for 8 more months, says BKU’s Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Thursday the agitation against the Centre’s three new farm laws will have to go on for eight more months as it is a question of their rights and lands. The movement will pick up speed after May 10, as till then farmers will remain engaged in harvesting wheat crops, Tikait said.“Farmers can harvest their wheat crops till May 10 post which the agitation will pick up speed,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Farmers have been camping at several border points in Delhi for more than four months, seeking a repeal of the laws-- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 -- which were cleared by Parliament in September last year.Despite several rounds of negotiation and repeated requests by the government, the farmers have remained determined that they would not stop protesting until the laws are completely rolled back and are also firm on their demand for a legal guarantee for the Minimum Support Price (MSP).आंदोलन अभी आठ महीने और चलाना पड़ेगा। किसान को आंदोलन तो करना ही पड़ेगा, अगर आंदोलन नहीं होगा तो किसानों की जमीन जाएगी। किसान 10 मई तक अपनी गेंहू की फसल काट लेंगे, उसके बाद आंदोलन तेज़ी पकड़ेगा: राकेश टिकैत, भारतीय किसान यूनियन के राष्ट्रीय प्रवक्ता #FarmersProtest pic.twitter.com/BgyNz5WPyxAll India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) general secretary Hannan Mollah told ANI on Wednesday that lakhs of protesters would march to Parliament in May. “Modi Government and Parliament are not listening to the farmers then it is our right to go in front of Parliament and raise our demand and we will decide sometime between the middle in the month of May,” he said. Pointing out that the march would be peaceful, he added that they (farmers) will go to Parliament to express their pain and grief before the citizens.Several strikes and marches have been staged by farmers across India since last year and the majority of them were peaceful. However, the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day ( January 26) in Delhi took a violent turn as protesters deviated from the designated route and entered the national Capital after breaking barricades and were also involved in incidents of vandalism. A few protesters reached the iconic Red Fort and hoisted religious flags on it. The Delhi Police has made multiple arrests in the case.In January, the Supreme Court suspended the implementation of the farm laws and appointed a committee on January 12 to examine these laws and further recommend changes. The committee on Wednesday submitted its report and the apex court will hear the matter on April 5. Speaking to Hindustan Times, one of the expert members in the committee Anil Ghanwat said that it is entirely up to the apex court to act on the recommendations given.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-will-go-on-for-8-more-months-says-bku-s-rakesh-tikait-101617274641017.html
01-04-2021||India||The story of Indian Railways and its tryst with privatisation||In a country of 1.3 billion, the Indian Railways plays an integral role running the world’s fourth largest rail network in the world—across 64,000 route km, ferrying nearly 23 million passengers per day in over 13,000 passenger trains daily. With a workforce of nearly 1.3 million, it is also one of the largest employers in the world.But the railways, in recent years, confronted with its dwindling finances, has been mulling ways of generating revenue through different streams, including the non-fare revenue segment, leasing out its vast pool of vacant land and, most importantly, opening doors for Public Private Partnership (PPP) for its trains and stations. It has felt the need to bring in private investment to upgrade its facilities and infrastructure, with an eye, also, on the competition as domestic airlines take away its AC class passengers and passengers increasingly opt to travel by road for shorter distances.But at its core, the 167-year-old organisation has largely functioned as a subsidised mode of travel for millions of Indians daily. On an average, the railways recovers about 57% of cost of travel and the remaining is given as subsidy—which means that the institution incurs 43 paise per rupee for each ticket as subsidy. This is not a traditional subsidy, but is instead cross-subsidised from the money railways makes from its freight operations. The unreserved segment has the maximum subsidy of about 43-45%.Also Read | No charging of electronic devices in trains at night: RailwaysAnd this is what has led to a fundamental question and animated debate—can the national transporter successfully coexist with a parallel network of private train operations and stations? The answer, perhaps, lies in a slew of recommendations made by several committees over the years and comparing the transition in other countries with similar structures such as China and Japan.The roots of current reforms In 2015, a committee led by then Niti Aayog member Bibek Debroy drafted a report for mobilisation of resources for major railway projects and restructuring of the railway ministry and Railway Board, giving suggestions for a complete overhaul of Indian Railways, including its 150-year-old governing body—the Railway Board. Its suggestion for the unification of the railway budget with the Union budget was implemented by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in 2016.The committee noted that there was increasing recognition that the Indian Railways was no longer a monopoly and faced stiff competition from the road sector. It pointed out, “The cross-subsidisation of low passenger fares by artificially high freight rates has led to a shift in favour of road transport, for both freight as well as short distance passenger traffic. It needs to be recognised that most passengers are willing to pay higher fares, albeit only if accompanied by enhanced services.”The committee said that while it saw liberalisation—and not privatisation—for entry of new operators into railway operations as a viable option for encouraging growth and improving services, a regulatory mechanism to promote a healthy competition and to protect the interest of all stakeholders was an “essential pre-requisite”. It further noted: “It needs to be understood that this Committee does not recommend privatization of Indian Railways. It does, however endorse private entry, which is not ab initio but ab hine - as this is already part of the accepted Indian Railways policy - with the proviso of an independent regulator.”The Debroy committee said it preferred to use of the word “liberalisation” and not “privatisation or deregulation”, as both the are “apt to misinterpretation.”Opening up the sector The NDA government announced the plan for redeveloping the stations during its first tenure in 2016 by leveraging commercial development of spaces around them. In 2017, then Union railway minister Suresh Prabhu launched what he called the “largest transit-oriented development programme ever executed in India” for the redevelopment and complete overhaul of 400 stations. Prabhu envisioned bringing in private operators to emulate the airport model and leasing them out for a period of 45 years.Over two years later, in October 2019, Niti Aayog stepped in and its chief executive, Amitabh Kant, wrote to then Railway Board chairman VK Yadav about the delay in the implementation of Centre’s plan to redevelop 400 stations and suggested an empowered group of bureaucrats to oversee the redevelopment of 50 of them on a priority basis. “... ministry of railways was required to take up 400 railways station projects to develop them as world-class facilities. Despite the fact that the aforesaid commitment was given for last several years, actual implementation of the same has not happened except for a few isolated cases in which a few stations have been taken up [for redevelopment]...”The railway ministry, on July 1, 2020, began the formal process of allowing private trains on 109 routes—a process that aims to, for the first time, open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises.Indian Railways plans to introduce private trains on its network in phases, with the first dozen due to start running in the 2023-24 financial year and all 151 by 2027. In its pre-bid meeting, Bombardier Transportation India, Siemens Limited, Alstom Transport India Ltd were among the 23 firms that evinced interest in running private trains in India.The Indian Railways is also considering having private companies operate 90 train stations and is exploring several options—including looking at the arrangements at India’s privately run airports—to determine how best to set up the security infrastructure at these, as HT reported last month. The Railway Board sought the opinion from all principal chief security commissioners of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and all zonal railways on how the security infrastructure for the 90 stations should be set up.The question of fares and pricesAr the heart of the debate against bringing in private players in what has so far remained an almost exclusive public sector preserve is the possibility of increase in prices for citizens.Will private operations lead to an increase in train fares that have remain largely subsidised in the country?There are three elements to this. One, the fares for private trains will be decided by the private concessionaire only, the railway ministry had clarified last year in its tender for 151 private trains to all the interested bidders. This means the prices will be determined by the market, which in turn means there is, indeed, a possibility of higher fares for these trains.However, the second factor is that the operation of private trains is being considered independent to the functioning of regular passenger trains. The ministry has clarified, on several occasions, that this would not impact regular fares.The third factor is the plan to levy a user fee as part of train fares, as the railways plans to raise funds for redeveloping railway stations and modernising infrastructure. The user fee to be levied by the national transporter for the first time is in line with the user development fee (UDF) paid by air passengers. UDF is charged at various airports and the rate varies from city to city.In a press conference last year, then Railway Board chairman VK Yadav said: “We are going to keep a very small amount for the user charge.” Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant too said private investment in Indian Railways will introduce competition and lead to fare reductions in the future. “We want railways to drive India’s growth story. In countries like Japan and South Korea the growth story was also driven by railway infrastructure. We are confident going forward that railways will contribute 1-2% towards India’s growth,” he said at the same press conference.Experts from the private sector believe that the government has both sound rationale for opening up the sector, and a way of cushioning the majority of passengers from fare hikes such a move may entail.Also Read | Railways is public property, will remain so: Piyush Goyal on ‘privatisation’ row“With reduced travel time for passenger trains due to freight traffic moving to dedicated corridors and improved amenities and travel comforts, private passenger trains are likely to compete primarily with budget air travel. With such trains likely to operate only on select routes, the government would continue to operate trains for the cost-conscious segments,” Arindam Guha, Deloitte India’s partner explained. He added that even with regard to modernised stations, much of the investment was likely to be recouped through the development of adjoining land parcels, insulating a large section of passengers from any steep increase in entry fees.The sources of opposition But this has not deterred the Opposition, which is concerned about the larger design and implications of the incremental shifts underway in Indian Railways.Several Opposition parties, during the budget session of Parliament, criticised the government’s plans for privatisation in the rail sector. They alleged that privatisation would favour only a few corporates and lead to a substantial rise in fares.Union railway minister Piyush Goyal stated that Indian Railways will “never be privatised” but added that private investment should also be encouraged to enhance passenger services and improve infrastructure. “Let me make it clear, the Indian Railways will never be privatised, Indian railways is India’s asset and will continue to remain so and belong to the people…If a railway line is installed should there not be the need to ensure good services to the passengers and higher speed trains? And in that if any private investment comes, I feel it should be welcomed,” Goyal said in Parliament earlier this month.In a written response to a Lok Sabha question on whether the government received representation from railway employees and representative bodies objecting to the move to allow the private sector to operate 151 trains, the ministry admitted both the recognised federations: All India Railway men’s Federation (AIRF) and National Federation of Indian Railway men’s (NFIR) had initially represented against the decision to permit operation of passenger trains through Public-Private Partnership (PPP) mode.“Thereafter, several meetings have been held with the Federations to explain the rationale behind this PPP initiative and the fact that the existing passenger train services shall not be affected by the operation of passenger train services through PPP mode,” the ministry said.It clarified: “These services to be operated through PPP mode shall be additional trains and are aimed at increasing the availability of train services to the public. As such, the interest of employees working for the operation of existing train services over Indian Railways will not be affected.”Global comparison As India debates the entry of the private sector in the railways, it is instructive to look at other examples for a comparative perspective.China’s rail network, the second largest in the world and the longest in high-speed rail, is run by a state-owned company—the China State Railway Group Company Limited. The company was created in March 2013 after China decided to dissolve its railway ministry and convert it into a joint-stock company under its finance ministry in 2019.In 2014, the government began pushing Chinese rail projects towards the private sector. The Communist Party of China subsequently drafted a reform master plan seeking to let market play a decisive role in fostering growth and creating jobs. In 2017, the China Railway Corporation said it would spin off some businesses to allow private investors to participate.In Japan, the trajectory was different. In 1987, amid demand for the reform of the Japanese National Railways (JNR), eight Japan Railway (JR) companies were created based on the geography and functions. JNR was privatised in 1987 and broken into six regional rail companies and one freight company. Currently, five of those companies—JR East, JR Central, JR West, JR Kyushu, and JR Freight—are in the black while the JR East, West, Central, and Kyushu are publicly traded.According to a working paper series by the Asian Development Bank Institute the socio-economy of Japan has undergone drastic changes with population aging and shrinking. “Had it not been for privatisations and resultant diversification and transformation of business models, they would have not been profitable and dynamic as today. The consequences from privatisation of JP (Japan Post) and JR are still evolving and could serve important references for developing countries on how to reforms of major SOEs could be done with structural reform and technology development.”The JRs subsequently ventured into commercial and real estate businesses, increasing its non-transport revenues substantially. JRs also have the Shinkansen bullet trains as their primary business and express trains that subsidise other smaller, unprofitable lines.“The JR companies have had to become extremely efficient on their most profitable lines (Shinkansen) due to competition from air travel. JR Central estimates that a Tokyo-Osaka trip takes 2 hours and 22 minutes on the Shinkansen, and 2 hours and 40 minutes on a plane, including travel time to the airport. This has helped the profitable JRs rely on little to no subsidies from the central government,” the Tokyo Review non-profit publishing platform wrote in 2018. But the paper acknowledged the costs of rail privatisation in Japan. “The government took on trillions in long-term JNR debt, putting a ¥14 trillion burden on taxpayers. Privatisation also cost tens of thousands of jobs.” Till 2019, six JR companies have obtained net profits and began exporting its technology and operating system.To take another example, in United Kingdom, the government subsidised National Rail to the tune of £4.2 billion in 2016-2017, and gave £5.7 billion in loans to Network Rail, the public body that manages the UK’s rail infrastructure.“As long as privatisation is done in a manner that it leads to competition and not just transfer of a public sector monopoly to a private sector monopoly, privatisation will be effective. Also, privatisation should lead to cost rationalisations and we should begin to see freight rates dropping. Railway transportation should be cheaper than trucking but high cost and service that requires further improvement, has pushed cargo to trucking, increasing logistics costs in the country and also increasing pollution. We strongly believe that privatisation will mitigate these issues,” said Jaijit Bhattacharya President, Centre for Digital Economy Policy Research.It is in this complex web—of a shift in international practices, enhanced revenue crisis, need to keep up with the competition and alternatives easily available to passengers, and an ideological make up which is open to involving the private sector in key areas—that explains the government’s willingness to open up what was once considered the most critical of India’s public enterprises, because of its daily mass interface—the Indian Railways. But precisely because of this daily mass interface, the need to come across as sensitive to pricing issues and to the more vulnerable segments who use the mode of transport, and the political importance of the railways that the government is keen to emphasise that it is opening up the sector, but not privatising it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-story-of-indian-railways-and-its-tryst-with-privatisation-101617274857901.html
01-04-2021||India||SC dismisses Bihar's plea, imposes cost of ₹20,000 for 'utter wastage' of judicial time||The Supreme Court has dismissed an appeal of the Bihar government and imposed a cost of ₹20,000 on the state for “utter wastage” of judicial time in a matter which was disposed of by the Patna High Court after the parties had jointly agreed for it.A bench of Justices S K Kaul and R S Reddy noted that state government has filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the apex court against the September last year order of a division bench of the High Court which had disposed of its plea on “agreed terms”. “Thereafter the disposal is on those agreed terms. Despite this, an SLP has been preferred. We find this a complete abuse of process of court and that too by a state government, apart from being a utter wastage of judicial time,” the bench said.“We thus, dismiss the SLP with costs of ₹20,000 to be deposited with the Supreme Court Group ‘C’ (Non-Clerical) Employees Welfare Association within four weeks,” the bench said in its March 22 order.The apex court said it is open to the state to recover the cost from officers who were responsible for this “misadventure.”The division bench of the high court had dealt with an appeal filed by the state against the December 2018 judgement passed by a single judge in the matter.The counsel appearing for Bihar had argued before the division bench of high court that the state was aggrieved only with that part of the December 2018 verdict whereby direction was issued for enquiry to be conducted against a public servant subsequent to submission of the charge sheet.“After the matter was heard for some time, counsel jointly prayed that the appeal be disposed of on the agreed terms. Ordered accordingly,” the high court had said.“The observation made, reproduced supra, shall stand omitted to read that criminal investigation and the disciplinary enquiry shall proceed simultaneously,” the high court had said in its September last year order.A single judge of high court had in December 2018 delivered a verdict on a plea filed by the public servant who had challenged a June 2016 memo by which he was served the punishment of major penalty of dismissal from service under the Bihar Government Servant (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rule 2005.An FIR was lodged against him for alleged illegal acquisition of property which was disproportionate to his known source of income and later, he was put under suspension and a departmental proceeding was initiated.The single judge had set aside the order of dismissal contained in the June 2016 memo and had also quashed the enquiry report.It had remanded back the matter to the enquiry officer to conduct inquiry in accordance with law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-bihar-s-plea-imposes-cost-of-rs-20-000-for-utter-wastage-of-judicial-time-101617270850386.html
01-04-2021||India||Mufti to challenge J&K HC dismissal of plea for intervention in passport case||After the high court dismissed former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti’s plea for intervention regarding the denial of a passport, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president is planning to challenge the decision.On Monday, Justice Ali Muhammad Magray dismissed the plea of Mehbooba Mufti in which she had demanded the intervention of the court after the police denied her a passport.The plea was dismissed after Assistant Solicitor General of India (ASGI) Tahir Majid Shamsi told the court that police had given an adverse verification report regarding the passport.A senior PDP leader close to Mufti said that she will challenge the decision. “The decision will be challenged and opinion is being sought from legal expert,” he said.Also Read | CID was wary of Mufti speaking against Centre abroad, says officialMufti said that the Centre is undermining the Constitution.“Under BJPs rule, Indian constitution is being undermined time & again. Only option & recourse left is the judiciary. Once they too decide to wash their hands off matters which involve our fundamental rights where does one go?” tweeted Mehbooba Mufti soon after plea was dismissed.Mufti was denied a fresh passport after J&K Police’s Criminal Investigative Department (CID) raised concerns that she could possibly issue statements against the Centre during her stay abroad, officials familiar with the development said.The PDP leader’s passport expired last year in May and both she and her mother Gulshan Nazir had applied for a fresh one in December. Mufti and her mother were planning to travel to Dubai to attend a family function in May, the officials cited above said. Besides Dubai, there was a possibility that the PDP leader would travel to the United States where her older sister resides, they added.While refusing clearance (of fresh passport), the officials cited above said, the CID referred to a few statements made by the former chief minister following the revocation of Article 370 and 35A in 2019, and her release from prison last year.In a letter to Mufti on March 26, the regional passport office had mentioned that the additional director-general of police, J&K CID, had not recommended the issuance of a fresh passport to Mufti.According to officials, the PDP chief’s passport was rejected by the CID wing after her name popped up during an investigation, suggesting her links with certain “anti-national people”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mufti-to-challenge-j-k-hc-dismissal-of-plea-for-intervention-in-passport-case-101617270717276.html
01-04-2021||India||Centre gains record GST revenue of over ₹1 lakh crore for the first time in March||The Centre on Thursday announced that the GST revenue of ₹1,23,902 crore during the month of March has been the highest since the introduction of the new tax regime. The GST revenue for the month is also 27 per cent higher than the revenue earned last year in the same month and shows the trend of recovery over the past five months.The GST revenue for March 2021 broke all record by crossing the ₹1 lakh crore mark as it recorded the GST revenue of ₹123,902 crore of which CGST amounted to ₹22,973 crore and SGST amounted to ₹29,329 crore and IGST of ₹62,842 crore (including ₹31,097 crore on import of goods). Cess of ₹8,757 crore (Including ₹935 crore on import of goods) is also included in the revenue collection.“GST revenues crossed above ₹1 lakh crore mark at a stretch for the last six months and a steep increasing trend over this period are clear indicators of rapid economic recovery post-pandemic,” the Union ministry of finance said on Thursday.Also Read | Twitter reacts after govt withdraws decision to lower small savings rateThe record high in the revenue comes after the growth rate in the first, second, third and fourth quarter of this financial year stood at (-) 41%, (-) 8%, 8% and 14% respectively, hence indicating recovery.Ladakh has contributed significantly to the rise in the revenue collection in March as the growth rate of the Union territory has reported to grow 1,527 per cent between March 2020 and March 2021. On the other hand, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Daman and Diu have recorded a negative growth rate of 33 and 97 per cent, respectively.The government also informed that the revenue from the import of goods for March 2020 was 70 per cent higher than that of the previous year and the revenue from domestic transactions including import of services rose 17 per cent on a year-on-year basis.The government has settled over ₹21,000 crore to CGST and more than ₹17,000 crore to SGST from IGST as a regular settlement with the settlement of ₹28,000 crore as IGST ad-hoc settlement in the ratio of 50:50 between Centre and states/UTs. After all the settlements, the revenue of the Centre and the states for the month of March stands at ₹58,852 crore from CGST and ₹60,559 crore from SGST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-gains-record-gst-revenue-of-over-rs-1-lakh-crore-for-the-first-time-in-march-101617269028460.html
01-04-2021||India||CBI takes over probe in Walayar sexual assault, death of minor sisters||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered two cases in Walayar sexual assault and death of two minor Dalit sisters in 2017 in Kerala. The Kerala high court had ordered a CBI probe in the matter on March 19. The case had led to public outcry and protests in the state after the accused persons were acquitted by a trial court in October 2019. The older of the siblings, aged 13, was found dead inside their one-room hut on January 13, 2017 while the younger one, 9, was found hanging on March 4 the same year. They both were allegedly sexually assaulted.The state police’s crime branch conducted an investigation into the cases and arrested four persons. Two of the accused, Valya Madhu and Kutti Madhu, are girls’ mother’s close relatives while Shibu is a former co-worker of her parents. Pradeep Kumar, yet another accused, was a neighbour. In all, there were five accused in the case. The same year, a special court for Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) cases acquitted all the accused arrested in the case on the ground that the prosecution failed to prove the case against them. After public outcry, the state government, on November 18, 2019, removed the public prosecutor who handled the case.Ordering a retrial in the case in January this year, the Kerala high court had observed that there was “miscarriage of justice” and directed the accused to appear before the trial court on January 20.The judges observed that they have no hesitation in holding that the trial had been “lowered to the level of mock trials”. It also allowed the prosecution to seek permission from the trial court for further probe into the matter. The bench observed that the initial part of the investigation in the case was “utterly disgusting”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-takes-over-probe-in-walayar-sexual-assault-death-of-minor-sisters-101617270117583.html
01-04-2021||India||Lt Gen Manjinder Singh is new chief of staff at Western Command headquarters||Lieutenant general Manjinder Singh took over as the chief of staff, headquarters, Western Command on Thursday and paid homage to the martyrs at ‘Veer Smriti’ war memorial at the command headquarters.General Manjinder Singh is an alumnus of Sainik School Kapurthala, National Defence Academy and the Indian Military Academy and was commissioned into 19 MADRAS Regiment on 20 December 1986. In an illustrious career spanning over 34 years, he served in various sensitive operational sectors including important command and staff appointments. He has commanded a battalion in an intense counter insurgency environment in Jammu and Kashmir; an infantry brigade at the Line of Control (LoC) and an infantry division as part of the Strike Corps.During his service, the general has been an instructor at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) and the Indian Military Training Team at Bhutan. He has attended various prestigious courses such as the Defence Services Staff College, Higher Command and also had the distinction to attend the National Defence College at Thailand.For his exemplary leadership and devotion to duty towards the nation, the general was decorated with the Yudh Seva Medal in 2015 and Vishisht Seva Medal in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lt-gen-manjinder-singh-is-new-chief-of-staff-at-western-command-headquarters-101617268375917.html
01-04-2021||India||Ongoing Mahabharat in Bengal fiercer than real one, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said the results of Assembly polls in four states, specially Assam and West Bengal, will decide the next course of national politics.Talking to reporters here, Raut said the BJP is in power in Assam, but the Congress has put up a tough fight.In West Bengal, even though the BJP has put all its might to defeat (Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress head) Mamata Banerjee, she has fought like a tigress and is "sure to emerge the winner", he claimed."We can also gauge the mood in Kerala and Tamil Nadu," the Rajya Sabha member said.Banerjee on Wednesday wrote a letter to non-BJP leaders, including Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, saying time has come for a "united and effective" struggle against the BJP's alleged attacks on democracy and the Constitution, and that opposition leaders should try present a "credible alternative" to the people of the country.When asked about the letter, Raut said, "The results of polls in four states, specially Assam and West Bengal, will decide the next course of national politics. After the elections, the nature of alliances will be discussed and a clarity will be there."Even Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has received a letter from her, he said.Raut also said the "ongoing Mahabharat" in West Bengal is more fierce than the real Mahabharat."Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said the battle of Mahabharat was won in 21 days and we will fight the war against coronavirus in 18 days and win. But, we haven't," the Sena's chief spokesperson said.Raut said the entire country is watching the West Bengal polls and people of that are also intelligent."No doubt the battle is tough, but Mamata Banerjee will win," he claimed.Raut also said the "attack" on democracy in the country is not new."Whenever there is an attack, people and opposition parties have fought back. This is the strength of our democracy," he said.On differences among political parties in Maharashtra over the need for a fresh lockdown in the state, as it has seen a huge surge in coronavirus cases, Raut said there should be no politics over the fight against Covid-19."Whatever steps will be taken, will be in the interest of the state and its people," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ongoing-mahabharat-in-bengal-fiercer-than-real-one-says-sanjay-raut-101617265166852.html
01-04-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccinations to be carried out on all days of April, says Union health ministry||The Union health ministry on Thursday said that it will carry out Covid-19 vaccination every day in the month of April, including gazetted holidays, in a bid to speed up the ongoing inoculation drive.“In a significant step to exponentially expand the countrywide Vaccination drive, the Centre has decided to operationalize both public and private sector Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs) on all days of month of April (from today till 30th April 2021),” the ministry said in a release.The Centre has widened the scope and extent of Covid-19 vaccination drive by rolling it out for those 45 years of age and above, irrespective of co-morbidities, from April 1. The ministry is said to have taken this initiative after detailed deliberations with states and union territories on March 31 in order to ensure maximum utilisation of the available resources in aiding the pace and coverage of the inoculation program.“This step has been taken after detailed deliberations with the States/UTs on 31st March, 2021 to optimally utilize all Covid Vaccination Centres across the public and private sectors to ensure rapid increase in the pace and coverage of Covid vaccination,” the ministry's release further stated, adding that “this decision is in line with the graded and pro-active approach employed by the Government of India along with the States/UTs for Covid-19 vaccination,”India has so far administered more than 6.5 crore vaccine doses in the ongoing countrywide Covid-19 inoculation drive. Along with vaccination of those 45 years and above, walk-in registrations have also been allowed after 3 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccinations-to-be-carried-out-on-all-days-of-april-says-union-health-ministry-101617267294344.html
01-04-2021||India||'Immensely humbled': Rajinikanth replies to PM Modi after winning Dadasaheb Phalke award||Actor Rajinikanth on Thursday expressed his gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the government of India for honouring him with the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke award."Immensely humbled and honoured with your greetings and the most prestigious #DadasahebPhalkeAward award respected and dearest Shri @narendramodi ji. My heartfelt thanks to you and the government of india," Rajinikanth tweeted.The actor's response came after PM Modi congratulated him. "Popular across generations, a body of work few can boast of, diverse roles and an endearing personality...that's Shri @rajinikanth Ji for you. It is a matter of immense joy that Thalaiva has been conferred with the Dadasaheb Phalke Award. Congratulations to him," PM Modi said in a tweet.Rajinikanth also thanked Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar and the jury for conferring upon him the award. "My heartfelt thanks to the government of india, respected & dearest @narendramodi ji, @PrakashJavdekar ji and the jury for conferring upon me the prestigious #DadasahebPhalkeAward I sincerely dedicate it to all those who have been a part of my journey. Thanks to the almighty," he added.Earlier in the day, Javadekar made the announcement on his Twitter handle. "Happy to announce #Dadasaheb Phalke award for 2019 to one of the greatest actors in history of Indian cinema Rajnikant ji. His contribution as actor, producer and screenwriter has been iconic," Javadekar tweeted.Javadejkar further said, "India every year gives Dadasaheb Phalke award to a film personality. This year this selection has been made by a jury comprising Asha Bhonsle, Mohanlal, Biswajit Chatterjee, Shankar Mahadevan and Subhash Ghai."The award is named after the father of Indian cinema - Dhundiraj Govind Phalke - and was instituted in 1969. The award is conferred by the government of India for outstanding contribution to the growth and development of Indian Cinema.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/immensely-humbled-rajinikanth-replies-to-pm-modi-after-winning-dadasaheb-phalke-award-101617264140503.html
01-04-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee's letter to non-BJP leaders symbolises her 'despair': Javadekar||Senior BJP leader Prakash Javadekar on Thursday said TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee's letter to non-BJP leaders symbolises her "despair" as she knows that not only is she losing from the Nandigram seat but her party is also going to be dislodged from power in West Bengal.In a letter to the non-BJP leaders including Congress chief Sonia Gandhi released by the Trinamool Congress(TMC) on Wednesday, Banerjee said the time has come for a "united and effective" struggle against the BJP's alleged attacks on democracy and the Constitution, and that opposition leaders should try present a "credible alternative" to the people of the country.Asked about the letter at a press conference where he announced the Dadasaheb Phalke award for Rajinikanth, Javadekar said, "Mamata Banerjee's letter sybolises her despair. She has understood that she is losing, not just herself in Nandigram, but the TMC is also going to be dislodged from power, and because of that she is even urging the Congress, which is fighting against her, to unite with her."This letter is about her survival, the Information and Broadcasting Minister added.He refused to answer another question on West Bengal polls, saying the press meet was for the Dadasaheb Phalke award.The letter by Banerjee came on the eve of the second phase of the Assembly polls in West Bengal in which she is locked in a fierce fight in Nandigram constituency against her protege turned adversary Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP.Besides Sonia Gandhi, the letter has been sent to chief ministers Uddhav Thackeray(Maharashtra-Shiv Sena), Hemant Soren(Jharkhand-JMM), Arvind Kejriwal(Delh-AAP), Naveen Patnaik(Odisha-BJD) and Jagan Reddy(Andhra Pradesh--YSR Congress), NCP's Sharad Pawar, DMK's MK Stalin, Samajwadi Party's Akhilesh Yadav, RJD's Tejashwi Yadav, NC’s Farooq Abdullah, PDP’s Mehbooba Mufti and CPI(ML)’s Dipankar Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-s-letter-to-non-bjp-leaders-symbolises-her-despair-javadekar-101617265775678.html
01-04-2021||India||Travel from Delhi to Meerut in just 45 minutes. All you need to know about the new expressway||It will only take 45 minutes to travel from Delhi to Meerut in Uttar Pradesh as the much-awaited Delhi-Meerut Expressway was thrown open to the public on Thursday. Union minister of road, transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Thursday announced the completion of the project, adding that the government fulfilled the promise of reducing the travel time between the two cities from 2.5 hours to just 45 minutes.“Delhi Meerut Expressway has now been completed & opened to traffic. We have fulfilled our promise of reducing travel time between Delhi - Meerut from 2.5 hours to 45 minutes,” Gadkari said on Twitter, along with a video of the project.Delhi Meerut Expressway has now been completed & opened to traffic. We have full filled our promise of reducing travel time between Delhi - Meerut from 2.5 hours to 45 minutes. #PragatiKaHighway pic.twitter.com/OgFyOJ5QLsHere’s all you need to know about the expressway:What opened for public on Thursday are the second and fourth phases of the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME). The first phase i.e. Akshardham to UP Gate of 14 km and 22-km-long phase 3 from Dasna to Hapur are already operational. The phase 2 of 19 km links UP Gate and Dasna and phase 4 of 32 km link Dasna and Meerut.The project has been developed at the cost of ₹8,346 crore.The 82-km-long expressway connecting the cities has 60 km of expressway and 22 km of national highway.Twenty four small and big bridges, 10 flyovers, three railway bridges, 95 underpasses and several pedestrian bridges have been constructed on the expressway.For the safety of the commuters, more than 4,500 lights and cameras have been installed on the entire road.Over 2.5 meters cycle corridor and 2 meters-wide footpath have been drawn alongside the roads on phase 1 and phase 2 of the expressway for the safety of the pedestrians and cyclists.In order to make the corridor a smart expressway, weather, travel and other details about the expressway will be provided to the commuters during their transit.The expressway will also be using the automatic number plate reader (ANPR) technology, which uses high definition high speed cameras to tax tolls without the need of the vehicles to stop, thus avoiding unnecessary traffic and saving fuel.The expressway will also reduce the time to travel from the national capital to the state of Uttarakhand. Besides, Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, cities in Uttarakhand like Haridwar and Dehradun will also not remain a faraway destination.Several exits and entry points have been provided in the expressway for smoother connectivity like the eastern peripheral expressway, Akshardham, Dundahera, Sarai Kale Khan, Dasna, Indrapuram and Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travel-from-delhi-to-meerut-in-just-45-minutes-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-new-expressway-101617263676427.html
01-04-2021||India||Constable killed in terror attack on senior BJP leader’s house guard in Srinagar||A police constable died in a terror attack on a senior BJP leader in Srinagar on Thursday, said Jammu and Kashmir police. The cop was injured when the house guard of BJP leader Anwar Khan was attacked at Naugam. The constable later succumbed to the injuries received in the attack."One sentry Rameez Ahmad was critically injured in the attack. He succumbed to his injuries," said Srinagar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Choudhary.Soon after the attack, the police and army personnel launched a search and cordon operation in the area.This is the second attack by terrorists in Srinagar in the last one week and the third in Kashmir, resulting in the deaths of three CRPF jawans, two policemen and two councillors. Soon after these back to back attacks, IG Kashmir Vijay Kumar chaired a high level meeting to review the security arrangements in Kashmir, especially Srinagar, where several protected persons reside. SSP Srinagar Sandeep Choudhary also visited several hotels to review the security arrangements. IG Kashmir earlier admitted to security lapses in Sopore and suspended four policemen who were on duty when the attack took place in the office of Sopore Municipal Council on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constable-killed-in-terror-attack-on-senior-bjp-leader-s-house-guard-in-srinagar-101617263289383.html
01-04-2021||India||Twitter reacts after govt withdraws decision to lower small savings rate||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s comments blaming oversight for cutting interest rates on small savings schemes to an over four-decade low drew flak from the Opposition on social media. The comments came as the government rolled back its decision to lower the rates.“Really @nsitharaman ‘oversight’ in issuing the order to decrease interest rates on GOI [government of India] schemes or election driven ‘hindsight’ in withdrawing it?” tweeted Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra minutes after the order was withdrawn.Really @nsitharaman “oversight” in issuing the order to decrease interest rates on GOI schemes or election driven “hindsight” in withdrawing it? https://t.co/Duimt8daZuThe interest rate on Public Provident Fund was lowered from 7.1% to 6.4%, and that on National Savings Certificates from 6.8% to 5.9% for the June quarter. The Senior Citizens Savings Scheme rate was cut from 7.4% to 6.5%. The rate on Sukanya Samriddhi Scheme, the highest paying small savings instrument, was lowered from 7.6% to 6.9%.Also Read | Hours after announcing it, govt withdraws cuts in rates for small saving schemesCongress leader Salman Anees Soz took a jibe at the inconsistency of decisions of the minister and tweeted: “I am joining BJP.” In another tweet, Soz said his earlier comment was an “oversight”.This tweet was due to an oversight. It is withdrawn. https://t.co/oYQ2JGlxMUTrinamool Congress lawmaker Mahua Moitra cited Sitharaman’s statement and tweeted: “What is the biggest April Fool’s joke here? That a now-rolled back small savings rate cut was issued by ‘oversight’? Or that Nirmala Sitaraman is Fin Min of this country?”What is the biggest April Fool’s joke here? That a now- rolled back small savings rate cut was issued by “oversight”? Or that Nirmala Sitaraman is Fin Min of this country?Congress leader Randeep Surjewala wrote Sitharaman has “no moral right to continue as a finance minister”. “Madam FM [finance minister], Are u running a ‘Circus’ or a ‘Govt’? One can imagine the functioning of economy when such duly approved order affecting crores of people can be issued by an ‘oversight’. Who is the competent authority referred in order?”Madam FM,Are u running a ‘Circus’ or a ‘Govt’?One can imagine the functioning of economy when such duly approved order affecting crores of people can be issued by an ‘oversight’. Who is the competent authority referred in order?You have no moral right to continue as FM. pic.twitter.com/czRv5MY7O8In a tweet, former Union finance minister Yashwant Sinha said: “I am very sad today. I thought I alone had the monopoly of roll backs. This govt has outdone even me. Labour laws, small savings interest rates are a couple of examples. Roll Back Modi.”I am very sad today. I thought I alone had the monopoly of roll backs. This govt has outdone even me. Labour laws, small savings interest rates are a couple of examples. Roll Back Modi.Gopal Agarwal, spokesperson on economic affairs said, “I appreciate the concern of FM Nirmala Sitharaman, interest rate cut for small savings. Post COVID interest income is one of the main source of income for common men. Any reduction is uncalled for. Surely FM will look into the faux pas on the issue by the ministry officials.”(With inputs by Umar Sofi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitharamans-comments-blaming-oversight-for-cutting-interest-rates-draw-flak-101617262676922.html
01-04-2021||India||Theft in Mausi Maa temple near Jagannath Puri||Unidentified miscreants broke into a famous 14th century temple in Odisha’s Puri town late Wednesday night and decamped with ₹4,000, said police. The thieves stole the money from the donation box after entering the Mausi Maa temple, situated about 500 metres from the 12th century Jagannath temple, on Grand Road after cutting the lock on its main door."The robbers stole ₹4000 from the donation box. The initial report of ornaments and sarees being stolen from the temple is not true. We are investigating the incident," said Puri SP Kanwar Vishal Singh.Goddess Mausima, also known as Ardhasoshini, plays an important role during the annual Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath. On the day of Bahuda Jatra, when the three chariots of Lord Jagannath, Balabhadra and goddess Subhadra are pulled back to the Jagannath temple, the chariot of Jagannath stops in front of Mausi Maa temple for a while. Here, Lord Jagannth accepts 'Poda Pitha', his favourite rice cake from Mausima, his aunt. The chariots ofBalabhadra and Subhadra are pulled to the main temple without any halt.In January this year, robbers broke into 13th-century Sri Gopinathdev temple at Kakudia under Pipili area of Puri district and stole old metallic idols. The robbers were arrested last month.Similarly, in December last year, at least 22 antique idols, some of them made up of Ashtadhatu alloy, were stolen from the 13th century Daksha Prajapati temple in Banpur town of Khurda district. The idols were made of ashtadhatu (alloy of gold, silver, copper, zinc, lead, tin, iron and mercury).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/theft-in-mausi-maa-temple-near-jagannath-puri-101617261924029.html
01-04-2021||India||8 states contribute over 84% to India’s daily tally of Covid-19 cases: Govt||Eight states continued to show a sharp rise in their daily Covid-19 tally, and accounted for 84.61% of the news cases recorded in the last 24 hours, Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Thursday. These eight states are: Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Punjab, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.India recorded 72,330 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, the highest single-day spike since October 11 last year. Maharashtra continued to be the worst affected state, reporting 39,544 new cases on Wednesday evening. With 4,563 cases, Chhattisgarh trailed close behind. Karnataka is at the third position with 4,225 cases, according to data released by the health ministry on Thursday.Click here for full coverage on coronavirusMaharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala also accounted for 83.01% of the 459 new fatalities recorded on Thursday. Maharashtra witnessed 227 fatalities, the highest number of deaths in the state since October last year, followed by Punjab (55) and Chhattisgarh (39).#Unite2FightCoronaMaharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Punjab, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh continue to report steep rise in Daily New Cases; account for 84.61% of new cases registered in the last 24 hours.https://t.co/zQSwBwxU93 pic.twitter.com/GxW5EwHf7gMaharashtraMaharashtra recorded 39,544 new cases of Covid-19 and 227 deaths on Wednesday. Capital city of Mumbai recorded 5399 new cases and 15 deaths. The total tally of cases in India’s worst affected state now stands at 28,12,980.ChhattisgarhChhattisgarh recorded 4563 cases of Covid-19, its highest single day spike since the pandemic began. It is currently the second worst affected state in the country. Night curfews have been imposed in 22 districts of the state to tackle the recent surge.KarnatakaKarnataka recorded 4225 cases of Covid-19, its highest single day spike this year. The district of Bengaluru urban continued to report the maximum number of cases, contributing 2,928 cases to the state’s tally alone.PunjabPunjab recorded 2,944 Covid-19 cases, becoming the fourth worst affected state in the country. Chief minister Amarinder Singh while urging citizens to abide by Covid appropriate behaviour warned of stricter curbs if the state’s Covid-19 situation does not improve in a week.KeralaKerala reported 2653 cases of Covid-19, and a rise in positivity rate, which shot up to 5. 37%. The state also recorded 15 fatalities, taking the death toll to 4621.Tamil NaduTamil Nadu recorded 2579 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday evening. The state government has ramped up their test-track-treat protocol and extended the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown till April 30.GujaratGujarat recorded 2360 cases of Covid-19, its highest single day spike since the pandemic began last year. The state also recorded 9 fatalities.Madhya PradeshMadhya Pradesh reported 2,332 new cases of Covi-19 infections, taking the state wide tally to 2,95,511. 9 fatalities were also recorded on Wednesday. The city of Indore contributed 643 cases to the state’s tally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-states-contribute-over-84-to-india-s-daily-tally-of-covid-19-cases-101617261730869.html
01-04-2021||India||A year on, popular foreigner haunts in Goa remain abandoned||Willy D’Souza sits at a table inside his shack and stares listlessly at the few tourists walking along Arambol beach in north Goa.Around this time of the year, his shack is full and the beach teeming with tourists, most of them foreigners. This year, he stacked up his plastic chairs and deck beds in one corner of the shack, did not lay out any tables and, despite the board outside advertising the freshest fish, kept his kitchen closed. “These few tourists you see walking about, they do not come to stay. They are here to visit. They will spend a few hours at the beach and in the water and then head to another beach or back to their hotel,” D’Souza says. The pandemic hit Goa’s environment sector hard, but while the uptick in tourism towards the end of last year and early this year brought respite to tourism stakeholders, some of Goa’s beach villages that depend on foreign tourists more than others are yet to experience the recovery. Also Read | From Delhi to Goa: Restrictions in place to contain Covid-19 ahead of festivalsArambol and its neighbour Mandrem are popular haunts for foreign tourists, especially Russians and other Europeans, who make these once-sleepy fishing villages their home for six months or longer sometimes. Arambol village today is synonymous with those seeking an alternative lifestyle, low-impact holidaying, and peace and quiet away from the bustling beaches of Calangute and Candolim. The Arambol Community, as the collective of foreign tourists who stayed here long-term is called, even organises its own carnival and participates in community clean-up drives. After the nationwide lockdown was imposed late last March to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, tourists slowly left in relief flights that were arranged by their respective countries, the shacks shuttered and the village emptied out. One year later, while other, more popular beaches in Goa have seen businesses (that rely mainly on Indian tourists) reopen, in Arambol, life is not the same. The narrow lanes leading to the beach that were once teeming with foreigners now make for a smooth drive. The street shops and tattoo studios that have reopened see little footfall, and while there still are some foreign tourists around, locals say that they are the ones who are overstaying their visas or who don’t have any intention of going back, ever. The Union government’s decision to suspend tourist visas and keep fresh visas on hold has crippled villages like Arambol. Repeated representations to the Central government by the state’s tourism lobby to permit foreign tourists to arrive as part of air bubble arrangements are yet to be acceded to. “The government kept promising us that the charters will resume later in the season, and we set up our shacks hopeful of the arrivals, but till date nothing has been done,” D’Souza says. Today while the shacks and street shops have reopened, business is thin, but it is homestay and guesthouse owners who are counting their mounting losses. Also Read | CJI Bobde hails Goa’s Uniform Civil Code, says it is what Constitutional framers envisaged for India“I used to make around ₹15 lakh annually from my guest house,” Inacio Daniel D’Souza, also a resident of Arambol, says. A four-time member of the Arambol village panchayat, Inacio D’Souza has shuttered his 10-room guest house in March last year and is yet to reopen. He now survives solely from the income he earns from his liquor store. “There are around 500 guest houses and hostels in Arambol and the others too have suffered a similar loss. Only those who are running liquor shops have managed to revive some business, but the others have had to fall back on traditional occupations like fishing to sustain themselves,” Inacio D’Souza says. “To make matters worse for us, not only have we received no support from the government, but we also have inflation to contend with. The prices of everything have gone up,” Inacio D’Souza says. Down in south Goa, in Agonda and Palolem, two other beach haunts that are popular with foreign tourists, the situation appears to be a little better. “We were entirely dependent on foreign tourists who made up the bulk of our clientele. This year, thankfully, that gap has been partly bridged by tourists from within India. We are getting by with what’s available to us,” Stevie Rodrigues, a hotel and restaurant owner from Agonda, says. According to a survey commissioned by the Goa government and conducted by consultancy firm KPMG, the state’s tourism industry is roughly estimated to have suffered losses to the tune of ₹2,000- ₹7,200 crore due to the pandemic, and job losses in the range of 35-58%.Prior to the pandemic, the state witnessed close to 8 million domestic tourists and more than 900,000 foreign touristsaccording to state government statistics. Foreign tourists are considered higher value tourists as they typically stay longer and consequently spend more. According to the survey, the industry’s direct contribution is estimated at 16.43% of the state GDP which is valued at around $10 billion and about 35% of the population is directly employed in the sector.March offered a glimmer of hope with Air India announcing that flights between Goa and Moscow would resume, but with Covid-19 cases back on the rise, stakeholders are sceptical. “Tourist numbers (from within India) that until about a week ago were quite decent, are beginning to fall once again. And if cases increase, they will fall further,” Rodrigues adds. But all is not lost for those once dependent on foreign tourists: just a few months ago, singer-songwriter Lucky Ali made Arambol his home for a few days and cheered the locals and tourists alike with an impromptu rendition of his song ‘O Sanam’. The video quickly went viral on social media, elevating the village’s standing as the go-to destination for offbeat, alternative tourism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-on-popular-foreigner-haunts-in-goa-remain-abandoned-101617261776976.html
01-04-2021||India||Govt announces rollback of decision to cut rates on small savings; Congress takes a jibe: 10 points||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Thursday rolling back of the steep interest cut on small saving schemes such as Public Provident Fund (PPF) and National Savings Certificates (NSC) for the June quarter. Sitharaman said it was an oversight.The announcement gave ammo to the opposition which quickly attacked the government over the U-turn, saying it was done with elections in "hindsight".The government routinely announces interest rates for small saving schemes at the end of every quarter.Here are the latest developments on the government's decision to withdraw the interest rate cut:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rolls-back-decision-to-cut-rates-on-small-savings-oppn-reacts-10-points-101617260811086.html
01-04-2021||India||Highest single day Covid spike in Chhattisgarh, night curfew in 22 districts||Chhattisgarh recorded fresh 4,563 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic, officials said. The state also recorded thirty-nine Covid-19 related deaths on the same day, taking the toll to 4,170. On the positive side, 1.22 lakh residents above the age of 60 were vaccinated on Wednesday, the state's highest single-day vaccination count.Raipur and Durg districts topped the list with 1,291 and 1,199 fresh cases reported respectively on Wednesday. Officials also said that with 38,420 samples tested on Wednesday, the overall test count in the state had reached 5,757,804.To deal with the sharp spike in the second wave of the disease, 22 out of the 27 districts of the state, including capital Raipur, have imposed a night curfew. Operations of all kinds of temporary and permanent shops will be allowed only between 6am and 9pm while restaurants, dhabas and hotels will be allowed to operate indoor dining facilities between 8am and 10pm. While in some districts shops will have to shut down an hour early at 8 pm, petrol pumps and medicine stores have been exempted from the restrictions.Raipur district administration has stated that all business establishments, including their employees and customers will have to wear masks and ensure strict compliance to social distancing protocol.Meanwhile, Chhattisgarh health minister T S Singh Deo has asked officials to increase testing to 40,000 samples per day and add more oxygen supply-equipped beds in Covid hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-single-day-covid-spike-in-chhattisgarh-night-curfew-in-22-districts-101617259314954.html
01-04-2021||India||Haridwar Kumbh 2021: NMCG develops infrastructure to stop sewage water flowing into Ganga||An ancient city located on the banks of River Ganga, Haridwar is expanding rapidly. Being a popular pilgrimage site, the city also witnesses a massive floating population as each day pilgrims come to bathe at the holy river to get rid of their sins.The number of visitors grows manifold during the festivals, especially the month-long Kumbh fair.The National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) has been tirelessly endeavouring to ensure that pilgrims get a cleaner Ganga at this holy site with no flow of sewage water.It has intercepted all major and minor sources of river pollution under the Namami Gange Programme.Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, Director General of National Mission for Clean Ganga said, "We added lots of new projects, in Sarai and in Jagjeetpur, and now 145 MLD capacities very much there in Haridwar, and 113 and 115 MLDs have actually been used. So we are fully geared up in Haridwar to meet any kind of sewage pollution, not even for the present load but even for the future"."Similarly, any flow coming from the Rishikesh side or Muni ki Reti, so all those projects have been completed. A few months back, the Prime Minister inaugurated all those projects. So, one thing is that we have kept Haridwar fully prepared to meet any kind of pollution load and keep river Ganga free from raw sewage entering into the river", he said.The key projects in Haridwar have included intercepting major drains falling into the river and diverting them to Sewage Treatment Plants.Kassawan Nullah, one of the biggest drains that would contaminate the river severely has been tapped entirely and diverted to the STP.Rozy Aggarwal, Executive Director (Finance) at National Mission for Clean Ganga said, "There was a very notorious Kassawan Nala which could have been by people when they were going from Delhi towards Haridwar. That Kassawan Nala, which used to drain sewage into Ganga in a couple of years back, has been completely stopped, and no sewage is now going to Haridwar and even upper reaches in Uttarakhand in the river Ganga, so that is a kind of preparation which we have done for upcoming Kumbh".Inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the tech-equipped expansion of 68 MLD STP at Jagjeetpur is instrumental in treating the sewage load that compounds during massive festive gatherings like Kumbh.Built at a cost of 230 crores, the STP achieved its current strength a few months ago.Another 14 MLD STP at Sarai, developed a little over a year ago under the Hybrid Annuity Model will add to the comprehensive campaign of protecting and rejuvenating the river.The Kassawan Nullah sewage is also treated at Sarai only.RK Jain, Project Manager, Uttarakhand Pey Jal in Haridwar said, "We have installed 68 MLD STP in Jagjeetpur and 14 MLD STP in Sarai under Namami Gange project. Not only this, but we have also tapped five polluted wastewater and 17 others. We usually witness Kumba Mela and other holy festivals in Haridwar, so to cater a huge population we have 145 MLD capacities to meet any kind of pollution".Yogesh Rathore, Plan Incharge at Sarai STP told ANI, "The filling and aeration process is being done by air followed by the settlement process. We then take it into sludge thickener and later by mixing chlorine, we release the clean water".To the Hindus, the Ganga is a sacred river, and any town or city on its banks is believed to be blessed.Haridwar is a paradise for the pilgrims who throng the Ghats of the river to attain nirvana.The government of India through the National Mission for Clean Ganga has not just been providing a cleaner and conducive holy site to them but working in the larger interest of all inhabitants along the course of the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haridwar-kumbh-2021-nmcg-develops-infrastructure-to-stop-sewage-water-flowing-into-ganga-101617259083541.html
01-04-2021||India||India's annual power usage falls for first time in 35 years due to lockdowns||India's annual electricity usage fell for the first time in at least 35 years in the fiscal year to March, a Reuters analysis of government data showed, mainly due to strict coronavirus-induced lockdowns across the country.Power generation fell 0.2% during the year 2020/21, compared with the previous year, an analysis of daily load despatch data from federal grid operator POSOCO showed, mainly due to the imposition of lockdowns that resulted in a decline in electricity production for six straight months ending in August.Demand for electricity has picked up since, and generation grew 23.3% in March from a year earlier, the data showed, making it the seventh consecutive monthly increase and the fastest since March 2010.Power generation in March grew much faster than the average increase in the last six months, mainly because India had imposed an intense nationwide lockdown in the last week of March 2020, resulting in a dramatic fall in power usage.Electricity demand has been steadily increasing this year due to a pickup in industrial activity and amid higher temperatures being recorded in March in North India, which could have led to higher use of air conditioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-annual-power-usage-falls-for-first-time-in-35-years-due-to-lockdowns-101617258013864.html
01-04-2021||India||Protests over Modi visit an excuse. Hefazat-e-Islam’s real aim to radicalise Bangladesh: Officials||The violent protests in Bangladesh over Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit last week was the first major action by Islamist hardline group Hefazat-e-Islam after Junaid Babu Nagari took over the radical group in November last year and had been trying to make his mark, people familiar with the matter said. Babu Nagari, a Hadith scholar who studied in Pakistan’s Jamia Uloom-e-Islamia for four years, elevated himself as the group’s chief at the end of a bitter power struggle that peaked after the death of its amir Shah Ahmed Shafi in September last year.At least 13 people are confirmed to have died in the protests and scores are injured after security forces cracked down on demonstrators across Bangladesh over the past week. The protests had started on Friday from a prominent mosque in the capital city of Dhaka before spreading rapidly.Over the three days, supporters of Hefazat-e-Islam clashed with the police and later, pro-government protesters at multiple locations blocked highways, burnt vehicles and attacked a passenger train. Five people died on Friday, the day PM Modi landed in Dhaka, another six the following day and two more on Sunday during the nationwide general strike called by the group.The radical group has given a nationwide strike call on April 2 to protest the police crackdown in what, an Indian official said, was a continuing effort to radicalise Bangladeshi society by its potent mix of religion and power politics.To be sure, there were calls for protests against PM Modi’s trip well before he landed. The spread of violence, however, took the authorities by surprise.Indian officials who have been tracking activities of Hefazat-e-Islam, which translates as Protection of Islam and claims to be a non-political front, said the organisation first came to notice of the authorities for protesting the 2009 policy for equal inheritance rights to women. The organisation rose to prominence in 2013 when it sent students from its nationwide network of madrasas to Dhaka to counter the “Shahbagh movement” of students demanding the death penalty for all war criminals of 1971. The Hefazat-e-Islam placed a list of 13 demands including punishment for atheist bloggers and changes to textbooks.There, however, has been a marked difference after the change of guard in November. Unlike its founder Shah Ahmed Shafi who was often perceived to be soft on the ruling Awami League, Hefazat-e-Islam under Junaid Babu Nagari has the tacit support of the Khaleda Zia’s Bangladesh Nationalist Party and fundamentalist groups such as the Jamaat-e-Islami.For instance, the BNP did not formally extend support for the general strike called on Sunday but pointedly asserted that the call for the strike was logical.Diplomats in New Delhi and Dhaka suggest that the links between the Hefazat-e-Islam and the BNP could become more visible with Babu Nagari’s elevation as he seeks to turn the notorious group into a political force.Senior Bangladeshi journalist Mahfuz Anam seemed to agree. In a recent commentary, he said the real reason for the protests against PM Modi’s visit was to signal that Hefazat-e-Islam under its new leadership was not the same party that Shah Ahmed Shafi had led.Anam, the editor of Bangladesh’s largest English-language newspaper, The Daily Star, also blamed the Sheikh Hasina government for practising a policy of appeasement which, he said, had made the Hefazat-e-Islam stronger and more determined to challenge the fundamental character of the country.Indian officials said they had spotted efforts by Islamic fundamentalist forces to unite for further Islamisation of the society. The Hefazat, under its new leadership, is attempting to emerge as the leader of these fundamentalist groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/protests-over-modi-visit-an-excuse-hefazat-s-real-aim-to-radicalise-bangladesh-101617258298467.html
01-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh to distribute booklets on Constitution among students||The Chhattisgarh government plans to distribute around 5.7 million booklets on the Constitution among class 1 to 12 students free of cost in the next academic to raise awareness about constitutionalism, officials aware of the matter said. The booklet for class 1 to class 8 will focus on the basic features of the Constitution.The officials said the printing of the booklets was going on and their distribution will be done before their inclusion in the school curriculum.At a special assembly session to mark Constitution Day in 2019, the Chhattisgarh government announced its plans to provide these booklets to students. Chhattisgarh Textbook Corporation chairman Shailesh Nitin Trivedi said the booklets will cost ₹8.40 crore. He added they are spending their profits on the booklets. “The students of today are leaders of tomorrow and it is very important for them to understand the constitutional values. Thorough knowledge of the Constitution will ensure their understanding of the functioning of democracy and strengthen their trust in it.”Also Read | Restrictions hit Chhattisgarh districts as state logs 3,180 new Covid-19 casesParivesh Mishra, a political commentator, said the Constitution came into force in 1950, but no organised effort has been made to educate the masses about it.“As the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power in many states, it tried to bring changes to school syllabus and textbooks. Interpretation of what the Congress sees as the core provisions like secularism became the prime targets,” Mishra said.Mishra said for the first time in Congress’s history, it has launched a department focussed on the 10-17-year age group. “The idea is to inculcate respect among them for the Constitution and the values that would make them responsible and informed citizens. A pilot project under the banner Jawahar Bal Manch is running in a few states including Chhattisgarh. The latest move of the Chhattisgarh government to make the study of the Constitution in schools mandatory seems an extension of the same idea and is laudable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-to-distribute-booklets-on-constitution-among-students-101617256496554.html
01-04-2021||India||PM Modi pays tributes to Shivakumara Swamiji on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid tributes to late Shivakumara Swamiji of Siddaganga Math, a prominent Lingayat seminary in Karnataka, on his birth anniversary, and said his noble thoughts and ideals are deeply inspiring."I bow to His Holiness Dr. Sree Sree Sree Sivakumara Swamigalu on his Jayanti. His innumerable efforts to serve society and care for the poor are widely remembered. We are deeply inspired by his noble thoughts and ideals," Modi tweeted.The Swamiji, who was known as the 'Walking God' among his countless followers, had passed away in January, 2019 at the age of 111.Known as "trivida dasohi" for his triple sacraments - food, shelter and education - among his followers, Shivakumara Swamiji was considered as the incarnation of Basavanna, the 12th century social reformer, as he accepted all irrespective of their religion or caste.There has been a growing clamour from people of different walks of life, including politicians, for conferring "Bharat Ratna" on the late Swamiji.After Swamiji's demise, the then Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy had written to Modi urging him to confer the country's highest civilian order on the late seer.Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa also tweeted paying tributes to the Swamiji and said, "his life itself is a message, the path he walked is a path of achievement. Let his grace on the state, continue forever."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-shivakumara-swamiji-on-his-birth-anniversary-101617254889639.html
01-04-2021||India||At 44.2 degree C, Bhubaneswar breaks 78 year record for temperature in March||Bhubaneswar on Wednesday registered the highest temperature recorded in the month of March with the mercury reaching 44.2 degree Celsius in the city for the first time since 1948, when it was first made Odisha's capital. The city’s previous high of 42.2 degree C was recorded on March 21, 2016, said officials of the Regional Meteorological Centre.Apart from Bhubaneswar, temperatures in 12 other cities in Odisha went past the 40-degree Celsius mark. Baripada, which recorded a temperature of 44.6 degree Celsius on Tuesday, the highest in the country, too sizzled at 43.6°C.In February too, Bhubaneswar's maximum temperature broke its last 58 years record as it soared past the 40-degree Celsius mark.Officials said the heat wave, which was likely to continue for another 24 hours was due to the influence of dry westerly winds prevailing in the lower levels and local heating and contraction of dry air near surface level.According to the Met department officials, heat wave conditions were likely to prevail at many places along with severe heat wave at isolated places in as many as 21 districts of the state including Sundargarh, Sambalpur, Jharsuguda, Keonjhar, Mayurbhanj, Deogarh, Bargarh, Angul, Dhenkanal, Sonepur, Boudh, Kandhamal, Nuapada, Balangir, Kalahandi, Nayagarh, Khordha, Cuttack, Jajpur, Bhadrak and Balasore.Earlier in March, the heat wave led to wildfires in Similipal tiger reserve of Mayurbhanj district, engulfing and endangering the flora and fauna in the park. According to officials, the forest fire spread to over 47 different areas under the south zone of Similipal forest range. On Tuesday, Baripada town of Mayurbhanj recorded 44.6 degree Celsius temperature, the highest in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-44-2-degree-c-bhubaneswar-breaks-78-year-record-for-temperature-in-march-101617254114420.html
01-04-2021||India||Most of India to experience heatwaves in April-June: What IMD said||As parts of the country experience a heatwave, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned that maximum temperatures in most parts of India will be above normal between April and June. Here is all you need to know about the warning:• Scientists said the heatwave was being recorded in a very large area covering east, central, and northwest India in March. • This has happened quite early this year. • Over the past 10 years, heatwaves have occurred in April• They used to start mainly in May before that. • But this time, very high temperatures have been recorded in March also, mainly because of lack of rainfall, very dry air that gets heated quickly and leads to clear skies and direct sunshine.• The condition is expected to abate in two to three days due to strong westerly winds. Also Read | ‘It’s April, but feels like May-June’: Heatwave grips north India• Wednesday was a relatively pleasant day in Delhi, with a maximum temperature of 37.9°C, 6 degrees above normal. • But on Monday, the maximum temperature in the Capital touched 40.1°C, the highest in 76 years.• IMD said that above normal maximum or day temperatures (0.37° to 0.62°C above normal) are likely over most of the subdivisions of north, northwest, and few subdivisions of east-central India from April to June. • On Wednesday, heatwave conditions were recorded in most parts of northwest and central India with severe heatwave conditions in isolated pockets over West Rajasthan.• Maximum temperatures are likely to fall by 2-4°C in most parts of northwest and central India during the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-of-india-to-experience-heatwaves-in-april-june-what-imd-said-101617253196642.html
01-04-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi jabs Sitharaman over 'oversight' comment in order withdrawing cuts in rates for small saving schemes||After the Centre withdrew its order to slash interest rates for small saving schemes, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi took a jibe at Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman's "oversight in issuing order" comment and asked her if the decision to revoke the order was taken in view of the ongoing state elections."Really @nsitharaman “oversight” in issuing the order to decrease interest rates on GOI schemes or election driven “hindsight” in withdrawing it?" tweeted Priyanka Gandhi.Really @nsitharaman “oversight” in issuing the order to decrease interest rates on GOI schemes or election driven “hindsight” in withdrawing it? https://t.co/Duimt8daZuSitharaman on Thursday morning made the announcement on Twitter. "Interest rates of small savings schemes of GoI shall continue to be at the rates which existed in the last quarter of 2020-2021, ie, rates that prevailed as of March 2021. Orders issued by oversight shall be withdrawn," she posted on the microblogging site.The rollback of the order, which would have dealt a severe blow to hundreds of millions of middle class depositors, comes as West Bengal and Assam vote in the second phase of assembly elections.Also Read | 'Issued by oversight': Govt withdraws order slashing rates for small saving schemesThe government on Wednesday announced a cut in the interest rates on small savings schemes, including National Savings Certificate (NSC) and Public Provident Fund (PPF), by up to 1.1 per cent for the June quarter.The rate of interest of the PPF scheme was cut to 6.4 per cent annually from 7.1 in the last quarter. This would have been the first time since 1974 that the PPF interest was brought down below 7 per cent.National Savings Certificate (NSC) was to earn 0.9 per cent less at 5.9 per cent.After the rollback, one-year term deposit scheme will earn a higher interest rate of 5.5 per cent during the first quarter of the current fiscal, while the girl child savings scheme Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana account will earn 7.6 per cent as against the reduced rate of 6.9 per cent.The interest rate for the five-year senior citizens savings scheme, which is paid quarterly, would be retained at 7.4 per cent.Accordingly, the interest rate on savings deposits will be restored at 4 per cent annually from the reduced rate of 3.5 per cent. Term deposits of one to five years will fetch interest rate in the range of 5.5-6.7 per cent, to be paid quarterly, while the interest rate on five-year recurring deposits will earn a higher interest of 5.8 per cent as against the reduced 5.3 per cent, news agency PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-jabs-sitharaman-over-oversight-comment-in-order-withdrawing-cuts-in-rates-for-small-saving-schemes-101617251265623.html
01-04-2021||India||Petrol and diesel prices hold steady after Tuesday’s cuts||Petrol prices held steady all over the country on Thursday, for the second consecutive day after Tuesday's cut. In the national capital Delhi, petrol rates are at Rs. 90.56 per litre and diesel continues to retail at Rs. 80.87 per litre. In Mumbai, petrol and diesel prices remained at ₹96.98 and ₹87.96.In Kolkata, rates for petrol and diesel stood at ₹90.77 and ₹83.75 respectively. Whereas in Chennai petrol retailed for ₹92.58 and diesel for ₹85.88, according to the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC). On Tuesday, ptrol price was cut by 22 paise and diesel by 23 paise a litre. Domestic LPG price was also cut by ₹10 per cylinder, on Wednesday. A 14.2-kg LPG cylinder will be priced at ₹809 from April 1 as against ₹819 it currently costs, IOC said in a statement.The domestic prices for petrol and diesel vary across states due to various taxes and levies by various state governments. Currently, Mumbai has the highest retail rates for both petrol and diesel. Central and state taxes constitute 60 per cent of the retail selling price in petrol and over 54 per cent in diesel.International Brent crude prices rose on Thursday after falling on Wednesday, buoyed by the upcoming OPEC+ meeting that has been scheduled later for the day and is expected to be held on the output curbs imposed on oil producing countries due to Covid-19 pandemic. "The most likely outcome of the meeting is no significant changes in production," Eurasia Group told Bloomberg. Brent crude prices settled at $63.05 a barrel, up by 0.5 per cent since Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-and-diesel-prices-hold-steady-after-tuesday-s-cuts-101617252325934.html
01-04-2021||India||Rajinikanth to receive 51st Dadasaheb Phalke award, says Javadekar||Actor Rajinikanth will receive the 51st Dadasaheb Phalke Award, the highest award in Indian cinema, Union minister Prakash Javadekar announced on Twitter on Thursday."Happy to announce #Dadasaheb Phalke award for 2019 to one of the greatest actors in history of Indian cinema Rajnikant ji. His contribution as actor, producer and screenwriter has been iconic," Javadekar tweeted.Happy to announce #Dadasaheb Phalke award for 2019 to one of the greatest actors in history of Indian cinema Rajnikant jiHis contribution as actor, producer and screenwriter has been iconicI thank Jury @ashabhosle @SubhashGhai1 @Mohanlal@Shankar_Live #BiswajeetChatterjee pic.twitter.com/b17qv6D6BPThe prestigious award is named after the father of Indian cinema, Dhundiraj Govind Phalke, and was instituted in 1969. The award is conferred by the government for outstanding contribution to the growth and development of Indian Cinema.The award is comprised of a Golden Lotus and a cash prize of ₹10 lakh."India every year gives Dada Saheb Phalke award to a film personality. This year this selection has been made by a jury comprising Asha Bhonsle, Mohanlal, Biswajit Chatterjee, Shankar Mahadevan and Subhash Ghai," Javadekar was quoted as saying by PTI."They unanimously recommended that superstar Rajinikanth be conferred with Dada Saheb Phalke award and we accepted it," the Union minister said.The south Indian superstar, who was earlier expected to launch a political party in January 2021, announced his decision to abandon his plan to foray into politics. On December 29 last year, Rajinikanth, citing his health condition vis-a-vis the coronavirus pandemic announced that he would not join politics. He had undergone a renal transplant in 2016 and is on immuno-suppressants.The 70-year-old, who has more than 160 films to his credit, was given the Padma Bhushan in 2000 and the Padma Vibhushan in 2016 by the government. He has also received several state and international accolades for his work as a south Indian icon.Many people hoped to see Rajinikanth contest the ongoing Assembly elections. A large number of the actor's fans gathered in Chennai urging him to join politics in January this year.Appealing to his fans, Rajinikanth said, "Some of my fans along with expelled cadres of Rajini Makkal Mandram have protested in Chennai against my decision of not entering politics. I have taken my decision, I appeal to everyone to not indulge in such things (protest) as it pains me."Rajinikanth, who completed 45 years in the film industry in August last year, will soon resume shooting for the upcoming Tamil film Annaatthe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajinikanth-to-receive-51st-dadasaheb-phalke-award-says-javadekar-101617252004814.html
01-04-2021||India||Huge increase of 72,330 in India's Covid-19 daily tally; 459 deaths in 24 hours||India recorded a huge spike of 72,330 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours which took the nationwide tally to 12,221,665, Union health ministry data showed on Thursday morning.The infection also cost the lives of 459 people in the said timeframe - up from 354 on Wednesday - which pushed the death toll to 1,62,927, the health ministry data showed.The number of active cases stood at 5,84,055, after a jump of 31,489 in the last 24 hours.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that a total of 24,47,98,621 samples have been tested for Covid-19 up to March 31. Of these, 11,25,681 samples were tested on Wednesday, it added.Over the past few weeks, India has been recording a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, which has been termed as the second wave of infection by the experts. Last week, the number of daily cases were close to 60,000, concerning the government.Though the number fell slightly this week - due to low testing during the festival of Holi - the Centre said that the situation is turning from bad to worse.The health ministry on Wednesday said that eight states accounted for 84.73 per cent of the Covid-19 cases registered in the country. Maharashtra continues to report the highest number of daily cases, it added.Maharashtra reported 39,544 new Covid-19 cases, 23,600 discharges and 227 deaths in a 24-hour period, according to the state health department data on Wednesday evening.According to the Delhi health department, the national capital reported 1,819 new coronavirus cases, 399 recoveries and 11 deaths. There are 8,838 active cases in Delhi.Punjab and union territory of Chandigarh are the other badly-hit regions. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting on Wednesday along with NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr VK Paul, to review the status of Covid-19 in these two places and the public health measures taken for surveillance, containment and management of the disease by the health authorities.They asked Punjab government and Chandigarh administration to effectively implement the test-track-treat strategy against Covid-19, escalate testing till the positivity comes down below 5 per cent and ensure priority vaccination of eligible population groups in districts reporting high number of cases.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed 6.5 crore on Wednesday, the 75th day of nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, health ministry data showed today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/huge-increase-of-72-330-in-india-s-covid-19-daily-tally-459-deaths-in-24-hours-101617248421599.html
01-04-2021||India||Election commission transfers 3 more police officials in poll bound Tamil Nadu||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Wednesday transferred three more Tamil Nadu senior police officials- H M Jayaram, inspector general (IG) Central, Dhinakaran, IG West and Arul Arasu, superintendent of police (SP) of rural Coimbatore, ahead of the assembly polls on April 6, citing ‘adverse inputs’.The three officers will be attached to the director general of police (DGP) headquarters while awaiting posting orders, which cannot be issued without the permission of the commission. New officers have been posted in their place.The development comes a day after the ECI transferred Trichy’s commissioner of police, J Loganathan to a non-election post and suspended the assistant commissioner of police (law and order) of Golden Rock Range, Tamilmaran.The orders come in the wake of reports of cash seizures from police stations in Trichy west, from where DMK strongman K N Nehru is contesting. Nehru has termed the reports as attempts to defame him. The party’s organising secretary R S Bharathi wrote to the election body on behalf of Nehru on March 28, claiming "rumours" of Nehru distributing money to police stations were being spread on social media and that officials allegedly subservient to the ruling party were indulging in such activities. Previously, the ECI had ordered the transfer of Trichy district collector and superintendent of police after ₹one crore in cash was seized in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-transfers-3-more-police-officials-in-poll-bound-tamil-nadu-101617250521641.html
01-04-2021||India||Covid-19: India begins vaccinating persons older than 45 years from today||India has begun vaccinating its population that is 45 years and older, irrespective of comorbidities, against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), from Thursday, a step that experts say will not only improve overall vaccination numbers, but will also help in slowing down disease transmission.“People who are eligible will be able to register, and book appointments, on the Co-Win portal and through the Aarogya Setu app from April 1, when the facility will be thrown open for the 45-plus category also. It will be a massive number, and we urge eligible beneficiaries to come forward and get vaccinated. Safety and efficacy of both the vaccines approved for use in India has been well established,” said a senior health ministry official in the know of things, who did not wish to be identified.Walk-in registrations have also been allowed, but that option will open only after 3pm.Also Read | US plant ruins 15 mn Johnson & Johnson coronavirus vaccine dosesCurrently, Covid-19 vaccinations in the country are open for beneficiaries 45 years and above with 20 government-specified comorbidities, along with individuals aged 60 years and above, and healthcare and frontline workers.Vaccinations will be held in close to 50,000 centres across the country, of which there are about 6,000 in the private sector.The Union cabinet on March 23 took the decision to open up Covid-19 vaccinations for individuals who are 45 years old and above without comorbidities.There will be no need to produce any medical certificates from a registered medical practitioner as is the requirement currently.The need for opening up vaccinations for 45 plus category was felt because around 88% of deaths due to Covid-19 in the country have taken place in this age group, the health ministry announced last week.So far, at least 64 million vaccine doses have been administered in the country since the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination began on January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-begins-vaccinating-persons-older-than-45-years-against-covid-19-today-101617249716198.html
01-04-2021||India||Mamata calls for united front against BJP: Here’s what she told political parties||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Mamata Banerjee has written to Opposition parties urging them to unite against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its government. Here is all you need to know about her letter and what prompted it:• Banerjee’s letter dated March 28 was made public on Wednesday.• It said a recent law bestowing more powers to the lieutenant governor in Delhi was a “direct attack” on the country’s federal structure. • The letter suggested a meeting of Opposition leaders after the ongoing five-state assembly polls to chart a plan of action against the BJP.• It was written days before the second phase of polls in Bengal, where Banerjee is taking on her protégé-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP in Nandigram. Also Read | Confident of his win from Nandigram, Suvendu appeals to people to vote• The BJP is aiming to dislodge the TMC for its first election victory in Bengal while Banerjee is gunning for a third consecutive term.• The letter was sent to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, DMK president MK Stalin, Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav, National Conference’s Farooq Abdullah, Peoples Democratic Party’s Mehbooba Mufti and CPI-ML’s Dipankar Bhattacharya.• It was also dispatched to six chief ministers: Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal, Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray, Jharkhand’s Hemant Soren, Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik, Andhra Pradesh’s Jagan Mohan Reddy and Telangana’s K Chandrasekhar Rao.• Banerjee’s letter drew broad support from Opposition leaders but flak from the BJP, which said the move betrayed her nervousness about the ongoing polls.• TMC insiders said the underlying message was aimed at the consolidation of anti-BJP forces in the remaining phases of the eight-phase polls. • NCP said it extends full support to the TMC chief. • Shiv Sena also expressed solidarity with Banerjee. • Supriyo Bhattacharrya, principal general secretary of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, said his party was repeatedly raising the same issue. • Rashtriya Janata Dal MP Manoj Jha called the letter very timely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-calls-for-united-front-against-bjp-here-s-what-she-told-political-parties-101617249535999.html
01-04-2021||India||Centre tells Odisha not to use state logo on Pradhan Mantri Awas scheme houses||The Union rural development ministry has asked the Odisha government not to use the logo of the state-run housing scheme, Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana (BPGY), with the centrally-sponsored Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G) and sought the Central scheme’s implementation in the state its original form under the agreed funding pattern, setting up the stage for a fresh round of confrontation over the issue between the state’s ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the opposition.“The contribution of minimum State share from state resources is a commitment by the State Government for implementation of Centrally Sponsored Scheme and it does not confer the rights to the State Government for use of any other logo other than PMAY-G. This will also lead to misinterpretation of the scheme among the PMAY-G beneficiaries about the benefits of the scheme. ...The ministry had conveyed to the States/UTs in the past to use only the official logo of PMAY-G. The logo of BPGY is not permissible under the provisions of the PMAY-G,” Union rural development secretary Nagendra Nath Sinha wrote to Odisha chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra.PMAY-G, the flagship scheme of the ministry of rural development gives ₹1.3 lakh assistance to the homeless in Maoist-infested areas and ₹1.2 lakh in non-Maoist areas to build a minimum of 25 sq m of cemented house. Besides, the beneficiary avails 90/95 days wage through convergence with the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) and ₹12,000/- for construction of a toilet under the Swachh Bharat Mission. The assistance released to the beneficiaries is funded by the centre and the state in the ratio of 60:40.The BPGY was launched by the Odisha government in 2014-15 to convert all the mud houses to cemented ones. Like the PMAY-G, its beneficiaries get ₹1.2 lakh and ₹1.3 lakh assistance in non-Maoist and Maoist-affected areas respectively. Since 2017-18, Odisha has been using both PMAY-G and BPGY logos on the houses constructed under the Central scheme. Apart from contributing its 40% share, the Odisha government is providing ₹20,000 incentive to beneficiaries who build houses within four months of the release of the first instalment and ₹10,000 to those who build houses within six months.The BJD has responded to the letter by justifying the rebranding, claiming the Odisha govt was paying 50% cost for the houses under the PMAY-G scheme. "We are almost paying for 49% of the amount if the incentive is taken into account. So what is the problem with using the logo of BPGY on the house,” asked a BJD leader, who didn’t wish to be named.The BJP was opposing the use of the BPGY logo for PMAY-G houses since December last year and even tore off the stickers displaying the co-branding. BJP Mahila Morcha then filed an FIR against chief minister Naveen Patnaik accusing his government of using the BPGY logo for appropriating false credit for a Central scheme. "It's unfortunate that the state government is resorting to such publicity," said Pradipta Naik, a BJP leader.This fight seems to be a rerun of the controversy over the state government's logo on the ambulance service funded by the National Health Mission. Launched in 2013 with funding from the Centre, the scheme was projected by the state government as its own initiative during the last assembly elections. A year later, the state government was forced to rename Odisha emergency ambulance service to National ambulance service following much protest from the BJP and prodding by the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-tells-odisha-not-to-use-state-logo-on-pradhan-mantri-awas-scheme-houses-101617248739816.html
01-04-2021||India||Maharashtra sees 227 Covid-19 deaths, highest single-day toll since Oct 17||Maharashtra’s single-day Covid-19 toll rose to 227 on Wednesday, highest since October 17 last year when it saw 250 deaths. The last time the state saw more than 200 deaths in a day was on October 20, 2020, when it logged 213 casualties. The number of new cases in the state also jumped to 39,544 on Wednesday, after two days of comparatively lower numbers.The state government, in order to ramp up Covid-19 testing, has reduced RT-PCR test rates to ₹500 and antigen tests to ₹150 for private laboratories.On the rise in the number of deaths, Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said many citizens tend to ignore the initial signs. “We have observed that many [people] just tend to neglect signs like headache or body ache. They are seen to test late once their condition deteriorates and many then succumb to the virus,” he said.He said although 167,078 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, the government reduced the test prices as it wanted to increase test rates further. “We feel if test prices are slashed, it will encourage more people to test themselves,” said Dr Lahane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-sees-227-covid-19-deaths-highest-single-day-toll-since-oct-17-101617248095988.html
01-04-2021||India||'It's April, but feels like May-June': Heatwave grips north India||Many parts in north India have been reeling under a heatwave with the mercury touching 40 degrees Celsius-mark, especially in Rajasthan. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted another heatwave over the plains by April 3."April has just begun but considering the heat, it feels like May-June have arrived," news agency ANI quoted a local as saying in Rajasthan's Jodhpur."As per doctors' advice, we are consuming a lot of cool drinks like buttermilk to get through this weather," another local told .The IMD has already warned that maximum temperatures in most parts of the country will be above normal between April and June. On Tuesday, it sounded a heatwave alert for parts of Telangana for the next three days.On Monday, the national capital recorded a maximum temperature of 40.1 degree Celsius, the highest temperature record in March in last 76 years.In fact, March was the warmest in the last 11 years, according to IMD. Kuldeep Shrivastava, Regional Head of IMD Delhi, said that the mean maximum temperature (MMT) for Delhi for March is 33.1 degree Celsius which is 3.5 degree Celsius above normal.The highest MMT of 34.1 degree Celsius was observed in March, 2010 according to IMD data.Talking about the situation in plains, IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohaptra said there was pressure variation between the area stretching from the Gujarat coast to Haryana. In addition to this, there was transfer of heat from Rajasthan which was already reeling under the heatwave. "This led to the heating of plains," he said.Dust raising strong surface winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) are very likely to prevail over Rajasthan, Haryana, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, north Madhya Pradesh, east Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal during March 31 to April 1, the IMD said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/its-april-but-feels-like-may-june-heatwave-grips-northern-india-101617247555055.html
01-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: IMD warns of a warmer summer as heatwave grips states and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Heatwave grips states, IMD predicts a warmer summerEven as parts of the country experience a heat wave, the India Meteorological Department has warned that maximum temperatures in most parts of India will be above normal between April and June. Read More10-day sale of electoral bonds begins from todayThe 16th tranche of electoral bonds will be open for sale from April 1. The approval to the sale was given by the Union finance ministry on Tuesday. They will be available till April 10. Read MoreAung San Suu Kyi expected to appear before Myanmar court todayMyanmar's deposed leader Aung San Suu Kyi is expected to appear for hearing before a court in connection with criminal charges imposed by the country's military that could see her permanently debarred from political office. Read More'Watched him for 2 years': Mike Hesson names 3 uncapped Indians who can help RCB win IPL 2021You won’t be questioned with frowned eyebrows if you don’t associate youngsters with Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) like you would with a Rajasthan Royals or a Sunrisers Hyderabad. Read MoreClip by Arunachal Pradesh CM that Anand Mahindra reshared sparks naming contestChief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh Pema Khandu recently took to Twitter to share a video detailing a journey that he took to reach Vijaynagar from Miao, in the state. Read MoreAditi Rao Hydari's Rs.13k crop top and pants proves all-black looks are timelessThere is no better outfit than a well-fitted all-black look and we know you agree with us. Read MoreAamir Khan's daughter Ira Khan says she piles up stuff as she battles depression: 'I crash when it gets too much'Aamir Khan's daughter, Ira Khan, who has been talking about her depression openly and creating awareness about mental health issues, has shared a new video about her struggles on Instagram. Read MoreWatch: AIMIM MP celebrates no lockdown with no-mask rally; BJP files complaintAIMIM leader Imtiaz Jaleel is under fire for Aurangabad procession. The procession was to celebrate scrapping of plan for Aurangabad lockdown. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-imd-warns-of-a-warmer-summer-as-heatwave-grips-states-and-all-the-latest-news-101617246392077.html
01-04-2021||India||10-day sale of electoral bonds begins from today||The 16th tranche of electoral bonds will be open for sale from April 1. The approval to the sale was given by the Union finance ministry on Tuesday. They will be available till April 10.Electoral bonds have been pitched as an alternative to cash donations made to political parties as part of efforts to bring transparency in political funding.The electoral bonds can be purchased by a person who is a citizen of India or incorporated or established in India, according to the finance ministry.The Supreme Court last month dismissed a plea seeking stay on the sale of these bonds in the wake of Assembly elections in five states and union territory of Puducherry. The court told petitioner, NGO Association for Democratic Reforms, that the sale of these bonds have continued “without any impediment” in 2018, 2019 and 2020.According to government rules, only the political parties registered under Section 29A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951) and which secured not less than one per cent of the votes polled in the last general election to the House of the People or the Legislative Assembly of a state, will be eligible to receive the electoral bonds.These bonds can be encashed by an eligible political party only through a bank account with the authorised bank.The government has authorised State Bank of India to issue and encash electoral bonds through its 29 approved branches. The 15th tranche of bond sale took place from January 1 to January 10, 2021.The opposition parties have criticised electoral bonds, calling the route of funding as "opaque". However, the Election Commission recently said that these bonds to not violate the model code of conduct, which is in place due to Assembly elections.The electoral bond scheme was notified by the government in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10day-sale-of-electoral-bonds-begins-from-today-101617245100261.html
01-04-2021||India||Widespread rain in Andaman, Nicobar region; thunderstorms likely over N-E states||A low pressure area over south Andaman Sea is likely to bring widespread rain and thunderstorms over Andaman and Nicobar region and the northeastern states today, according to India Meteorological Department.A low pressure area is lying over south Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal. It is likely to become more marked over central parts of Andaman Sea and likely to concentrate into a depression over the same region during the next 48 hours. Under its influence, widespread rainfall is very likely over Andaman & Nicobar islands during the next five days and isolated heavy rainfall is likely today.Also Read | Sizzler of a March turns out to be the hottest in 11 years, says IMDThunderstorm with lightning and gusty winds are also likely over the islands during the next three days. Fishermen are advised not to venture into south Andaman Sea and the adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal today; into North Andaman Sea on April 2; into north Bay of Bengal and along and off north Odisha-West Bengal coast. Under the influence of strong lower level south-westerly winds from the Bay of Bengal and other favourable meteorological conditions, widespread rainfall with thunderstorm or lightning and gusty winds are likely over the northeastern region till Friday. Heavy rain is also very likely over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya today. It may cause landslide or mudslide and inundation in low lying areas over parts of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya. The maximum temperatures are very likely to fall by 2-4 degrees C over most parts of northwest and central India during the next 2-3 days, leading to an abatement of heatwave conditions. Strong surface winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) is likely over parts of Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh during the next 48 hours and over Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal during the next 24 hours. “Heatwave conditions are unlikely for 2-3 days because of very strong westerly winds,” said K Sathi Devi, head,national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-in-andaman-nicobar-region-thunderstorms-likely-over-n-e-states-101617245035968.html
01-04-2021||India||Assam polls: Candidate from Congress ally, BPF, joins BJP ahead of 3rd phase||With less than a week to go for the third and final phase of assembly polls in Assam, a candidate from Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), a partner of the opposition Congress-led grand alliance, switched sides and joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) late on Wednesday night, said a senior BJP minister.“Official candidate of BPF and so called Congress-led alliance from Tamulpur LAC (legislative assembly constituency) Shri Ram Das Basumatary met me a short while ago. He has express(ed) his desire to join BJP and retire from the election,” Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted around midnight. The candidate, Rangja Khungur Basumatary, who is also known as Ram Das Basumatary, couldn’t be reached over phone to confirm the development.It is expected that Basumatary will formally join the BJP in front of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is slated to address a poll rally at Kokrajhar, the headquarters of Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR), on Thursday. It is also being speculated that 4-5 other BPF candidates might also switch sides.Election to the Tamulpur seat will take place on April 6 in the third and final phase. Besides Basumatary, there are 10 other candidates in the fray from the seat, the most prominent being Leho Ram Boro of the United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL), an alliance partner of the BJP.Basumatary can’t officially take back his candidature from the Tamulpur seat since the time limit for withdrawal of nomination papers for the third phase is over, but due to his retirement from the contest, it is likely to make things very easy for the UPPL candidate.BPF was earlier a partner of the ruling BJP-led coalition in Assam along with Asom Gana Parishad. But things soured between the saffron party and the BPF ahead of election to Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) in December last year when BJP joined hands with UPPL to come to power in the council which administers four districts in lower Assam.For this election, BPF decided to join hands with the Congress-led ‘grand alliance’ which also has All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) as a partner. BPF, which won 12 seats in 2016, is contesting the same number of seats this time.There’s a keen contest between both the BPF and the UPPL in the four districts. While the UPPL is contesting from 11 seats, its alliance partner, the BJP, is contesting from 4 seats. Both parties will have ‘friendly contests’ in three seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-polls-candidate-from-congress-ally-bpf-joins-bjp-ahead-of-3rd-phase-101617242858177.html
01-04-2021||India||Maharashtra govt caps price of RT-PCR test||Maharashtra government has capped the price of RT-PCR test at ₹500 at collection centres, ₹600 at Covid centre, Quarantine centre or Isolation centre and ₹800 if the sample is collected from home.The price of RT-PCR has been capped for the sixth time.Maharashtra reported 39,544 new Covid-19 cases, 23,600 discharges, and 227 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the state's health department on Wednesday.The total cases reached 28,12,980 including 24,00,727 recoveries and the death toll reached 54,649.At present, there are 3,56,243 active coronavirus cases in the state.The case fatality rate (CFR) in Maharashtra is at 1.94 per cent while the recovery rate is 85.34 per cent.Out of 1,97,92,143 laboratory samples, 28,12,980 have been tested positive for Covid-19 until today in the state.Currently, 17,29,816 people are in home quarantine while 17,863 are in institutional quarantine in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-caps-price-of-rt-pcr-test-101617242867992.html
01-04-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive for people above the age of 45 begins from today||All Indians above the age of 45 will become eligible for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine from Thursday. The government announced this last month in a bid to speed up the process of inoculating the people of the country.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Dr R S Sharma, CEO, National Health Authority (NHA) and Chairperson, Empowered Group on Covid vaccination chaired a high-level meeting to review the status, pace, and issues regarding Covid vaccination across the country.The nationwide vaccination drive was started by the government on January 16 with healthcare and frontline workers getting inoculated in the first phase. The next phase started from March 1 in which people above the age of 60 and 45+ with comorbidities were allowed to take Covid-19 vaccine shots.According to the Union health ministry, advance appointments for vaccination can be booked through the Co-WIN website or by visiting the nearest vaccination center after 3 pm and getting on-site registration done.Bhushan said that those who want to go for on-site registration need to go to their nearest vaccination centre with an identity document. The document can be an Aadhaar Card, voter ID, bank passbook, passport and ration card.The decision to speed up the process of vaccination has been taken in the wake of a resurgence in the number of Covid-19 case in the past few weeks. India has been recording over 50,000 cases of the infection daily and the nationwide tally has crossed 12 million. The Centre said on Tuesday that the situation is turning from "bad to worse" and asked state government to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed.The recent surge is powered by Maharashtra and seven other states which, according to health ministry, account for nearly 80 per cent of the total cases. The rate of positivity and number of active cases is also higher in these states, the ministry said.India is using two Covid-19 vaccines for the inoculation drive - AstraZeneca-Oxford University's Covishield, which is manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII), and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin.An analysis done by HT projects that 50 million people will have received both shots of a vaccine by mid-May, after the opening of vaccination drive for all the people above the age of 45, if the country can keep administering an average of 4 million doses a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-for-people-above-the-age-of-45-begins-from-today-101617242491029.html
01-04-2021||India||Factors at play in Bengal, Assam 2nd-phase voting||West Bengal and Assam – two of the four states going to the polls in this election cycle – will vote in the second phase of polling on Thursday. Thirty out of 294 assembly constituencies (ACs) in West Bengal and 39 out of 126 ACs in Assam will vote in this phase.After this round, over two-thirds of ACs in Assam and a fifth of West Bengal ACs will have voted.While Assam will vote in just one more phase on April 6, polling in West Bengal will take place in six more phases until April 29.Here are three charts explaining the importance of the second phase of polling in West Bengal and Assam.Where are the polls taking place?In West Bengal, all of Jangalmahal region, western districts of Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and Paschim Medinipur would have voted after the second phase. All of Purba Medinipur district, which includes the high profile Nandigram assembly constituency (AC), would also have voted.Four ACs in South 24 Parganas, among the biggest districts in the state, which has 31 ACs in total, will also vote in the second phase.In Assam, the second phase of polling will include 12 districts in the state. This includes all three districts of Barak Valley (Karimganj, Hailakandi, and Cachar); Dima Hasao, Karbi Anglong, Marigaon, and a small part of Nagaon in Central Assam; Darrang and Udalguri in North Assam; and small parts of Kamrup, Nalbari, and Baksa districts in lower Assam.The political arithmetic in second phaseThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies (in Assam) won 3.3% and 72% out of the 30 and 39 ACs going to polls in this phase of elections in West Bengal and Assam in the 2016 assembly elections.While the BJP alliance’s performance marginally worsened in Assam in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections (it won one AC less than in 2016), it improved significantly in West Bengal. The BJP and its allies won 40% and 69% of the ACs in West Bengal and Assam in the 2019 elections.The All India Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Congress, on the other hand, face a different set of challenges in this phase. The Nandigram contest between Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her one time lieutenant Suvendu Adhikari, who has now defected to the BJP, epitomises the challenge the TMC is facing on account of defections to the BJP.The Congress, which is the leader of the anti-BJP alliance in Assam, will be hoping to gain from its alliance with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) in the Barak valley region, which accounts for 15 out of the 126 ACs in the state.In the 2016 elections, the BJP won eight ACs in this region. In five out of these 8 ACs, the Congress or AIUDF played spoiler for each other paving way for a BJP victory.The Bodoland Peoples Front (BPF), which has switched from the BJP alliance to the Congress alliance in this election, might also have a role to play in this phase of election, although lesser than the last phase. It won all the four 2nd phase ACs it contested in 2016 assembly election, but didn’t contest any in the 2019 Lok Sabha election.Voter profile in the second phaseThe ACs going to polls in the second phase vary drastically in terms of composition of the electorate.For example, while the three districts in Barak valley in Assam are overwhelmingly Bengali speaking and also have a very high share of Muslims, a large part of Karbi Anglong’s population is made up of Scheduled Tribe (ST) groups.Similarly, Muslims have a share of 35.6% in the South 24 Parganas district, which begins voting in the second phase, compared to just 8.1% and 10.5% in the districts of Bankura and Paschim Medinipur, which also vote in this phase.The share of Schedule Caste (SC) and ST-reserved ACs voting in the second phase is 28% and 27% in Assam and West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/factors-at-play-in-bengal-assam-2nd-phase-voting-101617223131719.html
01-04-2021||NA||LIVE: India says WHO report on Covid-19 origins an ‘important first step’||India on Wednesday recorded 72,223 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise since October 10. The country is ramping up vaccination drive, as it starts to inoculate individuals above 45 years of age from today.France is all set to undergo a third lockdown, President Emmanuel Macron announced on Wednesday. The World Health Organization report on the origins of Covid-19 was 14 countries including the US, the UK, Australia, Japan, South Korea and Norway was criticised for a lack of access to “complete, original data and samples.” The report detailed four possible scenarios for the outbreak, one of which, the theory of the virus leaking from a lab in Wuhan, was criticised by WHO's director general.Follow all the updates here:3,187 more Covid-19 cases reported from PunjabPunjab on Thursday reported 3,187 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike so far, and 60 more fatalities due to it. On March 26, the state had seen the maximum daily surge of 3,176 infections.Telangana health minister reviews rising Covid-19 cases, vaccinationWith the state witnessing a gradual rise in Covid-19 cases, Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender on Thursday asked health department officials to once again work in a warlike mode to contain the spread of the virus and ensure that necessary medicines and equipment are available in all hospitals, reported news agency PTI.Rajasthan's tally climbs to 3,34,499 with 1,350 new Covid-19 casesRajasthan's Covid-19 caseload climbed to 3,34,499 on Thursday with 1,350 fresh cases, while the death toll mounted to 28,222 as four more people succumbed to the disease, according to an official report cited by news agency PTI.India says WHO report on Covid-19 origins an ‘important first step’The ministry of external affairs on Thursday said the World Health Organization-convened global study represents an important first step in establishing the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic.Mumbai logs more than 8,600 new Covid-19 cases, 18 fatalitiesMumbai reports 8,646 new Covid-19 cases, 5,031 recoveries and 18 deaths on Thursday.Gujarat reports 2,410 new Covid-19 casesGujarat reports 2,410 fresh Covid cases, 2,015 recoveries, and 9 deaths in the last 24 hours, reports ANI.Delhi reports 2,790 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 2,790 fresh Covid-19 cases (out of 78,073 tests), 1,121 recoveries, and 9 deaths in the last 24 hoursGoa logs 265 new Covid-19 cases, one death in last 24 hoursGoa reports 265 new Covid-19 cases, one fatality. Infection tally rises to 58,304, death toll 831. There are 1,716 active cases in the state at present, reported PTI.PM Boris Johnson says France Covid-19 situation sad and can hit UKPrime Minister Boris Johnson said on Thursday that the Covid-19 situation in France was very sad and experience had shown that the disease usually hit the United Kingdom a few weeks after it hurt France, reports Reuters.Kerala reports 2,798 new Covid-19 casesKerala reports 2798 new Covid-19 cases. Number of active cases now at 26,201; so far 10,96,239 persons have recovered from the disease.Uttarakhand reports 500 new Covid-19 casesUttarakhand reports 500 new Covid-19 positive cases including 236 cases in Dehradun and 149 cases in Haridwar today, taking the total number of cases to 1,00,911.Union minister Anurag Thakur receives first dose of Covid-19 vaccineUnion Minister Anurag Thakur receives the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine at Parliament House Annexe in New Delhi. pic.twitter.com/2V76i6ihObSweden reports over 8,300 Covid-19 casesSweden, which has shunned lockdowns throughout the pandemic, registered 8,304 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, health agency statistics showed, reports Reuters.Maharashtra: Nagpur registers 3,630 new Covid-19 casesNagpur District reported 3,630 new Covid-19 cases, 2,928 recoveries and 60 Death, in the last 24 hours, as per Civil Surgeon, Nagpur, reports ANI.Odisha logs 394 new Covid-19 casesOdisha's Covid-19 tally mounted to 3,41,311 on Thursday as 394 more people tested positive for the infection, the highest single-day rise so far this year, a health department official said, reports PTI.Pfizer-BioNTech say Covid-19 vaccine 91% effectivePfizer Inc and BioNTech said on Thursday their Covid-19 vaccine is around 91% effective at preventing the disease, citing updated trial data that included participants inoculated for up to six months, reported Reuters.Biden unveils community corps to promote Covid-19 vaccinationSeeking to overcome vaccine hesitancy, the Biden administration is unveiling a coalition of community, religious and celebrity partners to promote Covid-19 shots, reported AP.Sweden to vaccinate adults with first Covid-19 shot by Aug 15 instead of JuneSweden will start vaccinating its adult population by August 15 and not June, due to a shortage in vaccine doses, reported Reuters. "As the delivery forecast looks today, everyone over 18 should be able to have their first dose of the vaccine at the latest by August 15," Marie Morell, health care chief of the Swedish Association of Local Authorities and Regions told Reuters.Scientists develop new test to detect Covid-19 quickly and track variantsScientists have developed a new test named NIRVANA to test and track for new Covid-19 variants in less amount of time, reported PTI. Adding that within fifteen minutes the test effictively detects if the samples are negative or positive.Covid-19 vaccination drive to be carried out on all days of AprilCovid-19 vaccination drive in India will be held on all days of April, including on gazetted holidays, the government announced on Thursday. This has been done to amp up the ongoing country wide inoculation drive.Andhra Pradesh chief minister, wife get vaccinated against Covid-19Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy and his wife YS Bharati take their first dose of the #COVID19 vaccine in Guntur. pic.twitter.com/ySxODENYjgAndhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy and his wife YS Bharati got vaccinated against Covid-19 in Guntur, reported ANI.8 states account for over 84% of new Covid-19 cases#Unite2FightCoronaMaharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Punjab, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh continue to report steep rise in Daily New Cases; account for 84.61% of new cases registered in the last 24 hours.https://t.co/zQSwBwxU93 pic.twitter.com/GxW5EwHf7gUnion minister Piyush Goyal inoculated with first dose of Covid-19 vaccineUnion Minister Piyush Goyal takes his first dose of the #COVID19 vaccine at AIIMS Delhi. pic.twitter.com/6SqIgYm3ecIndia records 72,330 new cases of Covid-19, 459 deathsIndia recorded 72,330 new Covid-19 infections on Thursday, taking the country's total case load to 12.22 million. 459 fatalities were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 162,927.China reports 6 more Covid-19 cases in Yunnan provinceChina reported 6 more cases of Covid-19 infections in a southwestern city of Ruili in the Yunan province, which shares a border with Myanmar, reported the Associated Press. This takes the total tally of cases in the province to 15.Bappi Lahiri tests positive for Covid-19Singer Bappi Lahiri tested positive for Covid-19 and has been admitted to Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai for observation. Read MoreMadras HC orders exhumation and re-burial of Covid-19 victimMadras High Court on Wednesday ordered the exhumation and re-burial of the body of Dr Simon Hercules, who died from Covid-19 while treating patients. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-april-1-2021-101617240653224.html
01-04-2021||India||Madras HC orders exhumation and reburial of Covid-19 victim Dr Simon Hercules||After 11 months of his death, the Madras High Court on Wednesday ordered the exhumation of the body of Dr Simon Hercules, who had been treating Covid patients and fell victim to the virus in April last year. The remains should be exhumed from the Velangadu burial ground and re-buried at the Kilpauk Cemetery, Justice Abdul Quddhose gave the direction while allowing a writ petition from Simon's wife Anandi. All the Covid-19 protocols imposed by the Central and State governments from time to time will have to be necessarily followed while exhuming the body and re-burying the same at the Cemetery and while performing religious ceremonies by the family members, the judge said. Sufficient police protection shall be provided, both at Velangadu burial ground and Kilpauk Cemetery for the smooth operation of the exhumation and the re-burial process, the judge added. The Health Officer nominated by the Greater Chennai Corporation shall be present and supervise the exhumation. This is to ensure that all procedures are complied with and everyone present shows respect to the deceased at all times and public health is protected. The judge said that the death of Simon is a shocking one as the incident had given a go-by to all human values. His corpse was shunted from one burial ground to another due to the objections raised by heartless human beings for allowing the burial of the body of a Covid-19 victim. Ultimately, he was buried in a place where people belonged to another faith. The court, after examining the safeguards adopted in foreign countries, observed that till such time a legislation on exhumation comes in place in India, the same safeguards shall be followed while exhuming Simon's body. The exhumation should start as early as possible in the morning to ensure maximum privacy. Screens should be placed around the existing grave/burial plot to protect the exhumation from public view and to guarantee privacy. Workers must treat the neighbouring burial plots with care. Disinfectants and disposable protective clothing (including respiratory facemasks) must be made available to the workers and disposed of safely after the exhumation. All remains and pieces of casket, webbing etc., are placed in the new casket (shell). Videography of the exhumation and re-burial process shall be done. Allowing the petition, the judge quashed the April 24, 2020 order of the GCC Commissioner, rejecting Anandi's plea for exhumation of her husband's body and re-bury it at the Kilpauk cemetry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-orders-exhumation-and-reburial-of-covid-19-victim-dr-simon-hercules-101617241827299.html
01-04-2021||India||Coimbatore: Stones pelted at shops ahead of Yogi’s rally, BJP workers booked||Police on Wednesday registered a case against Bharatiya Janata Party workers for allegedly pelting stones at shops in Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore ahead of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s rally.In his complaint, Abdul Wahab of the Naam Tamilar Katchi alleged that the BJP rally was planned to instigate riots in the area.Also read | UP CM Yogi Adityanath says DMK, Congress failed to safeguard women“The rally was planned to cause riots so I’ve filed the case against Vanathi Srinivasan (the BJP candidate). It was prevented because the other group didn’t react,” Wahab said.Police officials said that many shop owners downed their shutters for their own safety. “We told them to re-open it ...,” a Coimbatore police officer said requesting anonymity.Makkal Needhi Maiam leader Kamal Haasan said, “We will defeat the riot specialists with unity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stones-pelted-at-shops-ahead-of-yogi-s-rally-bjp-workers-booked-101617235896890.html
01-04-2021||India||Pandemic impact: Gender gap in India, world over worsens||India has slipped 28 places to rank 140th among 156 countries, becoming the third-worst performer in South Asia, according to the World Economic Forum report that also says the pandemic has rolled back years of progress towards equality between men and women world over.According to the Global Gender Gap Report 2021 released on Wednesday, India had regressed the highest in the sub-category of political empowerment (13.5 percentage points) with a significant decline in the number of women ministers (from 23.1% in 2019 to 9.1% in 2021).The country had ranked 112th among 153 countries in 2020 ranking.“Among the drivers of this decline (in India’s ranking) is a decrease in women’s labour force participation rate, which fell from 24.8% to 22.3%. In addition, the share of women in professional and technical roles declined further to 29.2%. The share of women in senior and managerial positions also remains low: only 14.6% of these positions are held by women and there are only 8.9% firms with female top managers,” the report said.Further, the estimated earned income of women in India is only one-fifth of men’s, which puts the country among the bottom 10 globally on this indicator, it said.In South Asia, only Pakistan and Afghanistan ranked below India. Among India’s neighbours, Bangladesh ranked 65, Nepal 106, Pakistan 153, Afghanistan 156, Bhutan 130 and Sri Lanka 116.Among regions, South Asia is the second-lowest performer on the index, with 62.3% of its overall gender gap closed.“Within the region, a wide gulf separates the best-performing country, Bangladesh, which has closed 71.9% of its gender gap so far, from Afghanistan, which has only closed 44.4% of its gap.“India is the third-worst performer in the region, having closed 62.5% of its gap. Because of its large population, India’s performance has a substantial impact on the region’s overall performance,” the report said.A longer waitThe pandemic has also added decades to the trajectory towards closing the gender gap, the report said.A range of studies have shown that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a disproportionate impact on women, who have lost jobs at a higher rate than men, and had to take on much more of the extra childcare burden when schools closed.The effects will be felt in the long-term, according to WEF, which found in its report that the goalposts for gender parity appeared to be moving further away. The organisation, which usually gathers the global elite in the plush Swiss ski resort of Davos each year, had found in its previous report, published in December 2019 right before the pandemic hit, that gender parity across a range of areas would be reached within 99.5 years.But this year’s report shows the world is not on track to close the gender gap for another 135.6 years. “Another generation of women will have to wait for gender parity,” the WEF said in a statement. The Geneva-based organisation’s annual report tracks disparities between the sexes in 156 countries across four areas: education, health, economic opportunity and political empowerment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-impact-gender-gap-in-india-world-over-worsens-101617228175636.html
01-04-2021||India||72,223 new cases in India, highest since October 10||There were 72,223 new infections of Covid-19 across India on Wednesday, the highest single-day increase in cases since October 10, as the second wave of the outbreak continued to soar to new heights. Deaths also picked up with 458 new fatalities reported in the country on Wednesday, highest in 116 days, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. In Delhi, 1,819 new infections were reported on Wednesday despite a significant drop in daily testing with new tests dropping from around 80,000 to 67,000 on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/72223-new-cases-in-india-highest-since-october-10-101617225141099.html
01-04-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive widens, 50 million set for both shots by May 15||As all Indians above the age of 45 become eligible for coronavirus vaccines starting Thursday, HT’s projections show at least 50 million people will have received both shots by the middle of May, and over 100 million by mid-June if the country can keep administering an average of 4 million doses a day, a pace that could help India turn the tide against the building second wave of infections.Union health officials held a video conference with state officials on Wednesday to discuss preparations for the opening-up of the drive, suggesting administrators focus on improving coverage in underserved areas and focussing on ironing out teething problems that could occur. Experts have also called on the need to address vaccine hesitancy among people, especially in order to maintain and improve the pace of vaccination.According to HT’s analysis of the trends, the total number of people who have received at least one shot of the vaccine is set to surpass 300 million in early June. Vaccination numbers for the second dose will particularly pick up pace through the second half of April.These numbers are significant because India is in the grip of a second wave and case and death numbers are certain to rise through April in what is clearly going to be a race between the virus and the vaccine. India’s vaccine drive has seen a slow start, relative to the size of the country and the number of people that need to be vaccinated. Part of this can be attributed to vaccine hesitancy, but some of it is also because of the way the health ministry has chosen to go about the drive. Which is what makes April and May extremely important.Going by trends in developed countries and the number of people likely to have been infected in India (around 200 million, give or take a few tens of millions), around 10 days after 50 million people have received two doses, the result will make itself evident in the trajectory of the disease. Around 10 days after 100 million people have received two doses, it will be even more evident. Which is what makes April 1, when India throws open vaccination to anyone over the age of 45 years, a key milestone — not only in the country’s fight against the disease but also the prospects for the economy in the year ahead. Put simply, how well the next 45 days go could decide whether India grows at 12.5% or 7.5%, the two ends of the range predicted by the World Bank for the country’s growth in 2021-22.Also read | Mumbai reports 5,394 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, 616 buildings sealed“While results may vary depending upon different locations, if we manage to immunise around 30-40% of people in major cities, and assume that 45-55% of residents have already been infected there, we should be in a reasonable shape and begin to see results of the vaccination drive with slowing case rates,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, professor in the department of Gastrointestinal Sciences at Christian Medical College, Vellore, and one of the country’s topmost vaccine experts. “Of course, we need to keep in mind several caveats such as the duration of protection that being infected offers, emergence of new variants, etc,” she added.She said that far greater coverage may still be needed to cover rural areas as well, and that India must eventually look to include every age group in the vaccination ambit, even children.“In rural areas, we may need far greater vaccine coverage to see any difference in case rates, but ultimately our goal should be to get everyone immunised as soon as possible, including children.”HT’s calculations are based on data released by the health ministry till Tuesday night, and the projections assume a pace of at least 4 million shots being administered a day, with a second shot being administered at a gap of six weeks (or 42 days) after a person receives the first shot.A total of 62.4 million doses have been administered across the country till Tuesday night, with 53.4 million people having received at least one dose of the vaccine. A total of 9 million people have received both doses, and 44.4 million have received only a single dose, according to government data. These numbers remain significantly behind the government’s inoculation targets – the Centre has set a target of vaccinating over 300 million people by the end of July — a target that it will, most likely, miss.In the two-and-a-half months since the start of the vaccination drive on January 16, India has administered at least one shot to only 18% of this goal. So far, the country has managed to completely vaccinate (with both doses) only 3% of the 300-million target, while another 15% have received only one shot.HT’s vaccination projections are based on two assumptions. First, that the country will be administering 4 million doses a day on average from here on. While the current single-day record is just over 3 million doses (on March 16), the government has set a target of raising this to 5 million doses. The 4-million-a-day target seems especially achievable considering the inoculation drive will be further thrown open to everyone over the age of 45 years in the drive’s third phase starting Thursday. The second assumption is that everyone who has been administered the first dose of the vaccine will show up for the second dose in around six weeks.The projections show that second dose numbers will likely struggle to pick up pace through the first week of April as the final week for February (its corresponding six-week lag period) saw a low number of first shots being administered. This was because the first phase of the vaccination drive (which ended on February 28) started tapering off by the final week, and there also were three days of zero vaccination around that week – Covid vaccinations were suspended on February 21 in order to carry out the National Polio Immunisation Programme, and there were no vaccination the final two days of the month because officials were updating the Co-WIN platform for the March 1 launch of Phase 2.Beyond April 15, however, second doses appear set to take off as around that time the country will start reaping the benefits of the March 1 launch of Phase 2 of the vaccination drive. While the first batch of around 41,000 people under Phase 2 received their second doses on Tuesday, this group likely consists of people who received the Covaxin shot, which requires a four-to-six-week gap between doses. In contrast, those who received Covishield at the start of March will likely start coming in for second doses in another two weeks as this vaccine requires a six-to-eight-week gap between shots. A key number to note here is that Covishield shots outnumber Covaxin by around 10:1, so once people who were administered the former start showing up for second doses through late April and early May, it will give a massive boost to numbers.In the coming six weeks (till May 11), if everyone who has received one dose till Tuesday turns up at a vaccination centre to get their second shot, around 45 million people will have been completely vaccinated in the country. This boost is likely to push the number of fully vaccinated people to around 50 million by May 15. There is likely to be no supply constraint because the 120 million doses India has ordered from Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech (100mn from the former alone) will be delivered through April. Which means the success of the drive depends more on logistics, intent, and the willingness among people to take the jab (HT has launched a campaign exhorting them to do so).Watch | Covid update: Russia’s vaccine for animals; Covishield’s shelf life extended; USA deaths﻿Beyond May 11 (when the six-week jump from March 31 ends), the projection assumes that the current two-week average of new shots being administered (average of 1.56 million every day) is retained or that conversely, the number of people receiving their first dose beyond that time period remains a steady 2.44 million (based on our 4-million-a-day shot rate).This means the number of people who are fully vaccinated will cross 50 million around May 15, and 75 million by the end of May. The total number of people who have received at least one vaccine shot is expected to touch 300 million around the end of May with 225 million having received only one shot.By June 16, nearly 100 million are expected to be fully vaccinated across the country, while another 260 million will have received only a single shot – taking the total number of people to have received jabs in the country to around 360 million.To be sure, any vaccination projections are calculated estimates and may be subject to daily fluctuations as there is a wide time range (from four weeks to a maximum of eight) where people may return for their second shot, which may alter numbers at a daily level||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drive-widens-50mn-set-for-both-shots-by-may-15-101617224538784.html
01-04-2021||India||Mamata letter urges united anti-BJP front||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee urged Opposition parties to unite against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its government, writing letters to top leaders of non-BJP parties in the middle of a high-stakes election in the eastern state.Banerjee’s letter, dated March 28 but made public by the TMC on Wednesday, alleged that a recent bill bestowing more powers to the lieutenant governor in Delhi was a “direct attack” on the country’s federal structure. It raised seven other allegations and suggested a meeting of Opposition leaders after the ongoing five-state assembly polls to chart a plan of action against the BJP.“I am writing this letter to you, and to several leaders of non-BJP parties, to convey my serious concerns over a series of assaults by the BJP and its government at the Centre on democracy and constitutional federalism in India,” Banerjee said in the three-page document.The letter was written days before the second phase of polls in Bengal, where Banerjee is taking on her protégé-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP in the prestigious seat of Nandigram. The BJP is aiming to dislodge the TMC for its first election victory in Bengal while Banerjee is gunning for a third consecutive term.The letter was sent to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, DMK president MK Stalin, Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav, National Conference’s Farooq Abdullah, Peoples Democratic Party’s Mehbooba Mufti and CPI-ML’s Dipankar Bhattacharya.It was also dispatched to six chief ministers: Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal, Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray, Jharkhand’s Hemant Soren, Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik, Andhra Pradesh’s Jagan Mohan Reddy and Telangana’s K Chandrasekhar Rao.Banerjee’s letter drew broad support from Opposition leaders but flak from the BJP, which said the move betrayed her nervousness about the ongoing polls.Also read | 'SOS call', 'confession of defeat': What BJP leaders said on Mamata's letter“Democracy should be the last word in @MamataOfficial & @AITCofficial dictionary. Their cadre attack @BJP4Bengal candidates, intimidate voters, capture booths, block all hoardings and at the end leaders preach Democracy,” BJP general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh tweeted.TMC insiders said the underlying message was aimed at consolidation of anti-BJP forces in the remaining phases of the eight-phase polls. “We want to show the Opposition is united,” a senior TMC leader said. The CPI(M)-led Left Front, which is fighting the Bengal polls in alliance with the Congress, was excluded from the initiative.In her letter, Banerjee alleged misuse of the governor’s office in non-BJP ruled states, misuse of central agencies like the Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate and withholding funds to non-BJP states, among others.“The BJP wants to make it impossible for non-BJP parties to exercise their Constitutional rights and freedom. It wants to dilute the powers of state governments and downgrade them to mere municipalities. In short it wants to establish a one-party authoritarian rule in India,” the letter read.Banerjee wrote that she would “wholeheartedly work” with these leaders and “all other like-minded political parties in the battle”.Referring to the passage of the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill by Parliament, Banerjee said it was an “extremely grave” development. “With this law, the BJP government at the Centre has snatched away practically all the powers of the democratically elected government of Delhi, and vested them in the hands of the Lt Governor, a nominee of the Centre. The Lt Governor has been made the undeclared Viceroy of Delhi, acting as a proxy for the home minister and the prime minister,” she said. “You will also agree that what the BJP has done in Delhi is not an exception, but has increasingly become a rule.”Most opposition parties backed her.“We have received the letter and we fully agree with her,” said the AAP in a statement.Watch | ‘Mamata Banerjee & PM Modi practicing same politics of communalism’: Owaisi﻿NCP said they extend full support to the TMC chief. “In a way Mamata didi has sought support from all the opposition leaders. Pawar saheb was scheduled to visit West Bengal for three days starting from April 1 but could not do so due to ill health. We extend full support to the TMC and if health conditions improve, Pawar saheb will try to visit West Bengal in the last phase of the elections,” said party spokesperson Nawab Malik, referring to Pawar’s recent illness.Shiv Sena also expressed solidarity with Banerjee. “The opposition has to unit against the BJP to save the democracy and federalism of the country. There is no other alternative. And I think Uddhavji Thackeray has already laid the foundation of uniting the opposition against the BJP,” said Sena chief spokesperson Arvind Sawant.Supriyo Bhattacharrya, principal general secretary of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), said his party was repeatedly raising the same issue. “We have been raising this issue since day one after coming to power in the state. And this is one of the primary reasons we decided to withdraw from Bengal polls and support TMC,” said Bhattacharya.Rashtriya Janata Dal MP Manoj Jha said the letter was very timely. “BJP is virtually berserk in destroying institutions and established democratic norms,” he said.Dipankar Bhattacharya of the CPI-ML said saving the federal framework was certainly a key concern. “All opposition parties should definitely exchange their views and respond unitedly to save the country from the growing crisis of the economy, democracy, federalism and constitutional rule of law,” he said. Mufti said it was imperative for the opposition parties to unite in order to protect democracy.The BJP said the letter was an expression of frustration. “This is a clear sign of frustration and an effort to keep herself relevant knowing very well that defeat in the assembly elections in imminent…At a time when elections are going on in the state she is writing to other leaders of uniting against the BJP. She had made such efforts earlier to but had failed,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, vice-president of the party’s Bengal unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-letter-urges-united-anti-bjp-front-101617219199733.html
01-04-2021||India||UP woman gang-raped in front of husband: Cops||A 19-year-old woman was allegedly gang raped in front of her husband by three persons in a forest area in Agra district on Monday, police said on Wednesday, adding that one person has been detained for interrogation.In her First Information Report (FIR), the woman alleged that she was on her way to Agra city with her husband on a motorcycle when they were intercepted by three men on a bike. She added that they (couple) were dragged to a nearby forest where she was raped by the trio.The survivor also claimed that the accused thrashed the couple and warned them not to report the matter to anyone. The trio took away all the valuables and cash before fleeing from the spot, she said.On Tuesday, a case against two named persons and one unidentified person was registered under sections 376 (D) (gang rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 394 (hurt in attempt of robbery) of Indian Penal Code.While two of the accused were identified as Gauri Rajput and Monu, the identity of the third person is yet to be ascertained, police said.“A case of gang rape, loot and physical assault has been registered against Gauri Rajput and Monu, besides an unidentified person. A search is on for the third accused,” Satyajeet Gupta, superintendent of police (rural), Agra West, said.Police, however, claimed that the couple had initially complained of robbery after they dialed 112 on the day of the alleged incident. After they were told to report the matter at a police station, the couple complained of gang rape, loot and assault, police added.While the woman was sent for medical examination, one of the named accused has been detained for interrogation, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-woman-gang-raped-in-front-of-husband-cops-101617217973655.html
01-04-2021||India||Hiran smothered to death, shows NIA probe||The National Investigation Agency’s initial findings in the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran reveal that he was smothered to death before being thrown into the Thane Creek, which is consistent with the findings of the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) which was initially investigating the murder, people familiar with the development said.“Several handkerchiefs had been stuffed in Hiran’s mouth and it appears his face had been covered ‘tightly’ with another big cloth, due to which he could not breathe. There was some struggle but he seems to have been overpowered,” said an officer at the agency who asked not to be named.The agency, however, doesn’t want to conclude anything till it receives a report from medical experts, who are currently examining the post mortem report along with other evidence.The post mortem report, based on an autopsy conducted on March 5, said that Hiran’s “mouth was closed, tongue within mouth” and “foul smelling blood tinged fluid (was) oozing from nostrils”. It added that there was “abrasion over face on left side at zygomatic area; abrasion over left nostril, upper part; abrasion over right side cheek along ramus of mandible up to chin on right side and abrasion over face 1 cm lateral to outer canthus of right eye”.Hiran’s body was recovered from the creek along Mumbra-Reti-Bunder Road on March 5.Also read | You were duty-bound to file FIR against Deshmukh, HC tells Param Bir SinghNIA investigations, about the motive of murder, have so far revealed that arrested Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze decided to kill Hiran after the latter refused to take the blame for planting an explosive laden vehicle outside Antilla, the residence of billionaire Mukesh Ambani on February 25, as first reported by HT.The vehicle itself was in Hiran’s possession, had been borrowed by Vaze, who knew the former, and then returned in early February. Hiran reported the vehicle stolen on February 18.The agency is also sure that Vaze was physically present at the murder scene, which is suspected to be Gaumukh Chowpatty, but is gathering more evidence regarding his whereabouts at that time. Apart from Vaze, co-accused - Naresh Gour (a bookie) and Vinayak Shinde (a convicted Constable) and several officers of CIU (Crime Intelligence Unit) are being interrogated on this aspect but they have been giving contradictory statements, said a second NIA officer.The systematic destruction of evidence after Hiran’s murder was in “panic”, according to the first officer, as ATS had taken over murder investigation and NIA was knocking at the door over the explosives caseThe Central agency took over the Antilia bomb scare probe on March 8 and arrested Vaze on March 13. NIA officials claim that Vaze came up with the whole plan to restore his lost credibility by solving a sensational case in record time and prove his worth to his superiors, as exclusively reported by HT. Vaze was suspended from the force in 2004, for his involvement in a case of custodial killing, and reinstated only in June 2020“We are not rushing the probe. It’s clear that Vaze is the main conspirator in both the incidents. Those who helped him in Antilia explosive planting and then murder of Hiran are almost identified but we don’t want to jump to conclusion till we have joined every loose end. We will unearth the entire conspiracy very soon,” said a third NIA officer who asked not to be named.NIA officials said they want to understand how many in the CIU (Crime Intelligence Unit), which was then headed by Vaze, were aware of Hiran’s murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hiran-smothered-to-death-shows-nia-probe-101617217921067.html
01-04-2021||India||CM running ‘authoritarian’ govt: Karnataka minister in letter to Guv||Karnataka rural development and Panchayat Raj minister K S Eshwarappa wrote a letter to governor Vajubai Vala on Wednesday accusing chief minister BS Yediyurappa of interference by bypassing departmental rules and running an authoritarian government.In a strongly worded letter to Vala, Eshwarappa said that the chief minister had indiscriminately sanctioned funds to various MLAs and other persons in violation of rules.“I am in pain, to bring to your kind notice, some of the recent actions of our Respected Chief minister relating to my department, which amounts to direct interference in the affairs of ministers-in-charge of departments, in clear violation of Karnataka (Transaction of Business) rules, 1977 and also against the established practices and procedures relating to the affairs of the State administration,” Eshwarappa wrote.He mentions three such orders --allocations of ₹65 crore, ₹774 crore and ₹460 crore (all three road works) --in which the chief minister’s office (CMO) had put pressure on the principal secretary to issue government orders bypassing the minister.Eshwarappa said that he had stayed these orders “on the advice” of the state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president [Nalin Kumar Kateel] and other senior leaders of the party.The minister said that he had registered his objections with the chief minister and that it was to no avail and hence had brought it to the notice of the Governor “these serious lapses and authoritarian ways of running the administration” by the chief minister.Also read | Review panel as Bengaluru accounts for over 60% of Karnataka’s Covid-19 cases﻿“I have kept pending all three above mentioned sanctioned orders (of ₹774, ₹460 , ₹65 crores) which have been issued without taking (the) concerned minister into confidence and also issued directions to the principal secretary not to give effect to the allocations of (the) Finance Department,” Eshwarappa said.Eshwarappa said that he has communicated these issues to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda, General Secretary (Organisation) BL Santosh and Karnataka incharge, Arun Singh as well.The letter has also given the opposition more ammunition to attack the government.“A senior BJP minister has made very serious accusations against CM Yediyurappa in a letter to the Governor. The CM must either immediately submit his resignation or must sack the minister if the accusations aren’t true. Karnataka’s BJP government has become a den of corruption,” DK Shivakumar, the state Congress president posted on Twitter.Eshwarappa could not be reached for comment.The developments come at a time when Yediyurappa already finds himself in a corner over the recent sexual harassment case involving Ramesh Jarkiholi, non-performance of his two-year-old government, cash crunch and growing calls for his removal among other problems.The three bypolls on April 17 have presented the 78-year-old with an opportunity to silence growing dissent and consolidate his position for the remainder of the two years in power.Meanwhile, the Karnataka HC vacated a stay on an order for quashing of an FIR against Yediyurappa who was accused of engineering defections that led to the collapse of the HD Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S)-Congress coalition government in 2019.Yediyurappa is alleged to have lured opposition legislators, in an exercise termed “Operation Kamala”, with the promise of giving them plum portfolios and other monetary rewards.At least 17 legislators from the JD9S)- Congress coalition had defected and helped Yediyurappa to power after weeks and months of high drama in the southern state.“Main case challenging the FIR is still with the High Court but he (Judge) has only vacated the stay now,” said one person aware of the developments, requesting not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-running-authoritarian-govt-k-taka-minister-in-letter-to-guv-101617217854084.html
01-04-2021||India||Bengal, Assam to vote today in high-stakes second phase||Voting for the second phase of elections in 39 seats in Assam and 30 in West Bengal will take place on Thursday amid high security, even as all eyes were on Nandigram, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is taking on her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari of the Bharatiya Janata Party.The Election Commission has imposed Section 144 of the CrPC in and around all polling stations in Nandigram and East Midnapore district, where the constituency falls, and additional security forces have been deployed as both the ruling Trinamool Congress and the BJP alleged that “outsiders” could try to create disturbance on the polling day, moving the Election Commission.“Goons from outside have come and have threatened villagers in places such as Gokulnagar, Boyal and Balarampur areas in Nandigram. We have informed the EC. We hope there would be free and fair polls in Nandigram,” Banerjee told reporters before leaving Nandigram on Wednesday morning.Jay Prakash Majumdar, the BJP’s state vice-president, said the EC will verify the allegations. “We have asked EC to ensure free and fair elections,” he said.BJP president JP Nadda said: “People of Nandigram will give a clear message that TMC will be vanquished from West Bengal.” Banerjee retorted: “In Nandigram, TMC would get 100 out of 100 votes.”A senior official of the poll panel said that around 650 companies of central forces will be deployed in the second phase to guard 10,620 booths across the 30 constituencies in West Bengal. In Nandigram alone, where there are 355 polling booths, around 22 companies of central forces have been deployed.There will also be aerial surveillance with helicopters, webcasting in at least 75% booths, 22 quick response teams, static surveillance teams and micro-observers. There will be one general observer and one police observer, too, for Nandigram, an Election Commission official said.Also read | Mamata letter urges united anti-BJP frontOf the 30 seats that are going to the polls on Thursday, 23 were won by the TMC in 2016. The Left won five seats, while the BJP and the Congress won one seat each.On Wednesday, the poll panel removed the sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) of Haldia and the circle inspector (CI) of Mahishadal in East Midnapore district.In Assam, prominent candidates in the second phase include Parimal Suklabaidya (Dholai), Pijush Hazarika (Jagiroad), Bhabesh Kalita (Rangia), all ministers in the BJP-led government, and the assembly deputy speaker Aminul Haque Laskar (Sonai).Over 7.3 million voters will decide the fates of 345 candidates (26 women) in 13 districts which will go to the polls on April 1. In the first phase, polling took place in 47 seats in 12 districts on March 27.The high-voltage campaign that saw bigwigs from the BJP and Congress touring the state several times in the past week ended on a damp note on Tuesday due to inclement weather.Click here to read full election coverageA day before the polling, Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday targeted the Congress for allegedly killing protesters during the Assam agitation, while Congress leader Rahul Gandhi blamed the ruling BJP of shooting at anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protesters in the state.“Congress, which fired at protesters during the Assam agitation to oust illegal immigrants, has no right to ask for votes. As if it was not enough, the party is now riding piggyback on Badruddin Ajmal’s All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF),” said Shah at a rally at Bijni in Chirang district of Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR). He addressed two more rallies at Hajo and Sonapur.Gandhi spoke of Dipanjal Das, the first of the five people killed in police firing at anti-CAA protesters in December 2019. “Dipanjal was an idea and truly representative of what Assam is. It was not as if one youth was shot at, it felt as if the police (under BJP rule) had fired upon Assam and its people. It was an attempt to murder Assam. I am beginning my speech with Dipanjal, as I feel it’s the most important issue,” Gandhi said while addressing a rally in Chaygaon. Gandhi addressed another rally at Barkhetri later.Most of the focus of the campaign in the second phase was in the three Bengali-majority districts of Barak Valley-Karimganj, Cachar and Hailakandi, which have 15 seats in total.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-assam-to-vote-today-in-high-stakes-second-phase-101617216893529.html
01-04-2021||India||Sabarimala stir looms over Kerala poll battle||With less than a week left for crucial assembly elections in Kerala the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) is busy with its house-to-house contact programme to apprise believers of the “real situation in Sabarimala” even as people living around the revered shrine are disillusioned with the politics over the issue.Having learnt a bitter lesson in 2019 Lok Sabha elections, in which it lost all but one of 20 Lok Sabha seats in the state, the ruling CPIM-led Left Democratic Front is worried --- unrest in Sabarimala was cited as main reason for its rout in those elections.The hill temple and surrounding areas witnessed unrest in 2018 after the state government tried to implement the Supreme Court verdict that removed restrictions on women between the ages of 10 and 50 entering the shrine. The state witnessed five shutdowns and two persons died in violence that rocked the state. Both the Congress (its grouping, the United Democratic Front is the main opposition in the state) and the Bharatiya Janata Party sought to leverage the issue to their advantage .Chittar, a scenic village in Pathanamthitta district, at least 22 km away from the base camp for the Sabarimala temple , Pambha, is where the unrest against the verdict first began in 2018. People there say it was a spontaneous movement sans any political colour ; even Communists participated in the voluntary movement, they add.Also read | Kerala High Court upholds EC guidelines to prevent bogus votingInterestingly, the initial response of even the Congress and BJP was to welcome the verdict. Then Congress president Rahul Gandhi and senior leaders of BJP including O Rajagopal termed it “historic”.But as spontaneous protests broke out throughout the state, the parties were forced to change their position and stand with teeming believers.State Congress leaders reportedly sent an SOS to the party high command pointing out that the BJP would reap the benefits of opposing the verdict. “I can see enough validity in the argument that tradition needs to be protected,” Gandhi later said, explaining the change in his position on Sabarimala. “It was a swift political move that paid rich dividends for the Congress. Otherwise, the BJP would have hijacked the whole issue,” said political analyst Sunnykutty Abraham.The Congress won 15 seats in the Lok Sabha election; Gandhi himself was elected from Wayanad; he lost in his family’s pocket borough Amethi.The issue created deep fissures in the state.P Abhilash spent 53 days in jail after his arrest during a hymn-chanting session at Nilackkal, the second base camp of the temple in 2018. Once a Communist sympathizer he’s now in the BJP. “Since I was not identified with any political party nobody came to release me on bail. But I firmly stood with my faith,” he said.Another BJP worker, Jayaprakash Chittar, who was in the hardware trade for two decades, lost his business after 17 cases were foisted on him. “Though the court gave its verdict in 2018 it never asked the state government to implement it immediately with force. Communists are known atheists and we all believe the government tried to impose the order in haste,” he said.Another devotee K Aneesh said he spent six days in the deep forest surviving only on water to dodge the police. Last month, in a move clearly aimed at the elections, the government withdrew all cases, other than criminal ones, registered during the temple agitation. But the scars run deep.“My uncle Chandran Unnithan (57) sacrificed his life for the movement three years ago when stones were pelted on him during a hymn- chanting session in Pandalam. We hope his sacrifice won’t be wasted,” said his niece P Mini. Unnithan died after allegedly being targeted by a group of CPI(M) workers at a fasting venue in Pandalam in Pathanamthitta. He suffered serious head injuries and succumbed in a local hospital.Still, despite their continuing faith in tradition, and opposition to the verdict -- it will now be taken up by a Constitution Bench of the apex court, although it has not been stayed -- some of the faithful are wary of political parties. “During the 2019 parliament election, PM Modi said in Pathanamthitta that the Centre will intervene to protect tradition . Two years have passed since then. Despite the tall promises nothing has happened on the ground,” said Venugopalan Nair, a regular at the temple for the past five decades.Like some others, Nair would rather politicians leave the issue alone.Yet, Sabarimala tops the election manifestos of both the BJP and the Congress with the two rival national parties promising a special legislation to protect temple customs. The CPI (M) has tried to maintain a balance and said it will implement the final verdict only after consulting all stake holders and that the issue will now come up before a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court.Watch | 'Don’t tell women what to wear, whom to love’: Priyanka Gandhi in Kerala﻿On Tuesday, when chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan was asked about the temple issue, he said: “Why you are frequently asking this? Like opposition parties a section of the media also wants to fan it (the issue). Pilgrimage to the temple is going on peacefully for the last two years.”His reference is to the unstated compromise that has been reached regarding the temple. The tradition of barring women in the reproductive age group continues; the state government has not tried to enforce the ruling; and no one has really tried to insist that the ruling be enforced.“The opposition is bankrupt. They are raking up the temple issue because they don’t have anything else to talk. It is a ploy to turn believers against the government,” said CPI(M) acting secretary A Vijyaraghavan . Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala hit back saying that devotees were dealt with brutally at many places. “The CPI(M) wants to create an impression that nothing happened at the temple. ” he said.G Sukumaran Nair, general secretary of Nair Service Society, a powerful socio-cultural body fighting for temple customs for many years, said that all parties were playing double game over the issue. “We have immense faith in the judiciary and we feel our customs and traditions will be protected,” he said.In the 2019 parliament election the Congress Party’s Anto Antony retained the Pathanamthitta seat defeating CPI(M) and BJP candidates. The CPI(M) represents Ranni assembly constituency where the temple is situated. In adjoining Konni seat, BJP state president K Surendran is contesting . Surendran is the lone candidate in the state contesting in two seats, Konni in Pathanamthitta and Mancheswaram in north Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-stir-looms-over-kerala-poll-battle-101617216892969.html
01-04-2021||India||UP CM Yogi Adityanath says DMK, Congress failed to safeguard women||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday hit out at both the Congress and DMK, alleging that they have failed to safeguard women.He also slammed the two allies on dynasty politics.Referring to alleged derogatory remarks made by some political party leaders, including DMK MP A Raja,recently, Adityanath said this has proved that there would be no protection to women if these parties were voted to power.Addressing a rally here, seeking votes for Vanathi Srinivasan, BJP candidate for the Coimbatore south assembly constituency, he said the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi was always development of Tamil Nadu, both industrially and economically.If the BJP-AIADMK was voted to power, the state would get more funds for development activities, he said.The BJP-led government has sanctioned to Coimbatore city a defense corridor for manufacturing components for the sector, by which it will become self-reliant (Atmanirbhar) and result in generation of large employment, Adityanath added.The chief minister also thanked the people of Tamil Nadu for contributing nearly ₹120 crore for the construction of the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya.Adityanath earlier visited the Puliyakulam Lord Ganesha temple and offered prayers.From there he was led to the venue of the public meeting by 1,000 two-wheeler riders in a procession, covering a seven km distance.Vehicular traffic was paralysed on main roads during the period.Meanwhile, canvassing votes for party candidate G Pandurangan at Virudhunagar, Adityanath accused the DMK and Congress of following retrogressing approach to development.Only the BJP-led NDA alone can ensure more development to Tamil Nadu, he said.The vision of Prime Minister Modi was always for development of Tamil Nadu and voting the BJP-led NDA in the state in the April 6 assembly election will ensure more development to the state besides funds for infrastructure projects, he said.He alleged that whenever the DMK and Congress got the opportunity to rule, they indulged in corruption and perpetuated dynasty rule."In contrast Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision for development has furthered the nation's prosperity and projected altogether a new and lofty image of new India globally," he said."You should send more MLAs from the BJP and AIADMK to the assembly so that the NDA can take the development vision of Modiji forward in Tamil Nadu," Adityanath appealed, while urging the people to reject the DMK-led combine.The UP chief minister, who commenced his speech in Tamil and switched over to Hindi, invoked the blessings of Lord Muruga for his party's victory in the elections."Vetrivel, Vetrivel, vetri vetri vetrivel," he chanted while concluding his speech and the huge crowd followed suit, reminiscent of state BJP's Vel yatra last year, taken out in protest against the alleged denigration of Tamil hymn Kanda Sashti Kavacham by an atheist group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-says-dmk-congress-failed-to-safeguard-women-101617215985210.html
01-04-2021||India||States gear up for 3rd phase of vaccine drive; key to limiting 2nd wave: Experts||States readied new inoculation centres, stocked extra doses of vaccines and trained workers to deal with a possible surge of beneficiaries as India opened up Covid-19 immunisation to all citizens above 45 from Thursday, marking a critical milestone in the country’s fight against rising infections.Experts say the third phase of the drive – the first phase was aimed at frontline workers and the second at those above 60, or above 45 with comorbidities – is pivotal because picking up the pace of shots will determine if vaccinations can control the second wave of cases. Earlier phases were dogged by a slow rollout, teething problems, vaccine hesitancy and misinformation.The Centre asked states and Union Territories to identify low vaccine-coverage pockets, particularly in districts reporting a surge in new infections, and take corrective action. National Health Authority CEO and Empowered Group on COVID Vaccination chairperson RS Sharma and Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting with health secretaries, mission directors of NHM and immunisation officers of all states and UTs. States were also asked to focus on vaccine storage and reduce wastage.In Maharashtra, which is driving the surge, officials said they didn’t immediately plan to add more centres to the 3,000 functional sites. The state has 33 million people above 45.“Against the capacity of inoculating more than 3lakh beneficiaries every day, our average vaccination is 2.5 lakh. This means we can take up additional number of beneficiaries from the new group from the phase starting from tomorrow. If needed we will increase the number of centres with the permission from the central government,” said an official from the health department.In Uttar Pradesh, vaccination will commence at all wellness centers, medical colleges, government hospitals, community health centres and primary health centres. The state has 4,500 vaccination sites, said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health.Also read | Covid-19 vaccination drive widens, 50 million set for both shots by May 15Officials in Bihar said it was left with around 800,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine as it prepares to vaccinate 18 million people above 45. The state decided to increase vaccination centers from 1,700 to 2,500.“With 8 lakh doses of vaccine remaining, the Centre has committed to send additional 8 lakh doses of vaccine on April 2,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director, state health society, Bihar. Given the shortage, the state is rotating vaccines from underperforming cold chain points to districts where vaccine utilisation was more.Punjab said it will vaccinate on all seven days and use every government health centre. The state has around 7.5 million people above 45. Neighbouring Haryana said it plans to inoculate 200,000 people on the first day across 2,000 sites. In Madhya Pradesh, the state government set up 3,500 centres to inoculate 350,000 people daily. “We review the vaccination daily and if needed, the centers would be increased,” said Santosh Shukla, state immunisation officer. There are 14.5 million people in the state above 45.Uttarakhand said it will focus on the capital Dehradun and Haridwar, where the Mahakumbh is starting from Thursday. “We will be focusing on districts where more Covid cases are being reported like Haridwar and Dehradun. We have enough centres and if the need arises we will increase the centres,” said Kuldeep Singh Martoliya, Uttarakhand’s in-charge for immunisation. The state has 2.5 million people above 45.Also read | From today, vaccination drive opens to everyone above the age of 45 yearsAndhra Pradesh aimed to vaccinate 10 million people above 45 and state health commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar said the vaccination will be done in 1,500-odd primary health centres. In Telangana, shots will be administered at 935 vaccination centres. “Fifty lakh people above 45 are expected to get vaccinated from April 1,” director of state health G Srinivasa Rao said.Odisha’s director of family welfare Bijay Panigrahi said while vaccinating street vendors, meat and fish sellers, auto and bus drivers, school and college teachers, salon and barber shop employees and security guards will be prioritised. He said the state has 11.6 million people above 45. The state will vaccinate them at 1,200 sites.In Assam, no additional vaccination centers have been opened. The state has 4,948 government facilities and 289 private hospitals registered to vaccinate people. “The existing ones would be enough to cope with the demand. In coming days, we are planning to expand the vaccination drive to ensure that all eligible get vaccinated in the quickest possible time,” said Munindra Nath Ngatey, director, health services (family welfare), Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-gear-up-for-3rd-phase-of-vaccine-drive-key-to-limiting-2nd-waveexperts-101617215572844.html
01-04-2021||India||Bhagwat to address Kashmiri Pandits||After leading the millennium celebrations of Abhinavagupta, a 10th century thinker and a renowned proponent of Shaivism from Kashmir, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh is all set to focus attention on two other personalities from the region, Shreya Bhatt, a 15th century vaid (physician) and King Lalitaditya of the Karkota dynasty who ruled from 725 AD for over three decades.Programmes to highlight the life and contribution of both Bhatt and Lalitaditya will held between April 12 and 14 and culminate with RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat addressing the members of the Kashmiri Pandit community through an online interaction.This is the first time that Bhagwat will be addressing members of the community, though he has previously interacted with a limited audience of Kashmiri Pandits during Shivratri celebrations in 2011 said a person familiar with the matter. The meeting is also significant because it comes almost two years after the Centre abrogated Article 370 that gave Jammu & Kashmir special status, and converted the erstwhile state into two Union Territories.“The idea is to bring together the members of the Kashmiri Pandit community who are scattered across the globe after their exodus from the (Kashmir) valley; to help them stay connected with their roots and culture and instil in them the resolve to return to their homeland,” said a senior Sangh functionary who asked not to be named.The programmes are being organised by the Jammu-based Sanjeevani Sharda Kendra, which was set up in 1997 as a socio-cultural organisation. The Kendra is inspired by the Sangh.AK Tickoo, vice chairperson of the Kendra said the programmes are being held to commemorate the memory of Bhatt and King Lalitaditya who were icons in Kashmir.“Two years after he ascended the throne, Sultan Zain-Ul-Abidin developed a dangerous boil that could not be treated by well-known Hakims from Central Asia. It was Shreya Bhatt who was successful in treating the boil. When the Sultan recovered and wanted to reward Bhatt the only thing he asked for was to allow Hindus to embrace their faith, lift restrictions on their rituals and rebuild the destroyed temples and libraries. In his honour we will mark April 12 as Samarpan divas (sacrifice day),” Tickoo said.April 14 will be designated as Shourya Divas (valour day) to commemorate the valour of Lalitaditya. “He fought valiantly against the Arabs and the Turks. He conquered vast parts of Central Asia and Tibet and his valour is easily comparable to that of well-known heroes of Indian history,” Tickoo said.A sankalp or a resolution will also be adopted on the occasion of the new year as per the Hindu almanac on April 12, which is celebrated as Navreh by Kashmiri Pandits. “Dressed in our traditional attire we will take the pledge of celebrating the new year next year in Kashmir. It is a resolve to keep the ties with our homeland,” Tickoo said.At least 60 Kashmiri Pandit organisations are participating in the event which is expected to be joined by over one lakh community members Tickoo said.The return of Kashmiri Pandits to Kashmir -- they were forced out under threat of massacre in 1989 and 1990 -- is an issue that has been raised by the Sangh and mentioned by the BJP in its manifesto. The programmes are in line with the Sangh’s efforts to build bridges with the community. “There is a perception that the BJP has been in power for over six years, but nothing has happened as far as the return of Pandits is concerned,” said a resident of the Jagati Township in Jammu that is home to Kashmiris who migrated from the valley.“There have been conditions that led to the exodus of the community not once but seven times. The community must strive to return to its roots and keep alive its ties with the homeland. This initiative is in line with Sangh’s support for the return of the KPs to the valley,” said a Jammu based Sangh functionary.Dr Agnishekhar Convenor of Panun Kashmir, an organisation that seeks a separate homeland for Pandits in the valley welcomed the opportunity to interact with Bhagwat.“From the day we were ousted (from the valley) we have been fighting for our return, rehabilitation and reversal of genocide. There has been a cultural genocide as well; our history and icons have been destroyed. It’s a good thing that the RSS is organising this function, but the members of the community have been conscious of what has happened and have been fighting for our return.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bbhagwat-to-address-kashmiri-pandits-101617215212866.html
01-04-2021||India||LPG price reduced, auto fuel rates may also be cut soon||State-run oil marketing companies reduced the cooking gas rate by ₹10 a cylinder from Thursday, and plan to cut prices of auto fuels in the coming days, with the fall being steeper for diesel compared to petrol, two people aware of the development said.The government-controlled Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), India’s largest fuel retailer, on Wednesday announced reducing the cooking gas price. “With a view to give relief to domestic LPG [liquefied petroleum gas or cooking gas] consumers, the price of Domestic LPG cylinder has been reduced by ₹10 per cylinder from ₹819 per cylinder to ₹809 per cylinder at Delhi effective 1st April 2021. The same reduction has been carried out in other markets,” it said in a statement.International oil prices are softening even as they remain volatile, but OMCs will reap some benefits of lower prices, and pass these on, the people added on condition of anonymity.Petrol and diesel prices peaked on February 27, with global prices hardening and the Centre and the states not willing to forgo on the tax revenue they earn on fuel by cutting duties. The prices were frozen on February 27, immediately after the Election Commission (EC) announced assembly elections in four states and a Union Territory. After keeping auto fuel prices frozen for 25 days, public sector retailers reduced petrol and diesel rates in three small doses by 61 paise per litre and 60 paise a litre, respectively since March 24.Also read | Petrol and diesel prices in your city, check today's rates herePetroleum secretary Tarun Kapoor said that although the international oil market is still volatile, prices of crude and petroleum products have softened from their peak in early March. “We are hoping that international prices would remain stable and would not go up so that the benefit can be passed on to the consumer.”Brent crude, which was trading below $60 a barrel until February 5, 2021, saw a strong rally to peak at $69.63 per barrel on March 11 because of a supply squeeze by the oil producers’ cartel, the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, including Russia (together known as OPEC+). The cartel cut about one-tenth of global output in April 2020 after Brent crude plunged below $20 per barrel that month due to weak demand on account of a lockdown across many countries. But, OPEC+ did not raise output to push up price even as demand resumed.“Much will depend on OPEC+ as they would like choke supply to artificially push up oil prices. But that would not be so easy without losing their market share as many consumers are drawn to other oil producers offering better terms such as the US,” said one person mentioned above who has direct knowledge of India’s energy security matters. The ministerial meeting of OPEC+ is scheduled on Thursday to decide the output policy. A Reuters’ report quoting a research note of JP Morgan said OPEC+ would tread cautiously by largely rolling over its production cuts into May.A second person, who works for a state-run refiner, said state-owned oil marketers are a better placed to absorb some price volatility to keep petrol, diesel and cooking gas prices stable.SC Sharma, an energy expert and former officer on special duty at the erstwhile Planning Commission, said: “As per PPAC [Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell] Snapshot of February 2021; the overall refining margins for Indian refineries for the first nine months of FY 2020-21 are far better compared to the FY 2019-20.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lpg-price-reduced-auto-fuel-rates-may-also-be-cut-soon-101617215152877.html
01-04-2021||India||Heatwave grips states, IMD predicts a warmer summer||Even as parts of the country experience a heat wave, the India Meteorological Department has warned that maximum temperatures in most parts of India will be above normal between April and June.“We are seeing the heat wave being recorded in a very large area covering east, central and northwest India in March. It’s quite early this year. In the past 10 years we have seen heat waves occurring in April ; they used to start mainly in May before that. But this time, very high temperatures have been recorded in March also. This is mainly because of lack of rainfall, very dry air which gets heated quickly, clear skies and direct sunshine,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.But the condition would abate in two to three days, she added, on account of “strong westerly winds.” Indeed, Wednesday was a relatively pleasant day in Delhi, with a maximum temperature of 37.9 degrees Celsius, 6 degrees above normal. But on Monday, March 29, the maximum temperature in the Capital touched 40.1 degrees Celsius (CHECK), the highest in 76 years.IMD also said on Wednesday that above normal maximum or day temperatures (0.37 to 0.62 degree C above normal) are likely over most of the subdivisions of north, northwest and few subdivisions of east central India during the following three months (April to June).Below normal day temperatures (0.16 to 0.44 degree C below normal) are likely only in some parts of Peninsular India, east, northeast and extreme north India, it added.Above normal minimum or night temperatures are likely over few subdivisions along the west coast and west India. However, below normal season averaged minimum temperatures are likely over few subdivisions of northwest, central, east and extreme north India.On Wednesday, heat wave conditions were recorded in most parts of northwest and central India with severe heat wave conditions in isolated pockets over West Rajasthan.Temperatures in excess of 40 degrees C were recorded in many parts of Vidarbha, Maharashtra, East Uttar Pradesh, West Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Odisha; in some parts of West Rajasthan, Saurashtra, Kutch, Chhattisgarh, East Madhya Pradesh ; and in a few parts of East Rajasthan, West Uttar Pradesh, Gangetic West Bengal, Gujarat region, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada, Telangana, North Interior Karnataka, Rayalaseema and Tamil Nadu.Also read | Sizzler of a March turns out to be the hottest in 11 years, says IMDThe highest maximum temperature recorded on Tuesday was 44.6 degrees C at Baripada in Odisha. Bhubaneshwar recorded the highest temperature of 44 degrees C on Wednesday.Maximum temperatures are likely to fall by 2-4 degrees C over most parts of northwest and central India during the next few days, IMD said in its bulletin. Strong surface winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) are likely to blow over parts of Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh during next 48 hours, it added.But there’s no denying that the heat wave is early, experts said.“This year heat wave conditions have set in quite early. “There were hardly any western disturbances in January and February. In March there was an intense western disturbance but we still have a large deficiency,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Western disturbances are cyclones originating in the Mediterranean that bring colder temperatures and, sometimes, rains, to parts of India.And the heat is likely to continue.There is a high probability (60 to 100%) of above normal maximum temperatures over most subdivisions of north, northwest and few subdivisions of east central India (Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Odisha), IMD said on Wednesday. There is also a 50 to 100% probability of most subdivisions of Peninsular India; few subdivisions of east (Gangetic West Bengal), northeast (Sikkim and Sub Himalayan West Bengal and Assam and extreme north India (J&K and Ladakh) experiencing below normal maximum temperatures, it added in its seasonal forecast based on predictions from the Monsoon Mission Coupled Forecasting System (MMCFS) model developed by ministry of earth sciences.The cooling effect of La Nina, a global weather pattern, started waning in March according to the meteorological department. La Nina conditions may completely weaken and turn neutral during April which could mean a harsh summer here.IMD’s monsoon mission coupled forecasting system has indicated the likely warming of sea surface temperatures (SSTs) over the central and eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean in April and May which indicates a transition of La Nina condition to the so-called ENSO neutral condition.“La Nina has started weakening. It was at its peak in January and February. La Nina is often associated with lower temperatures in India. But that is now unlikely during the rest of summer and monsoon months.Overall, we can say La Nina will phase out gradually,” DS Pai, senior climate scientist at IMD said last week.El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, whilst La Niña has the opposite effect. In India for example, El Nino is associated with drought or weak monsoon while La Nina is associated with strong monsoon and above average rains and colder winters.According to IMD, a heat wave is recorded in areas where the normal maximum temperatures are in excess of 40 degrees Celsius when the actual maximum temperature is between 4 degrees C and 5 degrees C higher . For regions where the normal maximum temperatures are 40 degrees Celsius or lower, a hear wave is decalred when the actual maximum temperature is 5 degrees C to 6 degrees C higher. A heat wave is declared only when the maximum temperature of a station reaches at least 40 degrees C for the plains and at least 30 degrees C in the hills. Heat waves can also be declared when the actual maximum temperature remains above 45 degrees C or more for a day irrespective of normal maximum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwave-grips-states-imd-predicts-a-warmer-summer-101617215092983.html
01-04-2021||India||CID was wary of Mufti speaking against Centre abroad, says official||Srinagar Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti was denied a fresh passport after J&K Police’s Criminal Investigative Department (CID) raised concerns that she could possibly issue statements against the Centre during her stay abroad, officials familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.Mufti and her mother Gulshan Nazir planned to travel to Dubai to attend a family function in May, the officials cited above added. Besides Dubai, there was a possibility that the PDP leader would travel to the US where her elder sister resides, they said.The PDP leader’s passport expired last May and both she and her mother applied for new ones in December. On Monday, the former chief minister claimed that she was denied a passport on the grounds that it was “detrimental to the security of India”.While refusing clearance (of fresh passport), the officials cited above said, the CID referred to a few statements made by the former chief minister following the revocation of Article 370 and 35A in 2019, and her release from prison last year.“The CID feared that after getting the passport, Mehbooba Mufti would travel to some countries and her statements abroad could create problems; so her case wasn’t cleared,” said one of the officials.Also read | Mehbooba Mufti denied passport after J-K CID report cites national securityStating that travelling is a fundamental right of any citizen, PDP chief spokesperson Sukhail Bukhari said: “Whether she was planning to visit Dubai or elsewhere, it is her right.”On J&K CID’s concerns that Mufti could possibly make remarks against the government outside, Sukhail said: She (Mufti) has been asking for the restoration of Article 370 and 35A. What is wrong in that, she can make this statement anywhere.”In a letter to Mufti on March 26, the regional passport office mentioned that the additional director-general of police, J&K CID, had not recommended the issuance of a fresh passport to Mufti. The PDP chief moved the Jammu and Kashmir High Court but her petition was dismissed on Monday.“Under BJP’s rule, Indian constitution is being undermined time & again. Only option & recourse left is the judiciary. Once they too decide to wash their hands off matters which involve our fundamental rights where does one go?” she posted on Twitter on Wednesday.According to the officials, the PDP chief’s passport was rejected by the CID wing after her name popped up during an investigation. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is already probing a case of money distribution to militants via PDP youth president Waheen ur Rahman Parra , one of Mufti’s aides who has been detained in the matter.Last week, Mufti was questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Srinagar for five hours in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cid-was-wary-of-mufti-speaking-against-centre-abroad-says-official-over-passport-row-101617213832792.html
01-04-2021||India||NIA raids activists in Andhra, Telangana||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday conducted raids at the premises of several Adivasi, Dalit and human rights activities in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana for their alleged links with Maoists, people familiar with the development said.Among those being raided till late night include Chilika Chandrasekhar (general secretary of Andhra Pradesh Civil Liberties Committee), a senior lawyer in Hyderabad and an organisation involved in human rights work.HT had reported exclusively on Sunday that the central anti-terror probe agency has booked at least 64 persons – mostly activists and a journalist – under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and sedition for helping Maoists in their activities. This is NIA’s second case against activists after Bhima-Koregaon probe, in which several activists like Sudha Bhardwaj, Anand Teltumbde, Professor Hany Babu MT, Father Stan Swamy have already been arrested for allegedly being part of Maoists’ frontal networks to increase their influence.The prominent activists named in NIA First Information Report are – Chilika Chandrasekhar, VS Krishna, Human Rights Forum (HRF) coordinator for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh – who has been speaking against Andhra’s anti-Naxal force – the Greyhounds – for allegedly raping 11 tribal women in 2007 in the Vakapalli incident; and Duddu Prabhakar (a prominent Dalit activist).Chandrasekhar told HT – “The NIA team is at my residence in Guntur without presence of any intermediary. My wife is at home alone. They have not allowed anybody to see anything”.It was not clear if Krishna’s premises were also being searched by the agency. Prabhakar is currently in jail after he was arrested by Andhra Pradesh police few weeks ago.Also read | NIA takes over Andhra probe against activistsA NIA officer, who didn’t want to be named, said most of the 64 accused named in the FIR are being raided to collect evidence on their involvement in the conspiracy. This officer added that the agency wants to unearth the entire ‘urban-naxals’ network.The latest case was registered by Andhra Pradesh police on November 23 last year after the arrest of a TV journalist from Visakhapatnam, Pangi Naganna (30). It is alleged that Naganna worked as a courier for Maoists and had been passing information to the ultras inside the jungle about police movements and as instructed by Maoist leaders he was involved in instigating villagers to stop the forces from combing operations, obstruct police from entering villages, revolt against police parties and hold rallies against the government. Revolutionary Maoist literature, press notes, medicines, wire bundles and other incriminating material was said to have been recovered from his bag at the time of arrest.During his interrogation, Naganna said he facilitated meetings between Maoists and civil society organisations.It was on the basis of Naganna’s confession that the state police had named VS Krishna as well as Akkiraju Haragopal – a senior Central Committee member of the CPI (Maoist). The state police had further alleged that Krishna had assured Haragopal of spreading Maoist ideology in urban areas. Haragopal too is named as an accused in NIA case.It is further alleged that Chilika Chandrasekhar also met Maoists, according to Naganna’s confession.Telangana Civil Liberties Committee president G Laxman confirmed that the NIA sleuths, along with the Andhra Pradesh police, raided the residence of V Raghunath, high court advocate and vice-president of civil liberties committee at Dilsukhnagar in Hyderabad.“The searches have been going on since 6 pm. The NIA authorities seized the laptop and the computer of Raghunath and inspected them,” Laxman said and condemned what he described as illegal raids by the NIA on the advocates and other rights activists and writers.(with inputs from Srinivasa Rao Apparasu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-raids-activists-in-andhra-telangana-101617213772713.html
01-04-2021||India||Pakistan green-lights sugar, cotton trade with India||The Pakistan government paved the way for resumption of limited trade relations with India by allowing imports of sugar and cotton from the latter on Wednesday, almost two years after commercial ties were snapped.The green signal for the imports from the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC) of Pakistan’s Cabinet reflected a recent thaw in relations between New Delhi and Islamabad after the armies of the two sides recommitted themselves to a ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir last month.Pakistan’s finance minister Hammad Azhar, who was appointed to the position by Prime Minister Imran Khan only on Tuesday, told a news conference in Islamabad that the move will allow the country to cope with the rising price of sugar and a shortage of cotton.The Cabinet committee approved imports of up to 500,000 tonnes of sugar by the private sector and allowed imports of cotton up to the end of June to meet the needs of small and medium enterprises.“Following an increase in the price of sugar, we allowed imports from across the world but the prices around the world are also high, which means imports aren’t possible. In our neighbouring country India, the price of sugar is lower than the price in Pakistan,” Azhar said, speaking in Urdu.“So we have decided to allow trading in sugar with India, [with imports of] up to 500,000 tonnes by the private sector,” he added.The difference in the price of sugar in the two countries is estimated to be 15% to 20% and the imports will help cover a minor shortfall and reduce prices. “The benefits will go to the poor of Pakistan,” Azhar said.Also read | We too want peaceful ties, Imran tells ModiNoting that there is great demand for cotton in Pakistan as textile exports had increased and last year’s crop wasn’t good, Azhar said: “We had allowed cotton imports from around the world but not from India, and this makes a difference to SMEs or the smaller industries. The bigger firms can import cotton from Egypt or other countries and even at expensive prices, but this is needed by SMEs”.“Today, on a proposal from the commerce ministry, the ECC decided that we will open imports [of cotton] from India till the end of June.”Azhar sidestepped a question from a reporter on the resumption of trade ties with India without addressing the Kashmir issue by saying: “If the burden on the ordinary man is reduced by trading with some country, there is no loss in it.”On the Indian side, Pakistan’s decision will benefit growers and merchants in Punjab, which has for long had trade relations with the neighbouring country and was a key supplier of vegetables, fruits and other agricultural products. Trade has invariably been hit whenever tensions spiked between India and Pakistan, and this was also case when the 2019 Pulwama suicide attack triggered a military standoff.Pakistan’s National Security Committee had unilaterally suspended trade relations with India in August 2019 after New Delhi scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status.The move by the Indian and Pakistani armies to strictly adhere to the ceasefire on the LoC from February 25 was the outcome of behind-the-scenes contacts between the two sides and led to a thaw in relations.In recent weeks, Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa has spoken of the need to “bury the past and move forward”, while Prime Minister Khan has said India will have to take the first step for improving ties by addressing Kashmir, the only issue standing in the way of better relations.After Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for an atmosphere of trust and devoid of terrorism for better relations between the two sides in a message sent to his Pakistani counterpart on Pakistan Day on March 23, Khan responded by saying that his country desires peaceful and cooperative ties.“Creation of an enabling environment is imperative for a constructive and result-oriented dialogue,” Khan said in his response sent to Modi on Monday.Though external affairs minister S Jaishankar didn’t meet his Pakistani counterpart on the margins of the Heart of Asia ministerial conference in Tajikistan on Tuesday, both sides have dialled down the rhetoric amid indications that more steps are likely to be taken to normalise relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-green-lights-sugar-cotton-trade-withindia-101617213652680.html
01-04-2021||India||After Sopore attack, authorities take stock of security for Amarnath Yatra||Officials in Kashmir have been asked to review security preparedness in view of the upcoming Amarnath Yatra, after two councillors and four security personnel were killed in separate attacks over the last week.Kashmir inspector general of police (IGP) Vijay Kumar on Tuesday held a review meeting through video conferencing with range DIGs and district SSPs of Kashmir zone.“IGP Kashmir was briefed by the officers about the overall security scenarios in their respective areas and the security measures being adopted to counter the challenges. IGP Kashmir urged upon the officers to revisit the existing security deployments including checkpoints/nakas at strategic locations, surprise nakas, limited surprise CASOs in crowded places,” a police spokesperson said.The IGP directed officials to strategise police deployments on a day-to-day basis in view of the Amarnath Yatra, the spokesperson said. The annual Amarnath Yatra will begin in June and the government is expecting nearly 600,000 pilgrims.Also read | No infiltration attempts reported from LoC along North Kashmir in last 3 monthsA police official and two councillors were killed in an attack in Sopore on Monday afternoon. Last week, militants attacked a CRPF convoy in Lawaypora on the Srinagar-Baramulla national highway. Three CRPF officials were killed in the attack.The officials have been asked to formulate SOPs so that all proactive measures, including cordon and search operations, placing cut-off points on exit routes, use of drones, are adopted immediately.Kumar also directed the officers to review the existing security deployed with protected and vulnerable people.On Wednesday morning, the senior superintendent of police in Srinagar, Sandeep Chaudhary, conducted a tour of hotels in Srinagar, where protected persons are accommodated.“More CCTV cameras and centralised surveillance of such guards is being enhanced to ensure safety of protected persons. Men deployed on guards were briefed to stick to SOPs very strictly and remain alert round the clock,” the police spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-sopore-attack-authorities-take-stock-of-security-for-amarnath-yatra-101617213653248.html
01-04-2021||India||Farmers’ body plans to hold march to Parliament in May||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 32 farmers groups, on Wednesday said that thousands of farmers, protesting against the three agricultural laws, will march to Parliament in May in a fresh push towards a repeal of the central laws.Unveiling its plan for the agitation for the next two months, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said it will continue its movement from camps along the borders of Delhi and undertake a series of protests, including blocking expressways leading to the national capital.“A Parliament march on foot has been planned within the first fortnight of May. This programme will be completely peaceful. People will come in their vehicles from their villages to the borders of Delhi and then walk to Parliament. The exact date will be announced soon,” Gurnam Singh Charuni, a key leader of the farmers’ body said at a press conference here.Farmers, labourers, women, people from Dalit, Adivasi and Bahujan communities, and unemployed youth will take part in the march to Parliament, Charuni said. The farmers also plan to block the KMP expressway on April 10 for 24 hours.Also read | Watch: Farmers dance, sing to celebrate Holi at Ghazipur borderThousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year, seeking a repeal of the new farm laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by agri businesses.The government has maintained that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a framework for contract farming.Farm unions and the government have failed to resolve the deadlock over the new legislation despite 11 rounds of negotiations.“Special precautions will be taken so that what happened on January 26 will not be repeated,” Charuni said.A tractor march by the protesting farmers on Republic Day this year turned violent as protesters pulled apart barricades, clashed with police and stormed the Red Fort. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha then said that the violence was a conspiracy to tarnish the agitation.For the march to Parliament in May, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha plans to constitute a committee to control protesters and deal with police action during the protest.Among other plans to intensify their protests, the farmers said they will blockade offices of the Food Corporation of India on April 5 and observe Samvindan Bachao Divas (Save Constitution Day) on April 14, the birth anniversary of Bhim Rao Ambedkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-body-plans-to-hold-march-to-parliament-in-may-101617213592776.html
01-04-2021||India||Assembly elections: Facebook to curb hate speech in India||Facebook on Wednesday announced its plans to remove any content found to be in violation of the policy it has formulated to check hate speech in view of elections in four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry. It cited experiences from the earlier elections and added Facebook is now taking steps to enhance civic engagement, combat hate speech, limit misinformation, and remove voter suppression.The first phases of staggered elections in West Bengal and Assam were held on March 27. Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Puducherry will go to the polls on April 6. The election results will be declared on May 2 following the conclusion of the remaining seven-phase polls in West Bengal and two more rounds of polling in Assam.Facebook, which counts India as its biggest market with 400 million users, said it has invested in a proactive technology to detect and reduce the distribution of content in violation of the policy. It added the social media firm is also deploying technology to identify new words associated with hate speech.The company has also pledged to reduce the distribution of content from the accounts found to have repeatedly violated its policies. It added it has partnered with eight third-party fact-checking organisations to tackle misinformation during elections.Also Read | US lawmakers, tech CEOs face off over disinformationThe fact-checkers will provide people with additional context about the content they see on Facebook including in Bengali, Tamil, Malayalam, and Assamese, the main languages of the regions where elections are being held.According to its policy, any content offering to buy or sell votes in exchange for cash or kind will be removed. Additionally, it will also remove explicit claims such as “you will contract Covid-19” if you vote or “do not go to vote as everyone will get the disease”.“Facebook recognises its role in creating an informed society. Thus, it will also be reminding people to exercise their right to vote. Facebook has come up with Election Day reminders in order to give voters accurate information and encourage voters,” the company said in a blogpost.The firm also plans public education campaigns and digital literacy training to stop the spread of misinformation.Facebook has been under fire for allowing hate speech. The opposition Congress in August last year sought a parliamentary panel probe into Facebook’s alleged favourable treatment to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). This came following a report in the Wall Street Journal that said Facebook and WhatsApp had refused to bar a BJP lawmaker even as he wrote hateful posts. This was allegedly done to protect social media company’s “commercial interests”.Twitter too introduced new guidelines last week to contain the spread of false news. It shared tips for users to ensure that they are getting accurate information.Both social media intermediaries have also signed a voluntary code of ethics with the Election Commission to help in ensuring free and fair polls.The government in February introduced new rules to regulate social media content and making companies like Facebook more accountable to requests for quick removal of posts and details on their sources.(With inputs from Malavika PM)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assembly-elections-facebook-to-curb-hate-speech-in-india-101617182992138.html
