02-04-2021||India||Four held for beating up Dalit man in U.P.||Lakhimpur KheriFour people have been arrested for allegedly beating up a 22-year-old Dalit man in Belrayan town of Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district, police officials said on Friday. There were also reports that the accused brutalised the man. The police, however, refuted these claims. According to police officials in the Tikonia kotwali area, the incident happened on Wednesday night when the victim was practising for an athletics competition outside his house. The victim’s brother, in his complaint to the police, has alleged that the accused, Bramhadeen and his three sons Bharat, Gajraj and Raju, dragged the 22-year-old to their house and beat him up. “Investigations revealed that both parties had a dispute a year ago but they reconciled later,” said Nighasan circle officer Pradeep Kumar Verma. The family members of the victim later found him in the house of the accused and rushed him to a primary health centre, officials said. He was transferred to the district hospital where his condition is stated to be serious, they said. Officials, meanwhile, refuted the reports that the victim was also brutalized. “Such injuries are mentioned neither in the complaint nor in the statement of the victim,” Verma said. “Even the attending doctors were not informed about such injuries by the victim or his relatives,” he added. An FIR under sections 323 and 504 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the SC/ST Act has been registered against the four accused, Verma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-held-for-beating-up-dalit-man-in-up-101617387964582.html
02-04-2021||India||Minor Dalit girl dies by suicide after gang rape||MEERUT A 16-year-old Dalit girl died by suicide hours after she was raped by four teenagers in Meerut district of Uttar Pradesh, police officials said on Friday. Two of the four accused have been arrested after the girl named them in a purported suicide note recovered from her room, the officials added.“The suicide note has been sent for forensic examination,” Superintendent of Police Meerut (Rural) Keshav Mishra said. One of the accused and the girl studied at the same tuition, Mishra said, adding that the four accused allegedly accosted her when she was returning home after her tuition class on Thursday evening and raped her. The accused are aged between 18 and 19 years of age, he said. The girl’s family members rushed her to a doctor in the village but later she was taken to a city hospital, the official said. She died during treatment at the hospital on Thursday night, he added. Meanwhile, the last rites of the minor were performed after a post-mortem examination, officials said. The girl’s family could not be reached. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 376 (rape) was registered late on Thursday night against the accused,” said Mishra. Efforts are on to nab the other two accused, he said. Later, relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and Section 328 of the IPC (causing hurt by means of poison) were also added to the FIR, he added. A political row erupted in the state after the incident. “Crimes against women and girls and Dalits under this government have become uncontrollable. But this government instead of checking the crime against women is busy in hollow publicity of Mission Shakti [campaign for women safety and empowerment] to fool people. But anyway all these failures of this government will come to an end when the people vote this government out in 2022 polls,” said Samajwadi Party state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary.“Not aware of exact details of the case, but, all the same, our party government’s focus against crime and criminals is obvious. You saw how dons are now on wheelchair, thinking of ways to avoid coming to UP. In UP law of the land is now supreme. This case that you mention or any other crime case, law will take it’s own course,” said UP BJP secretary ChandramohanIn 2019, UP reported the most number of crimes against women, roughly one every 10 minutes, according to the National Crime Records Bureau. Experts say that uneven law enforcement, feudal attitudes and lack of education contribute to the lack of safety for women.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-dalit-girl-dies-by-suicide-after-gang-rape-101617387904056.html
02-04-2021||India||RJD MP writes to Piyush Goyal over contract termination of IRCTC employees||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha on Friday wrote to Union railway minister Piyush Goyal questioning the non-renewal of contracts of hospitality employees of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC). This came after the employees took to social media, alleging that they were asked to leave.“These contractual employees gave their best to the Indian Railways even during the peak of the Covid-19. They were actively engaged in the management and supervision of food delivery services in the Shramik special trains run by the Indian Railways,” Jha said in his letter.He said he was writing on behalf of these workers who were hired by the IRCTC on April 23, 2019, for the supervision of catering services, quality inspection in trains as well as catering units of the railways.“To our utter shock, I am informed by these employees from various locations that they have been categorically told by the IRCTC authorities to look for new jobs and that after 20 days they would not be part of the service anymore. The feeble argument from the IRCTC is that they were hired on a two-year contract which is ending now,” he said in the letter.“We all know that the hotel industry is among the worst affected during the Covid crisis, therefore, it is unimaginable for them to be employed by the hotel industry amidst an unprecedented crisis. I remember during an intervention led by me in the budget session of the parliament, you had emphatically assured that nobody shall be terminated from their job. I sincerely request you to please look into the matter with utmost urgency and save the jobs of these hundreds of hospitality supervisors engaged with the IRCTC,” Jha stated.One of the contractual employees, on condition of anonymity, said, their supervisors have given them verbal orders to look for a new job by this month. “On April 23, many supervisors will end their contracts. We have even written letters to the PMO and the railway minister seeking their intervention on the matter,” he said.“Presently, catering services in special trains are limited to sales of ready-to-eat food, packaged drinking water, tea/coffee, et cetera. Base kitchens are non-operational. The scope of work for the hospitality supervisor is very limited. Regarding the period of the contract for these hospitality supervisors, action is being taken as per the terms and conditions of the contract,” an IRCTC spokesperson said.This comes in the backdrop of the decision taken by the national transporter’s catering arm in June last year when it decided to terminate the contract of more than 500 contractual workers. However, its board may reconsider the decision, HT reported on June 30.In a letter to all railway zones dated June 25, the IRCTC informed all its zonal offices that there was no requirement for these contractual workers under the present circumstances and that they should be given one month notice. The IRCTC then said, “The decision to terminate the contracts is currently under reconsideration.”Just a day later, the IRCTC said it decided to put on hold its order to terminate the services of over 500 contractual workers days after it terminated their contracts following an uproar on social media. Several former contractual employees who were handed the termination letter took to social media to seek intervention by railway minister Piyush Goyal.Around 560 supervisors (hospitality) were hired by the IRCTC in 2019 on a contractual basis for two years to maintain a quality check on contractors assigned to cater food in trains equipped with pantries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-mp-writes-to-piyush-goyal-over-contract-termination-of-irctc-employees-101617386464578.html
02-04-2021||India||Centre halts deportation of 16-year-old Rohingya girl to Myanmar||Indian authorities halted the deportation of a 16-year-old Rohingya Muslim girl to Myanmar at the last minute on Friday, saying they had not been able to contact officials caught up in the coup over the border.Indian authorities, who say the girl is an illegal immigrant, had taken her to a northeastern border town and started processing her papers on Thursday, police said, even as rights groups pressed New Delhi to halt the process.But they decided not to go ahead with the deportation on Friday, Mayanglambam Rajkumar, a government official in the Indian border district of Tengnoupal, told Reuters. He did not say whether the transfer had been postponed or cancelled."We had contacted our counterparts in Myanmar, but so far we have not received any response," he said, blaming the breakdown in communications on the aftermath of Myanmar's coup.Tens of thousands of Rohingya, who are largely denied citizenship in their home country Myanmar, have lived in India for years but Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government regards them as a security threat and has been detaining them.The girl and her family were among the hundreds of thousands of Rohingya who fled a Myanmar military-led crackdown in 2017 that UN investigators said was carried out with "genocidal intent" - charges Myanmar denies.The girl's father Mohammed Zaber, who lives in a Rohingya refugee camp in Bangladesh, told Reuters by phone she had left Bangladesh in 2019 and had planned to seek a better life in Malaysia before she was detained en route in India."I appeal to the Indian government to send my daughter to me in Bangladesh," Zaber told Reuters by phone.Indian police official B.L. Meena said the girl would now probably go back to the non-profit group that had been looking after her in the border state of Assam.An Indian foreign ministry spokesperson said he had no comment on the case, and a home ministry spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The UN refugee agency, UNHCR, opposed the deportation, saying on Thursday: "The situation in Myanmar is not yet conducive for voluntary return in a safe, secure, and sustainable manner."India is not a signatory to the UN Refugee Convention and rejects a U.N. position that deporting the Rohingya violates the principle of refoulement – sending refugees back to a place where they face danger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-halts-deportation-of-16-year-old-rohingya-girl-to-myanmar-101617385087102.html
02-04-2021||India||India condemns violence in Myanmar, calls for restoration of democracy||Against the backdrop of the Myanmar military’s continuing crackdown on civilian protestors opposing the February 1 coup, India on Friday condemned any use of violence and demanded the restoration of democracy in the neighbouring country. More than 500 civilians have been killed in the crackdown by Myanmar’s security forces, many of them when troops fired on crowds, according to the Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP). The military removed the elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi and assumed power after claiming that the election held last November was rigged. “Let me be very clear. We condemn any use of violence. We believe that the rule of law should prevail. We stand for the restoration of democracy in Myanmar,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing. India has sought the release of political prisoners and supported any attempts at resolving the current situation, including through the efforts of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), he said. “We remain engaged on this issue with our international interlocutors and at the UN Security Council in an effort to play a balanced and constructive role,” Bagchi added. India has forged close ties with both Myanmar’s elected government and the military, especially because of security concerns linked to the northeastern states and efforts to counter China’s influence in the region. As part of its efforts aimed at a balanced approach, India had so far refrained from condemning the Myanmar military’s violence against pro-democracy protestors. At a closed meeting on Myanmar at the UN Security Council on Thursday, India’s permanent representative to the UN, TS Tirumurti, condemned the violence and urged maximum restraint. He also spoke of India’s steadfast commitment to democratic transition in Myanmar and sought the release of detained leaders. While welcoming ASEAN’s efforts to find a solution in Myanmar, Tirumurti said the situation needs to be resolved peacefully through “greater engagement”, while simultaneously ensuring that the hopes and aspirations of the people of Myanmar are met. Asked about India’s presence at the Myanmar Armed Forces Day celebration on March 28, a day when security forces killed more than 110 protestors across the country, Bagchi said: “We have a functioning embassy in Myanmar. Our ambassador, defence attaché and other diplomatic officers continue to discharge their regular diplomatic responsibilities. Nothing more should be read into this event [attended] by our defence attaché.” Bagchi said the issue of Myanmar citizens entering India while fleeing violence in their country is dealt with “as per our laws and humanitarian considerations”. He didn’t give details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-condemns-violence-in-myanmar-calls-for-restoration-of-democracy-101617384604667.html
02-04-2021||India||China sees a 'weak India', says Rahul Gandhi, explains why Congress is not winning elections||In a live conversation with Ambassador Nicholas Burns of Harvard Kennedy School on Friday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said China is occupying Indian territory as "we speak" and this is because China sees a "weakened India, an India which is internally divided". "I am absolutely convinced that a strong India with a clear strategy will have no problem in dealing with China," Rahul said.Showing his iPhone, the Congress leader said the world's production battle has been won by China. "I don't see how India and the US are challenging this issue," he said.LIVE: My interaction with Ambassador Nicholas Burns from Harvard Kennedy School. https://t.co/KZUkRnLlDgTalking about Congress reforms, the Congress leader said not only the Congress, but no other party in India is winning elections. Taking the name of the Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party, Nationalist Congress Party, he said, "To fight elections, I need institutional structures, I need a judicial system that protects me, I need a media that is reasonably free, I need financial parity, I need a whole set of structures that actually allow me to operate a political party. I don't have them. When one starts behaving like the BJP is doing, many people get discontented. The solution is to bring them together. But we have to remember that we are in a different paradigm now."On the EVM controversy in Assam elections, he said, "In Assam, the gentleman who runs our campaign has been sending videos of BJP candidates running around voting machines in their cars. But there is nothing going on in national media."On the farmers' protest, Rahul Gandhi said the agriculture sector needs to be reformed but it cannot be done without consulting the stakeholders. "When we were in the government, we had constant feedback. It amazes me how quickly we got feedback, whether from farmers, businessmen... That feedback loop is shut now. So farmers have no other way," he said, adding Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh wrote multiple letters asking the Centre to not pass the laws which have led to the stir.Drawing a parallel between the passage of farm laws in Parliament and the imposition of Coronavirus lockdown in March 2020, Rahul said, "This is all about how you run the country. All this comes from a belief that centralised power understands everything. The issue of lockdown was not discussed in the Cabinet. "On the economic front, Rahul said there is a need to jumpstart consumption in India by giving money in the hand of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-sees-a-weak-india-says-rahul-gandhi-explains-why-congress-is-not-winning-elections-101617382283267.html
02-04-2021||India||‘Don’t trust SEC’: TDP boycotts MPTC, ZPTC polls in Andhra Pradesh||After facing a series of losses in the recent gram panchayat and municipal elections in Andhra Pradesh, the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) on Friday said it will boycott elections to the zilla parishad and mandal (block) parishad which are due next week. A decision to this effect was taken at the TDP politburo meeting held under the leadership of party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu at Guntur on Friday morning.“For the first time in the last 39 years, the TDP has taken a tough decision to boycott the ZPTC and MPTC elections as we don’t have trust in the SEC. The SEC issued the election notification without consulting the opposition parties which is against the Supreme Court guidelines,” Naidu told reporters in the evening.He pointed out that as per the Supreme Court’s guidelines, the model code should be reimposed four weeks before the notified date of polling. “The SEC issued a notification now, giving just over a week for the polling scheduled for April 8. This is only to favour the ruling YSR Congress party leaders,” Naidu said.The TDP chief said his party was boycotting the election not out of fear but lack of faith in the existing system under the Jagan Reddy regime. “We are forced to fight with criminal elements, who have no faith in democracy, and the police who are abetting the election offences committed by the YSRCP. Yet we will continue our legal fight and we have filed a petition in the high court against the SEC’s latest notification,” he said.Former chief secretary Neelam Sawhney, who took over as state election commissioner (SEC) on Thursday morning following the retirement of her predecessor Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar a day before, announced the schedule for mandal parishad territorial constituencies (MPTCs) and zilla parishad territorial constituencies (ZPTCs) within hours of assuming charge.She announced the revival of the process for the election of the MPTCs and the ZPTCs, which was abruptly stalled in March 2020 by her predecessor on account of the nation-wide Covid-19 lockdown. The poll process was suspended at the stage of the withdrawal of nominations.In all, there are 660 ZPTCs and 9,984 MPTCs in Andhra Pradesh, of which as many as 126 ZPTCs and 2,363 MPTCs were elected unanimously during the beginning of the election process in March 2020. “The elections for the remaining MPTCs and ZPTCs will be held on April 8 and the results would be declared on April 10. The process would begin from the stage of withdrawal of nominations,” Sawhney declared.In the morning, the TDP along with the BJP, Jana Sena and CPI boycotted the all-party meeting convened by the newly-appointed SEC. The TDP said there was no point in attending the all-party meeting after the SEC unilaterally announced the election schedule for MPTC and ZPTC polls.Congress representative Masthal Wali attended the all-party meeting but walked out within seconds, stating that there was no point in conducting the meeting after the issuance of the election notification.CPI leader K Ramakrishna, who also boycotted the meeting, saying it was surprising why the notification was issued so urgently, without giving sufficient time for the political parties.Only YSRC leader Lella Appi Reddy and CPI(M) leader YV Rao attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-trust-sec-tdp-boycotts-mptc-zptc-polls-in-andhra-pradesh-101617382024424.html
02-04-2021||India||Centre advises 11 states of ‘grave concern’ on Covid-19 control measures||The Centre on Friday expressed concern at the massive surge of coronavirus infections in many parts of the country over the last month and reiterated the steps that states should take to curb the spread of infections in the ongoing second wave of Covid-19. It lamented that the 11 states that reported 90% of India’s cases over the past 14 days, adding that these ‘states of grave concern’ haven’t “shown a commensurate increase in enforcement of containment activities.”Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereThese states have crossed or are close to crossing their previous peaks of new cases over the last year, an official statement by the Union health ministry said, describing the situation in Maharashtra as “particularly worrying”.The central government’s sharp message, delivered at a review meeting chaired by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba and attended by senior central and state government officials, came hours before Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s special address to people in the state on the Covid-19 situation.On Thursday, there were 81,413 new infections reported across India, the highest single-day increase since October 1, 2020. The second wave has pushed cases to levels not witnessed in the country in at least six months. India’s highest single-day caseload was 99,181 on September 10, according to the HT dashboard.During the meeting, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba pointed out that the current Covid-19 case growth rate of 6.8% in March 2021 has surpassed the previous record of 5.5% in June last year. “The country also reported 5.5% growth rate in daily COVID deaths in this period. While the country was reporting about 97,000 daily new COVID cases at the peak of the pandemic in September 2020, the country has now reached the critical figure 81,000 daily new cases of COVID,” according to the health ministry statement.According to experts and government officials, a massive and widespread inoculation drive is the only chance the country has to turn the tide against the building second wave of infections.For the 11 states reporting upsurge, the government listed five tools including vaccination, enhanced testing, strict containment, prompt contact tracing and enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour, to curb the spread of the viral disease. Eleven states and UTs that were categorised as “states of grave concern” are Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Chandigarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, and Haryana.The government also told the states to increase testing continuously to ensure that positivity comes down to 5% or less than 5%. It advised them to focus on ensuring RT-PCR tests comprise 70% of total test, reduce waiting time of test results with regular review with testing labs, use Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) as screening test in densely populated areas and where fresh clusters are emerging, and ensure that all symptomatic RAT negatives are mandatorily subjected to RT-PCR tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-advises-11-states-of-grave-concern-on-covid-19-control-measures-101617381281687.html
02-04-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Keep calm, BKU urges farmers after attack on Tikait cavalcade and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Keep calm, BKU urges farmers after attack on Tikait cavalcadeTerming the attack on cavalcade of farmer leader Rakesh Tikait as BJP conspiracy, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) has made an appeal to farmers to not to lose their cool. Read moreKarnataka announces curbs on restaurants, bars, temples as state sees over 4,000 daily Covid-19 casesThe Karnataka government on Friday released a new set of guidelines for public spaces like schools, religious places, cinema halls, pubs, and bars in the wake of rising cases in the state. Read moreCentre lists 5 tools for 11 states reporting upsurge in Covid-19 cases, fatalitiesThe Centre held a high-level review meeting with authorities from all states with a special emphasis on 11 states and Union territories reporting a “very high rise” in daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and related deaths. Read moreBJP delegation meets EC, seeks action against Mamata Banerjee and StalinAmid the ongoing Assam and Bengal assembly elections, a BJP delegation comprising of Union Ministers Prakash Javadekar, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and BJP’s Uttarakhand MP, Anil Baluni met election commission officials at Nirvachan Sadan in Delhi on Friday. Read more'That's exactly what happened to me': Gautam Gambhir recalls missing out on century during 2011 World Cup finalNot that it has ever mattered to him, but somewhere down the feeling of missing out on a hundred in a World Cup final has got to sting Gautam Gambhir. Read moreApple Arcade adds 30 new games to the catalogue including some timeless classics: Here’s what’s newApple has beefed up its Apple Arcade arsenal with 30 new games and two fresh new categories. The two new categories on the Arcade are Timeless Classics and App Store Greats. Read moreKangana Ranaut dons red bandhani suit to get blessings from Udaipur's ShrinathjiKangana Ranaut recently wrapped up the Rajasthan schedule of her upcoming film Tejas, soon after which the Thalaivi actor got on a flight to Udaipur to get blessings from the Shrinathji Temple there. Read moreAkshay Kumar posts then-and-now pic to wish Ajay Devgn on his birthday: 'You’ve been an amazing co-star'Akshay Kumar wished his Sooryavanshi co-star Ajay Devgn on his 52nd birthday on Friday. He posted a then-and-now picture for the purpose. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-keep-calm-bku-urges-farmers-after-attack-on-tikait-cavalcade-and-all-the-latest-news-101617374509309.html
02-04-2021||India||Lockdown in Maharashtra can't be ruled out as Covid-19 cases rise, says Uddhav; stricter curbs to be announced soon||Addressing the people of the state amid the ongoing Covid-19 spike, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said a lockdown in the state can not be ruled out, but an alternative to complete lockdown will be found out in a day or two after the CM discusses the situation with experts. But if no alternative is found, then the decision will be taken after two days, the CM said, adding, "I am not announcing a lockdown but warning about it".Lockdown is a catch 22 situation as it impacts the economy, Uddhav said, reiterating his stance against lockdown. But stricter restrictions will come soon, he said, giving the details of how cases in the state have been rising while the government is ramping up healthcare facilities, administering vaccines at a fast pace.The second wave of the pandemic is more severe than the first one, the CM said adding that the state lowered its guards of late and crowding was reported at wedding ceremonies and public places.Follow live updates of Uddhav Thackeray's address to Maharashtra peoplePointing out an imminent health care crisis in the state, the CM during his social media live interaction said as cases are rising, there is a scarcity of doctors. "As far as the health infrastructure is concerned, we have been ramping up continuously, but where will we get doctors and healthcare workers? In January, there used to be 350 patients a day. But now, the number has gone up to 8,500 a day," the CM said.The CM also said the state will soon conduct 2.5 lakh tests and 70 per cent of these will be RT-PCR, as recommended by the Centre.This is not the first time that the chief minister warned about lockdown in the state and on Friday, he began his live address saying that there is nothing to panic yet as speculations of a state-wide lockdown were rife after the government announced that Thackeray would address the public through Facebook live.The Maha Vikas Aghadi government is facing resistance in the issue of lockdown. Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam on Thursday attended a silent protest of hotel owners against Maharashtra's night curfew. AIMIM MP of Aurangabad Imtiyaz Jaleel was also spotted in a celebration gathering after the district took back its lockdown order. In an oblique reference to these incidents, Uddhav said all political parties should positively respond to the government's lockdown request if there is any in future. Instead of taking to the streets opposing lockdown, there is a need to help healthcare workers, the CM said.Before the address, the chief minister held a high-level meeting with the officials to review the pandemic situation of Maharashtra. The situation of the state has been moving from bad to worse since the middle of February with daily cases shooting up every day, but the government reiterated that it was not in favour of imposing a lockdown in the state.With more than 50 per cent of the country's active Covid-19 cases being concentrated in the state, the present situation is worse than 2020, when the pandemic was believed to be at its peak. The Centre has also expressed concerns over the worsening Covid-19 situation of the state.The state government earlier instructed district administrations to impose local lockdowns to rein in the spread of the infection. Akola, Amravati, Yavatmal, Nagpur districts have come under restrictions in February and March. The Pune district authorities on Friday announced fresh restrictions on malls, restaurants, asking them to remain shut for seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-2nd-wave-much-severe-says-uddhav-thackeray-101617374938624.html
02-04-2021||India||Day after, Imran Khan explains why Pakistan cabinet decided against sugar import||Pakistan can’t have any trade relations with India till New Delhi reviews its 2019 decision to scrap the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Friday while chairing a special meeting to review bilateral ties.The meeting in Islamabad – which was attended by Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and Khan’s special assistant on national security and strategic policy Moeed Yusuf – was convened after Pakistan’s Cabinet on Thursday shot down an official proposal to allow imports of cotton and sugar from India to control prices and cope with a shortage.“After the discussions [on Thursday and Friday], the prime minister clearly instructed that Pakistan will not have any kind of trade with India till India reviews the steps it took in [Jammu and Kashmir] on August 5, 2019,” Yusuf told Ary News channel after the meeting.According to Geo News channel, which cited a source, Khan told the meeting, “It is our principled stance not to resume trade with India until the Kashmir issue is resolved”.Any decision on resuming trade with India “will give the wrong impression that Pakistan has neglected the people of Kashmir,” Khan was quoted as saying.Also read: ‘Build on Pangong Lake drawdown, disengage at other points’ - India tells ChinaA Cabinet meeting chaired by Khan on Thursday rejected a decision made a day earlier by the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC) of the Cabinet to allow limited imports from India. Pakistan had unilaterally suspended trade with India in August 2019 to protest the changes in Jammu and Kashmir.On Thursday, Qureshi said that the Cabinet deferred the move to allow imports from India so that there could be more deliberations on the issue. He also said it wouldn’t be possible for Islamabad to normalise bilateral relations till New Delhi reviews its actions on Jammu and Kashmir.Yusuf said the ECC was the forum that decides on all proposals with a commercial angle. “When it goes to the ECC, the committee makes decisions based on economic and commercial considerations,” he said.The matter of imports from India went to the ECC, and “on a commercial basis, it was decided that [cotton and sugar] be imported from India as the prices are lower in India,” he said.The ECC’s recommendation went to the Cabinet, “which is a political and strategic forum” and has the final say in approving such matters, Yusuf noted.“In this case, this issue was discussed though it was not on the Cabinet’s agenda [on Thursday] and the prime minister gave the directive that this decision should be deferred and it should be immediately reviewed because matters involving India are not just about trade and many political and strategic issues are linked with them,” Yusuf said.When external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi was asked about Pakistan’s flip-flop on resuming trade at a news briefing in New Delhi on Friday, he replied, “We have seen reports on this but as is evident, we are not the right party to whom this question should be directed.”The Khan government’s decision to defer the move to allow cotton imports from India has annoyed Pakistan’s textile sector, Dawn newspaper reported.Pakistan Apparel Forum chairman Jawed Bilwani described the recommendation to allow imports from India as “realistic and the need of the hour”, and said Pakistan’s Cabinet must give it serious consideration. The rejection of the proposal would convey a negative message to foreign buyers as cotton yarn isn’t available in Pakistan, he said.Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash said, "This is just Pakistan being Pakistan, this decision typifies them. They have created so much emotional baggage that draining the swamp isn’t going to be easy. This isn't just about economic considerations but there are emotional and obsessive political factors that are not allowing them to come to terms with reality."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-trade-ties-with-india-till-review-of-2019-decision-on-j-k-imran-khan-101617375424229.html
02-04-2021||India||Covd-19 in India: 13 states/UTs with over 3 lakh confirmed cases, says Centre||As India is experiencing a second wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic (Covid-19) with cases increasing rapidly every single day, the Centre on Friday morning released a list of the total number of confirmed cases across all states and Union Territories (UTs). Under this list which has details up to 8am, the states/UTs have been categorised into three parts- states with cases between 1-30,000, cases between 30,001-300,000 and cases at 300,000 and above.Thirteen states/UTs, including Maharashtra, Kerala, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Chattisgarh etc., have recorded more than 300,000 Covid-19 disease cases since the beginning of the pandemic last year, the list showed. Maharashtra- which is the worst-affected state- tops the list with over 28 lakh cases. Next in line is Kerala with 11, 27,382 cases followed by Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh with 10,01,238 and 9,03,260 cases, respectively.Delhi is on the sixth spot with 6,65,220 confirmed cases. Chattisgarh which saw the highest ever single-day spike in cases (4,563) on Thursday is on the ninth spot with 3,53,804 total cases. Telangana has seen the lowest number of cases in this group at 3.09,741.#CoronaVirusUpdates: State-wise details of Total Confirmed #COVID19 cases(till 02 April, 2021, 8 AM) ➡️States with 1-30000 confirmed cases ➡️States with 30001-300000 confirmed cases ➡️States with 300000+ confirmed cases ➡️Total no. of confirmed cases so far #StaySafe pic.twitter.com/fpmOSgOz9qThe 30,001-300,000 bracket comprises 12 states/UTs. Madhya Pradesh is the worst-hit in this list with over 2,98,000 cases followed by Haryana with 2,92,409 cases and Bihar with 2,66,015 cases. Punjab and Uttarakhand, which have seen a sharp spike in their daily tally for over a month, are in the fourth and eighth position with 2,42,895 and 1,00,911 confirmed cases respectively, the Centre’s list showed.Eleven states/UTs come under the bracket of 1-30,000 confirmed cases. Lakshadweep has the lowest confirmed cases at 726 while Manipur tops this list with nearly 30,000 cases. Chandigarh, the capital of Punjab and Haryana, has the second-highest cases at 27,256 followed by Arunachal Pradesh (16,845) and Meghalaya (14,607) among others.India on Friday saw the highest single-day spike in Covid tally this year with 81,466 new cases recorded in the last 24 hours. Friday’s figures are also the highest in nearly six months and the caseload has now climbed to 12.3 million including 1,63,396 deaths, 6,14,696 active cases and more than 11.5 million recoveries, the Union health ministry’s update showed.A high-level review meeting was chaired by Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Friday with a focus on 11 states/UTs which are seeing a high number of cases and deaths in the last two weeks. “These (states/UTs) have contributed 90 % of Covid cases (as on March 31) and 90.5% of deaths (as on March 31) in the last 14 days, and have crossed/or close to crossing their early reported peaks during last year,” a statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covd19-in-india-13-states-uts-with-over-3-lakh-confirmed-cases-says-centre-101617374914923.html
02-04-2021||India||Karnataka announces curbs on restaurants, bars, temples as state sees over 4,000 daily Covid-19 cases||The Karnataka government on Friday released a new set of guidelines for public spaces like schools, religious places, cinema halls, pubs, and bars in the wake of rising cases in the state. A circular containing the new directives was accessed by news agency ANI.The following guidelines dealing with educational institutions, office spaces, pubs, restaurants, cinema halls was released.Karnataka on Friday recorded 4,991 Covid-19 cases, pushing the state-wide tally to over 10 lakh. 6 deaths were also recorded and the current death toll stands at 12,591. Bengaluru Urban reported 3,509 cases and addedall but one fatality to the state’s daily count.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-announces-curbs-on-restaurants-bars-temples-as-state-sees-over-4-000-daily-covid-19-cases-101617374111581.html
02-04-2021||India||Centre lists 5 tools for 11 states reporting upsurge in Covid-19 cases, fatalities||The Centre held a high-level review meeting with authorities from all states with a special emphasis on 11 states and Union territories reporting a “very high rise” in daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid--19 and related deaths. The central government listed five tools that the states must follow to curb the spread of the viral disease.The tools include vaccination, enhanced testing, strict containment, prompt contact tracing and enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour, the government said in a statement.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereCabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba chaired the meeting and pointed out that the current Covid-19 case growth rate of 6.8% in March 2021 has surpassed the previous record of 5.5% (June 2020), according to the statement. “The country also reported 5.5% growth rate in daily COVID deaths in this period. While the country was reporting about 97,000 daily new COVID cases at the peak of the pandemic in September 2020, the country has now reached the critical figure 81,000 daily new cases of COVID,” it added.Eleven states and UTs that were categorised as “states of grave concern” include Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Chandigarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Haryana. These have contributed 90% of Covid-19 cases and 90.5% of deaths as of March 31 in the last 14 days, the Centre said, adding, that they “crossed/or close to crossing their early reported peaks during last year.”Highlighting the particularly worrying situation in Maharashtra, state authorities were advised to take up immediate and high effective measures to ensure containment of active cases and daily deaths. Maharashtra recorded a spike of over 43,000 Covid-19 cases on Thursday. This is the highest single-day spike since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic.The government also told the states to increase testing continuously to ensure that positivity comes down to 5% or less than 5%. It advised them to focus on ensuring RT-PCR tests comprise 70% of total test, reduce waiting time of test results with regular review with testing labs, use Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) as screening test in densely populated areas and where fresh clusters are emerging and ensure that all symptomatic RAT negatives are mandatorily subjected to RT-PCR tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-lists-5-tools-for-11-states-reporting-upsurge-in-covid-19-cases-fatalities-101617371804205.html
02-04-2021||India||Environment ministry sets new deadlines for thermal power plants to meet emission norms||The Environment Ministry has amended rules allowing thermal power plants within 10 kilometres of the National Capital Region (NCR) and in cities with more than 10 lakh population to comply with new emission norms by the end of 2022, according to official notification.A task force will be constituted by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to "categorise thermal power plants (TPPs) in three categories on the basis of their location", the ministry said in the notification dated April 1.Also, TPP units in "non-attainment cities" and those within 10 kilometres of critically polluted areas are required to meet the emission norms by December 31, 2023.Non-attainment cities are those which have consistently failed to meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards. The CPCB has identified 124 such cities.Coal-fired power plants in the rest of the areas have to comply with the new standards by December 31, 2024, according to the notification.TPPs declared to retire before December 31, 2025, are "not required to meet the specified norms in case such plants submit an undertaking to the CPCB and the CEA (Central Electricity Authority) for exemption on ground of retirement", the notification said.The Environment Ministry had revised emission norms for particulate matter (PM), sulphur dioxide and oxides of nitrogen for TPPs in December 2015, requiring them to install emission control systems by December 2017.The deadline was pushed to December 2022 for all power stations in the country in view of implementation issues and challenges. However, power stations in the national capital region were required to comply with the revised norms by December 2019.Earlier this year, the Ministry of Power requested the Environment Ministry to extend the deadline for meeting emission norms for all thermal plants from 2022 to 2024, citing delay due to various reasons, including the coronavirus pandemic and import restrictions.Major pollutants from coal-fired power plants are oxides of nitrogen (NOx), sulphur dioxide (SO2) and particulate matter (PM).According to the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), TPPs account for more than 60 per cent of total industrial emissions of particulate matter; 45 per cent of SO2; 30 per cent of NOx; and more than 80 per cent of mercury, in the country.These are also responsible for 70 per cent of the total freshwater withdrawal by all industries, according to an analysis by the green think tank.A recent compliance report by CSE showed that out of the 12 power plants located around Delhi, SO2 control technology was available only in two plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/environment-ministry-sets-new-deadlines-for-thermal-power-plants-to-meet-emission-norms-101617372802710.html
02-04-2021||India||Mall owners want Mumbai locals to be curtailed as Covid cases rise | 10 points||Amid the ongoing deliberation of what can be shut down to check the spread of the Covud-19 infection in Mumbai, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will address the people of Maharashtra on Friday. The state government, reluctant to impose a lockdown straightaway, earlier said that the situation will be reviewed from time to time, while district authorities can take appropriate measures locally. Pune district on Friday has announced stricter restrictions asking eateries, malls, cinema halls and religious places to remain shut for the next seven days.Here is all you need to know about the present Covid-19 situation and restrictions> Maharashtra is reporting the highest number of daily cases, daily deaths and also has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases. Pune district has 64,599 active cases, which is the highest in the country.> Over 50 per cent of the active Covid-19 cases are in Maharashtra.> In Mumbai, malls are resisting the idea of lockdown. The Shopping Centres Association of India said the malls get only 1 per cent of the floating population and bulk of people are found in trains and local markets, PTI reported.> Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar has hinted that some restrictions can be imposed, including that of curtaining Mumbai locals. "Train journey might be restricted to only essential services staff only as in the past," the mayor told news agency PTI.> The Maha Vikas Aghadi government is divided over the necessity of another lockdown. Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam on Thursday joined a silent protest of hotel owners.> Nagpur district, which was under lockdown till March 31, on Friday recorded 4,108 Covid-19 cases.> In February and March, several schools in Maharashtra districts, including Palghar, Latur, emerged as hotspots.> The present situation in Maharashtra is worse than what was witnessed during the first peak of the pandemic in 2020.> Though mutant strains of the virus have been found in the state, the Centre has dismissed any link between the mutants and the surge in the Covid-19 cases. Not wearing a mask, flouting social distancing rules, in general, are being blamed for the surge.> It is unlikely that there will be another lockdown, but as Thackeray earlier asked to be prepared for lockdown-like restrictions, stricter curbs across the state are likely.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mall-owners-want-mumbai-locals-to-be-curtailed-as-covid-cases-rise-10-points-101617371570824.html
02-04-2021||India||BJP delegation meets EC, seeks action against Mamata Banerjee and Stalin||Amid the ongoing Assam and Bengal assembly elections, a BJP delegation comprising of Union Ministers Prakash Javadekar, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and BJP’s Uttarakhand MP, Anil Baluni met election commission officials at Nirvachan Sadan in Delhi on Friday to demand action against West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and DMK leader Udhayanidhi Stalin for his remarks against late BJP leaders Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley. The meeting comes hours after a TMC delegation led by Yashwant Sinha met EC officials in Kolkata to complain about “central police forces being partial” towards the BJP.Speaking to a team of reporters outside the ECI office in Delhi, Javadekar while blaming Banerjee for violating the model code of conduct said, “TMC violated the model code of conduct and the West Bengal CM has violated ECI rules, so we have demanded action against her.”Earlier in the day, BJP had filed a complaint with the Chief Electoral Officer of West Bengal for her “repeated threats and intimidation to BJP supporters at a public rally in Goghat, Hooghly.”Javadekar also added that they have demanded action against Stalin for saying that BJP leaders Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley died due to pressure exerted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The daughters of the two late leaders had taken to social media to hit out at Stalin, yesterday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-delegation-meets-ec-seeks-action-against-mamata-banerjee-and-stalin-101617370803873.html
02-04-2021||India||India’s Myanmar policy won’t work; it’s time to diversify engagement||On March 27, as Colonel Ketan Mohite, India’s defence attaché to Myanmar, shared pleasantries with the Tatmadaw generals at the Armed Forces Day Celebrations in Naypyidaw, men under the command of the generals executed cold-blooded mass murder across the country. India’s formal participation in the event, one day after the state government of Manipur issued a circular (now withdrawn) to return forced migrants from Myanmar, shocked most observers.India’s participation was not meant as an endorsement of the junta’s actions. But it was, understandably, seen as such by the people of Myanmar. The Civil Disobedience Movement bluntly asked: Why did India “shake hands with the generals whose hands are soaked with our blood?” This is an important and urgent question. India, akin to the seven other countries that participated, has calculated that the returns from an anti-junta stand are limited. But the costs—loss of economic connectivity, a counter-insurgency partnership, and ability to counter China—are high.Also Read | Myanmar: Internet blackout widens, protesters vow to keep up the resistancePast experience of failed interventionism after the 1988 coup, and the rewards of sticking with the Tatmadaw during the 2007-08 protests guide this approach. It is treated as necessary realpolitik at the altar of which democratic values that enshrine respect for human rights, freedom of speech, and minority protection may be sacrificed. The developed world’s selective and counterproductive rage is cited as further justification for India’s geopolitical pragmatism.In the long-term, it is argued, India prefers a democratic Myanmar, but in the short-term, it must deal with existing realities. The problem is, in the long-term, everyone is dead. Moreover, Myanmar’s inbred generals have made it a cyclical habit to first introduce meaningless political reforms, which fuel false optimism in every new iteration in the short-term, and then sabotage them at whim.India’s Myanmar dilemma, then, is not about values versus interests. It is a deeper crisis of missing the point on realpolitik itself. Today, Myanmar is on the edge of a State collapse. Its long-standing ethnic insurgencies are intensifying, the Bamar-Buddhist heartland has erupted in protests, and even the Buddhist Sangha has distanced itself from the coup-makers. The junta is not collapsing, but it is under unprecedented pressure.Instead of forcefully repatriating migrants and adopting a one-sided approach favouring the junta, India needs to simultaneously, and quickly, build relations with (and offer support to) other power centres. These include the ethnic armed organisations (EAOs) and the Committee Representing Pyidaungsu Hluttaw (CRPH).Realpolitik, not moral obligations, demands India step up its diversification game and bury inhibitions of angering the generals. If after three decades of a Tatmadaw-centric approach, India has not developed enough leverage with the generals to nudge them into a politically inclusive direction, then continuing on the same path now won’t yield different results. If anything, the junta will privately despise India as a weak neighbour and continue to chide it as being a “NATO” (“No Action, Talk Only”) country.Concerns that such a move risks forcing the junta further into China’s orbit are not compelling. This is largely because pro-China figures are already on the rise within the junta, regardless of India’s restraint, and because the junta, too, wants to keep its options open.China, for its part, has also pursued a multi-stakeholder strategy. But Beijing is neither interested in conflict resolution, nor capable of dealing with socio-political plurality inclusively. Unsurprisingly, it failed to move the needle on the Panglong process and the Rohingya crisis. At most, Beijing hedged its bets in engaging with EAOs, carved out a modern-day protectorate in Wa, and hoped that easy cash-and-loans coupled with a Security Council veto would do the rest.India, despite its nationalist turn, excels in managing diversity. It is the only neighbour that stands a chance, if at all, in working with international interlocutors to find a political solution and end the perpetual cycle of instability in Myanmar. But for that to happen, India needs to widen and deepen engagement with all actors inside the country. The costs of such diversification are relatively low, but the risks associated with not doing it are high.India is not dependent on the Tatmadaw for its counter-insurgency in the Northeast. In the late-1980s and early-1990s, at the peak of the insurgent violence, it was Kachin, Arakanese (Rakhine), and Chin EAOs that helped India effectively counter the Naga and Assamese militants. Instead of continuing non-lethal support for these EAOs, India abandoned them for the generals. Despite this, the Tatmadaw fell short on delivering Indian insurgents, select extraditions notwithstanding.True, the Tatmadaw is important to secure the Kaladan project. But at the rate at which the situation is deteriorating inside Myanmar, and public protests mounting in Mizoram, the chances of translating this project into an economically viable platform looks bleak. Even the Adani group, which has invested in the Yangon port, will be forced to revisit its cost-benefit analysis if the situation persists. Civil strife fosters illicit trade, but doesn’t augur well for licit businesses.In 1988, Rajiv Gandhi made the error of conflating tactics with strategy when India supported anti-junta outfits based on a miscalculation that the junta was collapsing. Since then, India went to the other extreme of courting the generals at the expense of other actors. Instead, what is needed is in-depth diversification of relations with EAOs and CRPH, without cutting channels with Naypyidaw.Myanmar is a neighbour, and this is where one would expect India to be bold, creative, and undertake diplomatic heavy-lifting—precisely because China requires countering, regional economies need oxygen, and because it’s worth trying to save lives.Avinash Paliwal teaches at SOAS, University of London and is the author of My Enemy’s Enemy: India in Afghanistan from the Soviet Invasion to the US Withdrawal The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-myanmar-policy-won-t-work-it-s-time-to-diversify-engagement-101617367023781.html
02-04-2021||India||Delhi prisons to suspend family meetings for inmates from April 5 amid surge in Covid cases||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi Prisons department has decided to suspend the prisoners' meeting with their relative from April 5, authorities said on Friday.The system of internal 'mulaqat' was resumed on March 20 with a view to normalise the routine of inmates, they said.However, the jail authorities have again decided to discontinue it amid an increase in coronavirus cases in the national capital, officials said.Meeting of inmates with their legal counsels, however, will continue with proper Covid precautions, they said, adding that the facility of telephone and 'e-mulaqat' will continue to remain available for the prisoners."In view of the rising trend of Covid-19 cases once again, it has been decided to suspend physical 'mulaqat' of Delhi Prison inmates with family and friends with effect from Monday till further orders. The situation will be reviewed again in 15 days," said Sandeep Goel, Director General (Delhi Prisons).According to the latest data shared by Delhi Prisons department, as on April 2, out of the 130 inmates who tested positive for Covid-19, 118 have recovered, two have died and there are presently 10 active cases.All the 293 prison staff who were found Covid positive have also recovered, it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-prisons-to-suspend-family-meetings-for-inmates-from-april-5-amid-surge-in-covid-cases-101617366279738.html
02-04-2021||India||‘There should be proper understanding’: MEA on US report on human rights||Calling out the US state department’s report on human rights, the ministry of external affairs on Friday said that there must be a proper understanding of the development in India. The ministry refused to side with it.“This is clearly an internal exercise of the US government. We are not a party to it. There should be a proper understanding of developments in India,” MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Bagchi was referring to the report released by Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Tuesday that had a long list of significant human rights issues in India. It referred to “unlawful and arbitrary killings” by police; torture by some police and prison officials; “arbitrary” arrests and detentions; “harsh and life-threatening” prison conditions; political prisoners or detainees in certain states.The US report also mentions “restrictions on freedom of expression and the press, including violence, threats of violence, or unjustified arrests or prosecutions against journalists, use of criminal libel laws to prosecute social media speech, censorship, and site blocking”.When asked about the climate summit called by US president Joe Biden, the MEA spokesperson said, “Biden invited PM Modi to attend the climate summit to be held virtually on 22-23 April. PM Modi welcomed his initiative and accepted the invitation,” according to ANI.Bagchi also addressed the ongoing unrest in the neighbouring country Myanmar and asserted that India condemns any use of violence and believes the rule of law should prevail. “We stand for the restoration of democracy in Myanmar. We've urged the release of political prisoners and supported any attempts at resolving the current situation including through efforts of ASEAN,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.On border crossings from Myanmar, the foreign ministry spokesperson said, “we are dealing with it as per our laws and humanitarian considerations.”Amid restrictions to ensure there are enough shots to keep up with the domestic demand, Bagchi clarified that India has not imposed any ban on the export of Covid-19 vaccines, adding, jabs have so far been supplied to more than 80 countries across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-should-be-proper-understanding-mea-on-us-report-on-human-rights-101617365142607.html
02-04-2021||India||No lockdown in Delhi, situation not as serious as before, says Kejriwal, as city records over 3,000 fresh Covid-19 cases||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the ongoing wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the Capital is not as serious as the previous waves and hence there is no need of imposing any lockdown. "We will be reviewing the situation. In future, if the need for a lockdown arises, I will consult before taking any such decision," the Chief Minister said, adding that though it is being considered the second wave in the country, it is the fourth wave for Delhi.An emergency meeting was called at Kejriwal's residence in view of the increasing Covid-19 cases in the city."Cases are spreading fast. This is concerning but there is nothing to panic about. In October, when daily cases were around 3,000-4,000 like it is now, there were many patients in ICU. There were many deaths as well. But this wave is less serious than the previous ones. More people are under home isolation," Kejriwal said.Big spike in Delhi, grim milestone for MumbaiEmphasising three points on testing, tracking, isolating, Kejriwal said, "I am urging with folded hands to bring back masks."Thanking the Centre for allowing any person above the age of 45 years to get the vaccines against Covid-19, Kejriwal urged the government to allow vaccination at a mass level, on a war footing. "When the vaccination drive started, there were apprehensions of side effects and that's why only health facilities were chosen as vaccination centres. But now as the vaccines have been proved to be safe, if the Centre allows us, we can start vaccination at schools and other non-health facilities. We will keep ambulances and other necessary facilities ready," Kejriwal said.He also urged the Centre to open vaccination for all, removing the present clause of 45 years and above.Daily Covid-19 infections in the Capital has been on a steady rise since March 15. From 400 cases per day, the city moved to record 2790 fresh cases on Thursday. On Friday, there are 3,594 infections, the CM said before the bulletin was published.In December 2020, Delhi recorded daily cases as high as this. On December 8, the city recorded 3,188 cases and on December 6, there were 2,706 fresh infections. In November 2020, Delhi's daily cases crossed the 8,000-mark, which was the highest spike ever.Taking early action against another wave, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority has already announced its decision of conducting random testing of travellers coming to Delhi from other states where Covid-19 cases are high.The government has also asked schools in the Capital to continue classes of the new academic year online, instead of calling students to schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-lockdown-in-delhi-situation-not-as-serious-as-before-says-kejriwal-101617361321634.html
02-04-2021||India||Assam tries to deport Rohingya girl, Myanmar refuses to accept||Myanmar refused to accept a 14-year-old Rohingya girl when she was taken to the international border in Manipur by a team of the Assam Police for deportation, officials said on Friday.Following Centre's clearance, the girl was taken from Silchar in Assam to the international check-gate at Moreh in Manipur on Thursday for deportation, they said.However, immigration officials of Myanmar refused to accept her, stating that the check-gate is shut for the last one year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, they added.Further, the Myanmar officials told the Indian authorities that the situation in their country is also not appropriate for any kind of deportation, police said.The police team returned to Silchar with the girl, and handed her back to the shelter home where she has been living.The girl was found at a house in the Rongpur area of Silchar in the Cachar district two years back in an unconscious state under mysterious circumstances, officials said.It was later found that her parents were in a refugee camp at Cox Bazar in Bangladesh, they said.As she was a minor, she was not sent to a detention centre and instead provided shelter at Ujjala Ashroy Center at first and thereafter a home run by the Nibedita Nari Sangstha, police said.When she was brought to the shelter home two years back, she did not know any Indian language, Puja Das of Ujjala Ashroy Center said.The girl stayed there for a year, and studied and learnt to speak a local language, she said.After that, she was sent to the women home's of Nibedita Nari Sangstha, she added.Nibedita Nari Sangstha chief Dibya Roy said that she has written several letters to the Centre over the last few months to take steps for helping her return to her home in Myanmar, for which the clearance was granted recently.However, the government's move of deporting her to coup-hit Myanmar ever after finding out that her parents are in Bangladesh has been criticised by many.Noted human rights activist Kamal Chakraborty said, "In such a condition, how can the Indian government try to hand her over to Myanmar? Moreover, the situation in Myanmar is not good."Several Myanmar nationals of Rohingya origin have been arrested over the past few years in different parts of India for crossing over to the country illegaly, even as they were fleeing persecution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/assam-tries-to-deport-rohingya-girl-myanmar-refuses-to-accept-101617361454413.html
02-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: JP Nadda hits out at Congress over poll alliance and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In latest dig, BJP says ‘Cong against Left in Kerala, with them in Bengal, Assam’BJP national president JP Nadda on Friday hit out at the Congress party over its alliance with the Left parties in the assembly elections that are underway across four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry in the country. Read MoreEVM controversy: In entire Assam, EC only found BJP leader’s car, asks SurjewalaThe Congress on Friday continued its attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) were allegedly found in a car of BJP candidate Krishnendu Paul in Assam’s Karimganj district on Thursday night, hours after the state witnessed voting in 39 constituencies in the second phase of the assembly elections. Read MoreForeign workers impacted by Trump travel ban can reapply for H-1B visaThe US department of state Thursday announced that H-1B applicants who were denied a visa due to travel ban can now reapply by submitting a new application. Read MoreMS Dhoni picks his favourite ODI innings on 10th anniversary of 2011 World Cup winLegendary India cricketer MS Dhoni picked his 91-run knock against Sri Lanka in the 2011 World Cup final as his favourite innings in ODI cricket. Read MoreFacebook launches new profile frames, sticker to encourage Covid-19 vaccinationFacebook has launched new features to encourage Covid-19 vaccination. On Facebook, it has launched Covid-19 vaccine profile frames, and a new sticker on Instagram. Read MoreThalaivi song Chali Chali: Kangana Ranaut brings back J Jayalalithaa's superstar days. WatchThe first song from Thalaivi, Chali Chali, capturing the initial phase of late former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa's cinematic career, it out. Read MoreVehicle scrappage policy: How it affects buyers & India’s automobile sectorThe vehicle scrappage policy announced by the Modi government is likely to have a significant impact on the automobile industry in the country. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-jp-nadda-hits-out-at-congress-over-poll-alliance-and-all-the-latest-news-101617361292492.html
02-04-2021||India||In post-Covid-19 Bihar, kidney transplants pick up amid fears of infection||Kidney transplants are gradually gathering momentum in Bihar after a gap of nearly six months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Doctors though are guarded given the second wave of coronavirus infections with the state reporting over 2,000 cases and 13 deaths over the last eight days — the highest single-day spike in cases being 488 on April 1.Bihar reported 12 kidney transplants in the last six months at the four facilities approved by the health department. Doctors had put on hold all such procedures given the high probability of infection among patients on immunosuppressive drugs, after the Centre announced a nationwide lockdown on March 23, last year.The Ruban Memorial Hospital, accredited to the National Accreditation Board of Hospitals (NABH), had done the last such procedure on two patients on March 20. The two male patients — a 34-year-old from Hajipur and a 19-year-old from Patna — were discharged from the hospital on Thursday.“These were our first post-Covid-19 renal transplants since the previous one done at our hospital in 2019,” said Dr Satyajit Kumar Singh, managing director and senior urologist of the Ruban Hospital.Most of the post-Covid-19 renal transplants in the state have been done during the last two months. The Paras HMRI Hospital, accredited to the NABH, did three of them, while the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), an autonomous institution funded by the state government, and the Ruban Hospital did two each.The Paras HMRI hospital, however, was the first facility in the state to do a renal transplant post Covid-19, when it successfully undertook the procedure last October.“After our last pre-Covid-19 renal transplant in February 2020, we had temporarily stopped doing the procedure at our centre till last September. We gradually re-initiated it, having done one renal transplant in October, two each in November and December last year and three in February this year,” said Dr Syed Asif Rahman, medical superintendent, Paras-HMRI hospital.The IGIMS did its first post-Covid-19 kidney transplant in February and then in March, said Dr Om Kumar, professor and head, department of nephrology.“The first post-Covid-19 renal transplant at IGIMS was done in February on a 24-year-old man from Patna’s Baktiyarpur block and the second in March on a 25-year-old man from Munger. Both are doing fine,” he added.“We have planned another kidney transplant on April 6, but we will wait and watch the trend of Covid-19 infection in the state because we do not want to put the patient and their kidney donors at risk if the coronavirus infection increases in the state,” added Dr Kumar.Dr Pankaj Hans, head, department of nephrology, Ruban Memorial Hospital and an associate professor at the Patna Medical College Hospital, said putting on hold renal transplants was not the solution in the present scenario.“We are much better prepared to tackle the pandemic now and have also gained in experience. Kidney transplant is a better mode of therapy in comparison to dialysis, as the patient’s quality of life improves. We should not deprive those who have donors and are willing to undertake the procedure,” said Dr Hans. He, however, cautioned, that doctors need to be on their guard.“The new strain of the Covid-19 virus may have higher transmissibility but is less severe in terms of mortality rate. We will adopt a cautious approach in doing kidney transplants, given the second wave of Covid-19. We need to be careful with patients taking immunosuppressive drugs and regulate their medicines because they are prone to contracting the infection,” he added.The Ruban Memorial Hospital, which was the first in the state to carry out a successful kidney transplant in 2008, has done 14 such procedures so far.“The state government told us to wait till it framed its own rules, governing organ tissue transplant. We then lost three to four years because of a change in ownership of our hospital and the government rules on the mandatory three-year cooling off period,” said managing director Dr Singh.Ruban Hospital now plans to initiate bone marrow transplant next year. It will also add to its existing capacity of 210 beds and an additional 186 beds in its annexe building next month. In addition, it has 50 existing beds for Covid-19 care that is separate from its main building, and another 50 beds for women and children in the hospital.In terms of kidney transplant, the IGIMS leads the pack in the state, having done 73 procedures so far since it initiated it in 2016. The Paras-HMRI hospital had done 38 after introducing the facility in January 2018.The BIG Apollo hospital hasn’t done any kidney transplant procedure.“We got the government approval to perform kidney transplants only last month. We have the requisite infrastructure in place,” said nephrologist Dr Harsh Vardhan.Quoting statistics, Dr Hans said 1.50 lakh patients required kidney transplant but only 7,500 transplants, on an average, were done in India every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-post-covid-19-bihar-kidney-transplants-pick-up-amid-fears-of-infection-101617361563564.html
02-04-2021||India||Over 5 crore passengers travelled safely since resumption of domestic aviation operations, says Hardeep Singh Puri||Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday said more than five crore and twenty-seven lakh people have travelled safely and conveniently since the resumption of domestic flight operations in May 2020.The domestic flight operations were paused from midnight of March 24 last year in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.Puri in a tweet shared statistics pertaining to the recovery of domestic flights operations. As per the infographic in the tweet, 253,008 passengers on more than 2,300 flights travelled on April 1, 2021. Total footfall at the airports was recorded to be over 507,000 with 4,633 flight movements. Considering the Covid-19 situation in the country, the minister in the tweet also said that precautionary measures are in place as the aviation operations fly towards the pre-Covid figures.25 मई 2020 से घरेलू उड़ान सेवा के पुनः आरंभ होने के बाद से कल तक लगभग 5 करोड़ 27 लाख लोग सुरक्षित और सुविधाजनक हवाई यात्रा कर चुके हैं। महामारी के उतार चढ़ाव को मद्देनजर रखते हुए हम हर सावधानी बरत रहे हैं और कोविड-पूर्व आंकड़ों की तरफ उड़ान भर रहे हैं। pic.twitter.com/GEoIqIwHBk“Since the resumption of the domestic flight service from 25 May 2020 till yesterday, around 5 crore 27 lakh people have travelled safely and conveniently. Keeping in mind the ups and downs of the epidemic, we are taking every precaution and flying towards pre-Covid figures,” the tweet, with infographics, read.February end recorded more than 313,000 passengers travelling domestically through 2,353 flights, the data by civil aviation ministry showed.Global aviation body International Air Transport Association (IATA) on Wednesday requested the Centre to suspend the planned rise in aviation security fees that can deter the industry’s recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-5-crore-passengers-travelled-safely-since-resumption-of-domestic-aviation-operations-says-hardeep-singh-puri-101617359424778.html
02-04-2021||India||Denial of information grossly improper, says CIC||The Central Information Commission (CIC) has called the electronics and information technology ministry’s denial of information about comments related to the public consultation on the Personal Data Protection Bill “grossly improper”.Information commissioner Vanaja Sarna, in an order dated March 25, directed the concerned officer to revisit the application. It added in case the ministry cannot justify the right grounds to withhold the information, the details should be made public.The direction is to be complied with within 15 days from the date of receipt of the order.Digital rights advocacy group Internet Freedom Foundation sought information under the Right To Information (RTI) Act on the consultations conducted before drafting the bill around three years ago. “We will keep persisting for transparency around the Data Bill,” the foundation tweeted on Friday.A ministry official said they’ll look into the order.Also Read | SC raps Centre over delayed reply to RTI pleaA joint parliamentary committee was set up in 2019 to review the bill. The panel first received an extension till the winter session last year. It then received an extension till the first week of the second half of the budget session last month.The bill covers the cross-border transfer of data and the use of personal data by government and private companies. Provisions of the bill related to localisation of data within the country and curbs on data sharing across borders have come in for criticism from global technology companies. In October last year, Sarna also pulled up three ministry officials for denying information regarding those involved in the process to setup the Aarogya Setu mobile application. The ministry later ordered action against the officers responsible for the evasive response over the creation of the indigenous Covid-19 contact tracing app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/denial-of-information-grossly-improper-says-cic-101617360303410.html
02-04-2021||India||Mohali court rejects Mukhtar Ansari's plea for medical examination||A Mohali court has rejected a plea of gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari who sought directions to jail authorities to constitute a medical board for examining him.The court of Judicial Magistrate 1st Class (JMIC) Amit Bakshi said the Supreme Court has already considered Ansari's plea regarding his medical condition."There is nothing on record which cab suggest that after the apex court order on March 26 there have been any fresh medical issues with the accused," the Mohali court judge said.No separate order to constitute a board for treatment of the accused is required to be passed, the judge wrote in his March 31 order.Ansari, wanted in Uttar Pradesh for several cases, was on Wednesday produced before the Mohali court in connection with an alleged 2019 extortion matter. He was in a wheelchair when he was brought to the court.Ansari, through his counsel Raj Sumer Singh, had moved a plea in the court for directing the jail authorities to get him medically examined due to "acute ailments and medical distress".The counsel had also claimed that the accused suffered "medical" emergency on March 29, 2020 and since then he has been suffering from "acute chest pain".Ansari had a previous medical condition and had also suffered two major heart attacks. It was feared that if he was denied proper medical assistance, he might succumb to his medical ailments, it was further submitted.The counsel had also sought a reply from the Rupnagar jail superintendent before deciding the application.The counsel also mentioned in the plea while referring to the March 26 Supreme Court order that as the MLA from Mau had to travel to Uttar Pradesh, keeping in view his medical condition, he be treated through a recognized government medical hospital in Mohali by constituting a board.The Mohali court judge in his order said, "No reply on behalf of the jail superintendent would be required as the jail superintendent was duty bound as per law to provide appropriate medical facility to the accused as per his medical condition (if any), as per the jail manual and also to comply with the order dated March 26 of the apex court."The court also directed that as Ansari is in judicial custody in the present case, therefore, the jail superintendent, at the time of transferring the custody of the accused to UP as per directions of the apex court, will mention that he be produced through video conferencing on April 12 in the present case.Ansari has been lodged in Rupnagar district jail in Punjab since January 2019 in connection with an alleged extortion case.On March 26, the Supreme Court directed the Punjab government to hand over the custody of Ansari to the Uttar Pradesh Police, saying the custody was being denied on trivial grounds under the guise of medical issues.The apex court had also said that a convict or an undertrial prisoner, who disobeys the law of the land, cannot oppose his transfer from one prison to another and the courts should not be a helpless bystander when the rule of law is being challenged with impunity.A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy had said the custody of Ansari be handed over to Uttar Pradesh within two weeks so as to lodge him in Banda District Jail in UP.The apex court also noted that Ansari was allegedly involved in several cases of attempt to murder, murder, cheating and conspiracy apart from offences under the Gangsters Act, which were lodged in Uttar Pradesh. Out of these cases, 10 are at the stages of trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mohali-court-rejects-mukhtar-ansari-s-plea-for-medical-examination-101617359008484.html
02-04-2021||India||How India aims to boost its indigenous defence capabilities in two years||In what will provide a fillip to the government’s self reliance campaign and the domestic defence ecosystem, and boost Indian fighting capabilities, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is gearing up to provide the Indian military with a dozen new indigenous weapons and systems over the next two years, DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy said on Friday.The weapon systems that will be delivered to the military between 2021 and 2023 to strengthen its capabilities include beyond visual range (BVR) missiles, India’s first anti-radiation missile, anti-tank weapons, anti-drone systems, guided bombs and anti-airfield weapons, the government told Parliament in March.Several of these systems were tested last year when India demonstrated its indigenous weapon-development capability to the world at a time when the border row with China in eastern Ladakh was at its peak. India has set aside ₹70,221 crore—63% of the military’s capital budget for 2021-22—for buying locally-produced weapons and systems to boost defence indigenisation. Last year, the defence ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases.Boosting indigenisation “These systems that have been developed and others that are under development will significantly boost indigenous capabilities in development and production of weapons. We are moving towards achieving the goal of Aatmanirbharta (self-reliance) in the defence sector. And all this is happening at a time when we are progressively banning the import of military hardware through the positive indigenisation list (earlier called negative import list),” Reddy said.Last year, the government notified a negative import list that sought to ban the import of 101 types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years to promote self-reliance. This year, the government is set to notify a second list of weapons, systems and ammunition that cannot be imported. The list of weapons banned for import will be reviewed every year and more items will be added to it, officials familiar with the matter said.In February, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said it may be described as a negative list, but it is a positive list in the language of self-reliance. “It is a positive list on the strength of which our own manufacturing capacity is going to increase. This is a positive list that will create jobs in India… This is a positive list as it guarantees that products made in India will be sold in India,” Modi said.That statement by PM led the negative import list to be rechristened the positive indigenisation list. According to official data, DRDO has undertaken 79 projects worth ₹8,201 crore during the last three years. These include different types of missiles, gun systems, ammunitions, radars and electronic warfare systems.Nailing delivery timelines DRDO, which has acquired the reputation of long delays in delivery, is hoping to nail its delivery timelines so that the armed forces are not kept waiting for the new weapons and systems. The defence ministry specified the delivery timelines for different systems in Parliament on March 22.The Astra BVR missile and the anti-drone system will be made available to the armed forces this year. The systems that the military can expect next year include the quick reaction surface to air missile system (QRSAM) to protect armoured columns from aerial attacks, the Nag and Helina anti-tank missiles with an effective range of five km, and the air defence fire control radar (ADFCR) that form a key part of a ground-based air defence system in conjunction with anti-aircraft guns.While the Nag missile is launched from a modified infantry combat vehicle (called the Nag missile carrier or Namica), the Helina or helicopter-based Nag is for mounting on the Dhruv advanced light helicopter.India’s first anti-radiation missile, Rudram, will be ready for induction into service by 2023 and boost the Indian Air Force’s capabilities to knock out enemy radars and surveillance systems. The smart anti-airfield weapon (SAAW) will also be ready in two years. SAAW is a precision strike weapon that can be used to target enemy airfield assets such as radars, bunkers, taxi tracks and runways. Indigenously developed by the DRDO’s research centre Imarat, the weapon has a range of 100km. It has been test-fired from the IAF’s Jaguar fighter planes and the upgraded Hawk Mk-132 trainer aircraft.It is good that timelines have been set and DRDO is working towards achieving them, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.“The scientists have their work cut out so that capability gaps that have crept in—for instance, in the BVR space—are quickly made up and the IAF gains the upper hand again. The same applies to ground and naval systems. Our adversaries, especially China, are committing huge funds into defence R&D—we can lag behind only at our peril,” said Bahadur.The weapons systems of the future DRDO is working on a raft of other weapons and systems that will be inducted into service in the coming years, Reddy said. It is developing a new air-launched missile capable of knocking out enemy tanks from a stand-off distance of more than 10km.The indigenous missile, named stand-off anti-tank missile (SANT), is expected to be mated to the IAF’s Russian-origin Mi-35 attack helicopters to arm them with the capability to destroy enemy armour from an improved stand-off range. The existing Russian-origin Shturm missile on the Mi-35 can target tanks at a range of 5km.Key tests conducted by India last year included the supersonic missile-assisted release of torpedo (SMART) to target submarines at long ranges and a new version of the nuclear-capable hypersonic Shaurya missile with a range of 750km.India is also developing a new class of ultra-modern weapons that can travel six times faster than the speed of sound (Mach 6) and penetrate any missile defence. In early September 2020, DRDO also carried out a successful flight test of the hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) for the first time.Only the United States, Russia and China have developed technologies to field fast-manoeuvring hypersonic missiles that fly at lower altitudes and are extremely hard to track and intercept.The road aheadImports have traditionally accounted for 60-65% of the country’s military requirements, with India signing contracts worth billions of dollars over the last 10 years for fighter jets, air defence missile systems, submarine hunter planes, attack helicopters, heavy-lift choppers and lightweight howitzers.But India’s arms imports fell 33% between 2011-15 and 2016-20, said a report released by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) on March 15.The report on international arms transfers attributed the drop in India’s arms imports mainly to an attempt to reduce its dependence on Russian arms and complex procurement processes. India’s top three arms suppliers during 2016-20 were Russia (accounting for 49% of India’s imports), France (18%) and Israel (13%), the report said.According to Sipri, India accounted for 0.2% of the share of global arms exports during 2016-20, making the country the world’s 24th largest exporter of major arms. This represents a jump of 228% over India’s export share during the previous five-year period - 2011-15. Myanmar, Sri Lanka and Mauritius were the top recipients of Indian military hardware.Sipri, however, said India’s military imports were likely to grow over the next five years. “As India perceives increasing threats from Pakistan and China and as its ambitious plans to produce its own major arms have been significantly delayed, it is planning large-scale programmes for arms imports. Based on its outstanding deliveries of combat aircraft, air defence systems, ships and submarines, India’s arms imports are expected to increase over the coming five years,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-india-aims-to-boost-its-indigenous-defence-capabilities-in-two-years-101617358023279.html
02-04-2021||India||‘Exposed to Covid-19’: Priyanka Gandhi isolates herself||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi announced that she is isolating herself on Friday after her husband Robert Vadra tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In a video message on her Twitter handle, Gandhi said her scheduled election campaigns in this week have to be cancelled.The Congress leader said that she has tested negative for Covid-19 but has been advised by her doctors to isolate herself after being exposed to the virus.“Due to exposure to the novel coronavirus infection, I have to cancel my Assam tour. I will be in self-isolation for the next few days. I apologise to all for this inconvenience” she said. She also wished luck to all the candidates campaigning and prayed for Congress’s victory.Also Read | What Rahul Gandhi can learn about Congress leadership from his familyGandhi had toured Kerala on March 30 and 31 and she was scheduled to go to Assam on Friday, Tamil Nadu on Saturday and Kerala on Sunday.Earlier, Vadra, the Congress leader’s husband, took to Facebook to say he had tested positive for Covid-19. “ Unfortunately, I came into contact with someone who is Covid-19 positive. I have tested positive for Covid-19 although I am asymptomatic so far”.Gandhi’s brother, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, will campaign as per his usual schedule. Congress president Sonia Gandhi has kept herself completely away from the campaign on medical advice. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, too, has been advised by his doctors to stay indoors, but he recently posted a video message for the voters of Assam before the first phase of the assembly election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exposed-to-covid-19-priyanka-gandhi-isolates-herself-101617357544409.html
02-04-2021||India||Pune, Durg, Chhindwara: Fresh Covid-19 restrictions imposed in these districts||In the last 24 hours, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh recorded the highest number of Covid-19 infections, contributing to India's single-day rise of 81,466 Covid-19 cases — the highest in six months. With this steady spike, the question of imposing fresh restrictions becomes imminent. Some state governments have already started responding to the situation.Fresh restrictions have been announced in these areas:ChhattisgarhChhattisgarh on Thursday reported 4,617 fresh infections in its highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic in 2020 March. Raipur and Durg are the worst-hit districts with 1,327 and 996 new cases, respectively — in the last 24 hours.> Durg district administration has announced a complete lockdown in the district from April 6 to 14.> There is a strict night curfew order in many of Chhattisgarh districts, including Raipur. This was imposed in March. Under these, all shops are allowed to function between 6am to 9pm, while restaurants, dhabas, hotels can remain open between 8am and 10pm.> Chhattisgarh secretariat and directorate offices have been instructed to function with 50 per cent staff strength, as many government staff contracted the infection in the past few days.Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Thursday directed district authorities to decide on imposing lockdowns, following which the Durg administration announced the fresh restrictions on Friday.MaharashtraAll districts of Maharashtra have already been placed under a night curfew till April 15.Pune district, which has 64,599 active Covid-19 cases, the highest in the country at present, has on Friday ordered all bars, hotels and restaurants to remain closed for seven days, starting from tomorrow.There will be a 12-hour night curfew in Pune from April 3, 6pm.Pune district has also prohibited the gathering of more than five persons.In Nagpur, which was under lockdown till March 31, restrictions have been withdrawn and Maharashtra's Aurangabad district has taken back a lockdown decision recently.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is likely to announce stricter curbs on Friday.Madhya PradeshChhindwara, Ratlam, Betul and parts of Khargone districts in Madhya Pradesh have been put under lockdown, which will start from Friday night. The restrictions will be in place till April 5, news agency PTI reported. Sunday lockdown in 12 cities, including Gwalior, Ujjain, Vidisha, Narsinghpur, Sausar (Chhindwara district), Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Betul, Ratlam, Chhindwara and Khargone will continue as before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-restrictions-in-maharashtra-chhattisgarh-districts-amid-covid-19-surge-101617356069550.html
02-04-2021||India||Covid-19 second wave in India may peak by mid-April, say scientists||Scientists have predicted using a mathematical model that the ongoing second-wave of Covid-19 pandemic across the country could peak by mid-April, following which the infections may see a steep decline by the end of May.During the first wave of Covid-19 infections across India, the mathematical approach, named SUTRA, predicted that the initial surge of infections in August would peak by September and lower in February 2021.Scientists, including Manindra Agrawal from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur, applied the model to predict the trajectory of the current surge in infections and found that the number of daily new infections is likely to peak in mid-April for this ongoing pandemic wave."For the last several days, we have found that there is a reasonable chance that the cases in India could peak sometime between 15-20 April. It is a sharp slope, but on the way down, it would likely be equally sharp, coming down very fast and by end of May may see a dramatic reduction," Agrawal told PTI."There is some uncertainty in predicting the peak value of daily new infections because of the sharp rise. Currently, it is coming to 1 lakh infections per day, but this can go up or down. But the timing remains the same between April 15-20," he added.The scientists predict that in the current wave, the first state to peak could be Punjab in a few days, followed by Maharashtra.However, the IIT Kanpur professor added that the model's prediction of the new peak is sensitive to the daily new infections data."Even a little bit of change each day causes the peak numbers to change by several thousand numbers. But the location of the peak has remained on mid-April," he added.Independent calculations made by scientists, including Gautam Menon from Ashoka University in Haryana, have also predicted that the peak of the ongoing wave of infections could be between mid-April and mid-May.However, Menon cautioned that such projections of Covid-19 cases should really be trusted only in the short term."Any excessively precise prediction, of a peak within just a 5-day window, would ignore the many uncertainties associated with the inputs to any such calculation," Menon, who was not involved in the SUTRA modelling, told PTI.Agrawal noted that the model uses three main parameters to predict the course of the pandemic."The first is called Beta, or contact rate, which measures how many people an infected person infects per day. It is related to the R-naught value, which is the number of people an infected person spreads the virus to over the course of their infection," Agrawal explained.The other two parameters, he explained are 'Reach', which is a measure of exposure level of the population to the pandemic, and 'Epsilon' which is the ratio of detected and undetected cases."The reason we had to introduce 'Reach' is that unlike earlier pandemics which start at a location and suddenly spread fast across a place, in Covid, the spread of the pandemic has been slower due to the many protective measures in place," Agrawal explained.The mathematician said 'Epsilon' helps factor in the number of asymptomatic infections across the country."Since the detected cases are quarantined, we assume they no longer contribute to new infections. So a growing number of daily new cases, reflect larger undetected infections. By measuring the number of new cases each day, we try to estimate the undetected and asymptomatic infections," Agrawal explained.He added that the model relies on inputs from daily reported new infections, based on which the value of the three main parameters are inferred."We learn everything from the daily-infections data. The beta value across India has gone up by 50 per cent in March, which indicates that a combination of factors -- people becoming more relaxed, and more infectious variants going around. But precisely what reason this could be is something biologists have to say," the scientist noted.While the model did not previously predict a second-wave in India, he said it could have been due to a change in the parameters sometime between February and March 2021."So clearly during this time some parameters had changed. So we had to wait for some time to collect new data and see how the parameters had changed, which we now know," Agrawal said.On Friday, India recorded 81,466 new infections in a span of 24 hours -- the highest single-day rise in cases since October 2, 2020 -- taking the Covid-19 tally of cases to 1,23,03,131, according to the Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-second-wave-in-india-may-peak-by-mid-april-say-scientists-101617355491356.html
02-04-2021||India||Bonded labourers from UP, Bihar given drugs to get more work from them: MHA to Punjab||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has written to Punjab government, asking it to look into a “serious problem” of bonded labourers working with the farmers in the border villages of the state, people familiar with the development said.These bonded labourers, belonging to poor family background and remote areas of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, are hired by trafficking syndicates from their native place to work in Punjab on the promise of good salary, only to be exploited, paid poorly and meted out inhuman treatment, according to the letter written by MHA to Punjab chief secretary and DGP on March 17. HT has reviewed the letter.The ministry said bonded labourers “are often given drugs, for making them work for long hours in the fields, which adversely affects their mental and physical condition”.“Keeping in view the multi-dimensional and overwhelming enormity of the problem, which involves human trafficking, bonded labour and human rights violation, you are requested to look into the matter and take appropriate measures to address the serious problem,” the ministry said, while asking the state government to give an action taken report on the matter on “priority”.The MHA has also marked the matter to Union ministry of labour and employment, asking it to issue suitable instructions to all states - especially Bihar, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha -- for generating awareness among the masses, at various levels of the states, to ensure that poor and vulnerable victims are not duped by unscrupulous elements with false promises for better job prospects and remuneration etc.Also Read | Focus on test-track-treat protocol: MHA to statesThe details of the disturbing trend have been shared on the basis of people apprehended from border villages of Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Ferozepur and Abohar in Punjab in 2019 and 2020. The Border Security Force (BSF) apprehended 58 Indian nationals from the border areas of these districts in these two years.“During the course of questioning, it emerged that most of them were either mentally challenged or were in feeble state of mind and have been working as bonded labourers with farmers in border villages of Punjab,” the MHA letter reads.The BSF, according to the MHA, usually hands over such rescued persons to the local police for further necessary action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bonded-labourers-from-up-bihar-given-drugs-to-get-more-work-from-them-mha-to-punjab-101617354243304.html
02-04-2021||India||What Rahul Gandhi can learn about Congress leadership from his family||The Congress lost elections under three of its most important leaders—Indira, Rajiv and Sonia Gandhi; their policies were critiqued, and their decisions put under a scanner. But never did their peers and party persons consider them “unfit” to lead the party.This story—of faith in the leadership, especially if that leadership belonged to the Nehru-Gandhi family—has since ended. Or so it appears.The Congress today is in the middle of a crisis that makes the post-Emergency isolation of Indira Gandhi in the late 1970s, and Rajiv Gandhi’s diminished political standing in the face of the Bofors gun kickback allegations in the mid-1980s, seem like minor hiccups. The party’s electoral slide in the aftermath of the pulverising 2014 defeat has been steep with scant signs of an early recovery.Voices within have risen over the Nehru-Gandhi family’s force-multiplier utility, the public lure that was their USP. If the outcome of ongoing elections to five state legislatures, notably Kerala, Assam and Puducherry, brings no happy tidings, the rising dissent could well transform into revolt. Whether Rahul Gandhi contests organisational polls, scheduled for the summer, a defeated lead campaigner in popular elections will be a lame-duck party president. “Unfit to lead the party” is actually the phrase certain Congress functionaries use in private conversations.Also Read | PM Modi helps only corporate giants, ignores poor: Rahul Gandhi in KeralaThe sentiment is a mix of pique and pragmatism. Since Indira Gandhi’s days, the family’s hold over the Congress has been directly proportional to their hold on the electorate. Her scions inherited the mantle on the promise of restoring or sustaining the party in power. And in turn, they commanded the loyalty of the party. This fundamental contract, in some senses, between the family and the party is today under strain. The family’s ability to get votes is in doubt, and thus, the loyalty of elements in the party to the family is becoming tenuous.But this is not the first time that a leader is grappling with a power transition, and perhaps it is by returning to history—of his own family and party—that Rahul Gandhi can determine the future.How Indira Gandhi ousted the old guard Indira Gandhi earned her spurs not merely as the daughter of Jawaharlal Nehru. The name helped, but she fought and won against Morarji Desai to be elected leader of the Congress Parliamentary Party after Lal Bahadur Shastri’s death in 1966. That was in the run-up to the general elections a year later, in which she bypassed the powerful syndicate comprising Desai, K Kamaraj, S Nijalingappa, Atulya Ghosh and N Sanjeeva Reddy, for a direct connect with the people.Widely perceived as a watershed moment in Indian politics, the 1967 polls were the last time when elections were simultaneously held to the state assemblies and the Lok Sabha. The Congress retained power at the Centre with reduced numbers but was voted out in nine states. It even lost its majority in Uttar Pradesh with Charan Singh leading a set of defectors to put together a non-Congress coalition.With Desai, the syndicate’s beachhead in the government, challenging her political and policy moves as the deputy Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi hit back at the old guard in the 1969 presidential polls, necessitated by the demise of the incumbent Zakir Hussain. Unwilling to back VV Giri, the vice-President who, ex officio, became the acting president, the syndicate put up then Lok Sabha speaker Sanjeeva Reddy for the top constitutional office.Indira Gandhi smelt a conspiracy and read the syndicate’s move as a precursor to her ouster as the PM, more so because her proposal to field Dalit heavyweight, Jagjivan Ram, as the head of State was voted down by the old-guard-controlled Congress parliamentary board. How she outmanoeuvred the powerful syndicate by lending her weight to Giri’s independent candidature against the official party nominee is now history.Also Watch | Rahul Gandhi says ‘I’m not Modi’, Amit Shah says ‘you’re tourist’ in AssamReddy’s defeat in the presidential election became the reason, eventually, for the party’s 1969 split. Indira Gandhi’s resultant minority Congress (Requisionists) government survived with the support of the Left and the DMK. But it was the failure of the Jana Sangh-Swatantra Party-Socialist amalgam of the Samyukta Vidhayak Dal dispensations in states, the 1971 elections with the Garibi Hatao slogan to counter the Indira Hatao plank of the Opposition, and the Bangladesh war that established her credentials as the paramount leader of her party and the country.Indira Gandhi had won. But the concomitant centralisation of decision-making, which began under her but continued even after her demise, disempowered the party’s regional faces. Its crippling effect has been evident in recent decades in the party’s diminishing federal appeal.How, and why, Sonia Gandhi worked with the veteransBut, perhaps, more instructive for Rahul Gandhi are parallels closer in history. Unlike her mother-in-law, who directly took on the old guard, Sonia Gandhi worked with the veterans.Her willingness to be an attentive listener to party elders fetched her acceptability, besides the image of being a consensus builder. As the late Pranab Mukherjee once recalled to this writer: “She had her way when she wanted because, on other occasions, she went by the advice she got.”It was perhaps for this reason that Sonia Gandhi could install Manmohan Singh as Prime Minister in 2004, bypassing veterans such as Mukherjee, Arjun Singh and ND Tiwari.Sonia Gandhi did face a challenge. The Sharad Pawar-led rebellion against her, on the grounds of her foreign origin, was marked by a split. But this was effectively obliterated with the party’s return to power under her stewardship from 2004-14, in which Pawar was an important and powerful minister, even though the two parties retained independent identities.But the fact that Sonia Gandhi, largely, had a cordial relationship with party veterans makes one wonder whether she had learnt from her husband, Rajiv Gandhi’s run-in with the old guard, notably Kamalapati Tripathi.Under Rajiv, the confrontationIndira Gandhi had made Tripathi, a veteran UP leader, the Congress working president in 1983. But Tripathi’s “a-letter-a-day” pushback on the state of the party, targeted Rajiv Gandhi and was deeply embarrassing for the young Prime Minister.Others who had joined the internal party debate at the time included Communist-turned-Congressman, Chimanbhai Patel, and a former socialist from Maharashtra, Vasant Sathe, who rose to prominence in the Congress after the 1979 split led by Karnataka’s Devaraj Urs over Sanjay Gandhi’s re-emergence. The notes they penned to one another and Tripathi’s own letters to Rajiv covered a gamut of issues—downsides of the Punjab and Assam accords; the leadership’s handling of la affaire VP Singh; centralised nomination of leaders of state legislature parties; the lateral entry of civil servants in the party; marginalisation of time-tested leaders such as Mukherjee, Gundu Rao and AP Sharma and patronage of leaders who deserted an out-of-power Indira Gandhi in the 1970s.Blindsided by Rajiv Gandhi who appointed Arjun Singh as party vice-President, Tripathi indeed was an angry octogenarian. But his communications are a study in political foresight. He detected early the organisational atrophy that has since spread far and wide.The lesson inherent in Rajiv’s face-off with the widely venerated pandit from Varanasi was relevant for all times—don’t trifle around with party seniors in the twilight of their innings, given their vast ability to queer the pitch. The Tripathi papers stored at the Nehru Memorial Library have rare insights, and can still serve as a veritable ready reckoner on how to run the party organisation.The institutional lesson for Rahul Gandhi No matter who gets to hold the party’s reins in the promised organisational polls, the Congress’s institutional memory is relevant despite the vastly altered political landscape. It shouldn’t lie in disuse. The party, at once, needs both a major surgery and deep healing. Complacency, even in the event of a good showing in the state polls, would be unwise.The ginger group—or G-23, as the letter writers came to be known, though whether all 23 remain a part of the group is uncertain—that had raised the red flag on organisational matters to Sonia Gandhi might lack the gravitas of Tripathi or those who constituted the syndicate Indira Gandhi decimated in the sixties. But they should be co-opted, rather than hounded. The template could be Indira Gandhi’s re-nomination of Chandrashekar, the party Young Turk who fiercely opposed monopoly-capital, to the Rajya Sabha in 1968. The episode has been vividly detailed by the present Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson Harivansh in his book Chandrashekhar: The last icon of ideological politics.Indira Gandhi’s battle and victory against the Syndicate, the challenge to Rajiv Gandhi from the veterans, and Sonia Gandhi’s ability to work with party elders for consolidating and shepherding the Congress to power are disparate political experiences. But they are joined by a common story—of establishing leadership methods in the grand old party. Rahul Gandhi may want to heed these lessons.Post script: The defiant notes one picks up these days within the Congress are reminiscent of what Indira Gandhi heard to her chagrin, in her years of oblivion, from Devaraj Urs and others who broke away from the Congress. She had the guile and the mass connect to disprove her detractors’ prophecies of her political irrelevance, without yielding to their demand to distance the party from her younger son, Sanjay Gandhi.The current situation has similarities, the saving grace for the leadership being that the Congress chief ministers haven’t joined the dissidents in words or in action. But as the old adage goes, nothing is permanent in politics. The uncertainty is greater when the leadership’s connect with the masses is in doubt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-rahul-gandhi-can-learn-about-congress-leadership-from-his-family-101617353643194.html
02-04-2021||India||'Exposed to coronavirus': Priyanka Gandhi self-isolates, drops out of poll rallies in Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Friday she has been exposed to the coronavirus and will self-isolate herself after doctors' advice. Gandhi said as a consequence, her election programs scheduled this week for Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala have to be cancelled. According to news agency PTI, her decision to self-isolate came after her husband Robert Vadra tested positive for Covid-19. In a video message posted on her official Twitter handle, Gandhi also apologised for the cancellation of her programmes and wished luck to all the candidates that she was supposed to campaign for."Although I tested negative yesterday, doctors have advised that I self-isolate for a few days. Unfortunately, I have to cancel the programmes scheduled for me for the Assam campaign today and for Tamil Nadu tomorrow and Kerala day-after-tomorrow," the Congress leader was heard saying.हाल में कोरोना संक्रमण के संपर्क में आने के चलते मुझे अपना असम दौरा रद्द करना पड़ रहा है। मेरी कल की रिपोर्ट नेगेटिव आई है मगर डॉक्टरों की सलाह पर मैं अगले कुछ दिनों तक आइसोलेशन में रहूँगी। इस असुविधा के लिए मैं आप सभी से क्षमाप्रार्थी हूँ। मैं कांग्रेस विजय की प्रार्थना करती हूँ pic.twitter.com/B1PlDyR8rcGandhi’s husband, Vadra, earlier informed that he recently came into contact with a Covid-19 positive person and had tested positive for coronavirus. Although asymptomatic, he and his wife had decided to go into self-isolation, Vadra said.Gandhi has been actively campaigning in the poll-bound states of Assam and Kerala. She has done two tours of Assam till now and her third visit to the northeastern state was scheduled for Friday. She was also slated to visit Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu's Kanchipuram district on Saturday, where her father and former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated in 1991. Following the visit, the Congress leader was supposed to start her campaign for the Tamil Nadu assembly elections, where her party is contesting on 25 seats in alliance with the DMK.The assembly elections in Tamil Nadu will be held in a single phase on April 6 and the counting of votes will be done on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exposed-to-coronavirus-priyanka-gandhi-drops-assam-tn-kerala-poll-rallies-101617352514172.html
02-04-2021||India||UP cop tests positive for Covid-19 weeks after second vaccine shot||A senior police officer, who took his second coronavirus vaccine dose last month, and his wife have tested positive for Covid-19.Inspector General of Police (IG) Rajesh Pandey shared a Facebook post on Thursday, saying he, his wife and a policeman deployed for his security have tested positive for the disease.The officer also requested all those who came in contact with him recently to get tested.Pandey's son had tested positive for Covid-19 three days ago."I took first jab of the vaccine on February 5 and the second one on March 5. My wife is yet to take the second jab," Pandey said, adding that his personal security guard has also taken both doses of the vaccine.Pandey, who has been transferred from the Bareilly range, is undergoing treatment at a private medical college here. He was sent to Lucknow as in-charge of the election cell and was here to collect his household items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cop-tests-positive-for-covid-19-weeks-after-second-vaccine-shot-101617351970174.html
02-04-2021||India||2 held in Telangana for torturing boys on suspicion of Mango theft||Two men were arrested in Telangana’s Mahabubabad district for allegedly beating up two teenagers, tying them up with a rope, stuffing their mouths with buffalo dung before smearing it on their faces believing them to be mango thieves. This incident occurred at Bothala Thanda (tribal hamlet) on the outskirts of Thorrur town on Thursday evening. A video of the torture, apparently shot by an onlooker, went viral in social media followed by the parents of the boys lodging a police complaint. “We have arrested Banothu Yaku of Bothala Thanda and Banothu Ramulu of Hatchu Thanda, who were hired to guard the mango orchard. We shall produce them in the court later in the day,” Thorrur sub-inspector of police Ch Nagesh told HT. The accused were booked under sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 504 (intentional insult and provocation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Act (Punishment for cruelty to Child). SI Nagesh quoted from the complaint to say that the boys, in the age group of 12-13 years, entered the mango orchard in search of their missing pet dog but were caught by the guards of the orchard on the suspicion that they were planning to steal mangoes. The video clip shows the two men tying the boys up with a rope and beating them with a stick, without heeding to their cries of innocence. Even as the boys were crying, one of the guards brought some dung and stuffed it into their mouths, while the other guard encouraged him. Later, the two accused also smeared the boys’ faces with dung. As the video went viral, local youth brought it to the notice of Mahabubabad collector V P Gautam and superintendent of police (SP) Nandyal Koti Reddy, who immediately ordered a probe into the incident. “We took the two guards into custody late in the night and questioned them. We formally arrested them on Friday morning and shall send them to judicial remand,” the SI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-held-in-telangana-for-torturing-boys-on-suspicion-of-mango-theft-101617352263001.html
02-04-2021||India||Maharashtra, 4 other states contribute 77.91% of Covid-19 cases to daily tally||Five states, including Maharashtra and Kerala, cumulatively contributed to 77.91 per cent of new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) recorded in the last 24 hours from across the country, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday. Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Punjab also were among these five states and Maharashtra accounted for 59.84 per cent of the total active caseload of the country.Read more: Massive Covid-19 case surge across the country: What you need to knowIndia recorded the biggest single-day increase in Covid-19 cases in nearly six months with 81,466 new infections in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry’s data showed on Friday morning. According to the ministry, 469 related fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours. The country’s caseload has gone up to 12.3 million and its death toll has risen to 163,396.Here’s a look at the five states which contributed the most to India’s Covid-19 caseload:MaharashtraMaharashtra registered 43,183 new Covid-19 cases and 249 fatalities on Thursday with which the state’s cumulative count of Covid-19 infections surged to 2,856,163 and the death toll mounted to 54,898. Data showed 2,433,368 people recovered from the disease so far and the active cases in the state stood at 366,533.Read more: Covid-19: ICMR study suggests new re-infection criteriaKarnatakaKarnataka logged 4,225 new infections and 26 more Covid-related deaths on Friday. 1,492 people recovered from the infection in the state while the death toll stood at 12,567. The cumulative tally in the state stood at 997,004 and 956,170 people have recovered from the viral infection so far.ChhattisgarhChhattisgarh on Thursday reported 4,617 coronavirus cases, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, which pushed the state's caseload to 353,804. The death toll also rose to 4,204 with 34 more people succumbing to the infection. The recoveries in the state reached 320,613.Read more: India backs WHO chief's call for further investigations into Covid-19 originKeralaKerala logged 2,653 Covid-19 cases on Thursday which pushed the caseload in the state to 112,400. The state reported 15 fatalities within the same period which took the death toll to 4,621. According to data, 2,039 people recovered from the infection which took the total recoveries to 1,094,404.PunjabPunjab reported 3,161 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday and 60 more fatalities due to the viral disease. The state’s tally rose to 242,895 and the death toll jumped to 6,926. The number of active cases stood at 24,644.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-4-other-states-contribute-77-91-of-covid-19-cases-to-daily-tally-101617350201376.html
02-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh:9-day-long lockdown in Durg district from April 6||A nine-day-long lockdown has been announced in Chhattisgarh’s Durg district from April 6 to April 14, in view of rising Covid-19 cases, officials said on Friday. Raipur and Durg districts are the state’s worst affected in the second wave of the disease and account for 1,327 and 996 new cases reported on Thursday respectively. Raipur has so far recorded 66,999 cases, including 914 deaths, while Durg’s caseload has increased to 40,068, including 754 deaths, officials said. Durg collector SN Bhure said it was necessary to break the chain of transmission by imposing lockdown and sought public support for the move. Officials said more districts could announce lockdown in the next couple of days. On Thursday, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel gave district collectors a free hand to impose lockdown in their respective jurisdictions after assessing the Covid-19 situation locally. The state on Thursday reported 4,617 coronavirus cases, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak. The number of active cases in Chhattisgarh has reached 28,987. The government has also restricted secretariat and directorate office staff strength to 50% in order to contain the spread in the second wave. “Several employees of Mantralaya (secretariat) and offices of the Heads of Departments (HoDs) have contracted Covid-19 infection. In view of this, these offices will function at 50% employee strength,” stated an order issued by DD Singh, secretary of the General Administration department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh9daylong-lockdown-in-durg-district-from-april-6-101617350642841.html
02-04-2021||India||India, France, Australia trilateral meet on April 13; Indo-Pacific on agenda||The foreign ministers of India, France and Australia will hold a trilateral dialogue in national capital Delhi on April 13 to discuss steps to strengthen maritime security and collaborate on shared challenges in the Indo-Pacific region, people familiar with the development said.The meeting will be held on the margins of a conference on geopolitics, Raisina Dialogue, which will also be attended by heads of state of Rwanda and Denmark apart from 10 foreign ministers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to attend the opening and closing sessions of the event.French foreign minister Jean Yves Le Drian will begin his two-day visit to India on April 12 evening. His meeting with Indian external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Australian foreign minister Marise Payne is scheduled for the following day. Drian is also slated to call on PM Modi and other top Indian leaders on April 13.Also Read: Can Quad working groups lead to an Asian NATO?India, France and Australia are on the same page on addressing the challenges in the Indo-Pacific. In recent days, France has come around to acknowledging the central role that New Delhi can play in the shared commitment to freedom of navigation in the South China Sea.It is in recognition of the role that New Delhi can play that France decided to hold the La Pérouse joint naval exercise in the Bay of Bengal on April 4-7, and invited the Indian Navy to the wargame. The joint exercise, first held in 2019, earlier included navies from the other tmembers of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad: Australia, Japan and the US.“This (trilateral dialogue) will be a meeting of middle powers, who have democratic polity and have the economic strength and shared values to help each other in terms of trade and technology,” said a senior Indian official.The three foreign ministers will discuss the global security environment and the Chinese posture in the Indo-Pacific.French envoy Christophe Penot, who is an advisor to President E Marcon on Indo-Pacific, signalled the pivotal role that Paris expects New Delhi to play in the region when he briefed top diplomatic corps and heads of multilateral agencies in Paris this week. It is understood that Penot in his virtual briefing outlined the role of France, Australia and India in the Indo-Pacific with particular emphasis on New Delhi’s role in the efforts.A former foreign secretary linked the emphasis on India to the government’s decision to stand up to China when it tried to expand its territory across the Line of Actual Control.Also Read: Quad, France and UAE join hands in 2 naval exercises to dominate Indo-Pacific“After India led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi stood up to unilateral aggression by the People’s Liberation Army in East Ladakh in May 2020, not only Quad powers but key strategic allies, France and UK, recognise the centrality of India in ensuring the right to free navigation in the Indo-Pacific,” the retired diplomat said.Officials said it has helped that foreign ministers Jaishankar, Drian and Payne have a personal connect with each other apart from being representatives of democratic powers that have been brought under pressure by Chinese behaviour in East Ladakh, Caledonia and island territories, respectively, in the far Pacific.While India and France have deep defence cooperation with each other, Australia under Prime Minister Scott Morrison has joined hands with New Delhi on not only pushing the pedal on bilateral ties but also close military ties through multilateral naval exercises such as Malabar 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-france-australia-trilateral-meet-on-april-13-indo-pacific-on-agenda-101617350103103.html
02-04-2021||India||Government panel allows Bharat Biotech to test Covaxin booster shot||The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation Subject Expert Committee (SEC) has allowed Bharat Biotech to test results for administering a third dose of its anti Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Covaxin, which the company feels will provide better efficacy against the viral infection.The booster shot is proposed to be given six months after the second dose, and the subject expert committee has approved to test it the phase II trial stages.“The firm presented amendments in the approved Phase II clinical trial protocol for administration of booster dose after 6 months after second dose. After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should conduct the booster dose study only in 6mcg cohort and also should follow up the subjects at least for 6 months after the third dose,” said the subject experts in their recommendation in the 148th meeting held on March 23, 2021.The 6mcg dose has been chosen because it showed better immune response. Covaxin is a two-dose whole virion inactivated vaccine that is to be given 28 days apart, as per the current recommendations.“Further, the firm should present the details of the primary and secondary objectives and various assessments to be carried out in the subjects. Accordingly, the firm should submit the revised clinical trial protocol for evaluation,” said the subject experts, according to the minutes of the meeting that were made public by CDSCO.The phase II trial tests the immune response against the drug or a vaccine, and the phase III trial is to check for efficacy of the product being tested. The initial results of phase III trials of Covaxin that were submitted to the national drugs regulator last month has shown nearly 81% efficacy against the viral disease.Bharat Biotech has co-developed Covaxin along with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Covaxin is one of the two vaccines approved for restricted use in India currently. The other one being Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine that is being locally manufactured by Serum Institue of India under the brand name Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-panel-allows-bharat-biotech-to-test-covaxin-booster-shot-101617349563579.html
02-04-2021||India||India all set for France's La Pérouse naval drill. Here's all you need to know||India and three other members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad), the United States, Australia, and Japan, is all set to take part in the 'La Pérouse' joint naval exercise, organised by France and scheduled to take place from April 5-7 at the Bay of Bengal.French warships—the Tonnerre, an amphibious assault helicopter carrier, and the Surcouf, a La Fayette-class frigate—have already begun to arrive in Kerala’s Kochi ahead of the navies' exercise, according to news agency ANI. The programme carries diplomatic significance and exam-like rigour for as many as 150 young French cadets, including women cadets.French warships arrive in Kochi ahead of La Pérouse joint naval exercise b/w navies of Quad members. They'll sail to Bay of Bengal for naval exercise from April 5-7It's a training session b/w France, India, Japan, US & Australia: Captain Arnaud Tranchant, Tonnerre ship pic.twitter.com/kjao6S1lnwHere's all you need to know about the upcoming La Pérouse naval drill among the Quad nations:What is the La Pérouse naval exercise?According to Captain Arnaud Tranchant of the Tonnerre ship, the La Pérouse joint naval exercise is a training session among France, India, Japan, the US, and Australia. Eight ships from five countries will be sailing to the Bay of Bengal for the naval exercise from April 5-7."I will be the commanding officer of the task group as the training is a French initiative. We will make many such trainings to enhance interoperability among the different navies," ANI quoted Captain Tranchant as saying.Maritime diplomacyIndia has been fortifying its maritime diplomacy with the Quad nations, as is apparent with the Indian Navy's growing participation in such exercises. This is the first time the French navy is conducting a joint drill with all four members of the Quad – India, Australia, Japan and the US – in regional waters, and the wargame comes weeks after the maiden Quad Leaders Summit on March 12.In November last year, India took part in the Malabar Exercise with the naval forces of Japan, Australia and the US. In the coming weeks, India and France will also hold a large-scale Varuna exercise in the Western Arabian Sea that will involve a French aircraft carrier battle group.Last leg of trainingAs many as 150 cadets, from the latest batch of the French Naval Officer Application School, will face the La Pérouse exercise like an exam. It will also serve as their last leg of training, and as such holds substantial significance for their careers, according to a report by ANI.In an interview with the news agency, these cadets shared their experiences and said that taking part in such international exercises with strategic partners immerses them in their future profession, which focuses on the sea and learning to work with the navies' of other nations. They are all set to pass from the acclaimed naval school and embarked on the amphibious assault helicopters carrier Tonnerre for this purpose. A number of women officers, who account for 15% of the French navy’s strength, are also part of the exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-all-set-for-france-s-la-p-rouse-naval-drill-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-101617344042544.html
02-04-2021||India||News updates from HT| A vote for NDA is a vote for better investment: PM Modi's pitch in Madurai and al the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.A vote for NDA is a vote for better investment: PM Modi's poll pitch in MaduraiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday urged the citizens of Tamil Nadu to vote for the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), saying it was working towards the development of the southern state in all aspects. Read moreCovid vaccine causing deaths? AEFI experts say there’s insufficient evidenceMost of the eight deaths analysed for Serious Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) against Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have had temporal relationship, but there is insufficient definitive evidence for vaccine causing event, the national committee performing causality assessment results of these deaths has found. Read moreMaharashtra CM to hold meeting over Covid; stricter curbs likely from weekendAmid rising Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has convened a high-level meeting on Friday evening to take stock of the situation. Read moreNCB red-flags Mumbai as cocaine capital of IndiaThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has red-flagged Mumbai as the cocaine capital of India saying that other metropolitan cities are not lagging behind with the drug mafia spreading its tentacles in India, Canada and Australia. Read more10 years after April 2, 2011, what are India's World Cup-winning 15 cricketers doing nowMore than a billion dreams came true exactly 10 years ago on April 2 in 2011. But astonishing as it may sound, India’s XI in the World Cup final against Sri Lanka never played a match together after that fateful night at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai. Read moreMommy-to-be Dia Mirza is the queen of kaftans and breezy dresses, proof in picsNew bride Dia Mirza recently announced that she is expecting her first child with husband Vaibhav Rekhi on social media and took the internet by storm. Read moreTom & Jerry movie review: Iconic cartoon characters gatecrash a Big Fat Bollywood weddingApologies if the Tom & Jerry live-action/animation hybrid movie directed by Tim Story does’t meet your expectations. The Coen Brothers weren't available. Read moreMedical students from Kerala groove to Rasputin by band Boney M. WatchHave you ever seen dance videos which make you want to get out of your seat and shake a leg too? Well here’s one such video. It shows two medical students dancing to Rasputin by the band Boney M. Read moreWatch: First batch of women military police gear up to join Indian Army||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-a-vote-for-nda-is-a-vote-for-better-investment-pm-modi-s-poll-pitch-in-madurai-and-all-the-latest-news-101617347229901.html
02-04-2021||India||NCB red-flags Mumbai as cocaine capital of India||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has red-flagged Mumbai as the cocaine capital of India saying that other metropolitan cities are not lagging behind with the drug mafia spreading its tentacles in India, Canada and Australia. As much as 2499 kilograms of cocaine seized in the past two years in Sri Lanka, Port Elizabeth and Panana had India as its destination. The international market for this lethal drug is ₹5 crore per kilogram.As one of the biggest manufacturers of potassium permanganate, a precursor chemical, there is a growing suspicion that the processing of cocaine may be shifted by drug cartel from South America to India. This is primarily due to the US Drug Enforcement Agency, the UK’s National Crime Agency, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) and Australian drug enforcement agencies pressure on the South American coca-producing countries.According to top NCB officials, backtrack drug investigations have now confirmed that no less than 300kg of cocaine (worth ₹1500 crore in the international market) landed in Mumbai in December 2018 through a syndicate with links in India, Australia and Canada. The same syndicate was involved in the smuggling of 200kg of methamphetamine from Canada to Australia.With all the drug enforcement agencies pooling their intelligence and resources on this network (not disclosed as it is an ongoing operation), as much as 20kg of cocaine was seized in India, 29kg of methamphetamine was recovered in the US, 55kg of cocaine and 200kg of methamphetamine was seized in Australia.According to NCB, the syndicate was uncovered after an Indian internet protocol was involved in the smuggling of 200kg of methamphetamine from Canada to Australia. The said IP address was traced to one Akshinder Singh Sodhi of Punjab, who was later arrested with 422kg of cocaine in India.The backtrack investigations of 55kg of cocaine concealed in a plasma cutting machine seized in Australia in June 2019 led the NCB to uncover the syndicate bases in India. Investigations revealed that the drug syndicate had floated fake companies for the drug to be smuggled and then concealed at Rudrapur in Uttarakhand. Working on this intelligence, the NCB conducted raids in Rudrapur, Ghaziabad, UP, Punjab and Delhi to cumulatively seize 20kg of cocaine with a number of arrests in these states including Indonesian and Nigerian nationals.NCB investigations into the smuggling of 300kg of cocaine in Mumbai led to the arrests of mastermind Harpal Singh aka Amrinder Chenna aka Laadhi and his associate Sandeep Deol, who arranged all the paperwork and logistics while in India during the landing of the drug. The other members of this syndicate have been identified with the accused both in India and Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-red-flags-mumbai-as-cocaine-capital-of-india-101617347061903.html
02-04-2021||India||Construction of national highways touches 37 km per day, informs ministry||The ministry of road, transport and highways (MoRTH) on Friday said that the construction of National Highways had touched 37 kilometres per day in the year 2020-21."The ministry has achieved the record-breaking milestone of constructing 37 kilometres highways per day in the year 2020-21, which is unprecedented," it said.It further said that over the last seven years, the length of National Highways has gone up by 50 per cent from 91,287 km as of April 2014 to 1,37,625 km as on March 20, 2021."Total budgetary outlay increased by 5.5 times, from ₹33,414 crore in financial year 2015 to ₹1,83,101 crore in Financial Year 2022," the ministry said.It further said that the sanctioned amount has increased by 126 per cent in financial year 2021 over financial year 2020 despite Covid-19 related impact. Sanctioned length in kilometres has also increased by nine per cent in financial year 2021 over financial year 2020."Average annual project award (annual average award length) during financial year 2015 to financial year 2021 has increased by 85 per cent compared to FY10 to FY14 and average annual construction (average annual construction length) during FY2015 to FY2021 has increased by 83 per cent compared to FY2010 to FY2014," the ministry added.The ministry of MoRTH further said that the cumulative cost of ongoing project works has increased by 54 per cent at the end of 2021 compared to 2020 as on March 31.Minister for Road Transport & Highways and MSME, Nitin Gadkari on Thursday also felicitated the officials of MoRTH and presented the letters of appreciation."This would not have been possible without the dedication and teamwork of the officials and other stakeholders. He said that these achievements are unprecedented and have no parallel in any other country in the world," said Gadkari. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/construction-of-national-highways-touches-37-km-per-day-informs-ministry-101617343380111.html
02-04-2021||India||India contributes $300,000 to UN body for gender equality and women empowerment||India has contributed USD 300,000 to the United Nations agency for gender equality and women empowerment, a contribution lauded by the UN entity.India made a contribution to UN Women, the world organisation’s entity for gender equality and women's empowerment."#India contributes USD 300,000 to @UN_Women for 2021,” India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti tweeted on Thursday.He said India reaffirms its support for gender equality and women empowerment, describing UN Women as a “valued partner in our progress from women’s development to #women-led development.”Assistant-Secretary-General and Deputy Executive Director of UN Women Anita Bhatia thanked India for the contribution and its support to UN Women and said in a tweet that “Women-led development envisions women as agents of change driving measurable impact in the lives of women & girls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-contributes-300-000-to-un-body-for-gender-equality-and-women-empowerment-101617342715688.html
02-04-2021||India||Goa’s Basilica of Bom Jesus could lose iconic red look to conserve the structure||One of the most iconic religious structures at Old Goa, The Basilica of Bom Jesus, which is home to the sacred relics of revered saint Francis Xavier, may soon have to shed its old look to prevent further deterioration of the red church, made up of laterite stones, due to continuous exposure to the elements. “If you visit the Basilica and take a close look at the structure now, the stone has been irreversibly damaged by weathering, in some places there is a loss of detail and ornamentation or it has been badly disfigured. In other areas, the stone itself crumbles into powder upon touching and the dust accumulates on the ground,” Rector of the Basilica Fr Patricio Fernandes, a Jesuit priest, said. “Due to its exposed laterite exterior and other factors like the rapid urbanisation of Old Goa and the unseasonal rain all through the year, the walls of the Basilica remain wet. The laterite stone gets saturated so much that the water even starts dripping through the inside walls. This never happened in the past,” he adds. The Jesuit church, which was consecrated in May 1605, is India’s first minor basilica, and is considered to be one of the best examples of baroque architecture and Portuguese Colonial architecture in India. It is also one of the Seven Wonders of Portuguese Origin in the World. The Basilica was fully plastered like every other church in Goa and remained so for close to 350 years since its inauguration in 1605 till the early 1950s and bore a white look owing to its limestone plaster. However, in the early 1950s ‘conservation’ architects from Portugal (of which Goa was then still a part of) had it removed as part of propaganda initiated by the Portuguese Prime Minister Antonio Salazar and the Estado Novo state.“The Estado Novo came to power in Portugal in the 1930s promising an economic and cultural renewal of Portugal and its overseas territories. They began renovating monuments in Portugal and their overseas territories to make them look more ancient so as to reflect the values of the regime. They sent an archaeological mission from Portugal led by the Portuguese architect and restorer Baltazar de Castro to renovate the monuments of Old Goa for the exposition of St Francis Xavier in 1952,” Fr Fernandes added. “The architectural renovations in Old Goa were a means to prove just how rooted the Portuguese presence in Goa was. These acts of political propaganda masquerading as architectural conservation were done without consultation with Goan experts or the public at large. The Basilica has been dying a slow death ever since,” he said. The Church authorities have now begun a consultation process with experts from the Archaeological Society of India (ASI) as well as conservation trusts to try and stall the deterioration of the building. “Various experts in the country and abroad have said that lime plastering of the exposed surface of the Basilica is the only time tested solution to conserve it. If we want to conserve the Basilica, we have to re-plaster the exterior to avoid a major tragedy in the future,” Fr Fernandes said. The authorities said they earlier feared that an attempt to change the look of the monument would be met with resistance simply because of how people have gotten used to seeing it. “The reaction has been very encouraging so far with all the feedback we have received asking us to do whatever it takes to help preserve the Basilica,” Fr Fernandes said. The Church has now formed a committee of experts and authorities, who in consultation with the ASI, will decide the next steps including a thorough study on the damage done so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goas-basilica-of-bom-jesus-could-lose-iconic-red-look-to-conserve-the-structure-101617342902787.html
02-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Uddhav Thackeray to address people of Maharashtra at 8:30pm||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will be addressing the people of the state tonight at 8:30 pm, according to Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar. News agency ANI reported that the chief minister will also be chairing a high-level meeting today with officials over the Covid-19 situation in the state.Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to chair a high-level meeting with officials today, over the #COVID19 situation in the state. pic.twitter.com/tyLkkoGeVoMaharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to address people of the state today at 8:30 pm: Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/OOmJJezSEhFor a while now, Maharashtra has been reporting the highest Covid-19 caseload in India, both in terms of active coronavirus positive patients and the total number of cases. It is also among the eight states which account for 84.61% of the daily new Covid-19 cases and continue to show a steep rise in the tally.Yesterday, the state had reported as many as 43,183 new Covid-19 cases and 249 deaths in a mere span of 24 hours. This accounted for both the highest one-day rise since the pandemic began, as well as the highest number of deaths since October last year.To combat the intensifying threat, chief minister Thackeray has declared a state-wide night curfew from Sunday under the Maharashtra government's 'Mission Begin Again' program. Officials are also considering stricter control measures, including shutting down religious places and restricting train travel, according to ANI.The administration is also mulling over another potential shutdown, although no official announcement has yet been made in this regard. It may not decide to impose a "blanket lockdown", but stricter curbs might be implemented in a phased manner, an official said, adding that the state government is likely to decide on shutting down restaurants, hotels, theatres and reducing business house hours this week.According to an official statement, in a meeting with chief minister Thackeray and Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope last Monday, members of the state Covid-19 task force had recommended strict measures, including a 'limited-period lockdown', to counter the alarming surge in infections and deaths.India saw 81,466 new coronavirus infections being reported in a span of 24 hours, the highest single-day rise in six months, taking the COVID-19 tally of cases to 1,23,03,131, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-chair-high-level-meet-over-covid-19-situation-101617339835649.html
02-04-2021||India||Massive Covid-19 case surge across the country: What you need to know||Mumbai on Thursday set a new all-time record of daily infections in any city with 8,646 fresh Covid-19 cases as the second wave of the disease continued to push cases to levels not seen in the country in at least six months. Here is all you need to know about the spike in the cases nationally:• Delhi recorded 2,790 cases, the highest in 114 days• 81,413 infections were reported across India, the highest single-day increase since October 1, 2020.• India’s highest single-day caseload earlier was 99,181 on September 10.• The massive infection surges in urban centres across the country in the past few days are reminiscent of how massive pockets of infection hotbeds emerged in several metropolitan cities during India’s first Covid-19 wave from July to September last year.Also Read | Made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines in Yemen a ‘game changer’: UN official• The second wave of the outbreak is dangerously expanding throughout the country when the vaccination drive has finally started gathering momentum.• India on Thursday opened its Covid-19 vaccination programme to everyone over the age of 45.• Experts and government officials alike have repeatedly stressed that a massive and widespread inoculation drive is the best, and perhaps the only chance the country has to turn the tide against the building second wave of infections, which is particularly dangerous because of the threat of new variants.• At the same time, experts have called for more curbs on gatherings, functions, marketplaces, and public congregations.• Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has called for an urgent meeting to review the city’s Covid-19 situation on Friday. • An action plan to be discussed in Friday’s meeting will include issues such as containment zones, the vaccination drive, availability of hospital beds, and enforcement against violators of Covid-appropriate behaviour. • Imposing restrictions on public gatherings and public places in the city will also be discussed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-covid-19-case-surge-across-the-country-what-you-need-to-know-101617339362295.html
02-04-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh: Farmer kills self after fire ruins standing wheat crop||A farmer, troubled by the burning of a standing crop of wheat, has committed suicide in Madhya Pradesh's Damoh by drinking pesticide.The deceased farmer has been identified as Bedilal Ahirwar (55), a resident of Damoh's Chilaud village.He reportedly drank the pesticide on Wednesday night and died while going through treatment at a hospital."Ahirwar was troubled after having an acre of his standing wheat crop burnt in a fire caused by a short circuit in a high-tension line passing over the field," said Pappu Ahirwar, one of his family members.Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA from Pathariya, Rambai Singh visited the village. Reaching out to the aggrieved farmers, she said, "I have spoken to the Union Agriculture Minister and the district collector about the issue. Aggrieved farmers will be compensated soon."In the last four days, there have been several reports of fires in wheat crops in more than a dozen villages across the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-farmer-kills-self-after-fire-ruins-standing-wheat-crop-101617338659180.html
02-04-2021||India||Militants who attacked BJP leader’s house killed in Pulwama gunfight: Police||Three of the militants involved in the attack on BJP leader Anwar Khan’s house in Srinagar a day ago were killed in a gunfight in Pulwama on Friday, said police. A police personnel had lost his life in Thursday’s militant attack.More than 10 civilians were also injured after clashes broke out between forces and people near the site. Police, however, maintained that only three persons were injured in stone pelting incidents. However, locals blamed the force for using pellets on them.Police said a joint operation was launched at Ghat mollah locality of Kakapora late Thursday night in Pulwama district. Inspector General of Police, Vijay Kumar, confirmed that three militants were killed in the joint operation. “After the attack on BJP leader’s house in which one police cop succumbed to his injuries, police teams in Srinagar and Pulwama, while working on leads, arrested an overground worker and two other people who gave the tip-off about militants hiding in a house at Ghat mollah. At 4.30am, a cordon was established in the area.”He said the operation was delayed as the militants, hiding in the three-storey house, had taken 4-5 people hostage. “Those killed were identified as Nissar, Suhail of Khrew and Junaid of Prichoo Pulwama. All three had joined militancy this year itself.”Also Read | Mufti to challenge J&K HC dismissal of plea for intervention in passport caseHe said Suhail was clad in a burkha when he attacked Khan’s house along with Nisar and two others. “The rifle they snatched from the policeman was also recovered along with an AK rifle and a pistol from the site. This proves their being a part of the team that attacked the BJP leader’s house on Thursday. The police is on the job to neutralise the other two militants.”Kumar said that the outfits of Albadr and Lashkar jointly carried out the attack. “It was a joint attack in which two militants were from Pulwama district and two from Srinagar city.”He said the vehicle used in Thursday’s attack was also recovered near the encounter site. “This vehicle belonged to the person in whose house the militants were holed up.” In the attack police constable Rameez Raja was killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gunfight-underway-in-pulwama-village-in-south-kashmir-101617338642390.html
02-04-2021||India||'Jesus Christ, a perfect embodiment of compassion’: PM Modi on Good Friday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday took to Twitter to share his message on Good Friday, saying the day “reminds us about the struggles and sacrifices of Jesus Christ." “Good Friday reminds us about the struggles and sacrifices of Jesus Christ. A perfect embodiment of compassion, He was devoted to serving the needy and healing the sick," PM Modi wrote as Christians all over the world commemorated the crucifixion of Christ on Good Friday.Good Friday reminds us about the struggles and sacrifices of Jesus Christ. A perfect embodiment of compassion, He was devoted to serving the needy and healing the sick.Among other leaders, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also shared his message on the day. “Let this Good Friday be a reminder of the power of compassion, love and empathy,” Gandhi tweeted.Let this Good Friday be a reminder of the power of compassion, love and empathy. pic.twitter.com/KwtIOEE6HFDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that this is a day to remember Jesus Christ’s message of love and forgiveness. “This Good Friday, I join you all in remembering Jesus Christ's message of love & forgiveness. May his grace be with you,” chief minister Kejriwal said.This Good Friday, I join you all in remembering Jesus Christ's message of love & forgiveness. May his grace be with you.Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik also shared his message on the day. “Offer my solemn prayers on the auspicious occasion of Good Friday. May Lord Jesus Christ's sacrifice enlighten us to follow the path of peace, love, compassion and forgiveness,” he said.Offer my solemn prayers on the auspicious occasion of #GoodFriday. May Lord Jesus Christ's sacrifice enlighten us to follow the path of peace, love, compassion and forgiveness. pic.twitter.com/l8cPfqUjlWThe chief minister of Nagaland, Neiphiu Rio, also posted a message on Good Friday. “On Good Friday, we remember the ultimate sacrifice of Jesus Christ and His unconditional love for us. Light conquered darkness and goodness conquered sin. May Good Friday 2021 bring new meaning and change in our lives,” he said.On #GoodFriday, we remember the ultimate sacrifice of Jesus Christ and His unconditional love for us. Light conquered darkness and goodness conquered sin. May #GoodFriday2021 bring new meaning and change in our lives. Wishing all Christians a blessed Good Friday. pic.twitter.com/qN4MyALlTmGood Friday, the Friday before Easter, is commemorated by Christians throughout the world for the crucifixion of Jesus Christ and his death at Calvary. The day is a reminder of the sacrifice that Jesus Christ made as it is believed that in death, he took away all the sins of humankind. On this day, people gather to attend church services, pray for each other, and sing songs of worship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jesus-christ-a-perfect-embodiment-of-compassion-pm-modi-on-good-friday-101617337100418.html
02-04-2021||India||I-T dept raids MK Stalin's son-in-law's, DMK leader Senthil Balaji's premises||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) chief MK Stalin’s son-in-law Sabareesan's residence and office were raided by the Income Tax department on Friday. Several other places connected to him are also being searched, news agency ANI reported. Hours later, DMK leader Senthil Balaji's premises were also raided by the agency. With this, the number of such raids on those associated with the DMK ahead of the April 6 Tamil Nadu Assembly election went up to three. Last month, DMK candidate EV Velu's premises were searched in Tiruvannamalai and Chennai.Also Read: Income tax raids at DMK leader’s premises in ChennaiAlong with Arunai Engineering College in Tiruvannamalai, which Velu founded in 1993, a guest house where Stalin stayed for some time, was also raided.The Opposition party dubbed these raids 'politically-motivated'.“Conducting searches in the room where the DMK chief stayed in the guest house is inappropriate and undemocratic. Nothing has been seized,” said DMK leader Durai Murugan.According to DMK spokesperson C Ravindran, use of power to threaten the Opposition has been a trend of the Bharatiya Janata Party alliance. “Since the BJP government came to power, their practice has been to use government institutions during elections to threaten the opposition,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-chief-mk-stalin-s-son-in-law-sabarish-s-home-and-office-raided-by-i-t-dept-101617338388931.html
02-04-2021||India||3 terrorists gunned down in encounter in J-K's Pulwama||Three terrorists were gunned down and two civilians sustained injuries in an encounter that broke out in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama on Friday morning.Security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in the Kakapora area of the south Kashmir district after inputs of the presence of terrorists there, officials said.The operation turned into an encounter when the terrorists retaliated with gunfire, he added.Also Read: Constable killed in terrorist attack on BJP leader’s house in SrinagarThe terrorists gunned down were involved in the attack on the house of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Anwar Khan in which a constable was killed, Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said.He also congratulated the police and security forces for killing the attackers in less than 24 hours.The civilians who were injured and later sent to hospital have been identified as Ishrat Jan (25) and Ghulam Nabi Dar (42), both residents of Pulwama's Samboora, news agency PTI said quoting officials.The operation is underway and more details are awaited.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-pulwama-101617337904603.html
02-04-2021||India||Another jump in Covid-19 infections as 81,466 cases recorded; tally over 12.3 mn||India recorded the biggest single-day increase in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in nearly six months and the highest this year so far amid a second wave of the pandemic, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday. Data released by the Union health ministry showed there 81,466 cases of the coronavirus disease between Thursday and Friday morning, which have pushed the country’s overall caseload to 12.3 million, making it the third-worst affected globally, behind the United States and Brazil. The health ministry’s dashboard at 8am also showed that 469 related fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, which have now pushed the country’s death toll to 163,396. On Thursday, there were 72,330 Covid-19 cases and 459 people succumbed to the viral disease.Also read | Almost 1 in 7 suffers long Covid: UK studyThe number of active cases jumped to 614,696 after 30,641 were added to the tally in the last 24 hours, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am. With 50,401 people cured of the coronavirus disease, 11,525,039 patients have recovered across the country, according to the health ministry. The national recovery rate is now at 93.67 per cent.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said 24,59,12,587 samples have been tested for Covid-19 up to April 1. The top research body added that of these, 1,113,966 samples were tested on Thursday.Also read | Covid-19: ICMR study suggests new re-infection criteriaThe rise in numbers comes as India’s expanded its vaccination drive amid a raging second wave of the pandemic. The country has been recording a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases over the past few weeks with several cities and regions recording an unprecedented surge in infections.According to the government, more than 2.2 million people signed up for coronavirus vaccines and at least 2 million were given shots till 9pm on Thursday. Thursday was the first day anyone above the age of 45 becomes eligible to take part in the vaccination drive. The government also asked all states to ensure vaccination centres stay open on all days, including public holidays.India started its vaccination drive on January 16 with healthcare and frontline workers getting inoculated in the first phase. The second phase started on March 1 during which people above the age of 60 and 45 with comorbidities were given the vaccine against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-jump-in-covid-19-infections-as-81-466-cases-recorded-tally-over-12-3-mn-101617334622162.html
02-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra sees record one-day spike of 43,183 cases||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 43,183 new infections. Similarly, Mumbai also added a record number of 8,646 new infections. The state’s active case count rose to 366,533, while its total rose to 2,856,163.Even as Maharashtra continues to record daily highs, in terms of new infections and fatalities, health minister Rajesh Tope said that the government, at this point, does not intend to go for a complete lockdown. Instead, the restrictions will be made stricter, the minister said.Also Read | Delhi adds 2,790 cases; most in 114 daysFor a second day straight, the state added over 200 fatalities. Maharashtra saw 249 deaths—highest in a day since October 17—on Thursday, taking the death toll to 54,898. Nagpur city had the highest deaths with 50 fatalities and 10 from its rural areas. Aurangabad city reported 35 deaths.Mumbai, meanwhile, added 18 fatalities, pushing its death toll to 11,708. Mumbai’s active case count rose to 54,807. The state also reported recoveries of 32,641 patients on Thursday, taking the tally of recovered patients to 2,433,368.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 183,198 samples, and had a positivity rate of 23.57%. The overall positivity rate of the state stood at 14.3||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-maharashtra-sees-record-one-day-spike-of-43-183-cases-101617334081988.html
02-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to address rallies in poll-bound Tamil Nadu, Kerala today, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to address rallies in poll-bound Tamil Nadu, Kerala todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi, who is in Tamil Nadu to campaign for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its alliance AIADMK for the upcoming state elections, will be addressing rallies in Madurai and Kanyakumari on Friday. Read more'Argyreia sharadchandrajii': New plant species named after Sharad PawarA new species of flowering plants, recently discovered in south Maharashtra's Kolhapur district, has been named after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar as "his immense contribution to Indian agriculture" as a Union minister, a report has said. Read more2.2 million sign up for shots as key leg of vaccine drive kicks offMore than 2.2 million people signed up for coronavirus vaccines and at least 2 million were given shots till 9pm on Thursday, the first day of India’s expanded vaccination drive that comes against a backdrop of a raging second wave of the pandemic, with several cities and regions recording an unprecedented surge in infections. Read moreChakraborty to get GD Birla Award for Scientific ResearchProfessor Suman Chakraborty has been selected for the 30th GD Birla Award for Scientific Research for his outstanding contribution to engineering science and its applications in developing technologies for affordable healthcare, the KK Birla Foundation said in a statement on Thursday. Read moreYuvraj Singh, Sachin Tendulkar, Zaheer Khan, MS Dhoni, Gautam Gambhir: The 5 architects of India's 2011 World Cup winApril 2, 2021, marks 10 years since India lifted the 2011 ICC Cricket World Cup, becoming the first team to experience World Cup glory at home. India broke Australia's streak of three consecutive World Cup wins – 1999, 2003 and 2007 – on the back of some scintillating performances throughout the tournament. Read moreKapil Sharma birthday: When he talked of life before stardom, getting sister married from Laughter Challenge prize moneyKapil Sharma maybe one of the most well known television stars of the country right now but his journey to success has not been without struggle. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor is a vision in white breezy kurta and skirt set worth ₹70kA statement-making white kurta is a must-have in every wardrobe. The colour works great for summer season and kurtas are always breezy and flowy making it the perfect attire for times the temperature goes high. Read moreWatch: An Award for Rajinikanth: Political or larger messaging?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-address-rallies-in-poll-bound-tamil-nadu-kerala-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101617331666129.html
02-04-2021||India||How will Indian IT professionals benefit as Biden lets H1-B visa ban expire||In a move expected to benefit Indian information technology company, the Biden administration on Thursday decided not to extend the Trump-era visa. The visa ban, which was imposed by former US president Donald Trump last June, was centred on the H1-B visas and also affected the L-1 visa program, seasonal workers in the hospitality industry and students on work-study programs. The H-1B visa, which is a non-immigrant visa, allows US companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. Nearly 70 per cent of the 85,000 H-1B visas issued every year are used by Indian professionals.Why did Trump administration impose the ban?The ban was imposed by the Trump administration in June 2020 with the aim to prevent temporary workers across industries from entering the country and was later extended till March 31, 2021, citing the coronavirus pandemic. While the H1-B and other work visas have been criticised for allowing cheap labour in the US against the local workforce of the country, the visas have been useful to the country as a way of getting skilled and trained workers. Owing to this, tech industry leaders like Google CEO Sundar Pichai, Tesla CEO Elon Musk criticised Trump’s move. “Immigration has contributed immensely to America’s economic success, making it a global leader in tech, and also Google the company it is today. Disappointed by today’s proclamation – we’ll continue to stand with immigrants and work to expand opportunity for all,” Pichai said in a tweet.Read more: Inordinate delay in processing of H-4 work authorisation, say spouses of H-1B visa holdersWhat has the Biden administration done?As US President Joe Biden promised during the run-up to the 2021 elections, the administration allowed the Trump-era proclamation to expire. “Visa applicants who have not yet been interviewed or scheduled for an interview will have their applications prioritised and processed in accordance with existing phased resumption of visa services guidance,” the US state department said in a statement on their website.“Visa applicants who were previously refused visas due to the restrictions of Presidential Proclamation 10052 may reapply by submitting a new application including a new fee,” it added.How will the move help the Indians IT professionals?The move is expected to help Indians as the major share of the H1-B visas are used by Indian professionals. The H1-B visas, which are approved for a period of three years, are a hiring pool for IT companies as it helps the companies keep their expenses in check. With the expiration of the order, those who were impacted by the travel ban will now be able to resume work in the US. The order will also allow US diplomatic missions, which are present in different countries, to issue fresh worker visas. It will thereby give permission to US-based IT companies to begin hiring foreign workers again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-will-indian-it-professionals-benefit-as-biden-lets-h1-b-visa-ban-expire-101617331887012.html
02-04-2021||India||March ends with rain deficiency, dry air, soil over northwest India||The first month of the three-month pre-monsoon season (March, April, May) ended with a rain deficiency of 45% across the country—43% over northwest India; 47% over east and northeast India; 56% over the South Peninsula, and 38% over central India, and moisture deficiency in air across northwest India, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists.Delhi’s Safdarjung station recorded a relative humidity of only 10 to 15% on Thursday afternoon as dry, northwesterly winds blew over the Capital. “There is no weather system which is bringing in moisture to the region. For the next 4-5 days, we expect very dry conditions over the entire northwest India. The relative humidity was 32% in the morning which had dropped to 10 to 15% in the afternoon. Whatever moisture was there is evaporating,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.“In January and February, there were two Western Disturbances. In March, there were 4-5 Western Disturbances but most of them brought rain to the western Himalayas so the plains are very dry. When strong, warm and dry winds are blowing they can cause dehydration to people outdoors during afternoon hours. This is called loo, it’s normally felt in May. Those stepping out should remain hydrated or avoid stepping out during afternoon,” he added.Also Read | ‘It’s April, but feels like May-June’: Heatwave grips north IndiaA Western Disturbance is expected to affect the western Himalayan region around April 4 but its impact is likely to be limited to the region. “From April 6, humidity may go up marginally after the Western Disturbance moves away,” said Shrivastava. IMD Pune’s Standard Precipitation Index (SPI) for March 2021 suggests almost the entire northwest India and Indo-Gangetic Plains region is mildly to moderately dry. SPI is an index used for drought monitoring and is negative for drought, and positive for wet conditions. Most parts of the northeast and peninsular India are also dry with some pockets severely and extremely dry indicating drought like conditions. East Rajasthan and most parts of central India are mildly wet.When the June 2020 to March 2021 period is considered, several districts in the Indo-Gangetic Plains region and northeast India are extremely dry.The Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi region has a rain deficiency of 64% during March.No heatwave is likely over most parts of northwest and Central India during the next 2-3 days. Strong surface winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) are very likely over most parts of Punjab, north Rajasthan, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh and northwest Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours, according to IMD’s Thursday bulletin.“Though March is dry across a very large region, climate models are showing good rainfall activity in April, May and June. But extreme north India and northeast India are likely to remain dry. We do not issue any official forecast for this period. We are likely to transition from La Nina to ENSO neutral conditions in coming months. ENSO neutral condition has no adverse effect on the monsoon hence a normal monsoon can be expected,” said OP Sreejith, scientist, Climate Monitoring and Forecast, IMD, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/march-ends-with-rain-deficiency-dry-air-soil-over-northwest-india-101617331621792.html
02-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh orders 50% strength in govt offices as Covid-19 hits new daily peak||Chhattisgarh reported 4,617 coronavirus cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, making the government restrict secretariat and directorate offices staff strength to 50%, officials said. The Covid-19 toll in the state also rose to 4,204 with 34 deaths reported on Thursday. “The information has been received that several employees of Mantralaya (secretariat) and offices of Head of Departments (HoDs) have contracted the Covid-19 infection. In view of this, these offices will function with 50% of their employee strength,” stated the order issued by DD Singh, secretary of the General Administration department.As per the order, 50% of the staff will attend office while the rest will work from home following a weekly roster. The distribution has to be done in a manner that it doesn’t affect work, an official stated. The order further stated that vaccination against coronavirus was mandatory for government employees aged above 45 and temporary vaccination centres were being set up at Mahanadi (secretariat building) and Indravati (directorate building) buildings for their ease. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said he has asked district collectors to use discretion to decide if fresh lockdown was needed in areas under their jurisdiction, an official statement said on Thursday. 57 Covid patients were discharged from hospitals and 950 patients completed home isolation on Thursday after recovering from the disease, taking the number of recoveries in the state to 320,613. The number of active cases in Chhattisgarh now stands at 28,987, the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-orders-50-strength-in-govt-offices-as-covid-19-hits-new-daily-peak-101617331202118.html
02-04-2021||India||'Argyreia sharadchandrajii': New plant species named after Sharad Pawar||A new species of flowering plants, recently discovered in south Maharashtra's Kolhapur district, has been named after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar as "his immense contribution to Indian agriculture" as a Union minister, a report has said. Researchers Dr Pramod R Lawand and Dr Vinod B Shimpale told news agency PTI that the species, belonging to the genus Argyreia, has been named 'Argyreia sharadchandrajii'. The new species was found in the Alamprabhu Dev-raai (sacred grove), said Lawand and Shimpale, who teach botany at a college in Kolhapur.Their research paper ‘Argyreia sharadchandrajii (Convolvulaceae): A new species from the Western Ghats, India' was recently published in the Journal of the Indian Association for Angiosperm Taxonomy.Shimpale said around 40 sub-species of the Argyreia genus are found in India. "These species are found in only Asiatic countries. Of 40, 17 are endemic to India and now we have discovered an 18th one in the Alamprabhu Sacred Grove in Ramling hills," he said, according to PTI.The plant flowers between July and September and the fruiting period lasts till December. "It grows in open habitats and trails on grassland but remains rooted near other shrubs," Shimpale said.Shimpale said a few years ago Pawar helped him financially for publishing his research on the flora in Baramati—the NCP chief's political bastion—in the form of a book when he was asked why the plant was after the veteran leader. Shimpale added that another reason for naming the plant after Pawar was "his immense contribution to Indian agriculture" as a Union minister.Kolhapur district is in the Western Ghats ecological zone, which is known for its rich biodiversity.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/argyreia-sharadchandrajii-new-plant-species-named-after-sharad-pawar-101617328881430.html
02-04-2021||India||Over 6.75 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India so far: Govt||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 6.75 crore with a total of 17,47,094 doses given on Thursday till 8 pm, the health ministry said as India opened up vaccination against the viral disease for all people aged above 45 from April 1.The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated and the vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started on February 2.The next phase of the vaccination drive commenced on March 1 for those over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.A total of 6,75,36,392 vaccine doses have so far been administered across the country, according to a provisional report compiled at 8 pm.These include 88,48,558 HCWs who have taken the first dose, 52,63,108 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 93,99,776 FLWs who have been administered the first dose and 39,18,646 FLWs who have taken the second dose.These also include 4,01,06,304 beneficiaries aged above 45 years.A total of 17,47,094 vaccine doses were given on Thursday (till 8 pm), the 76th day of the vaccination drive -- 16,20,746 beneficiaries vaccinated for the first dose and 1,26,348 for the second dose -- according to the provisional report, the ministry said, adding that the final report for the day would be compiled by late night.According to the provisional report, 15,28,639 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years were administered the first dose of the vaccine on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-6-75-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-so-far-govt-101617327331187.html
02-04-2021||India||Chakraborty to get GD Birla Award for Scientific Research||Professor Suman Chakraborty has been selected for the 30th GD Birla Award for Scientific Research for his outstanding contribution to engineering science and its applications in developing technologies for affordable healthcare, the KK Birla Foundation said in a statement on Thursday.Instituted in 1991, the award recognises eminent Indian scientists below the age of 50 for their original and outstanding contributions to any branch of science or technology. It carries a cash prize of ₹5 lakh. The recipient is chosen by a selection board, whose present head is professor Chandrima Shaha, the president of the Indian National Science Academy (INSA).Chakraborty, a faculty member at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur’s department of mechanical engineering, completed his undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering from the Jadavpur University in 1996. He went on to get a Masters degree and a PhD from the Indian Institute of Science. He has also been an Alexander von Humboldt Fellow, Indo-US Research Fellow, and a visiting professor at various leading institutions across the world. Chakraborty was also awarded the JC Bose National Fellowship by the Indian government’s department of science and technology.He is credited with establishing the first microfluidics laboratory in the framework of an academic institution in India to facilitate the study of how tiny volumes of fluids flow through small channels. Apart from being a reputable academic, Chakraborty has invented technologies that have not only been patented but also licensed to industrial houses for commercialisation.He has innovated a number of affordable medical devices, including a low-cost spinning disc for assessing Complete Blood Count, highly accurate paper-strip based technology for common blood tests, tumour-on-a-chip device for probing cancer cell migration, and a low-cost nucleic-acid based platform technology for rapid detection of Covid-19 infection (COVIRAP).He has also been a recipient of the Scopus Young Scientist Award (Elsevier, 2008), the Santi Swaroop Bhatnagar Award (2013) and a number of Young Scientist/ Young Engineer Awards from all the major national academies, which is testament to his contributions to the scientific field.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chakraborty-to-get-gd-birla-award-for-scientific-research-101617317735567.html
02-04-2021||India||Pakistan seeks 'guarantees' on J&K for better ties||Constitutional guarantees on not changing the demography of Jammu & Kashmir would go a long way in creating an “enabling environment”, Pakistan has conveyed to India, highly placed government officials told HT.The thaw in the India-Pakistan relationship that started with the restoration of the 2003 ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in February, through a statement by the Director Generals of Military Operations, has led to a series of moves, including Pakistan on Wednesday signalling a limited resumption of trade through the import of cotton and sugar before back-tracking on Thursday.Also Read | Pakistan does U-turn on resuming trade ties with IndiaPrime Ministers Narendra Modi and Imran Khan, too, have written to each other, with Khan saying that an “enabling environment” was imperative for a constructive and result-oriented dialogue in response to Modi’s letter which stressed the importance of “an environment of trust” that is “devoid of terror and hostility”.The thaw comes after a considerable deterioration in ties that followed New Delhi’s decision to do away with the special status granted to J&K under Article 370. In August 2019, the Centre simultaneously did away with 35A, a special provision that disallowed outsiders from buying land and property, and also divided the state into two Union territories.“We have pointed to Article 371 which provides special protection to several states in the North-east,” said a senior Pakistani official familiar with the back channel talks, who did not want to be identified. Talks are purportedly on between the National Security Advisers of India and Pakistan, though Moeed Yusuf, special representative to Khan on security, has denied the talks.Indian officials in the ministries of home and external affairs, when contacted, said they were not aware of the back-channel dialogue or if there was even such a dialogue.One official, however, pointed out that the summer months are crucial, and they are looking to see if the ceasefire holds and the infiltration numbers come down. The U-turn on resuming limited trade, though, was indicative of the slippery road ahead.For any forward movement, that could take the shape of a dialogue, India will be looking at the “terror index”, to gauge Pakistan’s sincerity in normalising ties and moving from military defence to economic security, as articulated by Pakistan’s army chief, General Qamar Javed Bajwa.Another Pakistani official, while reiterating that the application of Article 371 to Jammu & Kashmir would “go a long way” in creating an enabling environment, said, “If the North-east can have constitutional guarantees, why not J&K? We have a domestic audience to take care of as well.”In his letter to Modi, Khan said that durable peace and stability was contingent on resolving all issues between the two countries, “in particular, the Jammu & Kashmir dispute.”Most of the provisions under Article 371 — meant to protect tribal communities and cultures in the North-east — enable de-centralised governance with a degree of administrative autonomy. Importantly, the provisions restrict land transfer to those defined as outsiders to the state concerned. They primarily affect Mizoram, Nagaland and parts of Manipur, Assam and Meghalaya. As one official quoted above pointed out, “Under Article 371, the Constitution provides special provisions for the hill states with domicile rights, similar to what Jammu & Kashmir had under Article 35A.”In August 2019, when J&K’s special status was nullified, home minister Amit Shah had assured Parliament that no changes were planned vis a vis the North-east under Article 371.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-seeks-gurantees-on-j-k-for-better-ties-101617317032539.html
02-04-2021||India||Delhiwale: His poetic selfie||Literature student SM Shafi eats poetry — poetically speaking. He reads poems, he writes poems. In his 20s, he is currently preparing to start his PhD on poet Fakir Mohan Senapati, who wrote in Odia, Mr Shafi’s native language. Sitting in his favourite garden in south Delhi’s New Friends Colony, he gamely became a part of the Proust Questionnaire series in which folks from diverse backgrounds are nudged to make “Parisian parlour confessions”, all to explore the lives and experiences of Delhi’s citizens. He agreed on one condition—all his responses will be based on his passion for poetry.Your favourite virtue or the principal aspect of your personalityThe way I fall in love with this world, which is also the fate of poetryYour favourite qualities in a manSelflessness, ability to do good without trying to show it (which is akin to poetry which registers but never shouts), sense of justiceYour favourite qualities in a womanSame as above. Plus, her intuitive mind, a sacred gift of nature. Poetry is impossible without such a gift. Most of the poems are evidence that either the poet was an ingredient of such an experience or the woman herself was writing itYour main faultForgetfulness, which I enjoy. It renews what I see and eventually things start giving up their guarded secrets and connections, which poetry is comprised ofYour favourite occupationGardener of big city parksYour idea of happinessTaking bath in a sea or a river with a friend who is equally stunned and silent, to pause the reading for a while because a verse just revealed, affirmed or introduced a truth.Where would you like to live?Beside a pond, with silent neighbours not interested in culture but gossipYour favourite flowerAll flowers excite me. Like Theodore Roethke wrote, deep in their roots, all flowers keep the lightYour favourite poetsShakespeare, Derek Walcott, Seamus Heaney, Ted Hughes, CP Cavafy, Kedarnath Singh, Mir Taqi MirYour favourite namesMilosz, Kiarostami, Ashbery (you can taste his name), Akhmatova, Sona, Subah.The military event you admire the mostI don’t. I also hate the fact that there is a category of poets called ‘war poets’.Your motto in life“Not that I want to be a god or a hero. Just to change into a tree, grow for ages, not hurt anyone.” - Milosz||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-his-poetic-selfie-101617316081167.html
02-04-2021||India||After Make in India, Atmanirbhar Bharat challenge to trade ties: US||The Biden administration on Wednesday listed India’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ or self-sufficiency campaign, which was launched to help the country deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, among “significant” trade barriers American businesses face around the world.Last month, the US Trade Representative (USTR)’s office had cited the “Make in India” programme as an impediment for import of its products into India.“US exporters continue to encounter significant tariff and non-tariff barriers that impede imports of US products into India. While the Indian Government has pursued ongoing economic reform efforts, it also continues to promote programs such as ‘Make in India’ that favour domestic production over importation,” the office of USTR said in its National Trade Estimate Report for 2021.“Additionally in May 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the ‘Self-Reliant India’ (Atmanirbhar Bharat) initiative to increase self-sufficiency by promoting domestic industry and reducing reliance on foreign suppliers,” the report said, adding the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ initiative to US’ growing list of trade issues with India.While it was launched to bolster India’s efforts to deal with the economic crisis wrecked by the Covid-19 pandemic, the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ plan soon came to be seen as a potent weapon against the Chinese after the skirmishes along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh last year. The boycott of Chinese goods and apps had also found resonance here with the administration of former president Donald Trump.In 2020, India was America’s largest trading partner.The trade representative’s report mentioned in detail US’s trade issues with India, including those that have defied resolution for years such as high tariffs, US’ access to India’s dairy market which is said to be one of the largest in the world, price control on medical devices such as heart stents and knee implant. The USTR report came on a day President Joe Biden announced a multi-trillion-dollar American Jobs Plan to revitalize the country’s economy.Government officials in New Delhi were not immediately available for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-make-in-india-atmanirbhar-bharat-challenge-to-trade-ties-us-101617306655895.html
02-04-2021||India||In IIM Ahmedabad, Covid-19 cases touch 100 as Gujarat battles outbreak||Nearly 96 people, including faculty members and students, have tested positive for Covid-19 at the Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad between March 12 to March 31, as the second wave of the virus has been averaging more than 2,000 people being infected in Gujarat each day during the last four days.The state has reported more than 3 lakh cases so far with over 4,500 deaths. On Thursday evening, Gujarat reported a high of 2,410 cases, continuing the average of more than 2,200 cases, and nine deaths.Ahmedabad surpassed Surat with 613 cases, while Surat reported 464 cases during the last 24 hours. Vadodara followed with 292 cases and Rajkot with 179. Gujarat has 12,996 active cases.Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association, told Hindustan Times, “Over 55% of the 3,000 beds in designated Covid-19 hospitals in Ahmedabad are occupied.” He informed that, “Most cases are mild to moderate, though the spread is more intense than earlier.”According to official data released by the IIM-A, RTPCR tests were conducted on 116 people during the two Holi days of whom 16 were found to be infected by the coronavirus. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation’s North-West Zone Health Officer Dr Mehul Acharya informed that as on March 31, 2021, as many as 96 people tested positive for the virus at the IIM-A during the last 15 days.The data on the IIM-A dashboard states that between September 1, 2020, to March 27, 2021, there were 190 Covid-19 cases, 85 among them were students, four professors, 14 on-campus and 27 off-campus staff and 19 contractual employees. As many as 43 students have been quarantined.Outgoing president of the Gujarat chapter of Indian Medical Association Dr Chandresh Jardosh told Hindustan Times that, “Unlike in the past, this wave is more intense and the spread is faster, though the mortality rate is much lower.”He attributes the second wave in Gujarat to the recent elections where the political campaign “ignored all Covid-19 norms, while the people’s behaviour has also been as though the virus had gone. The people and the politicians are collectively responsible.”Dr Jardosh wondered that, “As many as 40% of our vaccines were exported while countries like the US and UK have not sent out a single dose. The so-called vaccine diplomacy is hurting our own people.” He is of the view that there is a need for mass vaccination, instead of in instalments “and there should be mass production. Everyone over 18 years of age should be vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-iim-ahmedabad-covid-19-cases-touch-100-as-gujarat-battles-outbreak-101617305624254.html
02-04-2021||India||Prasar Bharati looks at BBC model for makeover||Based on a benchmarking exercise that compared it with the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), Prasar Bharati has concluded that it needs to sharply reorient itself, reducing technical staff, and adding content muscle, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity, talking about the restructuring plan of the public broadcaster that runs both Doordarshan and All India Radio.The plan, which has been in the works for three years, is presently under consideration.The present process for change was initiated in 2018, when Prasar Bharati began a manpower audit. The audit was outsourced to Ernst and Young, which suggested alterations. The findings were completed in February. They show that nearly half the organisation’s 25,000 employees are employed in the engineering division, whereas the corresponding strength for BBC is at a little over 10%. The content team at Prasar Bharti comprises less than 20% of the workforce, while BBC’s content team accounts for 70%. Manpower costs account for over 60% of Prasar Bharati’s expenses, and just around 30% of BBC’s. To be sure, BBC earns significant revenue each year from licensing -- all TV owners pay a license fee every year that funds the organisation.Prasar Bharati also plans to organically downsize, with nearly half of its employees retiring in the next five years. Less than 10% of the service’s employees are between the age of 31-40, less than 5% between 20-30, while over 60% are over 50.The service may also introduce a voluntary retirement scheme, on the same model as the one currently working in Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL), HT learns. The VRS scheme will provide appropriate compensation to employees over the age of 50 that choose to retire. It is also considering a category of contractual employees. The VRS could reduce the organisation’s annual cash outflow by over ₹2,000 crore, according to the plan.The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting declined to comment on the matter.“The manpower audit is a long pending exercise... It is to look at how we can transform public broadcasting on various fronts. We are consulting several stakeholders,” said Prasar Bharati CEO Shashi Shekhar Vempati.Prasar Bharati has already introduced changes to increase efficiency in broadcasting, such as cloud-based broadcasts and remote monitoring. In terms of operations, it has also shifted to digital platforms.Changes to the Parliamentary Act, under which the body has been created, are also being considered, the people said. “There are organisational issues,” one of the people cited above said. “There, of course, is a public mandate. But at the same time, there have to be commercial expectations as well. There is a low viewership and that can only change if the content side is revamped.”This person added that better asset utilisation remains a priority. “Earlier, Prasar Bharati needed a stronger engineering department. But now it has to focus more on content.”Former I&B minister Manish Tewari said that the fundamental thing that needs to be determined is whether India requires a public broadcaster. “The Prasar Bharati Act was brought into existence in 1990, but was implemented, that too partially, only in 1997. The Act came into existence in the backdrop of the government having monopoly over Doordarshan and AIR.Prasar Bharati does not enjoy the same kind of autonomy that BBC does. So long as its funds are released by the I&B ministry, it can’t. What the government needs to do is set up a committee of experts familiar with the functioning of Prasar Bharati instead of looking at piecemeal solutions,” he said.Former Editor of the media site The Hoot, Sevanti Ninan said Prasar Bharati has traditionally been a terrestrial broadcaster, which is why engineers were needed to maintain a countrywide network of terrestrial towers. “The whole engineering network has now become largely redundant,” she said. She added that the public broadcaster is not known for the quality of its content. “It’s never gone past being a government broadcaster,” Ninan said. Prasar Bharati CEO Vempati said, “What we are aspiring to create is public broadcaster of the future... we want to transform the broadcaster on both, the content and technological front.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prasar-bharati-looks-at-bbc-model-for-makeover-101617304336858.html
02-04-2021||India||Met department predicts heatwave over Andhra Pradesh, Telangana for 3 days||Hyderabad Andhra Pradesh and Telangana will experience heatwave conditions in several parts in the next three days with day temperatures being two to three degrees Celsius above normal, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted. According to K Nagarathna, director of IMD, Hyderabad, a dry weather is expected in most parts of the state till due to the presence of northerly winds over Telangana. Intense heat wave conditions are expected in northern, north-eastern and eastern parts of the state.“In the first two days, the temperatures would remain two to three degrees above normal in southern Telangana and three to four degrees above normal in the northern part,” Nagarathna said. The maximum temperature in the last 24 hours till 8 am on Thursday stood at 42.4 degrees Celsius at Bhadrachalam while Suryapet and Nalgona registered 42 degrees Celsius. Other parts of the state like Adilabad, Asifabad, Nizamabad, Warangal, Peddapalli and Karimnagar recorded average temperatures between 39 to 40 degrees Celsius. In Hyderabad, the maximum temperature recorded in the last 24 hours was 40.2 degrees Celsius. Temperatures are likely to rise to 43 degrees Celsius in April and may touch 45 degrees Celsius in May, the weather body predicted. According to IMD officials, the next one week could see maximum temperatures hovering around 40 to 41 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature could further rise to around 25 to 26 degrees Celsius. In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, severe heatwave conditions were witnessed in Bapatla in Guntur district and Tungi in East Godavari district in the last 24 hours. Similar conditions were also reported from Ongole, Nellore and Vijayawada. Maximum temperature of 43 degrees Celsius was recorded at Vijayawada in the last 24 hours. On Thursday, too, the temperature touched 42.8 degrees Celsius followed by 42.2 degrees Celsius in Tirupati and Nellore. Several other parts of the state like Kurnool, Guntu, Anantapur and Ongole also recorded temperatures ranging from 40 degrees to 41 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/met-department-predicts-heatwave-over-andhra-pradesh-telangana-for-3-days-101617304079212.html
02-04-2021||India||2 days of lockdown imposed in 3 MP districts amid Covid-19 surge||In Madhya Pradesh, the district crisis management committee imposed two days of lockdown in Khargone, Ratlam and Betul and three days lockdown in Chhindwara city, officials said. The committee took this decision on Thursday. The lockdown was imposed on Saturday and Sunday in Ratlam, Khargone and Betul while in Chhindwara, it will start from Thursday night and will continue till Monday 6 am.Earlier, the state government had imposed Sunday Lockdown in 12 districts including these four amid a spike in Covid-19 cases. Chhindwara collector Saurabh Suman said, “The decision has been taken as the district is located on the border of Maharashtra and a large number of people are coming from the neighbouring state for celebration Rang Pachami.” In Madhya Pradesh, 2546 positive cases were reported on Thursday, which is the highest since September 2020. There are 18,057 active cases in the state. The positivity rate has risen to 9.9%. Medical education department minister Vishwas Sarang said, “In all 15,482 beds have been increased for Covid-19 patients in MP. The strict checking of masks and social distancing is being done. As the government is not in favour of complete lockdown so people are being made aware to follow Covid 19 protocols.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-days-of-lockdown-imposed-in-3-mp-districts-amid-covid-19-surge-101617303540409.html
02-04-2021||India||Big spike in Delhi, grim milestone for Mumbai||With 8,646 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease, Mumbai on Thursday set a new all-time record of daily infections in any city in the country, even as Delhi witnessed yet another massive single-day spike with 2,790 new cases, a 114-day high for the Capital.On Thursday, there were 81,413 new infections reported across India, the highest single-day increase since October 1, 2020, as the second wave of Covid-19 continued to push cases to levels not seen in the country in at least six months. India’s highest single-day caseload was 99,181 on September 10, according to the HT dashboard.The phenomenon of massive infection surges in a string of urban centres across the country in the past few days is reminiscent of how massive pockets of infection hotbeds emerged in several metropolitan cities during India’s first Covid-19 wave from July to September last year.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe second wave of the outbreak is dangerously expanding its footprint throughout the country at a time when the vaccination drive has finally started gathering momentum – India on Thursday opened its Covid-19 vaccination programme to everyone over the age of 45 years.Experts and government officials alike have repeatedly stressed that a massive and widespread inoculation drive is the best, and perhaps the only chance the country has to turn the tide against the building second wave of infections, which is particularly dangerous because of the threat of new variants.At the same time, experts have called for more curbs on gatherings, functions, marketplaces, and public congregations.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has called for an urgent meeting to review the city’s Covid-19 situation on Friday. The action plan to be discussed in Friday’s meeting will include issues such as containment zones, the vaccination drive, availability of hospital beds, and enforcement against violators of Covid-appropriate behaviour. Imposing restrictions on public gatherings and public places in the city will also be discussed, officials familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.Pushed by Mumbai’s massive Thursday surge, Maharashtra’s tally for the day touched 43,183 – yet again breaking all previous records for single-day infections. The state, which has been by far India’s worst-hit, has been forced to impose a series of curbs on social movement in order to quell the worst spell of the outbreak. Starting Sunday, the Maharashtra government imposed a night curfew, and has banned all gatherings of more than five people in any public place across the state. It is also said to be considering the closure of malls and gyms.India’s second Covid wave started towards the second half of February with an uptick of infections in Maharashtra. The current case trajectory in the western state has long surpassed the peak that it saw during the first wave in the middle of September — the seven-day average of daily infections in the past week in the state is 36,476, against the first wave-peak of 22,149. It is likely that the surge is being powered by what scientists called VOCs or variants of concern, mutant versions of the coronavirus that are more infectious.Two other states – Gujarat and Punjab – have also seen their case trajectory surpass all previous records in the last two weeks. Meanwhile, case trajectories in another three regions – Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Chandigarh – are fast closing the gap on their first peak highs.Mumbai’s Thursday surge of 8,646 new infections breaks the previous national record of 8,593 daily infections for a city set by Delhi on November 11, 2020. At the time, Delhi was going through its third wave of infections. Over the past week, however, the Capital has seen the start of its fourth wave of infections – the only region in the country to have seen as many distinct waves, although at least one of them is likely to have been the result of a faulty testing strategy that artificially lowered the number of cases.Surges in Delhi and Mumbai, however, are not isolated instances. Many other densely populated metropolitan cities such as Pune, Bengaluru and Chennai are also currently seeing a strong rise in daily infections. There were 4,200 new cases in Pune on Thursday, while Bengaluru saw 2,906 new infections and Chennai 1,035. Pune, much like Mumbai, is currently in the midst of its worst-ever case surge – the city set a new record of daily infections (4,625) just this Sunday.During the Union health ministry’s weekly Covid-19 briefing on Tuesday, senior officials had warned states that the situation is going from “bad to worse” every passing day. “In some states in particular, there is a huge cause for worry, so no state, no part of our country, no district should be complacent,” NITI Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said.In a letter to states on Tuesday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote: “…the current rise in cases is of concern and has the potential of overwhelming health care systems, unless checked right now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-spike-in-delhi-grim-milestone-for-mumbai-101617303312030.html
02-04-2021||India||Gujarat passes Bill against ‘love jihad’||Gujarat on Thursday became the third Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled state after Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh to pass a bill proposing amendments to the Freedom of Religion Act, 2002 to ensure stringent punishment for forced religious conversions.The bill provides for imprisonment of three to five years and a fine of up to ₹2 lakh fine for marriage by forced or lured religious conversion. If the alleged victim is a minor, a woman, a Dalit or tribal, the punishment ranges from four to seven years in jail and a fine of not less than ₹3 lakh. In case there is an organisation involved, the person heading the same could face imprisonment from three to 10 years and a fine of up to ₹5 lakh.Moving the bill in the assembly, state home minister Pradipsinh Jadeja said, “We are going to make amendments to Gujarat Freedom of Religion Act, 2003... we are going to present a law before the state Assembly, that will stop people from luring Hindu girls into marriage with the intention of religious conversion.”Protesting against the move, Congress legislator from Ahmedabad Imran Khedawala tore a copy of the Bill in the House. “Pradeepsinh Jadeja has only mentioned that the daughters of the Hindu community are targeted by men from a specific community. Daughters, be it from any religious community, will always be our daughters. I too have over hundred testimonies of Muslim girls marrying into other religion. I am deeply hurt by the words of the minister. Nobody can force anybody to marry into a specific religion and in no religion, it is written to forcibly convert anyone. In this Bill, only one community is specifically targeted... I oppose this bill...,” he said.In February this year, the Uttar Pradesh Assembly passed the Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Bill, 2021 by a voice vote. In March, the Madhya Pradesh legislative assembly passed the MP Freedom of Religion Bill 2020 to prohibit forcible religious conversion by way of allurement, fraud, threat or marriage. Haryana and Karnataka too, both ruled by the BJP, are said to be considering a similar law.While state governments claimed to have amended the laws to curb cases of “love jihad”, where Muslim men allegedly lure and marry women from other religions (mostly Hinduism, although the first allegations of love jihad were made by the Church in Kerala), with the ultimate objective of converting them, the Union home minister, in a reply in Parliament on February 4 last year, clarified that the term ‘love jihad’ was not defined under existing laws and no such case had been reported then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-passes-bill-against-love-jihad-101617303478618.html
02-04-2021||India||Hiran murder: NIA seizes another car||National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday seized another car in connection with the murder of 48-year-old Thane auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran, said officials. The agency suspects that the Audi, seized from Vasai, could be the vehicle in which Hiran was smothered. NIA sources said the Audi was taken to south Mumbai, where forensic experts thoroughly examined it on Thursday for possible biological and other traces.Hiran was linked to the explosives-laden Scorpio found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia in south Mumbai on February 25. He had gone missing late in the evening on March 4 and his body was recovered from a creek at Reti Bunder near Mumbra the next day.According to police, six handkerchiefs were found stuffed in his mouth while his face was covered by a scarf. All his belongings were missing.The Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS), which was earlier probing the case, had arrested former constable Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Gor in connection with the murder. ATS suspected that suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze — who has been arrested by NIA for his alleged role in the Antilia security scare case — is also the prime accused in Hiran’s murder case, while Shinde allegedly helped him execute the murder, and Gor arranged for some SIM cards used in the commission of the crime from Gujarat.Meanwhile, NIA on Thursday raided a club in Girgaum, whose owner had allegedly introduced Vaze and Shinde to Gor, said an agency official. An NIA team conducted a search for three hours and recorded the statements of the owner, manager and staff, the official added.Both ATS and NIA officials believe that Mansukh was smothered in a vehicle at Gaimukh, along Ghodbunder Road in Thane.According to ATS, its initial probe had revealed that Hiran received a call around 8.29 pm on March 4, and the caller spoke to him for around 11 minutes and asked him to meet near Majiwada junction on Ghodbunder Road.According to an ATS officer, the trader was made to sit in a four-wheeler at Majiwada junction, taken 10 km away to Gaimukh breach front, and smothered in the vehicle at the spot. Later, the body was dumped in the creek at Reti Bunder, NIA officials suspected.The agency is also trying to trace the Maruti Eeco, allegedly stolen from Aurangabad in November 2020, whose original number plates were found during a search conducted by NIA in Mithi river on March 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hiran-murder-nia-seizes-another-car-101617303418565.html
02-04-2021||India||After Karnataka minister’s letter, congress mounts attack on BS Yediyurappa||Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday urged the Karnataka governor to immediately remove B S Yediyurappa and recommend President’s rule in the state, a day after rural development and Panchayat Raj minister K S Eshwarappa accused the chief minister of running an authoritarian government.“The governor must immediately intervene, remove the chief minister and recommend for President’s rule,” Siddaramaiah said in a statement.In a strongly-worded letter to governor Vajubai Vala on Wednesday, Eshwarappa had said that the chief minister had indiscriminately sanctioned funds to various MLAs and other persons in violation of rules.In his statement on Thursday, Siddaramaiah said that Eshwarappa, who belongs to Yediyurappa’s home district of Shivamogga, had provided evidence of corruption and his allegations had shown a collapse of the administration.“Eshwarappa has provided evidence for the allegations of corruption, nepotism and illegalities against the BJP that I have been making as the leader of opposition. He should not bow down to any pressure and stick to his statement,” the former chief minister said.The Congress leader also referred to the Karnataka high court’s Wednesday order, allowing a probe against the chief minister in a 2019 corruption case wherein he allegedly tried to lure a JD(S) MLA to the BJP by offering him money.Yediyurappa is alleged to have lured opposition legislators, in an exercise termed ‘Operation Kamala’, with the promise of giving them plum portfolios and other monetary rewards.At least 17 legislators from the JD(S) - Congress coalition had defected and helped Yediyurappa to power after weeks and months of high drama in the southern state.“This proves our allegation that the BJP government in the state is an illicit child from an immoral act called ‘Operation Kamala’,” Siddaramaiah said.The developments come at a time when Yediyurappa already finds himself in a corner over the recent sexual harassment case involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, non-performance of his two-year-old government, cash crunch and growing calls for his removal among other problems.The three bypolls on April 17 have presented the 78-year-old with an opportunity to silence growing dissent and consolidate his position for the remainder of the two years in power.However, at least four Cabinet ministers extended their support to the chief minister on Thursday.“The chief minister has allocated RDPR funds to the MLAs and it is an administrative issue. Since Eshwarappa heads the department and is unhappy over this, it has to be resolved among ourselves,” Karnataka home, law and parliamentary affairs minister Basavaraj Bommai said.Another minister claimed the matter could have been resolved through discussion. “If he (Eshwarappa) had any problems with the decisions taken by the chief minister… I think it could have been resolved within five minutes through a discussion. This situation has caused some sort of embarrassment to the government and the party,” state health & family welfare and medical education minister K Sudhakar said.Political analysts believe that the inaction against BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal), who had earlier sought the removal of the chief minister, and Eshwarappa’s letter were an indication of how the central leadership of the party allowed these attacks against Yediyurappa.“We do not know if there is Centre’s sanction but there are some invisible hands operating. Yatnal and Eshwarappa are only mouths and the hands operating them are unseen,” A Narayana, political analyst and faculty at the Azim Premji University, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-karnataka-minister-s-letter-cong-mounts-attack-on-bsy-101617303359172.html
02-04-2021||India||Military to get new logistics node in Mumbai||The Indian military on Thursday operationalised a new joint logistics node (JLN) in Mumbai to provide integrated logistics support to the three services in a move that will bolster jointness as well as help cut costs and better utilise manpower, the defence ministry said.This is the third JLN to be set up in three months, with the aim of integrating the military’s logistics set-up and improving its war-fighting ability. Logistics nodes were operationalised in Guwahati and Port Blair on January 1, 2021. The government’s sanction letter for setting up these nodes came on October 12, 2020.Chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, who inaugurated the Mumbai JLN via a video link on Thursday, said: “Establishment and operationalisation of JLNs is a very important first step in the direction of logistics integration of our three services. Acceptance of each other’s limitations and learning from each other’s strengths and best practices is essential to help improve the functioning and efficacy of these nodes.”The Joint Operations Division (JOD) under the Headquarters Integrated Defence Staff pursued and enabled the establishment of the JLNs.“All future wars will be conducted by tri-service in an integrated manner. To enable our armed forces to conduct successful operations, it is essential that they be provided with sound logistics support during all stages of war,” the ministry said in a statement.“This is the precursor to the joint logistics command which is being planned and is imperative for the optimisation of the combat potential of integrated theatres,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations.India is set to begin a formal roll-out of its long-awaited theaterisation plan to best utilise its military’s resources amid growing security threats, with the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command set to be launched by May.India is expected to have three other integrated commands -- to secure its western, northern and eastern fronts -- expected to be rolled out by December 2022. In addition, a logistics command is in the works to avoid duplication of efforts and resources. The CDS’s mandate includes bringing about jointness in operations, logistics, transport, training, support services and repairs and maintenance of the three services.The JLNs will provide integrated logistics cover to the armed forces for their small arms ammunition, rations, fuel, general stores, civil hired transport, aviation clothing and spares, and also provide engineering support in an effort to synergise their operational efforts, the ministry said.“This initiative will accrue advantages in terms of saving of manpower, economise utilisation of resources, besides financial savings,” the statement said, adding that more such nodes would be launched across the country.Rawat emphasised the need to work towards greater logistics integration with national logistics to benefit from the infrastructural and logistics improvements taking place at the national level. “Through this, we will bring to bear the actual ‘Whole of the Nation’ effort on our adversaries,” he said.The government expects Rawat, who took charge as India’s first CDS on January 1, 2020, to bring about jointness among the three services in a three-year time frame (by January 2023). One of the means to achieve jointness is the setting up of integrated theatre commands for the best use of military resources to fight future battles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-gets-tri-services-logistics-node-in-mumbai-101617303298557.html
02-04-2021||India||CBI to review performance of investigators each month||New Delhi: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has decided to review the performance of its Investigating Officers (IOs) on a monthly basis, a move aimed at increasing the efficiency of the agency, which has a pendency of at least 700 cases older than a year (according to the latest available data), officials familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. Currently, reviews are conducted every quarter. As part of monthly review exercise, the work of IOs will be rated on the basis of number of charge sheets filed, number of source information reports (SIRs) generated, number of case diaries completed, and whether all processes as mentioned in the CBI Crime Manual l(photographing/video graphing of crime scene, search proceedings, recording of statements etc) were followed. The review will also record whether formalities such as seeking prosecution sanction, expert opinions and proper marking of evidence is being done, the people cited above added. Another important objective of the monthly performance review is to prevent corruption and opportunities for corruption the people said. In January, four agency officers including two Deputy Superintendents were arrested for weakening the agency’s investigation in bank fraud cases in lieu of huge bribes. The current quarterly reviews are carried out in all CBI branches and reviewed by the head of branches/zones. The decision to institute a a monthly review has been taken by Interim CBI Director Praveen Sinha, who, according to one of the officers cited above, felt the pendency in CBI needs to be brought down. To be sure, the monthly review is separate from ACRs (annual confidential reports) prepared annually for all government employees. According to the Central Vigilance Commission’s (CVC’s) annual report 2019, investigation was pending in 744 CBI cases for at least a year at the end of December 2019 out of which 678 were related to Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act. About 25 corruption cases have been pending for at least five years. Overall, a total of 1,239 investigations and enquiries were pending with CBI till December 2019. In its updated Crime Manual in December 2020, CBI stated that investigations in a majority of corruption cases will be completed within nine months. The manual stated that the existing one-year deadline in corruption cases will apply only in those cases where a high ranking government official such as a joint secretary or secretary is accused, and the probe is being supervised by an officer of additional director rank or above in CBI. The new CBI Crime Manual, updated after 15 years, was also largely prepared under the supervision of Sinha, when he was the additional director of the central agency. “He (Praveen Sinha) wants investigations to expedite by IOs thoroughly doing their work,” said a second officer. Former CBI Joint Director - N R Wassan said – “Earlier there used to be a bi-monthly review of every CBI branch but it was quite taxing. It has to be seen how so many IOs will be reviewed every month. If the SPs (Superintendents of Police) and DIGs (Deputy Inspector General’s) do the review properly, such reviews always help.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-to-review-performance-of-investigators-each-month-101617303238608.html
02-04-2021||India||Constable killed in terrorist attack on BJP leader’s house in Srinagar||A police constable was killed in a terrorist attacked on the house of a Bharatiya Janata Party leader in Srinagar on Thursday, police officials said.According to officials, the terrorists fired upon the guard post of BJP leader Anwar Khan in Naugam. In the firing, constable Rameez Ahmad was injured and rushed to SMHS hospital in the city where doctors declared him brought dead.“One sentry Rameez Ahmad was critically injured in the attack. He succumbed to his injuries,” said Srinagar senior superintendent of police Sandeep Choudhary.A cordon and search operation was launched soon after the attack, the officials said.Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said that four terrorists affiliated with the Lashkar-e-Taiba were involved in the attack. “One militant was wearing burka and another fired on the guard while other took away with rifle,” he said.While two terrorists have been identified, efforts are on to identify the others, he said.Condemning the attack, BJP in-charge for Jammu and Kashmir Tarun Chungh said that exemplary punishment will be ensured to the terrorists. “These repeated terror attacks cannot weaken democracy in the region,” he saidThe party has demanded adequate security for all its leaders.This is the third attack in Kashmir in the last one week.A police official and two councillors were killed in an attack in Sopore on Monday afternoon. On March 25, militants attacked a CRPF convoy in Lawaypora on the Srinagar-Baramulla national highway. Three CRPF officials were killed in the attack.Kumar on Tuesday chaired a high level meeting to review the security arrangements in the region, in view of the upcoming Amarnath yatra.The IGP directed officials to strategise police deployments on a day-to-day basis in view of the Amarnath Yatra, the spokesperson said. The annual Amarnath Yatra will begin in June and the government is expecting nearly 600,000 pilgrims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constable-killed-in-terrorist-attack-on-bjp-leader-s-house-in-srinagar-101617303239238.html
02-04-2021||India||CBI takes over probe in Walayar minors’ sexual assault, death case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered two cases in the sexual assault and death of two minor Dalit girls in Walayar, Kerala, in 2017, officials familiar with the matter said, opening a new chapter in a case that horrified the state and which has, in recent months, hit the national headlines with the girls’ mother taking on sitting chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in his stronghold in the coming assembly elections as a sign of protest.CBI’s move came after the Kerala high court on March 19, ordered the central agency to take over the probe.The eldest of the siblings, aged 13, was found dead inside the family’s hut in Walayar in Palakkad district on January 13, 2017 ; her nine-year-old sister died on March 4 in the same manner. The parents alleged that the girls were murdered.Post-mortem examinations of the two girls revealed that they were subjected to sexual assault before their deaths.The mother of the two girls welcomed the CBI action. “Hope the agency will bring all culprits and those weakened the case to light,” she saidThe crime branch of the state police conducted an investigation and arrested four accused – Valya Madhu and Kutti Madhu, relatives of the mother of the minor girls, Shibu, a former co-worker of the parents, and Pradeep Kumar. A fifth accused in the case died by suicide last year.All the accused were acquitted by the special Pocso court in October 2019 on the grounds that the prosecution failed to prove the charges against them.Following protests over the acquittal, the state government on November 18, 2019 removed the public prosecutor in the case.The Kerala high court, while ordering retrial in January this year, observed that there was “miscarriage of justice”.A division bench, comprising Justices A Hariprasad and M R Anitha, allowed appeals filed by the state government and the mother of the minor girls. The bench also set aside the Pocso court order in the case.Observing that there were serious lapses in the investigation, the HC directed the accused to appear before the trial court on January 20. “We are fully convinced that the perfunctory initial investigation and cursory, desultory and unskilled prosecution coupled with the lack of involvement by the trial judge resulted in miscarriage of justice and the consequential unmerited acquittal,” the bench said.The judges observed that the trial had been “lowered to the level of mock trials”. They also allowed the prosecution to seek permission from the trial court for further probe into the matter.Reacting to the development Kerala law minister AK Balan said, “We have tried our best to help the mother. But some vested interests are using her to embarrass the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-takes-over-probe-in-walayar-minors-sexual-assault-death-case-101617303118595.html
02-04-2021||India||Probe if BJP used Aadhaar data for polls: HC to UIDAI||The Madras high court on Thursday directed the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) to probe whether the Puducherry unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) used Aadhaar data to send bulk text messages for election campaigning. The court also asked UIDAI how it may have failed to protect details and particulars furnished in confidence by citizens.The bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, in its interim orders, refused to accept the submission made by the BJP Puducherry unit that it obtained the mobile numbers through door-to-door campaigns over a period of time by party workers.“There is a credible allegation which has been squarely levelled that only mobile phones linked to Aadhaar have received the SMS messages. It is squarely for UIDAI to provide an adequate answer,” the court said.The court was hearing a petition filed by A Anand, president of the Puducherry unit of the Democratic Youth Foundation of India (DYFI), alleging that local BJP candidates obtained mobile phone numbers of voters linked to their Aadhaar numbers, were creating WhatsApp groups in their respective constituencies, and sending bulk SMS-es for targeted campaigning.The court, while passing its directions, observed that “apart from the unfair mileage that the political party may have gained in resorting to a form of campaigning without obtaining prior permission as required, there is the serious matter of the privacy of the citizens being breached”.It added: “This huge aspect of the matter should not be lost in the politics of the season or the hullabaloo of the attendant campaigning.”The court also said that the Election Commission of India (ECI) should continue its examination on whether the model code of conduct was breached by the state unit for the BJP. During the hearing, the court also noted that the BJP failed to obtain the necessary permission from the authorities to send bulk SMS-es.The court adjourned the matter for six weeks. Puducherry goes to the polls on April 6, and the results will be announced on May 2, along with Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal and Assam.Congress MLA from Manavel constituency RKR Anantharaman demanded that BJP candidates be disqualified. “They are not allowed to use government machinery for polls or propaganda so they must be disqualified... They have been continuously making calls and playing recorded voice messages to Aadhar-linked numbers. We have complained to the election body in Puducherry as well as the ECI but we are yet to receive a response,” he said.The BJP, however, refuted the allegations. “How can we get data from Aadhar? We are using data gathered by our booth-level party workers for the past several months,” said Nirmal Surana, BJP’s election in-charge in Puducherry.HT reached out to UIDAI officials but there we no immediate response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-if-bjp-used-aadhaar-data-for-polls-hc-to-uidai-101617303058588.html
02-04-2021||India||Clerics join hands to dispel fear, will urge followers to get shots||Cutting across ideological lines, Muslim clerics in Uttar Pradesh have come together to bust misinformation and myths surrounding the Covid-19 vaccination process and motivate people to opt for inoculation.The religious leaders have also decided to publicise a common message during the traditional Friday prayers that vaccination is the only way to fight the virus, which has claimed roughly 160,000 lives in India.“In Islam, nothing is bigger than saving us and the family from a disease. Hence it’s a humble appeal to our Muslim brethren not to fall prey to any myths about Covid vaccine and to come forward for the vaccination. This is the only way we can check the spread of virus,” said Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, senior member of All-India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) and Imam of the Eidgah masjid in Lucknow.The Sunni cleric said he will make an announcement to motivate people for the vaccination during the ‘namaz’ on Friday and address ‘Khutba-e-Juma’ (a sermon by the cleric after Friday prayers) to make people understand the importance of vaccine.The crucial appeal comes at a time India is firmly under the grip of the second wave of the pandemic. Infections have spiked across the country with experts saying that picking up the pace of vaccination was the best way to counter the rampaging disease.On Thursday, India opened up its vaccination drive to all people above 45. The previous two phases of the drive –the first was aimed at frontline workers and the second at those above 60, or above 45 with comorbidities – were dogged by slow rollout, teething problems, vaccine hesitancy and misinformation. India is home to roughly 175 million Muslims, who form about 14% of the country’s population.The move to push for vaccination was endorsed by Shia leaders.Prominent Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawad Naqvi termed vaccination a moral responsibility, saying all Muslims should get themselves inoculated. “I think this is the best possible way we can help the administration in containing the coronavirus. We should come forward for the vaccination,” said Jawad. He also said that he will be addressing all vaccine-related queries with the gathering during the Friday prayers at Asafi mosque, Bada Imambada in Lucknow.Shia cleric Maulana Yasoob Abbas, who is also general secretary of All India Shia Personal Law Board (AISPLB), said he launched a drive to motivate eligible people to come forward for vaccination. “It is our duty to get ourselves vaccinated. All Indians should get it done. I am creating awareness on the issue in all my religious meetings and making an appeal to the people to get themselves vaccinated,” he said.At the Islamic seminary Darul Uloom of Deoband, clerics advised people to shun misconceptions about the vaccine and said the jabs were a must to check the spread of infection. “Don’t buy any kind of misleading talk about the vaccine because vaccination is the only solution to get protection against Covid-19,” said Maulana Mufti Abul Kasum Nomani, mohtmim (vice-chancellor) of the famous seminary.Some Muslim religious leaders who took the shot said that they will offer their own example to prove to the people that vaccination was safe.Nomani, 74, and Maulana Abdul Khaliq Madrasi, 70, nayab mohatmim (deputy vice-chancellor) said both of them took the vaccine shots at a primary health centre in Deoband on March 15. “We are alright and appeal to the people to go for vaccination,” they said in a joint appeal.Another cleric, Maulana Badrul Hasan of Kandhla in Shamli district, admitted that there were some misconceptions among ordinary Muslim people about the Covid vaccine. He said the appeal of Darul Uloom will have a positive impact on people. “I also want to get vaccinated,” said Hasan, 51.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clerics-join-hands-to-dispel-fear-will-urge-followers-to-get-shots-101617302400878.html
02-04-2021||India||Covid-19: ICMR study suggests new re-infection criteria||People with a second bout of Covid-19 should be considered cases of reinfection if their first bout was at least 102 days prior to their latest positive test result and they had at least one negative test in the period between, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) suggested after studying 1,300 people, 4.5% of whom appeared to have been infected by the virus twice.Published online by the Cambirdge Epidemiology and Infection journal as an accepted manuscript, the study is based on telephone interviews with people selected from ICMR’s laboratory database of at least 80 million individuals tested between January 22 and October 7, 2020. The government has been working on a definition for ‘reinfection’ of cases since October.The 4.5% who were found infected were people infected in the first wave. “This is an averaged out figure over a period of about eight months— January to October, 2020—, which will vary with behaviour and intensity of epidemic,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR.According to the study, the authors said: “Taking available evidence into consideration, re-infection with Sars-CoV-2 in our study was defined as any individual who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on two separate occasions by either molecular tests or rapid antigen test at an interval of at least 102 days with one negative molecular test in between. In this archive based, telephonic survey, 58 out of 1300 individuals (4.5%) fulfilled the above mentioned definition”.Interestingly, the study did not look at a genomic analysis of the first and second infections, the only sure way of proving a case of reinfection.The study, the authors added, was meant to “develop an epidemiological case definition of possible Sars-CoV-2 re-infection and assess its magnitude in India... The epidemiological case definition… was developed from literature review of data on viral kinetics… While Sars-CoV-2 re-infection is still a rare phenomenon, there is a need for epidemiological definition of re-infection for establishing surveillance systems and this study contributes to such goal..,” the paper said, adding that “obtaining genomic evidence is resource intensive and not always feasible”.The globally accepted benchmark for reinfection is less than 1%.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention considers the duration of 90 days between two positive Sars-Cov-2 infections, along with genomic evidence of reinfection as an investigative criterion to understand the phenomenon of reinfection.To develop working epidemiological definition, ICMR researchers collated prospective cohort studies from across the globe for in-depth examination.“A meta-analysis of 43 investigations (including cohort studies and randomized controlled trials) probed into the dynamics of viral shedding and reported the mean duration of detection of SARS CoV-2 viral RNA from upper respiratory tract to be 17 days… with the maximum period of viral shedding being 83 days. Persistent RT-PCR positivity for Sars-CoV-2 RNA has been reported up to 104 days in a solitary case-report. Taking all these available data into consideration, reinfection with SARS CoV-2 in our study was defined…,” said the researchers in the paper.Among those eligible, 91,592 (13.2%) individuals were tested at a gap of 102 or more days, and therefore satisfied the criteria for being included in the investigation frame.Cases of reinfection may be rare but researchers warn against being lax with taking precautions.“Just because the percentage is small doesn’t mean one should go easy on taking preventive measures such as wearing a mask, maintaining physical distancing and hand hygiene, and as far as possible avoiding being part of mass gatherings,” said one of the study researchers who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-study-suggests-new-re-infection-criteria-101617302338577.html
02-04-2021||India||PM Modi targets Mamata at Bengal rally, Congress-AIUDF in Assam||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday addressed poll rallies in West Bengal and Assam, where the second phase of voting was held, hitting out at chief minister Mamata Banerjee for tagging Bharatiya Janata Party leaders “outsiders” in Bengal, and calling the Congress-led seven party mahajot (grand alliance) in Assam a “mahajhooth (grand lie)”.The PM urged the voters to reject both, asserting that only the BJP can bring development in the two states.Addressing a rally in Joynagar in South 24 Parganas district, which goes to polls in the third phase on April 6, the PM accused Banerjee of insulting the people of other states by calling BJP leaders “outsiders”.Click here for complete coverage on West Bengal assembly elections 2021“The way she is attacking the people of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, it raises questions on her political maturity. You have forgotten that as a CM you have taken oath of the Constitution. The Indian Constitution doesn’t allow you to insult the people of other states,” Modi said.Modi also took on the Trinamool Congress chief for writing letters to political leaders calling for a united front against the BJP. “After the first phase she [Banerjee] became ever more nervous. She is seeking help from many leaders, who according to her are outsiders and tourists and she couldn’t find time to meet them,” the PM said.Banerjee, on March 28, wrote letters to top leaders of non-BJP parties, alleging that a recent bill bestowing more powers to the lieutenant governor in Delhi was a “direct attack” on the country’s federal structure.The PM reiterated the party’s target of winning over 200 seats in Bengal’s 294-member assembly.“Some weeks ago, people of Bengal were saying that BJP will get more than 200 seats. But BJP’s strong start in the first phase makes it clear that the voices of people have received God’s blessing. BJP will get more than 200 seats in Bengal,” he said.Modi asked Banerjee to clarify whether there is truth in the rumours that she is going to file nomination for another seat in the last phase of election. “Didi, are you going to fill nomination on another seat? First you went to Nandigram, and the people gave you an answer! Wherever you go, the people of Bengal are ready to give you the right answer.”The TMC supremo is contesting from Nandigram, which voted on Thursday, against former confidant Suvendu Adhikari.During a visit to a polling booth in Nandigram, Banerjee said that the PM’s rallies in the state on the day of polling were a violation of the model code of conduct.“How can Modi campaign on polling day? He is using Doordarshan and other media. Can he do that? People will give a befitting reply,” Banerjee said addressing mediapersons.The PM also hit out at the TMC for calling his recent visit to Bangladesh unethical and violative of the model code of conduct.“I visited one of the 51 Shaktipeeth Jeshoreshwari Kali temple in Bangladesh. TMC has taken umbrage. Is it wrong to pay obeisance to Shri Harichand Thakur (founder of the Matua sect) at Orakandi? I don’t believe in showing seasonal faith (shraddha). We always take pride in our faith and tradition,” he said .The TMC has written to the Election Commission alleging that Modi’s visit violated the model code of conduct in place for the West Bengal Assembly polls and some of his programmes there were “intended to influence the voting pattern” in certain constituencies.Later in the day, Modi addressed a rally in Assam’s Kokrajhar where urged voters to reject the opposition alliance.“In first phase of voting, people of Assam gave NDA [National Democratic Alliance] immense support. They have put the seal on victory of double-engine growth government [at Centre and state]. Thursday’s voting trend [for the second phase] is also very encouraging,” Modi said.Drawing a football analogy, the PM said the people of Assam have shown the “red card” to the Congress-led Grand Alliance in the state. “Football is very popular among youths here. If I use a football term, Congress and its grand-alliance have been shown a red card again by the people of this region. People of the region have faith in NDA for peace, development and respect of Assam’s ‘sanskriti’ (culture),” Modi said.The Congress has allied with Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), Bodoland People’s Front (BPF), three Left parties and a new regional party for the Assam elections. The combine has been dubbed the “mahajot” or grand alliance.Click here for complete coverage on Assam assembly election 2021The PM also accused previous Congress governments of encouraging encroachment of land belonging to religious establishments and creating divide among various sections, while the NDA, he said, has built bridges of developments.“During Congress’s long rule, Assam was troubled by bomb, ‘bandook’ (guns) and blockade. But during NDA rule there has been peace and respect,” Modi said, adding that it was under former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee that BTR was created and during the NDA government that the Bodo Accord was signed last year. “We want peace, progress and protection in Bodoland,” he said.The Bodoland Territorial Region comprises of four districts in Lower Assam. The districts have 11 assembly seats, all of which will go to polls in the third phase on April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-targets-mamata-at-bengal-rally-congress-aiudf-in-assam-101617302279201.html
02-04-2021||India||Litmus test for Uttarakhand as Mahakumbh begins||The month-long Mahakumbh began in Haridwar on Thursday amid strict Covid-19 restrictions, with chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat assuring devotees that none would be “unnecessarily harassed in the name of Covid-19 restrictions”.The mega event, which generally lasts for four months, has been curtailed this year to one month due to a recent surge in Covid-19 cases in the state with several instances of a significant number of tourists testing positive especially in Rishikesh and Haridwar.The chief minister said the government will ensure strict adherence to guidelines. “Mahakumbh is an event which is the centre of crores of Hindus’ faith and comes after every 12 years. Many people dream of taking the holy dip before their death. Considering all these, the devotees won’t face unnecessary restrictions but they would have to follow the Covid-19 SOP,” the CM said at a press conference.Early in the morning, Mahakumbh officer Deepak Rawat and Mahakumbh inspector general Sanjay Gunjyal offered prayers at the Har ki Pauri Ganga ghat in Mela area.Rawat said that holding the event during the pandemic was a challenge. “Organising it was not an easy task during Covid pandemic but with coordination and hard work, we have made all the arrangements for it to ensure a safe and healthy Mahakumbh with no untoward incident,” Rawat said. Urging devotees to adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines, he said, “The devotees coming here should follow the precautions including wearing a mask and maintaining social distance in the Mela area.”Rawat, who was infected last month, had faced criticism for saying that faith could overcome fear of the virus and mingling with supporters in huge crowds without masks and distancing.Experts recently raised concerns that with nearly 30 to 50 million pilgrims expected to arrive, the state could become a hotspot for the infection. The state government made a negative RT-PCR test mandatory for all those entering the state, particularly after the high court stepped in. Other guidelines included a compulsory registration on the government’s portal for the Mahakumbh.While the state has advised people above the age of 60 or those with significant comorbidities to not attend the Mahakumbh, all attendees have been asked to carry medical reports.The state recorded 500 new cases on Thursday, the highest daily cases this year, taking the tally to 100,911. The last time Uttarakhand reported over 500 cases was on December 23, 2020, when 564 cases were recorded in the state in a single day.The administration has also deployed about 5,000 additional state and central paramilitary forces personnel in the core Kumbh Mela zone of Har-Ki-Pauri, adjacent Ganga ghats and inter-state border check posts.At all nine inter-state border check posts, Indo Tibetan Border Police, Central Industrial Security Force, Central Reserve Police Force, Border Security Force, Provincial Armed Constabulary of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand along with state police personnel have also been deployed.State director general of police Ashok Kumar said, “About 5,000 security personnel from various Central paramilitary forces and state police have been deployed for the security arrangements on the first day of the mega-event. For peak days, including Shahi Snaans, about 20,000 security personnel would be deployed.”The pilgrim influx is expected to increase around the three Shahi Snans on April 12, April 14 and April 27.The locals, however, questioned the additional security deployment and the stringent Covid-19 restrictions. “I commute from suburban Jwalapur but was checked and asked if I was vaccinated. Mela force personnel also stopped me before I entered the Mela zone. If this is the first day of Kumbh, surely locals and pilgrims will face one month of inconvenience in name of Covid guidelines,” said Tesu Raj, a local priest.Swami Avimuktareshwaranand, head disciple of Shankaracharya Swami Swarupanand Saraswati of Badirnath-Dwarikapeeth, questioned why there were restrictions during the Mahakumbh even as polls are being conducted in four states and a union territory.“For Mahakumbh, we saw strict guidelines with local people having a tough time entering Kumbh mela zone. Negative Covid-19 report is a harsh measure as people can’t bear the cost and they wait 12 years for this sacred dip,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/litmus-test-for-u-khand-as-mahakumbh-begins-101617302278588.html
02-04-2021||India||Panel seeks more data on Russian vaccine, denies emergency use nod||A committee under India’s drug regulator reviewing the emergency approval application of Russia-made coronavirus vaccine Sputnik V has sought more data, refusing on Thursday to clear the dose just yet, government officials aware of the matter said.Sputnik V is the next front-runner for approval in India, with the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation’s (CDSCO) Subject Expert Committee (SEC) reviewing data related to the vaccine’s safety and efficacy.“The application will be heard again after the manufacturers submit the required data that they have been asked such as to put in place a detailed fact-sheet related to the vaccine, and some additional data on vaccine stability etc. The stability data is on how the product behaves at different temperatures as the product has a couple of variants. Our experts will examine the data pertaining to what suits India’s vaccine delivery system,” said an official familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named.Dr Reddy’s labs, which is manufacturing the vaccine after a deal with the vaccine’s developer, is carrying out bridging trials in India and has applied for the approval with interim data. The vaccine’s efficacy is pegged at 91.4% based on the final control point of clinical trials in Russia.In its 144th meeting—held on February 24— to examine Covid-19 related proposal under accelerated approval process, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) subject expert committee asked the company that presented its case for grant of emergency use authorisation, to come back with more India-specific immunogenicity data.“The firm presented its proposal for grant of permission to import (marketing authorisation) for emergency use of Gam COVID Vac Combined Vector vaccine (Component one and component two) along with the safety & immunogenicity data of Phase II part of Phase II/III clinical trial in India and interim safety, efficacy & immunogenicity data from overseas Phase III clinical trial,” said the subject expert committee in its previous meeting to consider Sputnik’s application, according to the minutes of the meeting made public.“After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that firm should submit immunogenicity and safety data of Phase II and III trial as per approved protocol for further consideration of the Committee. Further the firm is requested to present its data with more clarity,” the committee recommended.In September 2020, Dr Reddy’s and Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) entered into a partnership to conduct the clinical trials of the Sputnik V vaccine and the rights for distribution in India.Sputnik V developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology was registered by the ministry of health of Russia and became the world’s first registered vaccine against COVID-19 based on the established human adenoviral vector platform.Once approved, Sputnik V will be the third vaccine that will be used in India’s Covid-19 immunisation programme that was launched on January 16, this year.India currently has two Covid-19 vaccines approved for use—Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin that is co-developed by Indian Council of Medical Research, and Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine that is locally manufactured by Serum Institute of India under the brand name Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-seeks-more-data-on-russian-vaccine-denies-emergency-use-nod-101617301799784.html
02-04-2021||India||2.2 million sign up for shots as key leg of vaccine drive kicks off||More than 2.2 million people signed up for coronavirus vaccines and at least 2 million were given shots till 9pm on Thursday, the first day of India’s expanded vaccination drive that comes against a backdrop of a raging second wave of the pandemic, with several cities and regions recording an unprecedented surge in infections.Thursday was the first day anyone above the age of 45 becomes eligible to take part in the vaccination drive, which was restricted to the over-60s and people above 45 but with serious health conditions till last month. The government also asked all states to ensure vaccination centres stay open on all days, including public holidays.In Delhi, long queues were seen at most hospitals and dispensaries.“The government has set a target of immunising everyone over the age of 45 years within the next 40 days. To ensure that happens, we will start creating more and more vaccination centres, train more vaccinators, keep centres open for 12-hours, and motivate people to come and get immunised,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department, asking not to be named.A similar response from the newly eligible recipients was also recorded in Maharashtra, which has been the worst-hit region over the last month. “Though the exact figures of the addition in the beneficiaries are yet to come, the response has been very good in the state. We have targeted to take daily vaccination up to 4 lakh in next few days,” said Dr Ramaswami N, commissioner, family welfare, and director, National Health Mission in Maharashtra.In Gurugram, private hospitals began setting up camps in office complexes after the government approved such collaboration, further helping vaccine uptake.Officials in Bihar said they estimated close to 40% of the people who got shots on Thursday were in the 45-59 age group, and there was a rush at some hospitals in Patna. One of the vaccinators, who asked not to be named, said the Co-WIN portal was slow, as a result of which document upload and verification took time.The Union health ministry’s Co-WIN dashboard showed 2.2 million people signed up between 9am and 9pm on Thursday, and 2.1 million people got doses throughout the day. The final vaccination numbers for the day are likely to be higher as health workers often feed in data at the end of the day. At its highest, India delivered 3 million doses on March 27.Also Read | Hold vaccine drive on all days in April: Govt to statesAmong the prominent people who took their first shot on Thursday were Union minister Piyush Goyal, Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy.“It is heartening to see the response of people who were waiting to get vaccinated. This is the power of scaling up due to the simplicity in approach by removing the prerequisite of medical certification for comorbidities. As we move ahead, the complexities will have to broken further. Efficient Micro planning and Mobilization can ensure faster vaccine coverage,” said Dr Giridhara R Babu, head of epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health.Recipients agreed that the move was welcome. “We have been saying from the beginning, everywhere and on social media, that please open up the vaccination programme, let everyone get it and be free from tension,” news agency Reuters quoted Madhav Singh Rathore, 53, a salesman at a clothes store, who sat among a line of people waiting to get the injection at a Delhi hospital.Union health ministry officials have warned that India’s Covid-19 outbreak has taken a grim turn, with Niti Aayog member VK Paul describing the situation as having “gone from bad to worse” during the government’s weekly briefing on Tuesday.The same day, the Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to states, urging them to take control of situation. “The current rise in cases ... has the potential of overwhelming healthcare systems unless checked right now,” he wrote, outlining a five steps that included expediting the vaccination process.All-week vaccinations recommended by the Union health ministry is meant to help speed up the process to some extent, a government release said.“This step has been taken after detailed deliberations with the States/Union Territories on 31st March, 2021, to optimally utilise all Covid Vaccination Centres across the public and private sectors to ensure rapid increase in the pace and coverage of Covid vaccination. This decision is in line with the graded and proactive approach employed by the Government of India along with the States/UTs for Covid-19 vaccination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22mn-sign-up-as-india-opens-up-vaccine-drive-101617301738529.html
