08-04-2021||India||India-Russia relations not influenced by ties with other countries: MEA||India’s relations with Russia are time-tested and strategic and are not influenced by ties with other countries, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday. Bagchi was responding to questions during the weekly news briefing on Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov’s visit to Pakistan after a trip to India, and Moscow’s offer to supply military equipment to Islamabad. Lavrov’s visit to India provided a “good opportunity to renew and review our special and privileged partnership” and a broad range of issues were discussed, he said. While declining to comment on Lavrov’s visit to Pakistan, Bagchi said: “India’s close, time-tested and strategic relations with Russia stand on their own merit and are not influenced by relations with other countries.” He added, “As regards the supply of defence equipment by Russia to Pakistan, you are aware of India’s well-known position on this and I need not repeat it.” Lavrov had said at a joint news conference with his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi on Wednesday that Russia stands ready to supply special military equipment to Pakistan to strengthen its counter-terrorism capabilities. Lavrov, the first Russian foreign minister to travel to Islamabad in almost a decade, also met Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa and Prime Minister Imran Khan, who raised the Kashmir issue during their talks. There was no meeting between Lavrov and the Indian prime minister during his two-day visit to New Delhi. In response to another question, Bagchi dismissed speculation about Prime Minister Narendra Modi travelling to Pakistan for a possible summit of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC). Several reports in the Pakistani media had speculated that Modi could visit Pakistan for the summit later this year. “Regarding speculations about the SAARC Summit, I have nothing to share with you at the moment,” Bagchi said. Asked if there were channels of communication between India and Pakistan, he said, “Let me just recall that our respective high commissions exist and are functioning, so that’s a very effective channel of communication.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiarussia-relations-not-influenced-by-ties-with-other-countries-mea-101617905567980.html
08-04-2021||India||'Night Corona Curfew' imposed in 7 K'taka district centres from April 10-20: CM||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday announced "night corona curfew" between 10 pm to 5 am in seven district centres of the state along with Manipal, from April 10 to 20, aimed at controlling the spread of Covid-19."Night corona curfew between 10 pm to 5 am every day, from April 10 to 20, will be imposed in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Tumakuru, Udupi-Manipal cities. It will be applicable in district centres," Yediyurappa said.Speaking to reporters after a video conference chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with Chief Ministers of various states on the COVID situation, he said essential services will be allowed."Vaccination drives will be conducted from April 11- Jyotiba Phule's birthday till April 14- Ambedkar's birthday," he added.Appealing to people of the state, especially those from places where the curfew has been imposed for cooperation, the Chief Minister said "as corona is spreading, we have taken this measure to control it.We are not imposing any lockdown."People should not give room for such an action (lockdown) and should wear masks, maintain social distancing, and not gather at a place, he said. "We are trying to implement the suggestions given by the Prime Minister within this framework." With public cooperation, the spread of virus can be contained, the chief minister said. "...that's the reason, without imposing night corona curfew in the state, we have selected some district centres... we want to see how effective it will be, if things don't come under control, we may have to extend it to the entire state," he said.Responding to a question, the Chief Minister said the curfew was on a trial basis and people should support it.Marriages, functions, meetings and events will have to happen within the limitations that have been fixed, he said, adding that ₹250 fine is being imposed for not wearing the mask and it will be made more stringent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-corona-curfew-imposed-in-7-k-taka-district-centres-from-april-10-20-cm-101617904842632.html
08-04-2021||India||ED summons Mehbooba Mufti's mother for questioning in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned the mother of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti for questioning in a money laundering case, officials said on Thursday.They said Gulshan Nazir, in her seventies, has been asked to appear before the central probe agency at its office in Srinagar on April 15.Mufti, 61, also the president of the People's Democratic Party (PDP), was questioned in this case on March 25 in Srinagar.After her five-hour-long questioning that day, Mufti had told reporters that central agencies like the NIA, CBI and the ED were being "misused" to silence the opposition.A PDP spokesperson said the latest summons are "part of the political vendetta against Mehbooba Mufti and PDP"."It is an attempt to stop her from giving voice to the sentiments of the people in which they have failed miserably."Nazir is the wife of former J&K CM Mufti Mohammad Sayeed.The criminal case filed under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is linked to the recovery of at least two diaries by the ED, after raids on an alleged associate of Mufti, in which some purported payments made from the CM's discretionary fund were made in alleged contravention of rules.These funds are alleged to have been diverted during the tenure of Mufti as the CM of the erstwhile state.Few lakh of rupees from these funds are alleged to have been transferred into the account of Nazir and some others about which the ED wants to question her.The J-K Police CID had recently rejected the passport applications of Nazir and Mufti following adverse police reports against the mother and the daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-mehbooba-mufti-s-mother-for-questioning-in-money-laundering-case-101617903983122.html
08-04-2021||India||Major part of Covid-19 management is to prevent vaccine wastage: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that a major part of COVID-19 management is to prevent vaccine wastage and appealed to the youth of the country to help people above 45 to get vaccinated.Speaking with the chief ministers during a meeting to review the ongoing COVID-19 situation, PM Modi said, "We need to prioritise what is available with us; we can't put all vaccines at one state because we need to manage the whole nation. A major part of COVID-19 management is also to prevent vaccine wastage."Also Read: At Covid review meet, PM Modi politely rejects Uddhav Thackeray’s requestThe Prime Minister said the efforts are being made to improve the maximum manufacturing facility of the vaccine. Meanwhile, the development of new vaccines is also underway, he added.PM Modi also appealed to the youth of the country to help people above 45 to get vaccinated. "Our emphasis should now be on 'test, track, treat, covid appropriate behaviour and covid management.""We have crossed the mark of vaccinating 40 lakh people in one day," PM Modi said adding that the criteria set by the world's most developed nations are no different to the ones set by India.He said that there is a need to impose micro-containment zones in areas where Covid-19 cases are rising. He further said that India has in the past successfully brought down the peak of Covid-19 cases and it can be done again."The last time, we had brought active COVID cases from 10 lakh to 1.25 lakh. The strategy that made it possible is equally effective even today," he said.The country has been witnessing a massive surge in COVID-19 cases in recent days and registered more than 1.2 lakh new infections on Wednesday.India had started COVID-19 vaccination drive on January 16 with two vaccines -- Covishield (Oxford-AstraZeneca's vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India) and Covaxin (manufactured by Bharat Biotech Limited).India commenced its second phase of the COVID-19 vaccination drive to inoculate people above 60 years and those over 45 with comorbidities against the coronavirus from March 1.The third phase began on April 1 for all above 45 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-part-of-covid-19-management-is-to-prevent-vaccine-wastage-pm-modi-101617902617743.html
08-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Gujarat records 4,021 new cases, highest single-day spike yet||Gujarat reported 4,021 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike so far, taking the tally to 3,32,474, the state health department said.The daily count surpassed the previous highest one-day rise of 3,575 Covid-19 cases recorded on Wednesday. As many as 35 persons succumbed to the infection in Gujarat in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 4,655, said a release by the department.The fresh fatalities included 14 from Surat city, nine from Ahmedabad district, four from Rajkot, three from Vadodara and one each Amreli, Bharuch, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar and Mehsana, it said.Ahmedabad city registered 951 new cases, the highest in Gujarat, during the last 24 hours. It was followed by 723 cases in Surat city, 427 in Rajkot city, 379 in Vadodara city, 237 in Surat district, 111 in Vadodara district and 104 in Jamnagar district.With 2,197 patients getting discharged during the day, the tally of recovered cases rose to 3,07,346 cases, said the release, adding Gujarat's rate of recovery has gone down to 92.44%.The number of active cases stood at 20,473, of which, 182 patients are on ventilators, while 20,291 are stable, the release said. As many as 74.04 lakh persons in the state have been given the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, while 9.27 lakh administered the second dose till date, said the release.A total of 31 new cases were reported in the adjoining union territory of Dadra Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu in the last 24 hours, said a release by the authorities. Also, 12 patients recovered from the infection during the day, the release said.Of the total 3,814 persons found positive for coronavirus in the Union Territory since the outbreak, two have died, 3,603 have recovered while 209 are still under treatment, it said. Gujarat's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 3,32,474 new cases 4,021, deaths 4,655, discharged 3,07,346, active cases 20,473, people tested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-gujarat-records-4-021-new-cases-highest-single-day-spike-yet-101617901556731.html
08-04-2021||India||India rejects report of Taiwan’s role in arranging vaccine supplies to Paraguay||India on Thursday scotched reports that Taiwan played a role in arranging supplies of Indian-made Covid-19 vaccines to Paraguay, saying the doses were delivered in response to a request from the Paraguayan side. Taiwan’s foreign minister Joseph Wu had said on Wednesday that his country worked with other democracies, including India, to help its diplomatic ally Paraguay get Covid-19 vaccines after China pressured the South American country to ditch Taipei in exchange for doses. Taiwan has formal ties with only 15 countries, and China, which contends that the island doesn’t have the right to diplomatic recognition, has stepped up efforts to coax them away. However, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a weekly news briefing that India plans to open an embassy in Paraguay. “During a telephone conversation between the external affairs minister and the foreign minister of Paraguay, a request for vaccines was raised by the Paraguayan side and the external affairs minister responded positively to this request,” he said. “A shipment of made-in-India vaccines was sent to Paraguay. I would like to confirm that no third party was involved in this,” Bagchi said. Wu had said that the Chinese government was “very active” in Paraguay and was saying to the public that if Paraguay severed diplomatic ties with Taiwan, they would get millions of doses of Chinese vaccines. This put pressure on Taiwan to help, Wu added. “In the last few weeks, we have been speaking to like-minded countries, including Japan, the US, India etcetera, and India fortunately has been able to provide some Covaxin vaccines to Paraguay,” he said, referring to a shot developed by India’s Bharat Biotech. India already shipped 100,000 doses to Paraguay last month and WU said there would be another 100,000. Both India and Taiwan maintain representative offices in New Delhi and Taipei and there has been speculation about the two sides expanding ties against the backdrop of the India-China standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh sector. China has bristled at all such contacts between India and Taiwan, saying it goes against the “One China” policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-report-of-taiwan-s-role-in-arranging-vaccine-supplies-to-paraguay-101617900647486.html
08-04-2021||India||At Covid review meet, PM Modi politely rejects Uddhav Thackeray’s request||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said India will have to keep Covid-19 vaccinations for certain age groups, despite calls from many states to extend the shots to younger people.Also Read: 'We defeated Covid without vaccines', says PM ModiAt a meeting with chief ministers to review Covid-19 situation, PM Modi said that efforts are being made to develop a new Covid-19 vaccine."You know how much vaccine is being produced. Now it is not that we can set up factories overnight. We will need to prioritise according to the available stocks. It is not that we can move stocks to one state and we will get the results. This thinking is not correct. We will have to think of the entire country," the Prime Minister told chief ministers.Also watch | ‘Corona curfew, Tika Utsav’: PM Modi asks States to focus on Covid-19 testing﻿﻿"The criteria set by more prosperous countries to vaccinate people against coronavirus is not different from what we have. You can study a bit. You are educated people and have all the information," he said adding that a big part of Covid management is to reduce wastage of vaccines.The Prime Minister also asked states to focus on testing and ensuring that people follow Covid-appropriate behaviour rather than relying on vaccines."Today, the problem is that we have forgotten about Covid-19 testing and have moved to vaccination. We have to remember that we had won the fight against Covid-19 without a vaccine. We have to emphasise on testing," PM Modi told the chief ministers.The Prime Minister's reference to supply constraints come against the backdrop of concerns expressed by vaccine manufacturers. Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Tuesday that his company, which is making the Covishield vaccine (over 90% of all doses given in India till now are of this), “was very outstretched”.An analysis of production capacities show that between SII and Bharat Biotech, which makes Covaxin, India’s current capacity is around 75 million doses a month, or roughly 2.5 million a day. Over the last week, 3.1 million doses a day on average have been delivered across the country.India is currently only vaccinating people above 45 years of age and frontline workers.With his remarks, PM Modi rejected the demands raised by some chief ministers to increase the ambit of the nationwide vaccination drive. Among them is Uddhav Thackeray, the chief minister of worst-affected Maharashtra, who wrote a letter to PM Modi earlier this week urging him to allow the inoculation of people aged 25."I request you to lower it to 25, as the states facing the surge are having to place curbs to safeguard lives of the population. However, if a larger number of our young and working population is vaccinated, the intensity of the cases would be much lower than the treatment that they need today," Thackeray said in his letter.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also wrote a letter to PM Modi urging him to remove age-related restrictions for the ongoing vaccination drive and ease protocols for starting new vaccine sites.He said that Delhi government can vaccinate all the people in national capital within three months if these norms are relaxed.PM Modi chaired the meeting on a day when India recorded 1.26 lakh Covid-19 cases - the highest daily caseload since the pandemic began. The recent surge in the number of cases has worried officials; NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul even said that next four weeks are very critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/factories-not-set-up-overnight-pm-modi-defends-45-rule-for-covid-19-vaccine-101617899729096.html
08-04-2021||India||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan tests positive for Covid-19||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday and was rushed to the medical college hospital in Kozhikode as a precaution. His office said he was asymptomatic but was shifted to the hospital considering his age. The 76-year-old was the star campaigner of the ruling Left Democratic Front and he had travelled extensively during the last two weeks. He had taken the first dose of the vaccine on March 3. Later the CM tweeted about his health condition and advised all who came in contact with him recently to go into self-isolation. His daughter Veena Vijayan tested positive for the viral infection on polling day on Tuesday and she visited the polling booth in the evening in a PPE kit to exercise her franchise. Later his son-in-law Mohamad Riyas also tested positive and both of them are undergoing treatment at the Kozhikode medical college hospital. Kerala on Thursday reported 4,353 new Covid-19 cases-- the biggest spike in recent days and the test positivity rate also climbed to 6.81. The state has a caseload of 11.48 lakh and has reported 4728 deaths so far. On Tuesday, the state’s core committee dealing with the pandemic had decided to tighten norms to contain the spread of the viral infection. Kerala was forced to take such a decision after many norms were diluted at the height of the election by almost all political parties. In some of the poll rallies more than 25,000 people participated. Though the Election Commission had issued strict directives, on the final day of campaign all political parties carried out a show of strength.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-tests-positive-for-covid19-101617898967226.html
08-04-2021||India||'Tika Utsav' from April 11-14: PM Modi tells states to focus on Covid-19 testing||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said states should hold a 'Tika Utsav' (vaccine festival) from April 11 to April 14 to ensure optimum utilisation of their Covid-19 vaccination capability. Speaking at a virtual review meeting with chief ministers over the nationwide surge in the viral infection, PM Modi said as many eligible people as possible should be vaccinated in all states as part of this festival.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTalking about vaccine distribution, he said there was a need to prioritise. "We need to prioritise (vaccine distribution) with what we have. We won't achieve anything by keeping vaccines in one state. It is not right to think in this way. We have to manage by thinking about the country," he said.In addition to vaccinating all, there was a need to boost testing, he said. "We have to make people aware about how they can catch the infection. And aggressive testing is the only way," he said, emphasising on increasing the RT-PCR test.Also Read | 'Covid situation challenging, focus on micro-containment zones': PM Modi to CMs"The problem today is that we have forgotten about testing and have moved to vaccination. We have to remember that we had won the fight against Covid-19 without a vaccine," he said.Reiterating the need to wear mask and follow social distancing, the PM said there was a need to raise awareness regarding Covid-appropriate behaviour."Once again we need to raise awareness about the importance of wearing a mask and following safety protocols in view of coronavirus," he said, adding that involvement of celebrities and other noted personalities in encouraging Covid-appropriate behaviour would go a long way.Despite calls from states to extend the vaccine shots to younger people, PM Modi said the country would have to keep them limited to certain age groups for now. Currently, only people above 45 years of age and front line workers are getting vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tika-utsav-from-april-11-14-pm-modi-tells-states-to-focus-on-covid-testing-101617894328682.html
08-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata challenges EC day after poll body's notice for appealing to minorities||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Day after EC notice for appealing to minorities, CM Mamata challenges poll panelA day after the Election Commission of India sent a notice to the Trinamool Congress chief for appealing to minority voters to prevent their votes from being divided; West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee challenged the poll panel on Thursday. Read moreDelhi registers 7,437 new Covid-19 cases, highest spike in over four monthsDelhi has recorded 7,437 new Covid-19 cases and 24 coronavirus disease-related deaths in the last 24 hours, the Delhi government health bulletin notified on Thursday. Read moreRandeep Hooda shares cute pic with pet dog Bambi. People love itIf you’re someone who follows Randeep Hooda on social media, there’s a possibility you’ve seen the adorable pictures of animals that he often shares. A regular among them is his dog named Bambi. Case in point, the latest post shared by the actor. Read moreIPL 2021: How will Mumbai Indians spin it this time?Defending champions Mumbai Indians again carry the tag of favourites going into a fresh IPL season starting on Friday. The main reason is that there is hardly any chink in their armour—the batting line-up is the best in the eight-team field and the bowling unit is as good as any of its rivals. Read moreThe Big Bull movie review: Abhishek Bachchan film makes messiah out of criminal, is a daunting watchImagine a SparkNotes version of any of Shakespeare's works, say Othello. Now imagine the SparkNotes editor deciding to make Iago the good guy, the voice of true benevolence, who out of the purity of his purpose, helps Othello rid himself of his wife. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor shares pictures from Maldives vacation in sexy iridescent swimsuitJanhvi Kapoor has been making the most of her summer and the Roohi actor recently jetted off to the Maldives, a recent hot favourite holiday destination among Bollywood celebrities including Sara Ali Khan, Ananya Panday, Tara Sutaria, Taapsee Pannu, Disha Patani, among others. Read moreWatch: Abducted CRPF jawan released by Naxals; family thanks governmentCRPF jawan kidnapped by Maoist rebels after a deadly encounter in Chhattisgarh on Saturday has now been released. Rakeshwar Singh Manhas of the 210th CoBRA division was brought to the CRPF camp in Bijapur after his release. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-mamata-challenges-ec-day-after-poll-body-s-notice-for-appealing-to-minorities-and-all-the-latest-news-101617892268430.html
08-04-2021||India||Mumbai's daily Covid-19 tally below 10,000, Maharashtra records 56,286 new cases||Mumbai's tally of daily Covid-19 cases went below the 10,000 mark on Thursday, the state health department showed. The city, which has been witnessing a spike in the number of coronavirus disease cases, added 8,938 new infections in the last 24 hours, the health department bulletin said.With this, the total caseload in Mumbai reached 4,91,698.The city also say 4,503 people recover from the disease and 25 related fatalities. The total recoveries and death toll stand at 3,92,514 and 11,881, respectively.Maharashtra, meanwhile, added 56,286 new cases to its tally and the total number of cases has now reached 3,229,547, according to health department.Mumbai recorded more than 10,000 daily Covid-10 cases thrice this month. On Wednesday, Mumbai recorded 10,442 new cases, on Tuesday the number was 10,030, while on Sunday, it reported 11,163 new cases, the highest since the pandemic began.Maharashtra is among 10 states which have shown a steep rise in the daily Covid-19 cases, the Union health ministry said. These states account for 84.21 per cent of the 1,26,789 new infections recorded by India on Thursday, the ministry added.The other states in the list are: Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Kerala and Punjab.The national weekly Covid-19 positivity rate has increased by 6.21 per cent - from 2.19 to 8.40 per cent - in the first seven days of March and April, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbais-daily-covid-19-tally-below-10-000-maharashtra-records-56-286-new-cases-101617894864693.html
08-04-2021||India||'We defeated Covid without vaccines': PM Modi tells CMs on way forward||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that there is a need to impose micro-containment zones in areas where Covid-19 cases are rising, as he held a meeting with chief ministers to take stock of the situation in the country and ongoing vaccination programme. He also said that India has in the past successfully brought down the peak of Covid-19 cases and it can be done again.PM Modi reminded the chief ministers that India was able to successfully bring the Covid-19 wave down last year without any vaccine.Also Read: Second lockdown if imposed to be detrimental for economy, says report"Test, track and treat remains an effective strategy to check the spread of the disease," PM Modi said while addressing the chief ministers, calling the situation in the country challenging. He said this should be particularly followed in containment zones."There is a need to work on war footing again to fight Covid-19. Despite all the challenges, we have a better experience, resources and vaccines," he said.Also Read: How India can overcome the Covid-19 surgeThe Prime Minister also backed the night restrictions imposed by several states to check the spread of the infection.He also pointed out how laxity shown by people of the country has resulted in the resurgence in the number of cases. "We should start an aggressive campaign to urge people to go for testing," the Prime Minister said."We have to make people aware about how they can catch the infection. And aggressive testing is the only way," he added, emphasising on increasing the RT-PCR test."I appeal to you all to stress on Covid-19 testing. Our target is to do 70% RT-PCR tests. Let the number of positive cases come high, but do maximum testing. Proper sample collection is very important, it can be checked through proper governance," said PM Modi.The Prime Minister gave CMs the target to bring down the country's positivity rate below 5%."Many states including Maharashtra, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Punjab have crossed first wave of peak in Covid-19 cases. This is a serious concern. People have become complacent. In most states administration has also become relaxed," said PM Modi.Also Read: Ten states showing upward trajectory of daily new Covid-19 casesWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee did not attend the virtual meeting due to campaigning for the ongoing assembly elections in the state. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay represented her, said officials.The meeting was called on a day when India recorded 1.26 lakh cases - a fresh spike and the country's highest-ever rise in daily caseload. Before this, India recorded more than one lakh cases twice - both this week - as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) returned with a vengeance.The number of cases were declining after reaching a peak in September last year, but the recent surge has health experts and the government worried. Dr VK Paul, a member of government think tank NITI Aayog, said earlier this week that the next four weeks are crucial for India in its fight against Covid-19.PM Modi previously chaired a high-level meeting with government officials on Sunday where he asked them to ensure the people follow Covid-19 protocols. He also ordered awareness programmes to be launched across the country.The union health ministry said on Thursday that 10 states - Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Kerala and Punjab - have shown a steep rise in the daily Covid-19 cases. They account for 84.21 per cent of the new infections, it added.India's weekly Covid-19 positivity rate has increased from 2.19 to 8.40 per cent in the first seven days of March and April, the ministry further said.Meanwhile, the number of people who have taken Covid-19 vaccine dose crossed 9 crore mark on Thursday. The Union health ministry said that 9,01,98,673 vaccine doses were administered through 13,77,304 sessions till 7am on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-situation-challenging-focus-on-micro-containment-zones-pm-modi-to-cms-101617893287824.html
08-04-2021||India||War of words over Covid-19 'vaccine shortage' in Maharashtra: Who said what||In the backdrop of rising Covid-19 cases in the country, Maharashtra health minister Rakesh Tope said that the state may run out of vaccines within days. It started a war of words between the state government and the Centre which claimed that Maharashtra has enough stock. The Maharashtra government, however, alleged that the Centre is discriminating in vaccine supply and giving enough support.Maharashtra which is at the top of the list of states worst hit by the viral disease, has a total of 3,173,261 total cases and the death toll stands at 56,652. According to the state health department, Maharashtra requires 1.6 crore vaccine dosages per month and 40 lakh every week to vaccinate residents of the state.Here is who said what on the row:Maharashtra governmentState health minister Rakesh Tope said, "Satara, Sangli, Panvel have stopped vaccination today while Buldhana has only today's vaccine stock left," news agency ANI quoted him as saying.Citing numbers from the Centre's latest release order of vaccines, Tope also said, "Maharashtra has been given 7.5 lakh vaccine dosages only. While Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana etc have been given far more vaccines than Maharashtra."During the row, Tope also announced that the Centre did increase the supply from 7 lakhs to 17 lakhs. However, it is still "less because we need 40 lakh vaccine doses a week and 17 lakh doses are not enough," he also said.Centre's response"I want to make it clear that the Maharashtra government has 23 lakh doses of the vaccines with it...which is a stock for five to six days. Now, to distribute in villages and districts is the responsibility of the state government," Union minister Prakash Javadekar said, according to the ANI report.He also alleged that the Maharashtra government has "wasted five lakh doses of the vaccines, and it is not a small number, due to its lack of planning. The planning for carrying out a vaccination drive is the responsibility of the state government," ANI reported.Health teamA central team visited the BKC Covid Vaccination centre in Mumbai to assess the current situation in the city. After the visit, Kunal Kumar, a member of the Central health team, said, "The Centre and State are discussing the issue (vaccine) and we will work as per their decisions. We are doing our best to manage the Covid situation in Maharashtra. Centre, State, and community need to work together to win this fight," ANI reported Kumar as saying.Maharashtra Congress chiefTaking shots at the Centre, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said, "Today, our country is providing free vaccines to Pakistan but for Maharashtra, they are doing politics over it. BJP’s state and central leaders are targeting Maharashtra and they surely will face the consequences," as per ANI report.NCP Sharad PawarSharad Pawar whose party Nationalist Congress is part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi alliance in Maharashtra assured that the Centre is cooperating with the state government in its fight against the pandemic. "We all have to come together and fight this menace. State and centre both have to come together and find out a way to fight the pandemic," he also said, according to the news agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/war-of-words-over-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-in-maharashtra-who-said-what-101617890513167.html
08-04-2021||India||'No violations in Rafale deal with India', says Dassault Aviation||French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, the makers of Rafale, said on Thursday that the deal to supply 36 fighter jets went through numerous checks and no violations were reported. The company also said that it has implemented strict internal procedures to prevent corruption."Numerous controls are carried out by official organizations, including the French Anti-Corruption Agency. No violations were reported, notably in the frame of the contract with India for the acquisition of 36 Rafales," Dassault aviation spokesperson said in a statement.Click here to read full statementThe statement, said the spokesperson, is in connection with certain allegations reported in the press about the contract signed in 2016 with India."Since the early 2000s, Dassault Aviation has implemented strict internal procedures to prevent corruption, guaranteeing the integrity, ethics and reputation of the company in its industrial and commercial relations. In the context of the Sapin 2 law, the company has completed and strengthened its system for the prevention and detection of corruption and influence peddling, both at the level of the parent company and its subsidiaries," the statement further said."The contract with India for the acquisition of 36 Rafales has been established on a government-to-government basis. This contract, as well as the offsets corresponding contract, meet the criteria established by these regulations and are being executed in full transparency between the various government and industrial partners," the company said in the statement.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government signed a ₹59,000-crore deal on September 23, 2016 to procure 36 Rafale jets from Dassault Aviation, replacing a nearly seven-year exercise by the previous Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government.The Congress raised several questions about the deal, including on rates of the aircraft which he said were inflated, and alleged corruption but the government rejected all the charges. The Supreme Court and government's top auditor, Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), also did not find any corruption.But the controversy was reignited over the last week after a French online journal, Mediapart, claimed that Dassault Aviation, which manufactures the Rafale jet, paid €1 million to a Sushen Gupta, described as a “middleman”, in connection with the deal for 36 jets.Also Watch: 'How much bribery...' asks Congress after French report; BJP respondsThe first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, 2020, nearly four years after India signed the agreement with France. The formal induction ceremony of the fleet took place at Ambala on September 10 last year.A second batch of three Rafale jets arrived in India on November 3, while a third batch of another three jets joined the Indian Air Force (IAF) on January 27.Another group of the French-made fighter jets landed in India on April 1 this year and six more are coming on April 28. The IAF will get four more Rafales in May.The first Rafale squadron is based in Ambala air force station. The IAF is set to raise the second squadron of the Rafale combat jets which will be based in Hasimara in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-violations-in-rafale-deal-with-india-says-dassault-aviation-101617889797965.html
08-04-2021||India||CBI begins probe into death of elephants, poaching in forests of Tamil Nadu||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has launched a probe into alleged poaching and killing of elephants in the forests of Tamil Nadu, an issue raised by wildlife activists over the years. The Madurai bench of the Madras high court had, in February this year, asked the CBI to probe the larger nexus of middlemen, poachers and the kingpins in these killings on the basis of a report submitted by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB). The agency has lodged three First Information Reports (FIRs) registered by local police – into the death of an Indian elephant (Elephas Maximus) at Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve in Hasanur (Tamil Nadu) in December 19, 2020; death of another male elephant in April 2014 in Udumalpet Forest Range (Anamalai Tiger Reserve) and the killing of another elephant at Boluvampatti Forest Range (Coimbatore) on January 5 this year. Several elephants have been electrocuted or killed by poachers in Tamil Nadu and Kerala in the last few years. In an incident which led to massive outrage, a pregnant elephant was killed after it ate a pineapple containing firecrackers in June last year. It is not clear whether the CBI will probe the death of elephants in Kerala as well over the years or not. While ordering a CBI probe, the HC had observed that elephant deaths were not just limited to few specific forest areas and that the perpetrators belonged to various states and a CBI probe is necessitated to ensure that the kingpins are nabbed. In its order, the high court had observed that the WCCB made an extensive study including review of cases that were already filed and statements obtained from persons who were accused and suspected in those cases. The report revealed the involvement of different people operating at various levels, and in all the cases, only the accused are arrested while the middlemen and kingpins are never identified or apprehended. “The greed of the man could well be seen from the transaction that happened. It is not a case of poaching for livelihood but of international trade and sadistic pleasure in creating art out of fellow living beings,” the HC had observed. With regard to electrocution of elephants in forests, the HC had expressed suspicion as to how tusks from electrocuted elephants in forests were removed by poachers without the knowledge of the authorities who guard the forests. The directions were issued on a batch of PILs which sought protection of elephants from poaching and electrocution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-begins-probe-into-death-of-elephants-poaching-in-forests-of-tamil-nadu-101617889546592.html
08-04-2021||India||Rafale deal being executed with full transparency, says Dassault Aviation: Full statement||Dassault Aviation on Thursday issued a statement on 2016 deal to supply Rafale githter jets to India, saying the contract went thorugh numeroud controls and there are no violations.The company said that it has issued the statement after certain allegations were reported in the press about the deal. France has to supply 26 Rafale fighter jets as part of the contract.Dassault Aviation, said the company spokesperson, has stringent checks in place to prevent corruption.Read the full statement:- Dassault Aviation wishes to reiterate that it acts in strict compliance with the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention and national laws, in particular the law of December 9, 2016 known as Sapin 2.- Since the early 2000s, Dassault Aviation has implemented strict internal procedures to prevent corruption, guaranteeing the integrity, ethics and reputation of the company in its industrial and commercial relations. In the context of the Sapin 2 law, the company has completed and strengthened its system for the prevention and detection of corruption and influence peddling, both at the level of the parent company and its subsidiaries.- The contract with India for the acquisition of 36 Rafales has been established on a government-to-government basis. This contract, as well as the offsets corresponding contract, meet the criteria established by these regulations and are being executed in full transparency between the various government and industrial partners. The aircraft were delivered in respect of the schedule, despite the Covid-19 health crisis, and fully meet the security needs of the Indian authorities.- Dassault Aviation and the Reliance Group established the Dassault Reliance Aerospace Ltd (DRAL) Joint Venture in 2017 and built a plant in Nagpur that has been producing numerous Falcon parts and pieces since 2018.- Dassault Aviation and its partners are working with 60 companies in India and negotiations are underway to establish potential new cooperations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contract-to-supply-36-rafale-fighter-jets-to-india-being-executed-in-full-transparency-says-france-s-dassault-aviation-101617889275007.html
08-04-2021||India||Cash-strapped Jagan govt to sell prime Visakhapatnam land to raise ₹1.5k crore||Faced with severe financial crunch, the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh has put up prime lands in Visakhapatnam, the proposed executive capital of the state, for sale. As per a notification, the government hopes to raise at least ₹1,500 crore through the sale. The notification for the sale of 18 land parcels, measuring around 14.7 acres in the port city, through e-auction was issued last week and the last date for submission of bids is April 22. A prime property measuring 13.59 acres, located at Harbour Park on the Ramakrishna Puram beach road is the largest of these land parcels. The previous Telugu Desan Party government had leased it out to the United Arab Emirates-based infrastructure major Lulu Group for the development of an international convention centre, a five-star hotel and a multi-storeyed mall. The Lulu Group promised an investment of ₹2,200 crore on the projects it claimed would also provide employment to over 7,000 locals. However, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government terminated the project in October 2019, claiming it was not viable. Instead, it proposed multi-storeyed commercial plazas and residential complexes on the land. On February 8 this year, the CM approved NBCC and AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation’s proposals for the project, expected to generate ₹1,450 crore. “However, the proposal has now been dropped, since the government doesn’t have the money to take up the construction. So, it has been decided to sell the land outright and raise money for government schemes,” an official in the state secretariat, familiar with the development, said on condition of anonymity. Andhra Pradesh principal secretary (Finance) S S Rawat could not be reached for comments. The government is of the view that it will get more money through outright land sale, than by developing and leasing it. A base price of ₹1,452 crore has been set for the Harbour Park plot, which amounts to ₹106.80 crore per acre.“The registration value of the land in the area is around ₹1 lakh square yard, which comes to around ₹48 crore per acre. Even if the market value is taken into consideration, it will be ₹2 lakh per square yard, which translates into around ₹96 crore per acre. So, the base price of ₹106.80 crore is on the higher side,” said O Naresh Kumar, director of AP Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Visakhapatnam. He, however, said it could still be attractive to realtors due to its prime location. “The bid document itself projects a built-up area of 40 lakh square feet in the land. Even if each square foot of built-up area is sold for around ₹8,000, it would fetch ₹3,200 crore,” Kumar said. Senior TDP leader from Visakhapatnam and former minister Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy strongly opposed the sale of prime government lands in the city. “Jagan drove away the Lulu Group that proposed to develop the land on beach road and generate employment for hundreds of people. Now, he is selling the land to raise money to fund his vote-fetching schemes,” he said, adding that the TDP will move the court challenging the decision.In October 2019, the Jagan government started Mission Build Andhra Pradesh, an initiative to promote infrastructure development and resource mobilisation in the state. The aim of the mission was to identify government lands not in use and sell them at market price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cashstrapped-jagan-govt-to-sell-prime-visakhapatnam-land-to-raise-rs-1-5k-crore-101617887626025.html
08-04-2021||India||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan tests positive for Covid-19||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the chief minister's office said in a statement on Thursday. Currently, he is camping in his native village in Kannur and is not showing any major symptoms, according to the official statement. He will be shifted to Kozhikode medical college hospital later in the day, it also said.The state chief minister also made the announcement on social media site. "I have been confirmed Covid +ve. Will get treated at the Government Medical College, Kozhikkode. Request those who have been in contact with me recently to go into self observation," he wrote on Twitter.I have been confirmed Covid +ve. Will get treated at the Government Medical College, Kozhikkode. Request those who have been in contact with me recently to go into self observation.The chief minister's daughter Veena Vijayan and son-in-law PA Mohammed Riyas tested positive two days ago.The diagnosis comes during the Assembly elections in the state. The voting for the 140-member Kerala Assembly was held on April 6. The counting will take place on May 2.Over the last few days, Vijayan extensively travelled across the state as part of the election campaign.Meanwhile, the state reported 4,353 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday in the biggest single-day spike. The total caseload in the state has now increased to 11.48 lakh, while the death toll stands at 4,728.Out of the fresh cases, Ernakulam recorded the highest number of cases with 654, followed by Kozhikode 453 and Thiruvananthapuram 444, three districts accounted for over 300 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-chief-minister-pinarayi-vijayan-tests-positive-for-covid19-101617886913444.html
08-04-2021||India||87-year-old man gets vaccinated in Madhya Pradesh, urges others to do so||A man, who is 87-year-old as per the electoral rolls but 122 according to his Aadhaar card details, got his first dose of Covid-19 vaccination in Madhya Pradesh’s Sagar district, officials said on Thursday. The officials said the man was vaccinated at a Community Health Centre at Pipariya village in Sagar on Wednesday, and if his Aadhaar details are to be believed, could be the oldest person in the area to be vaccinated.Prashant Sedhia, the centre’s cold chain manager, said nurse Brijeshwari Dubey administered the dose to Khete Patel. He added Patel’s Aadhaar card declared his year of birth as 1898, which pegs his age at 122.For Aadhaar, if an applicant provides documentary evidence of the date of birth, then it is considered as “verified”. In case there is no documentary evidence, then it is considered as “declared”. The date of birth for Aadhaar is voluntary and may not be based on a certificate issued by a government institution.Also Read | ‘Adequate arrangements will be made’: MP CM assures those in line for Covid drugSedhia said a health department team visited Patel’s village on Thursday and felicitated him for getting vaccinated. “He is fit and doing fine,” he said.In a video message, Patel said: “Today [Wednesday], I got Covid vaccine on my own. I myself went to the health centre. I am 122-year-old and after the vaccination, I have no pain or any other side effect. My message to everyone is to get vaccinated.”Patel, a marginal farmer, quit farming about 20 years ago and now lives with his grandson. He has two surviving sons who are 55 and 60 years of age, respectively.On April 3, a 118-year-old woman, Tulsabai, was also administered the Covid vaccine at Khimlasa village in Sagar district.In Madhya Pradesh, 4.9 million people were vaccinated until Wednesday as 3,722 Covid cases were reported taking the active cases to 24,155 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/87yearold-man-gets-vaccinated-in-madhya-pradesh-urges-others-to-do-so-101617886845903.html
08-04-2021||India||No lockdown or curfew in Assam to control Covid-19, says Himanta Biswa Sarma||Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Thursday that no lockdown or curfew would be imposed in the state to contain the spread of Covid-19. Admitting that the second wave of the viral disease had hit India, the minister said tests for Covid-19 would be increased to around 100,000 daily. He added that the Assamese New Year, Rongali Bihu, which falls next week, will be celebrated. “We have decided to increase testing to around 100,000 daily in the next few days. Due to this we are likely to see a rise in the number of positive cases,” said Sarma during a media interaction in Guwahati. “There won’t be any lockdown or curfew in Assam. We will follow the strategy of testing-tracing-tracking to bring down the rate of infection. We are well prepared, so I request people not to panic, but ask them to be alert,” he added. On Wednesday, Assam recorded 195 Covid-19 cases, the highest single day figure this year. Of these, Guwahati alone recorded 104 cases. At present, the state has 847 active Covid-19 cases. “There’s a big difference between the Covid-19 surge last year and now as doctors and healthcare workers are vaccinated. I request all those above 45 to take Covid-19 vaccines. The vaccines are safe and we haven’t seen any notable side effect in the state,” said Sarma. The minister added that Rongali Bihu, which witnesses large cultural events across the state, will be celebrated with standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place on timings and Covid-19 protocols. “Last year, we were unable to celebrate Bihu due to Covid-19. It affected lot of people associated with the celebrations. This year, we will hold the celebrations and some SOPs will be introduced,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-lockdown-or-curfew-in-assam-to-control-covid-19-says-himanta-biswa-sarma-101617886306235.html
08-04-2021||India||Positive development in CoBRA commando’s rescue: Chhattisgarh Police||Chhattisgarh police said on Thursday that there are some positive developments in the efforts in secure release of the CoBRA commando abducted by Maoists on April 3 following an ambush at the borders of Sukma and Bijapur districts of Bastar region. However, the state government has yet not appointed interlocutors as demanded by Maoists in their press release on Tuesday. Rakeshwar Singh Mahnas, a commando of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF)’s elite CoBRA unit -- went missing after the Maoist attack that left 22 security personnel dead and many others injured. “Efforts are on to bring back the abducted CoBRA jawan safely. There are few positive developments in this direction since Thursday morning. Details would be disclosed once some concrete breakthrough is achieved in this regard,” said IG Bastar, Sunderaj P. On Wednesday , a photograph of the commando was released purportedly by Maoists who had demanded that a mediator be appointed by the government to negotiate Manhas’s release. Also Read | With 812 Covid cases, J&K sees six-month highThe commando’s photograph, which was circulating on social media, surfaced on a day his family protested in Jammu, demanding that the government facilitate his swift return. A day before that, the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) issued a press release, signed by its spokesperson Vikalp, asking the government to decide on a mediator to discuss Manhas’s release. The note, issued by the Maoist Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee said, “The state government should appoint an interlocutor, we will then hand over the jawan to them. Until then, he will be safe in the custody of Jantana Sarkar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/positive-development-in-cobra-commando-s-rescue-chhattisgarh-police-101617885467292.html
08-04-2021||India||CRPF jawan, captured by Maoists in Chhattisgarh after April 3 gunfight, released||A soldier of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), who was captured by the Maoists in Chhattisgarh after April 3 gunfight, was released on Thursday.Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, a commando with CRPF's CoBRA unit, was released deep in the jungle and was brought to the Terrem camp.Also Read | Chhattisgarh ambush: Maoists release image of missing commando"At around 4.30pm the abducted jawan Rakeshwar Singh Manhas returned safely to Terrem police station along with the facilitators who went inside the jungle to trace his location. He has now been admitted to the Basaguda field hospital for medical examination," Inspector general of police (Bastar range), Sundarraj P said.The Maoists earlier released a photograph of the 35-year-old which showed him sitting alone in what appeared to be a hut. Manhas is a commando with the 210th CoBRA battalion.Manhas' family had appealed to the Centre to ensure he is released unharmed. He is the family’s sole breadwinner, and has a five-year-old daughter.On Wednesday, hundreds of people including the soldier's family members blocked the Jammu-Poonch Highway and demanded that the government show urgency and ensure his safe return just like it did when wing commander Abhinandan Varthaman was held prisone.Also Read: 22 bodies of security personnel found at Chhattisgarh encounter siteAfter he was released, his wife Meenu expressed her gratitude to the government and said, "Today is the happiest day of my life. I always remained hopeful of his return. I thank the government."Twenty-two soldiers from the CRPF’s CoBRA unit, District Reserve Guard, and the Special Task Force lost their lives in a five-hour-long clash with Maoists on April 3. The security personnel were caught unaware when Maoists started to fire indiscriminately from hill tops after luring them into a U-type ambush.The operation, planned over two weeks, was led by the commander of battalion number-1, Madvi Hidma, officials familiar with the developments said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-jawan-kidnapped-by-maoists-in-chhattisgarh-released-101617884875996.html
08-04-2021||India||Tamil Nadu announces reintroduction of Covid-19 curbs from April 10||Amid rise in fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, the Tamil Nadu government on Thursday announced reintroduction of curbs like permission only for 50% seating capacity in cinemas and ban on select activities with effect from April 10.The government has advised that those above the age of 45 should get vaccinated within two weeks in either government or recognised private facilities to help prevent the spread of Covid-19.Tamil Nadu logged 3,986 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total tally to 9,11,110, while the death toll rose to 12,821 with 17 more fatalities, the health department said.Here's what allowed and what's not in Tamil Nadu lockdown:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-announces-reintroduction-of-covid-19-curbs-from-april-10-101617885001999.html
08-04-2021||India||Covid surge in J&K: Half of Valley’s cases recorded in Srinagar||Coronavirus cases in Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar are surging with around half of the Kashmir Valley’s total infections in the first week of April being reported from the district.Government’s health department data revealed that the Union Territory had as many as 3,867 cases in the first week of April. Of this, Kashmir had 2,755 cases and around 48% of those, at 1,347, were reported in Srinagar alone.“In densely populated areas like Srinagar, the virus tends to spread rapidly. It is a crowded place with people taking fewer precautions. People hold gatherings here – indoors as well as outdoors – because of which we are reporting more cases in Srinagar,” said president, Doctors Association Kashmir, and influenza expert, Dr Nisar ul Hassan. “This virus spreads through gatherings in closed spaces. And we have been seeing many indoor functions –government meetings as well as social functions,” he said.Also Read | With 812 cases, J&K sees six-month highFrom 461 daily cases in the UT on April 1, the count reached a six-month high of 812 cases on April 7.Hassan said that tourists were also a cause of spread of the infection. Srinagar saw daily cases range between 140 and 240 during these seven days and 341 of its total infections in the first week of April were travellers.“The tourist influx is mostly concentrated in Srinagar. That also could be a reason that we have escalation of cases,” he said.Srinagar was declared an orange zone on March 30 but people were allowed to gather in public parks and gardens for festivals. The government decision to organise Tulip festival, which began on April 3, has also been severely criticised as it saw heavy footfall. Meanwhile, till April 7, health authorities in Srinagar had administered around 81,500 vaccine doses to healthcare and front line workers, and citizens over 45 years of age as against 226,000 doses in Jammu.“We need to ramp up the vaccinations and also start vaccinating our young population which is now getting affected. Out of the total J&K’s population of 12.5 million, we have vaccinated just 172,000 people with both the doses,” Hassan said.Overall, Srinagar has recorded 28,115 cases and 477 deaths out of the total 127,774 cases and 2018 deaths in the UT.The J&K administration closed schools from Monday due to surge in cases. While grades till class 9 will remain closed for two weeks; classes 10 to 12 will be shut till April 11.The Valley’s largest tertiary care hospital in Srinagar, Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), on Wednesday decided to stop all non-emergency surgeries and admissions to cater to the increasing rush of Covid patients.Deputy commissioner Srinagar Aijaz Asad on Wednesday reviewed Covid-19 containment measures and established special vaccination sites at Kashmir University, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology and J&K Bank Headquarter at Tourist Reception Centre.“Last year, this day we were fighting without (a) vaccine. By now, 80 Covid vaccination centres have been set up in the district. Please visit your nearest centre to take the jab and let’s fight from a position of strength,” Asad said in a tweet. HT’s attempts to get a specific response from him elicited no response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-surge-in-j-k-half-of-valley-s-cases-recorded-in-srinagar-101617884326211.html
08-04-2021||India||TN parties manning strong rooms||After the single-phase voting for Tamil Nadu assembly elections ended at 7pm on Tuesday, the focus shifted to 75 strong rooms across the state housing electronic voting machines (EVMs) and Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPATS) units till the counting day on May 2. While Central forces guard the strong rooms 24x7, representatives of political parties are also allowed to maintain round-the-clock vigil in temporary shelters put up near strong rooms. Several such tents have come up inside the three Chennai college campuses, doubling up as strong rooms every election. Each tent can house at least 20 volunteers and some plastic chairs and four moveable fans, provided by the election commission. After five months of non-stop campaigning and mobilisation of people, the ordinary party workers guard the strong rooms as an additional layer of security against any suspected “tampering”, a common yet unproven allegation in Indian politics. The ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) and its rival Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) have already appealed to the cadre not to slip-up. “Our mission is not yet complete,” said an April 7 letter to the cadre, written jointly by chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam. “EVM storage centres must be guarded day and night by party volunteers,” the letter said. The party seeks to win a third consecutive term.Similarly, Stalin wrote to party cadre and coalition candidates, telling them to be cautious. “It is our chief duty to keep an eye on the centers until the counting of votes takes place,” Stalin said. “Be vigilant 24-hours of the day. I urge (you) to sit and watch with vigilance on a turn-by-turn basis until the day of counting of votes, keeping in mind that the electoral mission continues.” He also recollected the illegal entry of a Tahsildar into a strong room in Madurai in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The DMK has stationed at least six people outside each strong room in the state. “They will work in shifts and keep vigil round the clock,” said DMK’s organising secretary R S Bharathy. “They started the job last night.”Each strong room approximately stores XXX EVMs and is protected by a three-tier security cover comprising XXX personnel. In the inner cordon, the security is provided by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), the middle cordon is looked after by the state reserve police force and the outer cordon is secured by the local police, an official said. No one is allowed to enter the strong rooms and those visiting the premises are videographed. Even the power supply to the strong room is switched off to avoid the possibility of short-circuit or fire.Party president MK Stalin contested from Kolathur in Chennai and voting machines from the constituency are stored in Loyola College. “The election commission sealed the strong room in front of us today at 1pm and it is extremely secure, no one can go in,” said DMK’s east wing district secretary in-charge of the constituency E Muralidharan. The strong rooms have been sealed and its security is verified by the chief agent of every contesting candidate. Muralidharan said two teams of six partymen will work in two shifts to keep a strict vigil.In neighbouring Puducherry, the Congress said it had faith in the election commission. “25 days are left,” says Congress’ Puducherry president and candidate A V Subramanian referring to the day of counting on May 2. “Where the EVMs are stored is called the dark room here,” he adds. He says he has heard rumours about EVMs with chips, which can be remote controlled from a distance up to 300 meters. “But we can’t verify everything we hear. We believe it won’t be unsafe in Puducherry as it is guarded by police and CCTV cameras,” he added.Needed a quote from the CEO on the rumour about chips in EVMs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-parties-manning-strong-rooms-101617883294456.html
08-04-2021||India||Night curfew imposed in Noida, Ghaziabad. Check what's allowed, what's not||A night curfew has been imposed in Noida in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar, as well as in the state's Ghaziabad district, both adjoining Delhi, from Thursday till April 17 to check the spread of rising number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the national capital region (NCR). The night curfew will remain in effect from 10pm to 5am. Markets, restaurants, pubs, bars, nightclubs, and other public places will be required to shut down by 10pm every night, a government order notified. Emergency and essential services, including medical facilities, groceries, and nutriment shops in both districts would, however, remain exempt from the restrictions.Also Read: From today, night curfew imposed in Noida and GhaziabadThe night prohibition and regulation orders in Noida and Ghaziabad come two days after a similar night curfew was imposed in national capital Delhi, owing to the worsening Covid-19 crisis in the city-state. Restrictions remain mostly the same, with a few exceptions. Here's what will remain open and what won’t post 10pm in Noida and Ghaziabad till April 17:Night curfew in Noida, Ghaziabad: Markets, pubs, bars, restaurants to shut down by 10pmOwing to the night curfew in Noida and Ghaziabad, crowds gathered at public places, including all restaurants, pubs, bars, nightclubs, and party venues, will require to be dispersed by 10pm. This will also be applicable to guests gathered at social occasions, such as wedding halls, laws, and banquet halls. All shopping complexes and markets in Noida and Ghaziabad will have to shut down by 10pm. However, restaurants shall be given an additional hour of exemption from 10pm to 11pm to get done with cleaning and sanitization-related work. Also Read: Delhi announces night curfew. List of restrictions in other statesParks, community centers, and gyms will be closed in Ghaziabad once again, as per the district administration. Household helps, maids, and domestic servants shall also not be not be allowed to be called into service during the night curfew.From 10pm to 5am, only essential services allowedIn the seven-hour window between 10pm to 5am during the night curfew in Noida and Ghaziabad, only essential services will be allowed to operate. Essential services include emergency medical and healthcare-related facilities, such as hospitals, nursing homes, diagnostic centers, medicinal clinics, pharmacies and other associated services. Pharmaceutical companies and medical insurance offices shall also remain open. Pregnant women and patients shall be allowed unrestricted access to healthcare facilities in Noida and Ghaziabad.Emergency services personnel, such as medical professionals, healthcare and family welfare workers, police, civil defense, fire and emergency services personnel, electricity, water and sanitation workers will be allowed to continue on with their services, given they produce valid identification (ID) cards.Also Read: Ten states showing upward trajectory of daily new Covid-19 casesGroceries, dairies, shops selling farmers' goods, fruits and vegetables, bakeries and confectionaries, dairies, fish and meat shops shall also remain open. Banks, insurance offices, ATMs, print and electronic media, internet, broadcasting and cable-related services shall be allowed to function. However, these establishments will be required to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in their premises, as per official protocols.Movement of essential goods will be allowed. No ID cards whatsoever will be required to be produced. Petrol pumps, LPG, CNG, petroleum and gas outlets shall remain open. Door-to-door delivery of food items will be allowed.Public transport passengers need to produce ticketsCommuters arriving at or travelling from the airports, railway stations, and inter-state bus terminals in Noida and Ghaziabad will be allowed free movement, given they produce valid tickets. In case of movement of essential goods during the night curfew in Noida and Ghaziabad, no particular 'e-pass' will be required.There will, however, be no curbs in Ghaziabad on inter-state travel, nor shall any 'e-pass' be required. Officials and workers assigned on duty over the upcoming panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh shall also be exempt from the Covid-19 night curfew-related curbs. No physical classes in educational institutes till April 17All government and private educational institutes in Noida and Ghaziabad shall be barred from holding physical classes till April 17, as per a press note cited by news agency PTI. The restrictions shall be applicable for all coaching institutes across Noida and Ghaziabad as well. However, medical, paramedical and nursing institutes, both public and private, will remain exempt from the curbs.Authorities to enforce Covid-19 protocols in public placesPolice personnel will ensure strict adherence to all Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in public places. There shall also be an "intensive enforcement" of masks to curb the spread of the coronavirus in Noida, a press note issued by the Gautam Buddh Nagar district administration stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-imposed-in-noida-ghaziabad-check-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-101617878287797.html
08-04-2021||India||6 Rafale fighters to land in India on April 28, 4 more in May: Official||Six Rafale warplanes will land in India on April 28, enabling the Indian Air Force (IAF) to take the first steps to raise its second squadron of the fourth-generation-plus fighter jets at West Bengal’s Hasimara airbase, people familiar with the matter said on Thursday. Four more fighters are scheduled to reach next month.The 6 planes will allow the IAF to fully raise the No. 17 Squadron, also known as the Golden Arrows. The squadron, disbanded in 2016 after the IAF started phasing out of Russian-origin MiG 21 jets, was revived in September last year after the induction of the first batch of the French-origin warplanes. The squadron is based out of Ambala Air Force Station, India’s oldest airbase that is strategically located near India’s border with Pakistan and China.A senior IAF official said induction of the 6 fighters will complete the Golden Arrows squadron - it currently has 14 fighters against a standard squadron strength of 18 - and enable the air force to induct 2 remaining planes from this batch in the second Rafale squadron to be raised at the Hasimara airbase in Bengal’s Siliguri corridor. The four planes expected in May will also be sent to the squadron in Hasimara which will cover central and eastern Tibet.A second IAF official said the IAF was trying to see if the six Rafale fighters could be flagged off by IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria during his visit to Paris later this month. “But it looks difficult,” he said.The arrival of 10 fighters in two batches by next month will raise the strength of the Rafales in the air force to 24. French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain told reporters last week that the delivery of all 36 Rafale jets will be completed by 2022 as per the contract.India had inked a ₹59,000 crore ($8.7 billion) agreement with the French government to buy 36 Rafale fighter jets, replacing the previous United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime’s decision to buy 126 Rafale aircraft, 108 of which were to be made in India by the state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL).The deal was dragged into a controversy after the opposition led by the Congress claimed that the NDA government was buying the planes at an inflated price. The Supreme Court and the government’s top auditor, Comptroller and Auditor General, did not find any indication of malfeasance. But the controversy was reignited over the last week after a French online journal, Mediapart, claimed that Dassault Aviation, which manufactures the Rafale jet, paid €1 million to a Sushen Gupta, described as a “middleman”, in connection with the deal for 36 jets.A French diplomat in Delhi said the French aviation giant, Dassault Aviation, and the government would issue an appropriate rebuttal to the ‘so-called expose’ by the online portal.The diplomat cited a $3.7 billion deal between France and Greece for the sale of 18 Rafale jets including 12 used fighters to assert that this agreement sealed in Athens suggested that New Delhi had negotiated better terms.The warplanes received by the IAF are equipped with India-specific enhancements including the Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, Mica multi-mission air-to-air missiles, Scalp deep-strike cruise missiles and the Hammer smart weapon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-rafale-fighters-to-land-in-india-on-april-28-4-more-in-may-official-101617882396017.html
08-04-2021||India||'Adequate arrangements will be made': MP CM assures those in line for Covid drug||A day after Madhya Pradesh government decided to procure coronavirus disease (Covid-19) drug Remdesivir so that they could provide free of cost treatment to economically weak patients, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday said that adequate arrangements will be made to ensure there is no shortage of the medicine."Yesterday we decided to purchase the Remdesivir injection, which we are short of. A system is made for purchase, we will make it available wherever it is needed. Adequate arrangements will be made to ensure that there is no shortage of medicines," the CM said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageRemdesivir is an anti-viral drug considered key in the treatment of Covid-19.Meanwhile, to curb the spread of the infection, a weekend lockdown was announced in all urban areas of the state from 6pm on Friday to 6am on Monday.Watch: Shivraj Chouhan declares 60-hour weekend lockdown in all MP cities"In the wake of Covid-19 situation, there'll be lockdown from 6 pm on Friday to 6 am on Monday in all urban areas of Madhya Pradesh. For cities where cases have increased, appropriate action will be taken after the meeting of the crisis management group. We are making containment areas in big cities," Chouhan said.On Wednesday, a temporary suspension of buses running from the neighbouring Chhattisgarh was also announced till April 15. "For the prevention of Covid-19 infection, passenger bus services to and from Chhattisgarh in the public interest has been postponed till 15 April," he said.Madhya Pradesh reported 4,043 fresh cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the total tally to 3,18,014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adequate-arrangements-will-be-made-mp-cm-assures-those-in-line-for-covid-drug-101617881290553.html
08-04-2021||India||Medical store owner arrested for selling remdesivir at higher price than MRP||The owner of a medical store was arrested for allegedly selling remdesivir injections at a higher price than the MRP in Maharashtra's Parbhani district, an official said on Thursday.Based on a complaint, a trap was laid at the medical store on Wednesday night and the accused Vijay Hake was caught red handed while selling a vial of remdesivir for ₹6,000 as opposed to the actual price of ₹4,800, deputy collector Sanjay Kudetkar said.The Parbhani district administration acted on a phone call received by the collector, the official said.An offence was registered against the accused, who has been remanded to police custody till April 15, a police official said.Officials from the district administration and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) also raided a medical store in Shivaji Nagar area of Parbhani, where they found that some vials of the injection had been sold without receipts, the deputy collector said.The license of the medical store has been cancelled, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-store-owner-arrested-for-selling-remdesivir-at-higher-price-than-mrp-101617880843965.html
08-04-2021||India||Congress' Rahul Gandhi demands 'Kharcha Pe Charcha' over fuel prices||Taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'Pariksha Pe Charcha' Congress leader Rahul Gandhi questioned PM Modi over no discussion on high fuel prices, and demanded 'Kharcha Pe Charcha'.Accusing the central gvernment of hiking fuel prices by levying taxes, the Congress leader said that getting oil filled in one's vehicle is no less than an exam and questioned PM Modi for not holding a discussion on the same.The Congress leader in a tweet on Thursday said, "Due to the central government's tax collection, filling oil in one's car is no less than an exam, then why doesn't the PM discuss it? Kharcha Pe bhi Ho Charcha! (Discussion should also be held on expenses)."This comes a day after PM Modi interacted with students, teachers and parents at the fourth edition of 'Pariksha Pe Charcha', via video conferencing.Meanwhile, fuel prices remained unchanged for the ninth day on Thursday as oil marketing companies decided to keep rates on hold today.Petrol and diesel prices were cut three times in the month of March, during which petrol became cheaper by 61 paise per litre and diesel prices were reduced by 60 paise per litre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-rahul-gandhi-demands-kharcha-pe-charcha-over-fuel-prices-101617881668317.html
08-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Maharashtra to raise 4 issues including vaccine shortage in PM Modi meeting and all the latest new||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Complaining of Covid-19 vaccine shortage, Maharashtra heads to PM's meeting with 4 issuesThe Maharashtra government has once against raised the issue of shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, saying the replenishment ordered by the Centre is not enough. Read more'Serious' allegations against Anil Deshmukh require CBI probe, rules SCThe Supreme Court on Thursday said allegations of corruption and misconduct levelled against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh by ex-Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh were 'serious' and required a CBI probe. Read moreNight curfew imposed in Noida and Ghaziabad between 10pm and 5am till April 17In view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the district authorities in Noida and Ghaziabad on Thursday imposed a night curfew with immediate effect. The curfew will be in place from 10pm to 5am till April 17, officials said. Read moreKangana Ranaut defines what makes one an ‘ultranationalist’ as she posts glam photos: ‘Every penny that you spend...’Kangana Ranaut explained the difference between a nationalist and ‘ultranationalist’, as she made a case for local weaves. Read moreShehnaaz Gill flaunts bangs, new hair cut and toned abs in latest Instagram postFormer Bigg Boss contestant Shehnaaz Gill who is best known as the Katrina Kaif of Punjab recently took to her Instagram to show off her new hairdo and it is absolutely perfect for the sweltering summers. Read more'I am as young as ever': At 37, AB de Villiers still 'excited' for another stint with RCB in IPL 2021There is no stopping AB de Villiers, it seems. When the former South Africa captain announced international retirement three years ago, many wondered why is he hanging his boots so early on in his career. Read moreWatch: Mamata Banerjee’s ‘gherao CRPF’ remark draws flak from BJP, EC seeks report||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-maharsahtra-to-raise-4-issues-including-vaccine-shortage-in-pm-modi-meeting-and-all-the-latest-news-101617879560051.html
08-04-2021||India||Second lockdown if imposed to be detrimental for economy: Report||Amid rising Covid-19 cases, Nippon Paint India on Thursday said a second lockdown, if imposed, will be detrimental not only for the industry but for the economy as well.Stating that the manufacturing sector is still reeling under the effects of the last lockdown, the company said labourers are skeptical and anticipating a second lockdown they have started planning their return journeys as the memories of the last lockdown are still fresh in their minds."With India in the middle of a second wave of coronavirus, second lockdown, if imposed, will be detrimental not only for the industry but for the economy as well," Nippon Paint India President (Automotive Refinishes and Wood Coatings) Sharad Malhotra said in a statement.The second wave of Covid-19 and a possible second lockdown is something to be concerned for, he said adding that "the manufacturing sector is still reeling under the effects of the last lockdown".Elaborating further, Malhotra said, "The supply chain is still not recovered completely and with the possibility of a second lockdown, we will have to wait for another 6-9 months, if not a year, for it to recover."To add to it, there are labour issues as well, he added."Labourers are skeptical, and anticipating a second lockdown they have started planning their return journeys as the memories of the last lockdown are still fresh in their minds."The sales for the first quarter of the year are not looking good already due to these factors," Malhotra said.According to Union health ministry data updated on Thursday morning, India registered a record single-day spike of 1,26,789 new Covid-19 cases, pushing its infection tally to 1,29,28,574, while the number of active cases also went upwards to breach the nine lakh-mark again.The death toll due to the disease in the country increased to 1,66,862, with 685 new fatalities being reported in a day.Various states such as Delhi, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have announced several measures, including night curfew and weekend lockdowns, as the number of cases of Covid-19 increases again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-lockdown-if-imposed-to-be-detrimental-for-economy-report-101617880315907.html
08-04-2021||India||War of words over vaccines: Centre says Maharashtra wasted 5 lakh doses||The issue of vaccine shortage has resulted in a war of words between the Centre and the states. Leading the war is Maharashtra, where health minister Rajesh Tope issued a dire warning on Wednesday, saying supplies would run out in three days unless replenished.He also said that vaccination drive has been stopped at many centres because of the shortage of doses. On Thursday, Tope said that the Centre is sending 17 lakh doses, but this number is also less as Maharashtra needs 40 lakh doses to meet its daily target.But the Centre accused the Maharashtra government of wasting the doses."Maharashtra has 23 lakh doses, which is supply for five days. Every state has stock for 3-4 days. It is the state’s responsibility to send it to various districts. Maharashtra has, in fact, wasted five lakh doses," said Union minister Prakash Javadekar.On Wednesday, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan lashed out at Maharashtra government, accusing it of "misgovernance" in tackling Covid-19. In a strongly worded statement, the health minister said that Maharashtra followed "utterly casual approach".The statement was criticised by chief of Nationalist Congress Party's (NCP) Maharashtra unit and water resources minister Jayant Patil. In a tweet, Patil said, "The letter circulated by the Union health minister yesterday, is only hatred towards Maharashtra. The role of central government is non-cooperative with Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government as we do not have similar ideology."The number of Covid-19 cases had eased in India but a second wave of the virus has since returned with a vengeance, with more than 126,000 new infections recorded in the past 24 hours, a new record.Several regions have tightened curbs on activity while Maharashtra, the current epicentre of India's epidemic, is set to enter a lockdown at the weekend. The state government there has also announced a series of fresh curbs to check the spread of the infection.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to hold a meeting with chief ministers of states on Thursday to take stock of Covid-19 situation in the country and the ongoing vaccination drive.The Centre has also dispatched 50 teams to various badly-affected states, including Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/war-of-words-over-vaccine-shortage-centre-says-maharashtra-wasted-5-lakh-doses-101617878921159.html
08-04-2021||India||TS Singhdeo says Harsh Vardhan's statement on vaccination 'disappointing'||Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singhdeo said he was 'disappointed' by Union minister Harsh Vardhan's statement targeting some states for claiming that there was a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine shortage. "It's an unfortunate statement. He had held a virtual meeting with the health ministers of 11 states the day before yesterday. He had said that we will work together. His statement soon after is very disappointing," he said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageVardhan said in a strongly worded statement that Chhattisgarh was seeing a "disproportionately higher number of deaths" in the last 2-3 weeks. "Their testing remains heavily dependent on rapid antigen tests which is not a wise strategy," the statement read."It's right and worrisome that mortality is increasing in the state but saying that vaccination isn't being done here is false. Centre's data show that Chhattisgarh is one of the top 4 states of the nation that have vaccinated more than 10 per cent of its population," Singhdeo added.In his statement, Harsh Vardhan further attacked the state and said some leaders from Chhattisgarh were spreading 'misinformation' and 'panic' on vaccination. "We have seen regular comments by leaders from Chhattisgarh that are intended to spread misinformation and panic on vaccination. I would like to humbly state that it would be better if the state government focuses its energies on ramping up their health infrastructure rather than on petty politicking," the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ts-singhdeo-says-harsh-vardhan-s-statement-on-vaccination-disappointing-101617875594176.html
08-04-2021||India||SC rejects plea to stall deportation of Rohingyas from Jammu||The Supreme Court on Thursday rejects a plea that had sought the release of at least 150 Rohingya refugees detained in a Jammu sub-jail and the stalling of deportation. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, added the caveat that the deportation of Rohingya refugees from Jammu must follow due procedure, which involved their proper identification and acknowledgment of their citizenship by the Myanmar government. “No Rohingya from Jammu will be deported without the procedure to be followed in such cases,” said the bench that included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The Centre on March 26 opposed the plea by Mohammad Salimullah while emphasising that India cannot become “the international capital of illegal immigrants”.The government called the Rohingya “absolutely illegal immigrants” who posed “serious threats to national security” and also contended that the right to settle in India could not be asserted by illegal immigrants under the garb of the Constitution’s Article 21, which guarantees the right to life and liberty. Also Read | Centre halts deportation of 16-year-old Rohingya girl to MyanmarOn March 6, on the instructions of the Union ministry of home affairs, the Jammu & Kashmir administration started a verification drive of the Rohingya, and moved some of them to a holding centre, pending their potential deportation.There are close to 7,000 Rohingya refugees in Jammu & Kashmir, numbers that have increased since the late 2000s when they first arrived in the region after escaping from Myanmar, where they were facing religious persecution. India has previously deported Rohingya refugees.Appearing for the Centre, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on March 26 submitted that a similar application to stop the deportation of Rohingya from Assam was dismissed by the top court in 2018 and that the present application must meet the same fate.He added the Centre has begun the process of deporting Rohingya after receiving a confirmation from the Myanmar government regarding their nationality, and that the apex court should steer clear of the “diplomatic issue” since it fell within the exclusive domain of the executive.Representing the Jammu & Kashmir administration, senior advocate Harish Salve also cautioned the bench against “starting a dangerous trend” by interfering with a subject related to illegal immigrants and diplomatic relations with another country.Salimullah’s lawyer, Prashant Bhushan, alluded to a January 2020 judgment of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) that highlighted the persecution faced by the Rohingya in Myanmar.The Centre’s affidavit maintained that it has to first secure the interests of its own citizens before those of illegal immigrants who, it said, were casting a burden on the already depleting natural resources of the country in addition to posing a security threat.“The Constitution makes it abundantly clear that India as a sovereign nation, has the first and foremost Constitutional obligation and duty towards its citizens and to ensure that the demographic and social structure of the country is not changed to its detriment, the resulting socio-economic problems do not occur to the prejudice of the citizens and the resources of the nation are utilised to fulfil the fundamental rights of its own citizens and are not diverted to the detriment of the citizens, due to influx of illegal migrants into the territory of India,” said the affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-plea-to-stall-deportation-of-rohingyas-from-jammu-101617875553981.html
08-04-2021||India||From today, night curfew imposed in Noida and Ghaziabad||In view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the district authorities in Noida and Ghaziabad on Thursday imposed a night curfew with immediate effect. The curfew will be in place from 10pm to 5am till April 17, officials said.The official statement from Ghaziabad district head office stated that, "Keeping in view the increasing impact of Covid-19 infection, District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey has decided to implement the night curfew in Ghaziabad district from tonight, after reviewing it with police officers and medical department officials."The decision to impose night curfew comes shortly after similar curb was introduced in Uttar Pradesh's capital Lucknow, Kanpur and Varanasi with effect from Thursday night. The stringent measure has also been imposed in Prayagraj from 10pm to 8am from Thursday till further notice.Officials said that the night curfew in Lucknow will continue till April 30.The move to impose night curfew comes on the day when India reported a record 126,789 new Covid-19 cases even as several states struggled to contain a second surge in infections, complaining of vaccine shortages and demanding inoculations be expanded to younger people.Daily infections surpassed 100,000 for the first time on Monday - the highest since the pandemic began - and have now exceeded that mark three times.The alarming rate of increase in cases has caught authorities across the country by surprise. The government blames the resurgence mainly on crowding and a reluctance to wear masks as shops and offices have reopened.Keeping the rising cases in consideration, New Zealand on Thursday suspended entry for all travellers from India, including its own citizens, for about two weeks.With 12.9 million cases, India is the third-worst affected country, trailing the United States and Brazil. Deaths rose by 685 - the most in five days - to 166,862, data from the health ministry showed.Vaccine centres in several states, including hardest-hit Maharashtra, have been shutting early and turning people away as supplies run out. Odisha state said it had closed half its vaccination sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-imposed-in-noida-between-10pm-and-5am-till-april-17-101617875206678.html
08-04-2021||India||Rahul takes dig at PM, says there should be ‘kharche pe charcha’||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday again questioned why domestic oil prices remain high when international rates have been dropping.“Due to the taxes levied by the government, filling oil in our vehicles is no less than a test. Why does not the PM [Prime Minister Narendra Modi] discuss it?” Gandhi said in a tweet.Also Read | Rahul Gandhi to begin ‘active’ campaign for Bengal soon, says functionaryAt the beginning of this month, international oil prices had started rising after the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries extended the production cut. Hopes of quicker demand recovery and the stimulus package which was rolled out by the US government also aided the rise of global oil prices.Crude oil prices have plummeted again as demand woes increased in the wake of the second wave of coronavirus across the globe, especially in Europe. Despite the fall in oil prices in the international market, domestic rates have remained unchanged. On March 30, petrol prices were cut by 22 paise and diesel by 23 paise per litre in the capital. Petrol was selling at ₹90.56 per litre while diesel at ₹80.87 in Delhi.The oil prices vary from state to state as both central and state governments levy taxes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-asks-pm-modi-to-talk-about-soaring-oil-prices-101617875258075.html
08-04-2021||India||Many vaccination centres in Mumbai shut due to shortage of vaccine doses||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday shut its Covid-19 vaccination centre in Mahim because of the shortage of doses, said assistant municipal commissioner Kiran Dighavkar.The closure came two days after municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said they were facing a shortage of vaccines and were constantly in touch with the Centre for additional doses.Maharashtra health minister, Rajesh Tope on Thursday said that the state has only two days of Covid-19 vaccine stock, after which it will officially run out of vaccine doses for the immunisation drive. “Vaccination has stopped in districts such as Satara, Sangli and Panvel and others. We have two more days of stock,” he said on Thursday.Also Read | Odisha health minister says Covid-19 vaccines will last 2 daysTope also accused the Centre of supplying a lesser number of vaccines doses and said that the matter has been raised before the Centre through various mediums. Citing figures from the Centre’s latest release order of vaccines, Tope claimed that states such as Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana have been given more vaccines in comparison with population and Covid-19 cases, while the state “has been given 750,000 vaccine dosages only”, in the latest allotment.While Tope was speaking, the Centre increased the the limit to 1.7 million. “Even this is less because we need 4 million vaccine doses a week; 1.7 million doses are not enough,” Tope said after Centre’s announcement. “Our pace has increased, centres have increased. How can a state that has the most number of cases in the country get lesser vaccine doses?” he asked. “I talked to Dr Harshavardhan [Union health minister]… I raised the issue of discrimination with us. We have the most number of active patients, positivity rate and death with a population of 120 million. Why are we given so few vaccines?” he asked.“Harshvardhan Ji assured me that corrections will be done soon. We are still waiting,” he said.Punjab and Delhi also on Wednesday said they will run out of vaccines within days and requested the central government for replenishments. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan accused the three non-Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states of politicising the issue.The Union health minister issued a statement later on Wednesday evening, hitting out at what he said was attempts to “divert attention” from the state’s slow vaccination drive, and targetting Punjab, Maharashtra, and Delhi, all of which have asked for an expansion of the criteria for vaccination, something the Union government isn’t willing to do right away. “Doesn’t it seem evident that these states are trying to divert attention from their poor vaccination efforts by just continuously shifting the goal posts? Politicising such a public health issue is a damning indictment of certain political leaders who should know better,” said Harsh Vardhan in the statement.Later, the Union health ministry sent letters to Maharashtra, Delhi and Punjab, asking them to take “immediate corrective action” to ensure doses are delivered to health and front-line workers. The letter carried the same figures as disclosed by Harsh Vardhan in his statement.In Mumbai, officials said several private vaccination centres have also expressed their inability to vaccinate people citing the unavailability of vaccines. The BMC has been vaccinating over 50,000 people daily. As on Tuesday, it had administered around 150,000 doses.To be sure, while overall supplies may be there at the state level, individual centres may run out of stock on account of how the states manage their replenishment.Only four of the 41 vaccination centres were operational in Navi Mumbai due to the shortage of vaccines. The vaccination centres in Panvel were shut since Wednesday due to the shortage.Anand Gosawi, health officer, Panvel Municipal Corporation, issued a statement saying the drive will be stopped for the next few days. “There are 21 approved centres across the city... We have no stock of Covishield while... Covaxin doses...will be used only for second doses.”The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC), which was the first in Thane district to start a jumbo vaccination centre with four booths, has closed it down. Around 37 centres run by the corporation in the city were shut as of Thursday. NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar said they have taken up the issue with the government and are expecting more doses in a day or two.Ramla Beevi, 63, a Kerala resident who was in Navi Mumbai to visit a relative and planned to get vaccinated in the city, had to return without getting her dose. “After we reached [the vaccination centre], we saw many people had to be turned away due to the lack of stock. The commotion was about the shortage of the stock which led to panic and most of them had to return,” Beevi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahim-inoculation-centre-in-mumbai-shut-due-to-covid-vaccine-shortage-101617873813942.html
08-04-2021||India||Migrants leave Gujarat amid Covid-19 surge, lockdown fears||Fearing another lockdown in the wake of a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in Gujarat, migrant workers and their families have started leaving Surat and Ahmedabad, two of the state's most severely affected cities.However, government officials on Thursday claimed the number of those leaving was very low and people cannot be stopped from moving from one place to another."There are no formal reports which suggest that a large number of migrants are leaving. However, we have asked district authorities to ensure that workers do not face any trouble," state Additional Chief Secretary, Labour and Employment, Vipul Mittra told PTI.Since there is no lockdown and trains are also running, people are free to move anywhere in the country, he said.Mittra said though some people are going back to their native places, "it's not happening on large scale"."Last year, there was a rush because the lockdown was imposed all of a sudden. Thus, as a precaution, migrants are going back home as they feel that transportation may not be available after some time," the official said.In Ahmedabad, a number of migrant workers, mostly hailing from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, have been rushing to the city's main Kalupur railway station to travel to their native places, said Yogesh Mishra, member of the Zonal Rail Users Consultative Committee.The migrants fear they would be stuck here if the government imposes another lockdown, Mishra said, adding that the waiting list for reserved seats in trains is also increasing with each passing day."The Gujarat High Court recently suggested that a lockdown should be imposed. This has created panic among the migrant workers, who suffered a lot last year due to the sudden lockdown and travel restrictions," he said.Now, migrants are in a hurry to reach their native places, said Mishra."People from UP are leaving in large numbers, mainly because they don't want to miss the panchayat polls, starting from April 15. Many have also planned marriage ceremonies, which were cancelled last year," he said.People are extra cautious this time and want to leave before any travel restrictions are announced, he added.In Surat, migrant workers belonging to UP, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand have been leaving in luxury buses, but their number is not very large, Surat Luxury Bus Operators Association president Dinesh Andhan said."People from Saurashtra are not leaving. It's the migrants from other states who are leaving Surat city due to panic. They suffered a lot last year due to the lockdown and unavailability of transport. Many were forced to walk to their native places last year," Andhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-leave-gujarat-amid-covid-19-surge-lockdown-fears-101617873282760.html
08-04-2021||India||Complaining of Covid-19 vaccine shortage, Maharashtra heads to PM's meeting with 4 issues||The Maharashtra government has once against raised the issue of shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, saying the replenishment ordered by the Centre is not enough. Ahead of the meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said he will raise four key issues.Also Read: ‘Why Maharashtra being discriminated?’ minister asks Centre"I have just been informed that the Centre increased Covid-19 vaccine doses from seven lakh to 17 lakh. Even this is less because we need 40 lakh vaccine doses a week and 17 lakh doses are not enough," Tope said while in interacting with reporters."We will raise these four issues before PM in today's meeting over Covid-19: Remdesivir supply and price control, supply of oxygen from nearby states, vaccine doses and ventilator operational support," he added. The meeting is scheduled to take place at 6.30pm today.Also Watch: 'Mumbai facing Covid vaccine shortage,' says MayorHe earlier accused the Centre of supplying less number of vaccines, adding that the issue has been raised through multiple mediums. On Wednesday too, the Maharashtra health minister blamed the Centre for vaccine shortage.Reacting to Tope's claims, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan lashed out at the Maharashtra government and accused it of "misgovernance" in tackling Covid-19, saying that it has followed "utterly casual approach" and is putting the residents in danger "by letting people escape institutional quarantine mandate for the sake of their personal vasuli".In a strongly worded statement on Wednesday, Vardhan asserted that it was nothing but "an attempt to divert attention from Maharashtra government's repeated failures to control the spread of pandemic". He accused the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra of focusing its energies on "playing politics and spreading lies to create panic".India's Covid-19 cases have soared 13-fold in barely two months - it reported a record 126,789 new cases on Thursday, the third day this week when the daily caseload surged to more than 100,000.More infectious variants of the virus may have played a role in India's surge, some epidemiologists say, with hundreds of cases found of variants first detected in Britain, South Africa and Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-heads-to-pm-modi-s-covid-19-meeting-with-4-issues-101617872438759.html
08-04-2021||India||Strict restrictions in Maharashtra on the advice of Centre, experts: Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday urged the people to cooperate with the state administration amid opposition to strict norms put in place to curb a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in the state. “Maharashtra has never been in such a serious and alarming situation. The Covid cases are rising sharply. The health infrastructure is under stress. The state government decided to impose strict restrictions following the advice of the health experts as there were no other options left. The central government too has urged the state government to take some strict decisions,” he said in his live address to the people on Facebook.Pawar, who said the Centre has extended its full cooperation to the state, spoke to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan over the situation. “We discussed the shortfall [of vaccines] and he [Vardhan] assured that the Centre and Union health ministry will stand with the state.”On Wednesday, state health minister Rajesh Tope said the state is facing a shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses and had to shut down many vaccination centres. His comments sparked a war of words when Vardhan accused Maharashtra of politicising the issue. Vardhan criticised the state government for “misgovernance and “utter casual approach” in battling the virus.Also Read | ‘Why Maharashtra being discriminated against?’: Minister to Centre on ‘vaccine shortage’Pawar, whose party is a part of the state government, said he understands discontent over the restrictions as people have to face difficulties. “But if we want success, then patience is the only key. ...the state government had to take some harsh decisions due to unavoidable circumstances and to save lives of the people.”Maharashtra is the worst Covid-19-hit state in the country with daily cases reaching close to the 60,000-mark. On Wednesday, 59,907 cases were reported, pushing the count to over three million.The state government has imposed a night and weekend curfew. It has closed down all non-essentials businesses and asked most offices to switch to remote working to check the surge in Covid-19 cases. At no point can over five people gather outdoors and at places of worship, malls, etc. Restaurants have been allowed to serve only takeaway food. The fresh restrictions will remain till April 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strict-restrictions-in-maharashtra-on-the-advice-of-centre-experts-pawar-101617872673694.html
08-04-2021||India||Important for new generation to know stages of Guru Tegh Bahadur's life: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said it is important for the new generation of the nation to know and understand the stages of Guru Tegh Bahadur's life. "All of you are aware of stages of his (Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur) life but it is important for the new generation of the nation too to know and understand it. From Guru Nanak Dev to Guru Tegh Bahadur and Guru Gobind Singh - our Sikh Guru tradition is a philosophy of life in itself," PM Modi said at a high-level meeting to commemorate 400th Jayanti of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur.PM Modi said India will pay a fitting tribute to the Guru Tegh Bahadur on his 400th Parkash Purab.The PM said, "The occasion is a spiritual fortune and national duty. We have been blessed to be able to make a contribution to this. I am happy that we are taking forward our efforts, together with all citizens."Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, former prime minister Manmohan Singh and Union home minister Amit Shah were also present in the meeting.The Punjab chief minister sought an approval on launching various projects worth ₹937 crore. "We are all committed to celebrate this momentous occasion in a befitting manner.' He urged PM Modi to clear the state government’s proposal for launching various projects worth ₹937 crore, including the development of Sri Anandpur Sahib as Smart City, to pay befitting tributes to Guru Tegh Bahadur.Singh further requested PM Modi that the Centre should release a special commemorative stamp on this occasion. He suggested that the commemorative events should be held all across the country, as well as at all Indian missions abroad, the Punjab CMO said.Guru Tegh Bahadur is the ninth of the ten Gurus who founded the Sikh religion. He was the head of the followers of Sikhism from 1665 until his killing in 1675.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/important-for-new-generation-to-know-stages-of-guru-tegh-bahadur-s-life-pm-modi-101617869991170.html
08-04-2021||India||Odisha health minister says Covid-19 vaccines will last 2 days, demands supply for 10 days||After Maharashtra, Odisha has also expressed concerns about running out of Covid-19 vaccine stocks. Health minister Naba Kishore Das on Thursday said if the vaccines are not received within two days, the government will have to stop the process. Das said 700 vaccination centres out of the state's 1,400 centres have already been closed due to the shortage of injections, news agency ANI reported.“It is very important to get vaccines from Centre. If we don't get vaccines within these 2 days, then we will have to stop it (vaccination). Our 700 vaccination centres, out of 1,400, have already closed. We hope we get the vaccines soon,” he said.Also Read | Maharashtra has 2 more days of vaccine stock, says health minister Rajesh TopeAdding that the vaccination is going on well here, Das said the government currently has 5.34 lakh vaccine doses and 2.5 lakh vaccine doses are administered daily, so the stocks will end in two days.“Right now, we have 5.34 lakhs doses. We administer 2.5-lakh vaccines daily. So, our stock will last for 2 more days. We've written to the Centre to send us a minimum of 25-lakh vaccines for 10 days so that we can vaccinate properly. Vaccination is going on well here,” ANI quoted Das as saying.Maharashtra health minister on Wednesday appealed to the Centre for supplying more Covid-19 vaccines as the state with the highest number of Covid-19 cases is facing a vaccine crunch. Covid vaccination centres in several districts of the state have even closed due to the shortage of vaccines.The country is severely affected by the second wave of coronavirus disease and several states have written to the Centre to supply them with additional vaccine doses in the face of adversity. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said the vaccine stock in the national capital will only last for over four and five days.Odisha reported 879 new Covid-19 cases and 246 recoveries in the last 24 hours on Wednesday, as per the information and public relations department of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-health-minister-says-covid-19-vaccines-will-last-2-days-demands-supply-for-10-days-101617869943384.html
08-04-2021||India||'Why Maharashtra facing discrimination?': Minister to Centre on vaccine shortage||Maharashtra health minister, Rajesh Tope on Thursday said that the state has only two days of stock of Covid-19 vaccines, after which it will officially run out of vaccine doses for the immunisation drive. "Vaccination has stopped in districts like Satara, Sangli and Panvel. There are many more districts where it has stopped. We have two more days of stock," he said on Thursday as the state remains on top to have the highest number of cases.He also accused the Centre of supplying a lesser number of vaccines and said that the matter has been raised before the Centre through multiple various mediums. Citing figures from the latest release order of vaccines from the Centre, Tope claimed that states like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana etc have been given more vaccines in comparison with population and Covid-19 cases, while the state "has been given 7.5 lakh vaccine dosages only", in the latest allotment.While Tope was speaking, Centre increased the the limit to 17 lakhs. "Even this is less because we need 40 lakh vaccine doses a week and 17 lakh doses are not enough," Tope said after Centre's announcement.Also Read | 'Reacted like BJP spokesperson': Priyanka Chaturvedi on Centre's response to Maharashtra Covid-19 vaccine crunch"Our pace has increased, centres have increased. How can a state that has the most number cases in the country get lesser vaccine doses?" he asked. "I talked to Dr Harshavardhan (Union health minister)... I raised the issue of discrimination with us. We have the most number of active patients, positivity rate and death with 12 crore population. Why we are given so few vaccines?" he also asked.Also Read | Maharashtra Covid vaccine shortage: Pune, Panvel stop drive, Centre dismisses claimSpeaking further on the number of vaccines needed to inoculate Maharashtra residents, Tope said, "We want 1.6 crore vaccine dosages per month and 40 lakh every week because we are vaccinating 6 lakh people every day.""Harshvardhan Ji assured me that corrections will be done soon. We are still waiting," he also said.Many vaccination centres in Maharashtra are being closed temporarily owing to the shortage of vaccines. On Thursday, a vaccination centre in Mahim was closed after it ran out of vaccine doses. In Vashi, Jumbo Vaccination Center at ESIS Hospital also temporarily shut the vaccination operation as it also faced a shortage of vaccines to administer.On Wednesday, Maharashtra reported 59,907 new Covid-19 infections, its highest single-day spike, and 322 fatalities, taking its total tally to 3,173,261 and death toll to 56,652. The number of active cases also crossed the 500,000-mark with 501,559 active infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-given-7-5-lakh-vaccine-dosages-only-says-health-minister-rajesh-tope-101617869016795.html
08-04-2021||India||Ten states showing upward trajectory of daily new Covid-19 cases||Ten states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Kerala and Punjab have shown a steep rise in the daily Covid-19 cases accounting for 84.21 per cent of the 1,26,789 new infections, the health ministry said on Thursday.The national weekly Covid-19 positivity rate has increased by 6.21 per cent from 2.19 to 8.40 per cent in the first seven days of March and April, the ministry said.India registered a record single-day spike of 1,26,789 new coronavirus infections pushing the nationwide Covid-19 tally of cases to 1,29,28,574, according to the ministry data updated on Thursday morning.Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 59,907. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 10,310 while Karnataka reported 6,976 new cases. India's total active caseload has increased to 9,10,319 and now comprises 7.04 per cent of the country's total infections. A net incline of 66,846 cases recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours."Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala cumulatively account for 74.13 per cent of India's total active cases. Maharashtra alone accounts for 55.26 per cent of the total active cases of the country," the ministry said.Twelve states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, the ministry said.  India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,18,51,393 with 59,258 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours.Besides, 685 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours.Ten states account for 87.59 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (322). Punjab follows with 62 daily deaths, the ministry said.Twelve states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Assam, Ladakh, D&D & D&N, Nagaland, Tripura, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Manipur, Lakshadweep, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ten-states-showing-upward-trajectory-of-daily-new-covid-19-cases-101617868081756.html
08-04-2021||India||Terrorist arrested from Jammu, say J&K Police||The Jammu & Kashmir police on Thursday said that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested a terrorist of little-known Ghaznavi Force outfit from Jammu around two months after an accomplice he was allegedly plotting to attack temples with to create communal disturbances was held. The arrestee was identified as Shahid Naveed, whose alleged accomplice, Sher Ali, was arrested from the Jammu airport on February 17. The two are from the Poonch district of Jammu & Kashmir.Police said the two were allegedly planning to attack temples in the Jammu region to create communal disturbances. “He [Ali] was the main coordinator and facilitator of terrorist activities of various terrorist groups involving facilitating infiltration of terrorists, smuggling of arms and ammunition, narcotics from PoJK [Pakistan occupied Jammu & Kashmir] to Indian Territory from Balakote area of Poonch district,” said a police spokesman. The spokesman added he was also involved in many other cases in the Poonch district.Also Read | Kashmir journalists protest top cop’s advice on covering encounters, stirsAli is accused of helping two Pakistan terrorists infiltrate into the Indian side from PoK from the Dabbi area of Balakote sector in November at the behest of a Pakistani handler identified as Sultan. “The two terrorists of JK Ghaznavi Force were later killed in an encounter on December 13 in Poshana area of Surankote in Poonch district,” said the spokesman. Ali was also allegedly involved in the smuggling of arms and ammunition including three pistols and one Improvised Explosive Device.“The receiver of these arms and ammunition Mushtaq Ahmed [father of Sher Ali] and Raskeem Akhter [sister of Sher Ali] were arrested by Poonch Police on September 11 last year...,” the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-arrested-from-jammu-say-jkpolice-101617867513322.html
08-04-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘New tactic to write from jail’, says Raut on Vaze's letter and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘New tactic to write from jail’: Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut on Sachin Vaze’s letter against Anil ParabShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday came out in support of Maharashtra’s transport minister Anil Parab, who has been accused in an extortion case by suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze, and termed the claims a political conspiracy. Read morePriyanka Chaturvedi, Sharad Pawar react to Harsh Vardhan's 'political' statement on vaccinesA Centre versus Maharashtra war has ensued after Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday criticised the Maharashtra government and said the state government was trying to divert the attention from its mismanagement of the pandemic situation by creating an uproar over the shortage of Covid-19 vaccines. Read moreAmit Sadh goes off social media amid partial lockdown in Maharashtra: ‘Silly things I do will not heal or entertain’Actor Amit Sadh is temporarily going off social media, amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India. As Maharashtra witnesses the highest number of cases in the country, the state government announced a weekend lockdown and night curfew during the weekdays, in addition to other restrictions. Read moreShanaya Kapoor adds a bold touch to old Hollywood charm in monokini and ₹12k trench coatShanaya Kapoor is truly the face of Gen Z's fashion sense. The stunner's sartorial picks are the perfect combination of bold and beautiful with a little bit of chic and that is why people look up to her and take inspiration from whatever she steps out in. The fact that she is the younger cousin of Sonam, Rhea and Janhvi Kapoor just means that an impeccable fashion sense is in her genes and the way she adds her own touch to it is just cherry on top. Read moreSakshi-slayer Sonam ready for Tokyo Olympics qualifierAjmer Malik recalls the moment last year when he told his trainee Sonam Malik that she has a big fight coming up – against Rio Olympics bronze medallist Sakshi Malik in the national selection trials for the Asian Championships. Read moreHyundai Alcazar revealed; 1st set of images, engine, transmission details & moreHyundai has officially released images and specification details its Alcazar, the latest SUV from the Korean company to join ranks with the likes of Tucson, Creta and Venue in the product portfolio for India. What sets the Alcazar apart from all other SUVs in the Hyundai India product portfolio is that it is its first foray into the three-row segment. Read moreMan’s bhangra routine after getting second dose of Covid vaccine is a must-watchIf you’re a regular on social media, you may have come across the feel-good videos shared by Gurdeep Pandher from Canada. Pandher grabbed the attention of netizens with his socially-distanced bhangra tutorials and recently, his dance in the middle of a frozen lake after getting the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Read moreWatch: PM Modi receives second dose of Covid vaccine; nurses share experiencePrime Minister Narendra Modi took his second dose of Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS on April 8. Nisha Sharma administered the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine to the prime minister. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-new-tactic-to-write-from-jail-says-raut-on-vaje-s-letter-and-all-the-latest-news-101617863522419.html
08-04-2021||India||Plea for compulsory masking during poll campaigns: HC seeks stand of Centre, EC||The Delhi High Court on Thursday sought response of the Centre and the Election Commission on a plea seeking to ensure that masks are worn mandatorily by everyone involved in poll campaigns during the ongoing elections in various states and union territories.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued notice to the Centre and the EC and sought their response to the application by Vikram Singh, the former DGP of Uttar Pradesh and also the chairman of think tank Centre for Accountability and Systemic Change (CASC).The court listed the application for further hearing on April 30 along with Singh's main petition seeking to debar campaigners and candidates from campaigning in the assembly elections for repeatedly violating the mandatory guidelines issued by the poll panel in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Advocate Virag Gupta, appearing for Singh, told the bench that the poll body should "create awareness through digital, print and electronic media for compulsory masking and social distancing during assembly elections"."When all the authorities are unanimous on mandatory masking, it defies logic as to why the rule should not be enforced in election campaigns," Gupta argued.The Central government's standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia accepted notice on behalf of the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-for-compulsory-masking-during-poll-campaigns-hc-seeks-stand-of-centre-ec-101617865449101.html
08-04-2021||India||'Reacted like BJP spokesperson': Priyanka Chaturvedi on Centre's response to Maharashtra Covid-19 vaccine crunch||A Centre versus Maharashtra war has ensued after Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday criticised the Maharashtra government and said the state government was trying to divert the attention from its mismanagement of the pandemic situation by creating an uproar over the shortage of Covid-19 vaccines.The statement of the health minister 'disturbed, saddened and disgusted' Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi who issued a video reply saying that the statement did not seem like coming from the health ministry of the country, but from a BJP spokesperson, as several non-BJP-ruled states have been severely criticised in the statement.My response to the political statement from the https://t.co/7izg7PU0hX Min of India on the genuine issues raised by me a) to provide more vaccines to Maharashtra because of an effective vaccination drive b) to universalise vaccine to include everyone above 18 years of age. pic.twitter.com/m5gv4U6yBP"It seemed he was trying to seek brownie points attacking some states," Chaturvedi said.Taking a step aside from the blame-game, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar said the Centre is cooperating with the state government in this tough time of the pandemic."We all have to come together and fight this menace. State and Centre both have to come together and find out a way to fight the pandemic," Pawar said.After Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the state's vaccine stock will last only for about three days and many vaccine centres were being forced to return people, the Union health minister said that the claims were baseless."The performance of Maharashtra government in terms of vaccinating healthcare workers and frontline workers is also not great. It is shocking to see how the state Government is putting Maharashtrians in danger by letting people escape institutional quarantine mandate for the sake of their personal Vasuli. Overall, as the state has lurched from one crisis to another, it seems as if the state leadership is happily sleeping at the wheels," the health minister said in his statement.Citing figures, the Centre said that Maharashtra was supplied with 1,06,19,190 vaccine doses. Out of this, 90,53,523 doses have been consumed, including 6 per cent wastage. The state has 23 lakh vaccine doses while a little over 7 lakh vaccination are in the immediate pipeline. "Central government replenishes more vaccine than what is needed for actual use," Union minister Prakash Javadekar said.After Dr Vardhan issued the statement on Thursday, former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, Union ministers Smriti Irani, Prakash Javadekar took to Twitter and missed no opportunity to slam the Maharashtra government. "Health Minister @drharshvardhan calls a spade a spade. Its time everyone focuses their energies on Covid management and vaccination instead of peddling falsehoods," Smriti Irani tweeted. NCP leader Jayant Patil on Thursday said the letter circulated by the Union health minister yesterday is only hatred towards Maharashtra."Maharashtra has received 85 lakh vaccines but the population of Maharashtra is 12.30 crore and the number of active patients is approx 4.73 lakhs. On the other hand, Gujarat gets 80 lakh vaccines, its population is 6.50 crore and the number of active patients is approx 17 thousand," he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-leaders-react-to-harsh-vardhan-s-political-statement-on-vaccines-101617864756564.html
08-04-2021||India||Madras HC gives Tamil Nadu 2 weeks to bring in Covid-19 restrictions||The Madras high court on Wednesday said the Covid-19 situation in Tamil Nadu appeared to be serious, yet there was no lockdown and people weren’t following infection containment norms. It asked the government to bring in restrictions within two weeks since assembly elections were over, said an advocate, whose plea seeking Covid restrictions was being heard in the court.Chief justice Sanjib Banerjee made the observations while passing orders on a public interest litigation (PIL)-- moved by advocate Ramkumar Adityan---seeking directions to the government to subject all international air passengers to RT-PCR test on arrival. The court will hear the matter next in two week’s time.“The court has said that some restrictions must be brought in place as cases are surging,” said Adityan. “The court has given state officials two weeks’ time to come up with a final decision, if not, the court will intervene.” No other specific instructions were given by the court, he said. A day after elections, Tamil Nadu reported 3,986 new Covid-19 cases, including 1,459 in Chennai, taking active cases to 27,743 and total infections to 911,110. 17 deaths were also reported on Wednesday. 79,927 samples were sent for RT-PCR testing in the backdrop of the test positivity rate crossing 10% on Monday. Tamil Nadu is among the 8 states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh that have seen a rise in daily Covid cases recently, together accounting for 80.70% of the new cases reported in a day.TN’s death toll of 12,821 is only behind Maharashtra’s 55,000 plus deaths out of 1,66,862 deaths recorded across India due to the disease. Karnataka-12,731, Delhi-11,133 and West Bengal-10,363 are other three states to have logged more than 10,000 fatalities due to the infection.TN assembly elections saw massive crowds gatherings with little adherence to Covid-compliant behaviour like social distancing and wearing masks. Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner G Prakash had said restrictions will be brought after the polls to contain the spread. However, the health secretary had ruled out the imposition of lockdown after the elections. “Don’t believe in rumours; we will bring restrictions to non-essential activities,” he said last week.Ramkumar filed the PIL in December 2020 stating that only passengers from the UK were being tested and quarantined to check for the new UK strain and prayed for testing all international passengers to ensure there were no loopholes. Several states including Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra have announced varying restrictions ranging from lockdown, night curfew, ban on mass events, closure of offices to suspension of state transport. GOVT REACTIONEXPERT QUOTE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-gives-tamil-nadu-2-weeks-to-bring-in-covid-19-restrictions-101617864513492.html
08-04-2021||India||Army chief Gen Naravane leaves for Bangladesh on 5-day visit||Over a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi returned from his two-day trip to Bangladesh, India’s chief of army staff (COAS) General MM Narvane embarked on a five-day visit to Bangladesh on Thursday. The visit is aimed to “deepen the bilateral relationships between the two armies and act as a catalyst for closer coordination and cooperation between the two countries on a host of strategic issues,” a statement released by the army said.Amid the celebrations of Swarnim Vijay Varsh marking 50 years of Bangladesh’s liberation, the army chief is scheduled to hold one-to-one meetings with the three service chiefs of Bangladesh’s armed forces on April 8.On the same day, the army chief will visit the Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Memorial Museum at Dhanmondi to pay tribute to the founding father of Bangladesh after attending a wreath-laying ceremony for liberation war martyrs at Shikha Anirban.Also Watch | Days after PM Modi’s trip, Indian soldiers in Bangladesh for military exerciseThe COAS will also attend a UN Peace Support Operations seminar at Dhaka on 11 April where he will deliver an address on “Changing Nature of Global Conflicts: Role of UN Peacekeepers”.The statement released by the army added that General Naravane will interact with the force commanders of the UN Missions in Mali, South Sudan and Central African Republic along with deputy chief operations officer of the Royal Bhutanese Army on April 12, 2021.After attending a closing ceremony of Shantir Ogrosena, a UN-mandated counterterrorism exercise involving armed forces of India, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Sri Lanka and observers from the US, UK, Turkey and Saudi Arabia, the army chief will interact with members of Bangladesh Institute of Peace Support and Training Operations.The statement said that during the last leg of his visit, the army chief will also attend a hardware display of the Bangladesh army to have a look at their weaponry innovation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-gen-naravane-leaves-for-bangladesh-on-5-day-visit-101617864333326.html
08-04-2021||India||Delhi CM Kejriwal seeks Centre's nod to extend vaccination drive beyond health facilities, include all above 18||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to open the vaccination drive to all above 18 years. He has also sought a nod to extend the drive beyond healthcare facilities and allow beneficiaries to get the jab at temporary camp settings, news agency ANI reported quoting state health minister Satyendra Jain. The chief minister made the requests in a written letter to the Prime Minister which comes ahead of a meeting of all chief ministers of states and Union territories. The meeting will be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Covid-19 situation in the country and the vaccination strategy will be discussed.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe meeting will be held via video conferencing at 6.30pm.Speaking on Centre's claim that there was less vaccination of healthcare workers in Delhi, Jain said, "We can also say that there was less vaccination at Centre's hospitals. This is not an issue, the issue is that we have to vaccinate more and more people soon." "We should fight Covid together," he also said, according to the ANI report."The vaccination drive is going well in Delhi," Jain also said, adding, "We received some vaccines yesterday. We have stock for 4-5 days. We have demanded more and we will get it," ANI reported.On April 7, Manohar Agnani, additional secretary of the health ministry wrote to health officials of Punjab, Delhi and Haryana, asking them to undertake necessary corrective actions immediately for improving the Covid-19 vaccination drives in their state/UT.India rolled out its vaccination drive on January 16. Since then, it has inoculated more than 88.3 million beneficiaries across the state. In the first phase, only health workers and frontline workers were allowed to get the Covid-19 jab. In the following phase, people above 60 years of age and people with comorbidities were allowed to be immunised.Currently, the third phase of the vaccination drive is underway and people above the age of 45 years are being administered the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-seeks-centre-s-nod-to-extend-vaccination-drive-beyond-health-facilities-include-all-above-18-101617863643345.html
08-04-2021||India||Govt working on CoBRA commando Manhas’s release from Maoists: J&K L-G||Jammu & Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha has said the Union home ministry is working for the release of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) commando Rakeshwar Singh Manhas from Maoist captivity in Chhattisgarh. “I express my solidarity with the jawan and his family. I am confident that by the grace of God, he will safely return home,” Sinha told reporters on the sidelines of a function on Wednesday. Sinha added efforts to bring back Manhas cannot be discussed in the public domain.The comments came as hundreds of angry people, including Manhas’s family, on Wednesday blocked a road demanding urgency to ensure his release.Also Read | As Maoist violence returns, decoding the rise of ultra left insurgencyManhas, 35, who is from Jammu, was part of the CRPF party that was attacked in Chhattisgarh on Sunday.He went missing after the April 2 attack. Maoists on Wednesday released a photograph of Manhas and demanded that a mediator be appointed to negotiate his release.The photograph showed Manhas sitting alone in what appeared to be a hut. According to local journalists in the region, the photo was sent on WhatsApp. “At 11.27 am, a photograph of the missing jawan was sent on a WhatsApp number by Maoist leader Vikalp,” said Sukma-based journalist Raja Rathore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-working-on-cobra-commando-manhas-s-release-from-maoists-jklg-101617862414550.html
08-04-2021||India||Bengal CM Mamata likely to skip Covid review meet with PM Modi today: Report||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is expected to skip a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi which is scheduled to be held today to discuss the current status of the Covid-19 pandemic in the nation, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. Instead of the state chief minister, West Bengal's chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay is likely to attend the meeting, the news agency also reported.PM Modi will interact with chief ministers of all states and union territories on Thursday as the country is witnessing a sharp spike in daily Covid-19 cases. They will be discussing the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination strategy via video conferencing.Banerjee's decision to skip the Covid-19 meet with PM Modi comes in the backdrop of ongoing assembly elections in West Bengal in which her ruling Trinamool Congress party (TMC) is engaged in a fierce battle with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Also Read | How India can overcome the Covid-19 surgeVoting for 294-member assembly elections is underway in West Bengal. It is taking place in eight phases and three phases have already taken place. It will conclude on April 29 and the counting will take place on May 2.Meanwhile, India is reeling under the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 during which it is seeing a spike in infection worse than the previous surge. On Thursday, the country registered 126,789 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) dashboard showed.Before this, the highest spike was on April 5 when it reported as many as 103,558 cases. On April 7, the nation saw a rise of 115,736 cases in a single day.The country’s infection tally has risen to 12,928,574, the third-highest globally, behind the United States and Brazil respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-likely-to-skip-covid-19-review-meeting-with-pm-modi-today-report-101617860442962.html
08-04-2021||India||After Tripura CM tests Covid-19 positive, govt issues restrictions in offices||The Tripura government issued certain restrictions to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in government offices within 24 hours of chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb testing positive. Deb tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The fresh guidelines restricted official meetings to 20 people with a one metre gap between chairs. Officials need to wear facemasks and sanitise their hands before and after the meeting. Mass government programmes in public halls and sports events are to be avoided. All gymnasiums, recreation centres and creches that are located in government buildings are closed till further orders.Visitors will be allowed in government offices with prior permission only. Biometric attendance in government offices is discontinued till further orders. Also Read | How India can overcome the Covid-19 surgeThe healthcare personnel engaged in treating Covid-19 patients have been asked to take required precautions and get themselves tested according to the guidelines. All the officials and staff of government offices above 45 years of age, have been asked to get vaccinated soon. High-risk employees such as pregnant and lactating mothers, as well as aged people have been asked to take extra precautions. The order further stated that a building will not be closed completely if only one or two cases of Covid-19 are detected in any workspace in the building. The places where the infected persons visited in past 48 hours will be disinfected. It is also mandated to wear facemasks in public places and workplaces, or else, a fine will be imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-tripura-cm-tests-covid-19-positive-govt-issues-restrictions-in-offices-101617860133076.html
08-04-2021||India||India’s vaccine tally crosses 88.3 million doses||The number of Covid-19 vaccine doses given in India crossed 88.3 million on Wednesday, while fresh cases in the country rose by over 100,000 for a third time.A total of 88,372,277 vaccine doses have been given, including 8,965,839 healthcare workers who have taken the first dose and 5,404,837 who have taken the second. Among the frontline workers to have been vaccinated, 9,740,281 have got their first dose while 4,335,473 have got their second dose as well. In the 45-59-year age group, 22,642,318 have had their first dose while 447,060 have been administered their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 35,778,684 people have had their first dose and 1,057,785 have got their second dose as well.On Wednesday alone, by 8pm, 1,314,623 vaccine doses had been given across the country out of which, 1,204,551 beneficiaries took their first dose while 110,072 received their second dose, as per the provisional report.Also Read | PM Narendra Modi to interact with CMs on current Covid-19 situation todayThe country recorded over 100,000 fresh cases on a single day for a third time with 126,789 cases detected in the last 24 hours, as per the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s dashboard on Thursday morning. Previously, India reported 103,558 and 115,736 cases on April 5 and 7 respectively.More regions have been forced to reintroduce lockdown-like curbs on movement due to rising cases of the coronavirus disease with second wave of infections continuing on a relentless march.On Wednesday, a complete lockdown was announced in Chhattisgarh’s capital Raipur from April 9 till April 19, while Punjab government extended its state-wide night curfew till April 30, even as Bengaluru ordered a ban on use of swimming pools and gyms in the city. Night curfew has also been imposed in areas under Lucknow Municipal Corporation from April 8 to 16 between 9pm and 6am.These are the latest in a string of regions across the country that have again started enforcing curbs ranging from night curfews to limits on public assembly as they struggle to reel from the second wave of Covid-19 cases.India’s second wave has now surpassed the peak of first wave, which peaked at 93,617 new cases for the week ending September 16, 2020. The seven-day average of daily cases is taken as a representation for Covid-19 case curve of a region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-vaccine-tally-crosses-88-3-million-doses-101617859652895.html
08-04-2021||India||Deep Sidhu was not there were farmers protest turned violent, no evidence against him, says lawyer||Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu is not behind the violence that erupted in the Capital on January 26, his lawyer said as Sidhu's bail plea came up at a Delhi court on Thursday. Deep Sidhu only posted a video on social media, for which he has been named in media as a main accused of the Republic Day violence, his lawyer said, as reported by news agency ANI, adding that every mistake is not a crime. The court has adjourned the matter for April 12 and asked for the transcripts of Sidhu's speeches. Claiming that he is no a member of any farmers' union, Deep Sidhu's lawyer said that the protest was called by the leaders of farmers' unions. Sidhu has not given an call to go to the Red Fort and he himself was not present when violence erupted. There is no evidence that he mobilised the crowd to breach the Red Fort, his lawyer said.On February 9, Delhi Police arrested Deep Sidhu on charges of inciting violence near the Red Fort on Republic Day.Farmers who have been protesting against the three laws passed in Parliament in September — Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 — took out a tractor march on Republic Day, after days of route negotiation with the Delhi Police.The march will not enter the Capital, it was decided and a separate route map was prepared for the tractor march. But soon after the march began, the Capital turned into a battle field with groups of protesters clashing with police at several locations. One group of protesters clashed with police at ITO and then entered the Red Fort and unfurled religious flags from its ramparts.As soon as his name cropped up in he case, Deep Sidhu was on the run. A cash reward was also announced for any information about him. Though he was in hiding, he was uploading videos on his Facebook, denying any links with what happened at the Red Fort on January 26.At the time of his arrest, Sidhu was planning to travel to Bihar to meet his wife. As he was waiting for a car arranged by his friend near Karnal Bypass, he was arrested.Police said Deep Sidhu congratulated the men who who hoisted flags at the Red Fort and also did a Facebook live from the complex. Police said he was seen entering the Red Fort with people carrying swords, sticks and flags and delivered speeches to incite people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deep-sidhu-was-not-there-when-farmers-protest-turned-violent-says-lawyer-101617858962024.html
08-04-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi to interact with CMs on current Covid-19 situation today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting via videoconferencing at 6:30pm with chief ministers of states and Union Territories to take stock of the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination drive as the country is in the middle of the most severe wave of infections yet.The meeting comes a day after Union health minister Harsh Vardhan accused Maharashtra, Delhi, and Punjab, all non-Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states, of politicising the issue of vaccination.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the state was left with 1.4 million doses, which would last only three days. He urged the Centre to prioritise shipments to the state, which is reporting close to 10 times higher number of new infections every day than the region with the next-highest numbers.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is attending the meeting, on Monday wrote to Modi for permission to vaccinate all people aged above 25 amid the spike in cases. His Delhi counterpart, Arvind Kejriwal, this week wrote to Modi saying the 45-year age bar be removed for vaccination. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh made similar demands earlier.In a statement on Wednesday, Vardhan hit out at what he said were attempts to “divert attention” from the slow vaccination drive. He targeted Punjab, Maharashtra, and Delhi. Vardhan cited figures and said the vaccinations in the three states were lower than that of several other states.The Union health ministry later sent letters to Maharashtra, Delhi, and Punjab and asked them to take “immediate corrective action” to ensure doses are delivered to health and front-line workers.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is busy with the election campaign, was unlikely to attend the meeting with Modi, people aware of the matter said. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay was expected to represent the state at the meeting.Maharashtra is the worst-hit state in the country. It reported 55,469 new Covid-19 cases and 297 deaths on Wednesday-- the highest in any state in India. Maharashtra had 4,72,283 active cases on Wednesday when the death toll went up to 56,330.Thursday’s meeting will be the second such interaction for Modi in five days to assess the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases.At the last meeting, it was decided to send central teams to Maharashtra, Punjab, and Chhattisgarh. The three states continue to report a surge in the number of daily cases. Modi also instructed officials present at the meeting to ensure strict implementation of the five-fold strategy of testing, tracing, treatment, and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination.More regions on Wednesday were forced to reintroduce curbs on movement due to rising Covid-19 cases amid the second wave of infections.India’s daily caseload, which recorded a gradual decline after September 17, has surged over the past week with over 100,000 fresh Covid-19 cases being reported on Monday. Maharashtra remains one of the main contributors to the daily spike reported. The other badly hit states are Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-interact-with-cms-on-current-covid-19-situation-today-101617858812871.html
08-04-2021||India||Covid-19 resurgence kills Goa tourism’s hope of strong end to season||Covid-19’s resurgence has killed Goa tourism industry’s hopes of a strong end to the season, forcing establishments to shut shop early, stakeholders said. The sector saw robust revival between November and January but is now hit by cancellations and fall in bookings as infections rise, especially in states feeding Goa tourism, such as Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat and Delhi. “The sector is witnessing a steep slowdown and we expect that to continue for at least another two months. One of the first victims of the rising number (of infections) is going to be optional travel with people either postponing travel themselves or being advised against travelling,” Nilesh Shah, the president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa, said. “The slowdown began in the month of March despite a brief spurt in arrivals on account of the Holi weekend and has continued its downward trend since then,” Shah said. Hoteliers and shack owners, too, have reported falling footfalls. “Our numbers (of footfalls) have witnessed a steep fall over the past few weeks and we don’t expect them to rise further this season. Even among the tourists that do come, we do not see anybody following protocol, which also puts us at risk,” John Lobo, a shack owner, said.Goa’s tourism season begins with the withdrawal of the monsoon in October and usually winds down towards the end of May as foreigners return home and domestic travellers choose cooler climes. This season, tourist footfalls at the main beaches in the months of November to January matched those of previous seasons, despite the pandemic. Last year, around 25-lakh tourists visited Goa up to December, a little over a quarter of normal arrivals, suggesting tourism was slowly picking up after lifting of travel restrictions following the lockdown. Prior to the pandemic, the state witnessed close to 90-lakh tourists including around 9-lakh foreigners.Goa Tourism Development Corporation conducted a statewide survey through KPMG to assess the impact of Covid-19 on Goa Tourism. As per the survey, the overall industry loss during lockdown has been estimated at ₹2,062 crore. Potential loss for the 2020-21 season has been pegged at ₹7,239 crore and the potential job cuts were to the tune of 1.22 lakh (58%).Goa’s tourism sector directly contributes 16.43% towards the state’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and also provides employment to nearly 35% of the state’s population that is dependent on the sector, according to official estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-resurgence-kills-goa-tourism-s-hope-of-strong-end-to-season-101617858152931.html
08-04-2021||India||Karnataka bus strike: Southern Western Railways to run additional trains till April 14||The South Western Railways (SWR) will run additional trains from April 8 to14 in wake of the indefinite strike by the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) demanding a hike in wages. The SWR will be running the additional trains to clear the extra rush of the upcoming Ugadi festival, on April 13, as bus services were hit in most parts of Karnataka due to the strike, news agency ANI reported SWR as saying.To soften the blow from the strike, the metro rail also increased the frequency of its services from 7am to 9pm. The state government has taken measures to ease the commute for the people by roping private transport operators, cabs and taxis, as well as by deploying more trains. However, many passengers have complained about private bus operators charging exorbitantly.Also Read | Mumbai weekend lockdown: Home delivery, maids allowed but conditions applyKarnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday appealed to workers to withdraw the strike and resume services. “I have fulfilled 8 out of 9 demands which were given by the unions in the last meeting. A salary hike of 8 per cent has also been considered. I have written to the union government for the approval, right after we get approval that will also be given,” he said.The indefinite strike was called by the workers of Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) and North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC), under the banner of Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League on April 7, despite the chief minister warning of invoking Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) against them.Passengers commuting for work, to and from distant locations have been impacted the most. Several universities have even postponed exams because of the strike.Also Read | Nasa teams up with Sia to celebrate upcoming Ingenuity test flight on Mars"Whenever you (CM) call us, we are ready for discussion. Our indefinite strike will continue tomorrow and thereafter until our demands are fulfilled... Our main demand is the Sixth Pay Commission and the government has to arrive at a decision,” honorary president of the KSRTC Employees League Kodihalli Chandrashekhar said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bus-strike-southern-western-railways-to-run-additional-trains-till-april-14-101617856868800.html
08-04-2021||India||Covid-19: India sees record rise of 126,789 cases, active caseload tops 900,000||India’s tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose by more than 100,000 fresh infections for a third time, with a record 126,789 cases being detected across the country in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Thursday morning. The country’s infection tally has risen to 12,928,574, the third-highest globally, behind the United States and Brazil respectively.India reported 103,558 cases on April 5 and 115,736 infections on April 7.In a concerning development, the country’s active caseload crossed 900,000 mark to reach 910,319, rising by 66,846 cases, and comprises 6.59% of the national tally. Also, with 59,258 more people recovering from the viral disease in the last 24 hours, total recoveries have increased to 11,851,393, with the recovery rate standing at 92.11%. Related fatalities, meanwhile, are at 166,862, with 685 more people succumbing to the virus in this period, and constitutes 1.30% of the overall caseload.Also Read | Covid vaccination now allowed at offices. Check details about eligibility, priceAccording to the govt-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), India’s latest positive cases are from 1,237,781 samples tested by it on April 7, taking the total samples tested by the ICMR to 252,677,379.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/rp7gxuliwzThe ministry’s dashboard further showed that more than 90 million doses of vaccine against the coronavirus disease have been administered in the country thus far. Total 90,198,673 doses have been administered, the dashboard showed, amid complaints of a shortage of doses in the country. On Wednesday, several states, including the worst-hit Maharashtra, complained of a shortage, inviting a fierce rebuttal from Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, who called this an “attempt to divert attention from slow vaccination drives.”Also Read | Centre, states face off over supply of Covid-19 vaccinesLater in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a virtual interaction with chief ministers as the country finds itself in the grip of a second wave of the pandemic, recording more daily cases than it did during last year’s first wave. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Modi also received his second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, after his first on March 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-sees-record-rise-of-126-789-cases-active-caseload-tops-900000-101617853981686.html
08-04-2021||India||Voting underway for Andhra Pradesh MPTC, ZPTC elections||Polling for Zilla Parishat Territorial Constituencies (ZPTC) and Mandal Parishat Territorial Constituencies (MPTC) in Andhra Pradesh are underway.Elections are being held for 515 ZPTC seats and 7220 MPTC in the state from 7 am to 5 pm.In 660 ZPTC, elections are being held for 515 ZPTC seats and 2058 candidates are in the fray. Elections are not being held for 8 seats for different reasons and elections are not being held for 11 seats as candidates of different political parties in the fray have died since March 2020 when the election notification was originally issued.In 10047 MPTC seats in the state, elections are being held for 7220 seats and as many as 18782 candidates are in the fray. Elections are not being held for 375 seats for different reasons and 2371 seats are unanimously elected. Elections are not being held for 81 seats as candidates of different political parties in the fray have died since March 2020.As many as 27751 polling stations are arranged in all 13 districts across the state. 6492 of them are identified as sensitive polling stations, 6314 are hyper-sensitive polling stations and 247 are Naxal affected polling stations.An adequate police force is deployed for the conduct of elections without any untoward incidents.Earlier, the election was postponed citing the Covid conditions as the reason.The State Election Commission (SEC) has announced that the election will be conducted on April 8 and counting would be conducted on April 10.However political parties JanaSena Party (JSP), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) have filed petitions in the High Court demanding fresh notification and fresh dates of the election with at least 4 weeks gap for model code of conduct.The High Court on April 6 issued interim orders staying the elections. The SEC and state government have filed the petition in the division bench of the High Court against the stay order.The High Court division bench on April 7 quashed the stay order, allowed for conduct of the election but ordered not to hold counting of votes until further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/voting-underway-for-andhra-pradesh-mptc-zptc-elections-101617854250554.html
08-04-2021||India||Kashmir journalists protest top cop’s advice on covering encounters, stirs||A senior Jammu and Kashmir police officer has advised journalists not to interfere in police operations during encounters or other law and order situations and told them to stop live media coverage of anti-terrorist operations, triggering protests by the journalists. Inspector general of police (IGP) Kashmir range, Vijay Kumar, had sent out the advisory to WhatsApp groups of journalists on Tuesday.“The freedom of speech and expression is subject to reasonable restrictions that should not violate other people’s right to life guaranteed under Art 21 or putting national security in jeopardy. Do not interfere in the professional and bonafide duty of police and security forces at the encounter sites. No operational content should be carried which is likely to incite violence or contains anything against maintenance of Law and Order or which promotes anti-national sentiment,” the statement attributing to Kumar said.Earlier, Kumar had directed senior superintendents of police (SSP) to take action against journalists who violate the order.The police officer’s advisory on coverage of anti-terror operations is in line with the 2015 advisory by the central government that asked news channels not to broadcast live anti-terror operations. The 2020 norms of journalistic conduct by the Press Council of India require the media to refrain from publishing or telecasting pictures in a manner that glorifies the perpetrators in the eyes of the public.Around one dozen media organisations in Kashmir including Kashmir Press Club and Kashmir Editors Guild have criticised Vijay Kumar for his advisory, saying it appeared to be a tactic to “coerce” journalists.A joint statement released by Kashmir Press Club on Wednesday evening said the media in Kashmir was aware of the journalistic guidelines, ethics and situations such as encounters and have always upheld these principles.“It also seems to be a part of the string of measures taken by the authorities to suppress freedom of the press in the region. Summoning journalists to police stations, filing FIRs and seeking informal explanations for their work has intensified in the past two years,” reads the joint statement.“Journalists in Kashmir have worked under tremendous pressure for the past several decades and despite facing threats to life, liberty and property, they upheld the principles of journalism and reporting,” added the statement.“Covering and reporting law and order situations in the region is one of the basic requirements for most news organisations and hence an essential part of the professional role of media professionals. Barring them from covering such events would mean stopping them from delivering their professional duties,” the statement said.The statement asked for clarification on the IG’s statement and asked the police officer to set the record straight and clarify the statement attributed to him.There have been incidents where journalists in Kashmir have alleged harassment at the hands of security forces. Recently, in a widely-circulated video, a policeman was seen kicking a photojournalist in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district while clashes between security forces and stone-throwing youth were on in the area near an encounter site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-journalists-protest-top-cop-s-advice-on-covering-encounters-stirs-101617853532479.html
08-04-2021||India||CJI Bobde refuses to cancel collegium meeting today||Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde has chosen not to cancel the scheduled meeting of the collegium on Thursday for recommending names of judges for the Supreme Court even after the notification for appointment of justice NV Ramana as the next CJI has come through two days ago, people familiar with the development said. The deliberation for the names this week was agreed upon by the CJI and the four most senior judges of the collegium during their last meet on March 17. However, after the President officially appointed justice Ramana as the CJI with effect from April 24, some of the judges in the top court were of the view that the meeting of the collegium for discussing the names for appointment to the apex court may not take place, people cited above said. However, CJI Bobde, until last evening, had not called off the meeting scheduled for Thursday afternoon.Also Read | SC order today on stalling deportation of Rohingyas from JammuThere is nothing in the memorandum of procedure (MoP) that prohibits or restricts the right of an outgoing CJI to make recommendations to the Union government for appointment of judges in the Supreme Court or high courts. But as a matter of propriety and self-regulation, previous CJIs have refrained from sending names to the government for judges in the Supreme Court. At the same time, CJIs have been regularly making recommendations for appointments in high courts even after designation of the next senior most judge as the CJI. The collegium for the high courts comprises three members – CJI and the two most senior judges. Previous two CJIs, justices Ranjan Gogoi and Dipak Misra, had also made recommendations for the high courts. The incumbent CJI, justice Bobde, has not been able to make any recommendation to the government for filling up vacancies in the top court. The Supreme Court is currently short of five judges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cjibobde-refuses-to-cancel-collegium-meeting-today-101617853112450.html
08-04-2021||India||Do not fear exams, value free time: PM Modi's mantra to students ahead of board exams||Prime Minister Narendra Modi told students on Wednesday not to fear exams but to see them as a test to improve themselves, and said social and family environment at times create pressure around students that is not desirable. He also advised students to value free time as without it life will be like a "robot" and should leave tension outside the examination hall. He noted that the students may have lost a year of their lives during Covid-19 pandemic but they have learnt lots of lessons and true value of essential things.Interacting with students virtually in his annual 'Parikasha Pe Charcha' programme, he said they sometime become over conscious regarding exams and asked them to take them as a small destination in their long lives. "The fear is mainly due to the atmosphere that has made examination be all and end all of life, which makes students over conscious. Life is very long and these are just a stage of life. Parents, teachers and peers should not put pressure on students. Exams should be treated as merely a good occasion to test oneself and not be turned into a question of life and death."Parents who are involved with their children know their strength and weaknesses. but they at times make children "instruments" of fulfilling their dreams and goals. If external pressure is not created, then students will not feel pressure of exams and their confidence will also grow," he said. The interaction, which lasted for more than ninety minutes, saw students, teachers and parents seeking guidance on various issues of importance to them from the Prime Minister.While acknowledging that one cannot be good in everything, Modi also asked students to not run away from any subject even if they find it difficult, and cited his own example of taking up more complex work in morning when he feels fresh and leaving easier parts to late night. "My view on trying easy questions first in the exams is slightly different. The most difficult part should be addressed with ‘fresh mind’ and this will make easy ones feel even easier. In my work as the Prime Minister and Chief Minister earlier, I preferred to tackle difficult issues in the morning with fresh mind."It is not important to be master of all the subjects even those people are highly successful who have a firm grasp over one specific subject," he said.Modi gave example of legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar who has given her entire life to single minded pursuit of music.Finding a subject difficult is not a limitation and one should not run away from difficult subjects, he added.The Prime Minister dwelled at length on the importance of free time."Free time should be valued as without it life will be like a robot. One values free time more when it is earned. More importantly, we should be careful about avoiding things during the free time that have the danger of eating away all the time. These things will leave you exhausted instead of refreshed. Free time is the best opportunity to learn new skills. Free time should be used in the activities which bring out the uniqueness of an individual, " he said.During the interaction, Modi emphasized the need of positive reinforcement and cautioned against negative motivation by scaring the child."With the active efforts of the elders, children find the light within as they observe the exemplary behaviour of the elders. Positive motivation augers well for growth and development of youngsters. First Part of the motivation is training and a trained mind precedes motivation," he said.In February, it was announced that Modi's annual interaction with students would be held online this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic."While we can say that students have lost a year of their lives due to Covid-19, but due to the pandemic, they have also learned a lot of lessons. They have learned the true value of many essential things," he said.The Prime Minister also exhorted students to contribute to ‘Vocal for Local’ campaign. He said the he wants the student to pass this test with cent percent marks and make India Aatmnirbhar.He also asked the students to get involved in Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav by collecting information about the events of Independence Struggle and write about them.The first edition of the prime minister's interaction programme with school and college students "Pariksha Pe Charcha 1.0" was held at the Talkatora Stadium on February 16, 2018.An online creative writing competition was conducted on various topics from February 17 to March 14, for children studying in classes of 9 to 12, teachers and parents.Almost 14 lakh participants have registered themselves in the contest for the fourth edition of Pariksha Pe Charcha. As many as 10.5 lakh students, 2.6 lakh teachers and 92,000 parents participated in the creative writing contest."More than 60 per cent of the students who participated are from classes 9 and 10. For the first time students from 81 foreign countries have participated in the pre-PPC creative writing contest," a senior official of the Ministry of Education said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-not-fear-exams-value-free-time-pm-modi-s-mantra-to-students-ahead-of-board-exams-101617852718860.html
08-04-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination now allowed at offices. Check details about eligibility, price||Covid-19 vaccination will be open for employees at their workplaces, both private and government, starting Sunday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Wednesday, adding that the move aims at increasing the pace of the immunisation drive across the country.“Organising vaccination at Work Place will not only be convenient to the staff at Work Places but also help to avoid travel and hence reducing the risk of exposure to COVID-19 virus” the ministry said in a statement.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The Covid-19 inoculation sessions can be organised at offices that have about 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries, the health ministry said in a letter to all states and Union territories and informed that vaccination can be conducted by tagging these workplaces with an existing Covid Vaccination Center (CVC).Here’s everything you need to know about Covid-19 vaccination at officesVaccination ProcessWho is eligible?Which vaccines will be administered?How much will the Covid-19 vaccine cost?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-now-allowed-at-offices-check-details-about-eligibility-price-101617850969631.html
08-04-2021||India||India-US partnership to ensure renewable energy target is achieved by 2030||The US and India are likely to collaborate on a clean technology agenda for 2030 to ensure India meets its target of 450GW renewable energy capacity.Soon after US special presidential envoy for climate John Kerry called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the PM announced on Wednesday that the two countries can collaborate on a 2030 agenda to facilitate affordable access to green technologies and requisite finance.Kerry also tweeted: “Thank you, @narendramodi, for the productive discussion. India has an ambitious 2030 climate agenda, having set a target of 450GW of renewable energy. Looking for shared solutions to drive progress faster.”On Tuesday, Kerry said in his address to the South Asia Women in Energy (SAWIE) Leadership Summit that it is already cheaper to build solar in India than anywhere else in the world. “That kind of urgency is exactly what we need to confront global climate change. We are in the decisive decade for action,” he said, adding that he sees India becoming the cleantech hub of Asia.Also Read | India ‘getting the job done’ on climate crisis, says John KerryUnder the Paris Agreement, India has three quantifiable nationally determined contributions (NDCs), which include lowering the emissions intensity of its GDP by 33-35% compared to 2005 levels by 2030; increase total cumulative electricity generation from fossil free energy sources to 40% by 2030; create additional carbon sink of 2.5 to 3 billion tons through additional forest and tree cover.In its Biennial Update Report to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) submitted in February, India said it has progressively continued decoupling of economic growth from greenhouse gas emissions. India’s emission intensity of gross domestic product (GDP) has reduced by 24% between 2005 and 2016. India is therefore on track to meet its voluntary declaration to reduce the emission intensity of GDP by 20-25% from 2005 levels by 2020. It is implementing one of the largest renewable energy expansion programmes globally with a target of achieving 175GW of renewable energy capacity by 2022 and later up to 450GW. Installed capacity of solar energy in India has increased by more than 14 times from 2.63GW in March 2014 to 36.91GW in November 2020.The new partnership with US on clean technology and finance is likely to accelerate the achievement of these targets so that India can enhance its ambition and NDCs in future, sources said. The details of the 2030 deal are yet to be spelt out.There has been a lot of speculation among officials and former diplomats that US may be nudging India to also announce a net zero emissions target by 2050.Senior environment ministry officials said one of the key objectives of Kerry’s visit is to get India to join the countries that have announced a target to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. In September 2020, China announced that it will peak its GHG emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060. The White House announced on January 27 that President Joe Biden will take steps to put the United States (US) on an “irreversible path” to a net zero economy by 2050. Consequently, Biden has also called for a summit of major emitting nations on April 22 in order to persuade them to commit to ambitious mitigation targets.Independent experts have cautioned that India should do a careful balancing act when it comes to a net zero emissions target, keeping in sight India’s domestic circumstances.“A net zero target has no flesh to it. It is not real. It is an aspirational target. Firstly, developed countries considering their historical emissions, should have taken on advanced deadlines. Secondly, even if 2050 is the deadline for them to achieve net zero emissions, there are no pathways to it. The US will definitely miss the 2030 targets under the Paris Agreement. Net zero emissions target is a way to kick the ball in the future. India should demand credible action now. China has announced a net zero target for 2060 and is continuing to build coal power plants,” said Sunita Narain, director general at Centre for Science and Environment.“There is a lot of pressure on India to phase out coal. India had also planned to retire old thermal power plants but with a recent notification from the environment ministry that has gone for a six. India has not just extended the time period for thermal power plants to comply with emission norms but it has made it easy for thermal power plants to keep polluting. The cost of non-compliance as per the new notification is minuscule compared to cost of compliance,” added Narain.The environment ministry had issued a notification on March 31 with staggered timelines for thermal power plants to comply with emission norms. It also specified the environmental compensation to be paid by plants that don’t comply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiaus-partnership-to-ensure-india-achieves-renewable-energy-target-by-2030-101617852572591.html
08-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Key Delhi borders remain shut due to farmers' protest||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain closed, traffic divertedDelhi’s Singhu and Tikri borders continue to be blocked on Thursday by farmers who have been demanding the withdrawal of three contentious farm laws for last four months. Read moreMaharashtra Covid vaccine shortage: Pune, Panvel stop drive, Centre dismisses claimPanvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) in Maharashtra has issued an official notice saying the drive is being halted for the time being because of unavailability of vaccines. Read moreMaharashtra records highest single-day spike with 59,907 new Covid-19 casesThe state’s total tally stood at 3,173,261 and death toll 56,652. The number of active cases also crossed the 500,000-mark with 501,559 active infections. Read moreRahul Dravid's guide for haters to enjoy the IPLWho better to deep dive and demystify the IPL for boomers than Rahul Dravid, former captain of India and Rajasthan Royals, coach of India-A and India U19? Read moreVarun Dhawan posts new flow workout video, Aparshakti and Dia Mirza say it's aagVarun Dhawan recently posted a new fitness video of himself in which the actor can be seen doing some extremely difficult flow exercises with the utmost ease. Read moreDia Mirza celebrates birthday of stepdaughter Samaira with husband Vaibhav Rekhi and his ex-wife SunainaDia Mirza celebrated the 12th birthday of her stepdaughter Samaira recently. The birthday girl's mom Sunaina has shared a video from the love-filled bash. Read moreEAM Jaishankar, Bahraini counterpart hold 3rd High Joint Commission meetingExternal Affairs Minister S Jaishankar met his Bahraini counterpart at the Hyderabad House in New Delhi on Wednesday. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-key-delhi-borders-remain-shut-due-to-farmers-protest-and-all-the-latest-news-101617850832531.html
08-04-2021||India||SC order today on stalling deportation of Rohingyas from Jammu||The Supreme Court will on Thursday deliver its order on a plea seeking the release of at least 150 Rohingya refugees detained in a Jammu sub-jail and stalling their deportation.The plea has sought an urgent intervention by the apex court since those detained in Jammu could at any time be deported to Myanmar from where they fled because of persecution.A bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian reserved its order on the plea on March 26.The Centre on March 26 opposed the plea by Mohammad Salimullah while emphasising that India cannot become “the international capital of illegal immigrants”.The government called the Rohingya “absolutely illegal immigrants” who posed “serious threats to the national security” and also contended that the right to settle in India could not be asserted by illegal immigrants under the garb of the Constitution’s Article 21, which guarantees the right to life and liberty. Also Read | Centre yet to clear HC judges’ names pending for 20 monthsOn March 6, on the instructions of the Union ministry of home affairs, the Jammu & Kashmir administration started a verification drive of the Rohingya, and moved some of them to a holding centre, pending their potential deportation.There are close to 7,000 Rohingya refugees in Jammu & Kashmir, numbers that have increased since the late 2000s when they first arrived in the region after escaping from Myanmar, where they were facing religious persecution. India has previously deported Rohingya refugees.Appearing for the Centre, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on March 26 submitted that a similar application to stop the deportation of Rohingya from Assam was dismissed by the top court in 2018 and that the present application must meet the same fate.He added the Centre has begun the process of deporting Rohingya after receiving a confirmation from the Myanmar government regarding their nationality, and that the apex court should steer clear of the “diplomatic issue” since it fell within the exclusive domain of the executive.Representing the Jammu & Kashmir administration, senior advocate Harish Salve also cautioned the bench against “starting a dangerous trend” by interfering with a subject related to illegal immigrants and diplomatic relations with another country.Salimullah’s lawyer, Prashant Bhushan, alluded to a January 2020 judgment of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) that highlighted the persecution faced by the Rohingya in Myanmar.The Centre’s affidavit maintained that it has to first secure the interests of its own citizens before those of illegal immigrants who, it said, were casting a burden on the already depleting natural resources of the country in addition to posing a security threat.“The Constitution makes it abundantly clear that India as a sovereign nation, has the first and foremost Constitutional obligation and duty towards its citizens and to ensure that the demographic and social structure of the country is not changed to its detriment, the resulting socio-economic problems do not occur to the prejudice of the citizens and the resources of the nation are utilised to fulfil the fundamental rights of its own citizens and are not diverted to the detriment of the citizens, due to influx of illegal migrants into the territory of India,” said the affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-order-today-on-stalling-deportation-of-rohingyas-from-jammu-101617852092776.html
08-04-2021||India||New Zealand suspends entry for travellers from India over Covid-19 surge||New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern on Thursday announced a temporary ban on travellers from India starting April 11 due to the massive increase in Covid-19 cases, news agency Reuters reported."I want to emphasize that while arrivals of COVID from India has prompted this measure, we are looking at how we manage high risk points of departure generally. This is not a country specific risk assessment...," Jacinda Ardern was quoted as saying by Reuters.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The suspension of entry for all travellers, including New Zealand’s own citizens, begins from 4pm local time on April 11 and will be in place until April 28, the New Zealand PM was quoted as saying by the agency. During this time the government will look at risk management measures to resume travel, she added.The temporary ban comes at a time when India has been reporting over 100,00 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) daily for the past three days. The country’s total case tally has gone up to 12.8 million, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Meanwhile, New Zealand has virtually eliminated the virus within its borders, and has not reported any community transmission locally for about 40 days, Reuters reported, adding that the country has been reviewing its border settings as more people with infections came recently, majority from India. New Zealand logged 23 new positive coronavirus cases at its border on Thursday, of which 17 were from India.Jacinda Ardern said the rolling average of positive cases has witnessed a steady rise and it hit seven cases on Wednesday, which is the nation’s highest since last October. The country also reported one new locally infected case in a worker who was employed at a coronavirus managed isolation facility on Thursday. The 24-year-old was not vaccinated against the viral disease yet.Following the massive spike in cases in India, several states have imposed restrictions on the travelling and have made it compulsory for passengers to carry a negative Covid-19 report while crossing borders. The government has speeded up the process of vaccination across the country to immunise more and more people against the virus. At present, everyone aged 45 years or above is eligible to get the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-zealand-suspends-entry-for-travellers-from-india-over-covid-19-surge-101617851537766.html
08-04-2021||India||Maharashtra records highest single-day spike with 59,907 new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 59,907 new Covid-19 infections, its highest single-day spike, and 322 fatalities, taking its total tally to 3,173,261 and death toll to 56,652. The number of active cases also crossed the 500,000-mark with 501,559 active infections. On Wednesday, Mumbai reported 10,442 cases and 24 deaths, taking the tally to 483,042 and toll to 11,856. Mumbai also has 83,185 active cases, the second-highest in the state, after Pune, which has 90,048 active cases and which reported 5,637 new cases on Wednesday.The high number of cases has started burdening the state’s health infrastructure. According to data from the state health department on Wednesday, 80.51% of isolation beds for Covid-19 patients across the state are occupied. It also stated that 32.77% oxygen beds and 60.94% ICU beds are also occupied across the state.Also Read | Covid-19: Night curfew in Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur, PrayagrajIn his address last week, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had indicated that the availability of beds will be a huge concern if cases continue to rise at the current pace -- between April 1 and 7, the state reported over 360,000 new cases.Dr Pradip Vyas, principal secretary, state health department, in a meeting chaired by Thackeray on Wednesday, said as per an estimation by the Centre, the number of active cases in the state is expected to increase to 1.2 million by the end of the month, thus showing an over 30-fold jump from February. On February 11, the state had 30,265 active cases. If compared to the first wave, there were 310,752 active cases on September 17, 2020, the state said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-59-907-new-covid-19-cases-101617851252319.html
08-04-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: Night curfew in Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur, Prayagraj amid Covid-19 surge||Amid the rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country, the Uttar Pradesh government imposed a night curfew in many districts of the state, including Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur, and Prayagraj, which will be effective from Thursday night and continue till April 30. The timing of the curfew is different for every district.In Lucknow, the night curfew will be imposed from 9pm to 6am, and will continue till April 30, news agency ANI reported police commissioner of Lucknow DK Thakur as saying.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19“In Lucknow, all government, non-government or privately managed schools, colleges, and educational institutions and coaching institutes are closed, except medical, nursing and para-medical institutes, with immediate effect for the control of Covid-19 infection till April 15, 2021,” district magistrate of the capital tweeted in Hindi.“However, in recognised educational institutions, examinations/practicals will be conducted in strict compliance with the Covid-19 protocol,” the magistrate added.परन्तु मान्यता प्राप्त शैक्षणिक संस्थानों में परीक्षाएं / प्रैक्टिकल कोविड 19 प्रोटोकॉल का कठोरता से अनुपालन करते हुए आयोजित किए जा सकेंगे। https://t.co/9BRMgDuoh1The district magistrate of Kanpur said the eight-hour night curfew will come into force in the district between 10pm and 6am. "A curfew would come into force in Kanpur from 10 pm till 6 am on April 8, to continue till April 30,” ANI quoted the magistrate as saying. The number of active cases in the district currently stands at 1,811.Varanasi will observe a week-long curfew starting from 9pm. “Varanasi to observe a week-long curfew starting at 9 pm on April 8," ANI quoted Varanasi Commissioner of Police as saying.In Prayagraj, the night curfew will come into effect from 10pm and will continue till 8am.Also Read | Covid-19 in Mumbai: In second wave, kids more symptomatic“Amid a surge of Covid-19 cases, night curfew (10 pm to 8 am) will be imposed in Prayagraj from tonight till further notice. Essential services will be exempted,” the agency quoted the district magistrate as saying.The second wave of Covid-19 is having a massive impact on the country as it reported more than 115,000 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours on Wednesday. Uttar Pradesh is among the seven states that have shown a rise in daily Covid-19 new cases. Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala contribute more than 80 per cent to the new infections reported on Wednesday, as per the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-night-curfew-in-lucknow-varanasi-kanpur-prayagraj-amid-covid-19-surge-101617850515690.html
08-04-2021||India||BJP slams Mamata Banerjee’s ‘block CRPF’ remark, goes to election commission||As Union home minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee campaigned for the fourth of the eight-phase elections, the state chief minister drew flak from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for asking women voters to gherao central force personnel.Referring to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) deployed for security around polling booths, Banerjee, while addressing a rally at Cooch Behar district in north Bengal, said, “Keep an eye on CRPF personnel. Gherao them because they do not let people cast their votes. While one team will engage them in conversations the other team will cast votes. This is how everyone can exercise their franchise.”State BJP leader Shishir Bajoria lodged a complaint with the chief electoral officer (CEO) in Kolkata and demanded that Banerjee be stopped from campaigning and her party derecognized. The statement against security forces was “seditious and anti-nation,” said the letter written by the BJP leader.An official at the CEO’s office said the district magistrate of Cooch Behar has been asked to submit a report.The party also alleged that the car of its state president Dilip Ghosh, who was campaigning at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar, was stoned by TMC workers after Banerjee made the remarks.“We told the CEO that by making such statements, Banerjee may trigger untoward incidents,” said Bajoria. The BJP’s letter said the vehicle of the party’s Sitai constituency (also in Cooch Behar) candidate Dipak Kumar Roy was vandalised by TMC workers who took “a cue from her (Banerjee’s) statements.”Talking to the media in Cooch Behar, Ghosh said, “People who were returning from Mamata Banerjee’s rally first shouted provoking remarks and attacked us with sticks, bombs and brickbats. They were carrying TMC flags. We somehow managed to speed away. The windows of my car were damaged. Several other vehicles were vanalised too.” Ghosh also tweeted a photo of an injury on his left arm. He alleged policemen deployed at the spot retreated.While the TMC’s Cooch Behar district president Partha Pratim Roy dismissed the allegation, the party’s state spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said, “There is terrible infighting in the BJP in that region. It is quite possible that the alleged vandalism was fallout of that. TMC flags can be found everywhere. Anybody can pick them up. The TMC is not involved in this.”Mamata Banerjee also alleged that at Raidighi in South 24 Parganas, where polls were held in the third phase, the BJP distributed a coupon among local people promising ₹1000 for a vote for the party. The TMC also shared on social media an image of the alleged coupon which has a photograph of the Prime Minister."Do not take money from the BJP for casting votes. It is a sin," Banerjee said at a rally in north Bengal."This is absolutely baseless. Our party never distributes such coupons. The EC will find out the truth if it conducts a probe," said Bengal BJP's chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya.Also Read: Mamata Banerjee draws EC ire for remarks on minority votes, poll body sends noticeOn Wednesday, Amit Shah led several back to back rallies in Hooghly, Howrah and Kolkata for more than a dozen candidates, including Union minister Babul Supriyo, who is contesting from Tollygunge in south Kolkata and former TMC minister Rajib Banerjee, who is in the race at Domjur in Howrah from where he was elected twice.In Howrah district, Shah ate lunch at the residence of Sishir Sana, a rickshaw driver. He flew from one district to the next in a chopper.During the roadshows, Shah made short speeches from the vehicles that carried him and the BJP candidates. Shah said his party will win anything between 63 and 68 of the 91 assembly seats, where polls were held in the first three phases. Polls at 44 seats in five north and south Bengal districts will be held on April 10.“Do you want a government that thrives on kickbacks and serves only the nephew?” Shah told the crowd at Sankrail in Howrah without naming Abhishek Banerjee, the chief minister’s nephew, who, too, held roadshows in the district.Adityanath, who is on a two-day tour of Bengal, addressed rallies in the Darjeeling hill region where polls will be held in the fifth phase on April 17. The last phase of polling will be held on April 29. Results will be announced on May 2. The BJP has sworn to win more than 200 of the state’s 294 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-slams-mamata-banerjee-s-block-crpf-remark-goes-to-election-commission-101617850191057.html
08-04-2021||India||Nurses from Punjab, Puducherry administer PM Modi’s second Covid-19 vaccine dose||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday received his second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi. For the second dose, PM Modi was injected by sister Nisha Sharma from Punjab, while sister Niveda from Puducherry, who gave the Prime Minister his first shot on March 1, was present for the second one as well.Also Read | Modi takes second dose of Covaxin at AIIMS, says 'get your shot soon'Sister Rosamma Anil, from Kerala, accompanied Niveda for PM Modi’s first dose last month.“Got my second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS today. Vaccination is among the few ways we have, to defeat the virus. If you are eligible for the vaccine, get your shot soon. Register on CoWin.gov.in,” tweeted PM Modi with an image of him receiving his second jab. On Thursday, he chose an early morning slot for the vaccination, just as he did for the first dose.Got my second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS today.Vaccination is among the few ways we have, to defeat the virus.If you are eligible for the vaccine, get your shot soon. Register on https://t.co/hXdLpmaYSP. pic.twitter.com/XZzv6ULdanDescribing her experience, Sharma told news agency ANI, "He spoke to us. it was a memorable moment for me as I got to meet him and vaccinate him." Niveda, meanwhile, said, "Today I got another opportunity to meet him and vaccinate him. I was elated again. He spoke to us, we even clicked pictures with him."I am the vaccinator who gave the first dose of COVAXIN to PM Narendra Modi. Today I got another opportunity to meet him & vaccinate him for the second time. I was elated again. He spoke to us, we even clicked pictures with him: Sister P Niveda who vaccinated PM Modi today. pic.twitter.com/1k7PTezeqEModi was administered a shot of Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covaxin. At the time he received the first dose, the vaccine was mired in controversy as there were allegations that it was given approval without the completion of phase 3 trials. Modi getting injected with Covaxin was seen as a message by the Prime Minister to clear doubts surrounding the vaccine, as well as a call to people to shed vaccine hesitancy.Also Read | PM Modi to interact with chief ministers over Covid-19 surge, vaccination planPrime Minister Modi, aged 71, got his first dose on a day vaccination opened for those aged 60 or above, as well for those between 45-59 years of age, but with co-morbidities. India began its vaccine drive on January 16, with healthcare workers and frontline workers in line to be vaccinated first. In the ongoing third phase of the drive, which commenced on April 1, vaccination was opened for everyone aged above 45.Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s vaccine is the other shot cleared by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). The Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is manufacturing the shot in the country as Covishield.As of Thursday morning, more than 87 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in India, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) dashboard shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nurses-from-punjab-puducherry-administer-pm-modi-s-second-covid-19-vaccine-dose-101617849724980.html
08-04-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid vaccine shortage: Pune, Panvel stop drive, Centre dismisses claim||Covid-19 vaccination took an unexpected turn as Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday said Maharashtra has repeatedly failed to control the spread of the pandemic and now to divert attention from its failure, the government is complaining of vaccine shortage, which is a "baseless allegation". Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the state has 14 lakh doses of vaccines which would last only three days. Panvel Municipal Corporation issued an official notice saying the drive is being halted for the time being because of unavailability of vaccines, news agency ANI reported."Vaccination drive temporarily halted in all government and private inoculation centres in Panvel, due to the unavailability of Covid-19 vaccines. Centres will be reopened once vaccines are back in stock."Here is all you need to know about the reality of vaccine shortage claims> While the Centre says there can be no shortage of vaccination as the stock is monitored through Co-WIN, many vaccination centres in Maharashtra are being closed temporarily owing to vaccine shortage.> Even Mumbai has claimed an impending crisis as mayor Kishori Pednekar said there were 1.76 lakh doses of Covishield till Tuesday afternoon.> According to the Maharashtra government's claim, its vaccine stock will deplete by today or tomorrow.> Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday said the allegations of vaccine shortage is a tactic to divert attention from the failure of the state government.> Maharashtra has increased the number of vaccine doses it is administering per day, which the government is citing as the reason behind the shortage of vaccines. > But the health ministry on Wednesday claimed that its vaccination numbers are far from impressive. According to ministry data, Maharashtra has vaccinated just only 86 per cent of health workers with first dos and 41 per cent healthcare workers with the second dose. Among frontline workers, Maharashtra has vaccinated only 73% with first dose. As far as senior citizens are concerned, Maharashtra has vaccinated just 25 per cent.> In a strongly worded statement, Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday said, "The performance of Maharashtra government in terms of vaccinating healthcare workers and frontline workers is also not great. It is shocking to see how the state Government is putting Maharashtrians in danger by letting people escape institutional quarantine mandate for the sake of their personal Vasuli. Overall, as the state has lurched from one crisis to another, it seems as if the state leadership is happily sleeping at the wheels."> Nationalist Congress Party MP Sule has claimed 109 vaccination centres in Pune district remained shut on Wednesday as they had no stock. "Several thousand people went back without being vaccinated because the vaccines stock was exhausted...Our momentum may be lost due to lack of stock," the MP tweeted.109 centers remained shut today because they had no stock of vaccines.Our momentum may be lost due to lack of stock,we remain determined to vaccinate every consenting person to save lives,to break the chain of infection and to get our economy back on its feet at the earliest..2/3> Following repeated appeals to the Centre by Maharashtra politicians, the Centre wrote a letter saying a total of 1,06,19,190 doses have been made available to the state and the total consumption, including wastage, is 90,53,523 doses.> Union minister Prakash Javadekar said while Maharashtra has 7,43,280 vaccine doses in the pipeline, the state has 23 lakh doses available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtras-panvel-stops-vaccination-citing-shortage-centre-dismisses-claim-101617848699748.html
08-04-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with chief ministers over Covid-19 surge, vaccination plan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a virtual meeting with chief ministers of all states on Thursday to discuss the current Covid-19 situation and the vaccination strategy ahead as the country reels under the second wave of infections.The meeting comes at a time when India has logged a record over 126,200 daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday, which has compelled more regions across the country to reintroduce lockdown-like curbs to break the chain of transmission.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here PM Modi is meeting with state authorities five days after he held a high-level meeting to review the pandemic situation and the immunisation drive that is underway. During the meeting, the Prime Minister directed officials to ensure sustainable Covid-19 management and told them to make the citizens aware of the need to continue “Jan Bhagidari and Jan Andolan for COVID-19 management,” his office said in a statement.He also assured that if the five-fold strategy of testing, tracing, treatment, Covid-appropriate behaviour, and vaccination is implemented with utmost seriousness and commitment, it would be effective in curbing the spread of the pandemic.PM Modi has directed that central teams of public health specialists and clinicians be sent to Maharashtra, Punjab, and Chhattisgarh, the states reporting ‘disproportionate number of deaths’, to review the situation.Meanwhile, states and Union territories have imposed multiple measures to control the spread of the viral disease. Maharashtra has announced night curfew, weekend lockdowns and has also imposed Section 144 during the daytime. While Delhi too is observing a night curfew, Chattisgarh’s Raipur district will be under an 11-day complete lockdown, the administration said. Chattisgarh is currently India’s second-largest Covid hot spot after Maharashtra.Experts say the number of daily cases, which are rising at an alarming rate, stress the need to focus sharply on getting the disease under control by expanding the vaccination drive in urban areas, especially large cities.According to an HT analysis, almost half (48%) of all Covid-19 cases reported in India in March are from urban areas, which are home to just 14% of the population, with cities having the largest proportion of new infections since June 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-chief-ministers-over-covid-19-surge-vaccination-plan-101617847248160.html
08-04-2021||India||PM Modi gets second dose of Covaxin at AIIMS, says 'get your shot soon'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday took the second dose ofBharat Biotech's Covaxin at AIIMS and once again urged everyone to get inoculated as vaccination is "among the few ways to defeat the virus". "If you are eligible for the vaccine, get your shot soon," PM Modi tweeted after getting inoculated urging people to get registered on cowin.gov.in for vaccination.Got my second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS today.Vaccination is among the few ways we have, to defeat the virus.If you are eligible for the vaccine, get your shot soon. Register on https://t.co/hXdLpmaYSP. pic.twitter.com/XZzv6ULdanOn March 1, when India's vaccination drive was opened to senior citizens and people with comorbidities above the age of 45, PM Modi received the first dose of his vaccine. Puducherry's Sister P Niveda administered him the first dose. “Took my first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS. Remarkable how our doctors and scientists have worked in quick time to strengthen the global fight against COVID-19. I appeal to all those who are eligible to take the vaccine. Together, let us make India COVID-19 free!” he tweeted after receiving the first shot.Covid-19: Urban hot spots drive surge, in greater need of jab scale-upFollowing a gap of about 37 days, PM Modi took the second dose of the vaccine, which is supposed to be taken within four to eight weeks of the first dose. P Niveda was also present during the administration of the second dose of the vaccine along with Punjab's nurse Nisha Sharma, news agency ANI reported.Watch: PM Modi receives second dose of Covid vaccine; nurses share experienceAs India is stepping up its battle against the second wave of the pandemic, which has hit the country hard with number of daily infections rising over 1 lakh, the vaccination drive is now open to everyone above the age of 45 years.So far, India has administered 8.83 crore vaccine doses, till Wednesday 8pm, including healthcare workers, frontline workers and people above the age of 45 years — with and without morbidities.The Centre has also allowed vaccination of the priority groups at work places — both government and private, which will start from April 11.On Thursday, PM Modi will interact with the chief ministers of states and Union territories to review the pandemic situation and the vaccination progress of the country, as several states are bringing back strict restriction to contain the spread of the infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-takes-second-dose-of-covaxin-at-aiims-says-get-your-shot-soon-101617846836947.html
08-04-2021||India||China capable of launching cyber attacks, disrupting systems: CDS Rawat||Owing to differences in capabilities in the cyber domain, China is capable of launching cyber attacks against India and disrupting a large number of systems, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said on Wednesday.“We know China is capable of launching cyber attacks on us. And that he (China) can disrupt a large amount of our systems,” Rawat said in response to a question after delivering a talk on “Shaping the Armed Forces to Meet Likely Current and Future Challenges” at an event organised by the Vivekananda International Foundation.To counter this problem, Rawat added, cyber agencies in the military are working to ensure that the “downtime and effect of a cyber attack” do not last long. “We should be able to overcome cyber attacks and continue with our systems either through an alternative or preventive means through firewalls. So, while we are trying to create firewalls for cyber attacks, we are quite sure that they (China) will be able to break through the firewalls. This is one thing we are looking at and addressing in a serious manner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-capable-of-launching-cyber-attacks-disrupting-systems-cds-rawat-101617845542641.html
08-04-2021||India||Navy to seek nod for expansion of nuke, diesel submarine fleet||The Indian Navy intends to approach the government for authorised force levels of nuclear-powered and diesel-electric attack submarines in addition to the ballistic missile submarines with Strategic Force Command (SFC), people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.The navy’s new plan, inspired by a similar cabinet authorisation for 42 squadrons of the Indian Air Force, will seek approvals for six nuclear-powered attack submarines and 18 diesel attack submarines, a South Block official said.The authorisation for the diesel subs would include those with an air-independent propulsion system, or AIP, which ensures these submarines can remain under surface for a longer period and are quieter than the nuclear-powered submarine.The proposed move comes at a time the Navy is finalising plans to seek approval from the Defence Acquisition Committee to build six nuclear-powered attack submarines, or SSNs, as part of the defence establishment’s continuing focus on expanding the Navy’s capabilities to counter the rise of China’s navy in the Indian Ocean Region and beyond.Also Read| Eye on China, India’s plan for 6 nuclear-powered attack submarines back on trackIndia currently has only one Akula class SSN on lease from Russia, Akula-II nuclear-powered attack boat INS Chakra, and 15 diesel-electric submarines, including the Scorpene-class submarine INS Kalvari. While three of the Kalvari class submarines have been commissioned, the remaining three will be fitted with the AIP system that makes the submarine more lethal than SSNs because its low radar signature minimises the possibility of detection.The SSNs play a huge role in sea denial to the adversary and have the capability to remain under the sea without surfacing except for replenishing food stocks and other logistics.The Indian Strategic Forces Command, which is part of the Nuclear Command Authority and is responsible for the management of the country’s strategic nuclear weapons stockpile, has one 6,000 tonnes nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine (SSBN) INS Arihant. The next SSBN, INS Arighat, is set to be commissioned in 2022, the 75th year of Independence and will have K-15 and K-4 nuclear-capable submarine-launched intermediate-range ballistic missiles on board. The K-15 is expected to have a range of up to 1,500 km while the K-4 is likely to have a maximum range of 3,500 km. Both missiles are being developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation, or DRDO.The DRDO also has long-term plans to develop and test-fire the K5 missile, which will have a range of 5,000km, the same range as the Agni-5 surface-to-surface missile.The SSBN is the most potent of the nuclear triad due to its survival capabilities and forms the backbone of India’s second-strike capability due to its no-first-use (NFU) policy as spelt out in the draft nuclear doctrine.India’s strategic ally France is willing to jointly design and develop SSNs with India, a partnership that will assume importance when Prime Minister Narendra Modi goes to Paris to hold a bilateral summit with President Emmanuel Macron after the completion of the India-EU summit at Lisbon on May 8. The French SSNs are based in Toulon in southern France, and its ballistic missile submarines in the port city of Brest in northwestern France.India’s national security establishment is already in touch with its French counterparts to ensure that the Indian Navy builds up enough deterrence in the Indo-Pacific in the face of the rapidly expanding PLA Navy. The Indian Navy expects the PLA Navy to start sending carrier strike force patrols to the Indian Ocean by 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-to-seek-nod-for-expansion-of-nuke-diesel-submarine-fleet-101617845572473.html
08-04-2021||India||Faster global growth driven primarily by US, China, India: World Bank president||There is now a faster global growth driven primarily by the US, China and India, World Bank president David Malpass has said even as he expressed concern over growing inequality due to the Covid-19 pandemic.He said here is also the concern of inequality in terms of vaccinations and median income that's not going up very fast for some countries."But there's also the concern that there's inequality. Inequality in terms of vaccinations, in terms of median income that's not going up very fast for some of the countries and may even be going down. There's the interest rate differential, where poor countries face much higher interest rates and they haven't gone down the way global interest rates have done," he said."There's the good news that there is faster global growth driven primarily by the US, China, and India, having strong rebounds," Malpass told reporters at the start of the Spring meeting of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank.The annual spring meeting, which is being held virtually, focusses on vaccines, climate change, debt and recovery.Malpass said there is an inequality in terms of the bankruptcy process, which is not available to sovereign countries, so the poorer countries do not have a way out of these very heavy debt burdens."There's also inequality in terms of access to credit with a lot of the stimulus going to the upper end, and people that don't have pristine credit ratings, for example, or small businesses, new entrants, women that would like to start a business, having great difficulty getting credit," he said.According to Malpass, the World Bank and the IMF are working closely together to have successful implementation of the G20's Common Framework to deal with unsustainable debt situations.There was a call for the private sector to provide comparable treatment with regard to debt, he said.Responding to a question, Malpass said that the slowness in the vaccine rollout, particularly in Europe, is concerning."It's disappointing. We see in the news everyday some of the various challenges that the countries face. I fervently believe or wish for and hope for a faster rollout as excesses become available in other countries. And, we can look to the regulatory agencies to work smoothly toward their approvals so that more vaccines can be approved," he said.He said that people getting vaccinated is an important part of their safety and global recovery."So, I share that sentiment that Germany said today at the G20 that there may be a softening of their GDP (Gross Domestic Product) growth forecast related to the vaccine problem, and it redoubles everyone's urgency and efforts to have more vaccines available worldwide," Malpass added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/faster-global-growth-driven-primarily-by-us-china-india-world-bank-president-101617845175916.html
08-04-2021||India||India so far contributed over USD 1 million to UN Counter terrorism fund||India has till date contributed over USD 1 million to the UN Trust fund for Counterterrorism Fund, including for Africa, the country's Permanent Representative TS Tirumurti said."India is proud to contribute USD 500,000 to the UN Trust Fund for Counter-Terrorism. India's total contribution to the Fund so far = USD 1,050,000. Keen to continue our work with @UN_OCT (United Nations Office of Counter-Terrorism) on specific programs/projects to further our common objective to combat terrorism," the Indian Mission in New York wrote in a tweet on Wednesday.Tirumurti in a tweet said that India "continues its strong & focused commitment to help member states build capacity to prevent & counter-terrorism. More than US$ 1 million contributed to the Fund by Flag of India till date, including for Africa."Underlining that terrorism is an attack against human rights, India in March said it has been at the forefront of global counter-terrorism efforts and does not see any contradiction between countering terrorism and promotion and protection of human rights.New Delhi said that India supports capacity building and technical assistance programmes extended to the Member States by the UN Counter-Terrorism Centre: including for building their capacity to promote and support human rights while countering terrorism.The UN Trust Fund for Counter-Terrorism was established by the Secretary-General in 2009 under DPA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-so-far-contributed-over-usd-1-million-to-un-counter-terrorism-fund-101617843901396.html
08-04-2021||India||AstraZeneca serves legal notice to Serum Institute over supply delays||AstraZeneca, the developer of the coronavirus vaccine being manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) and sold as Covishield, has sent a legal notice to the Pune-based company for delays in deliveries, SII’s chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla told Business Standard on Tuesday.The company is a key supplier for the UN-backed Covax program that aims to distribute vaccines equitably in the world. On March 25, Covax announced a major setback in its vaccine rollout because a surge in infections in India caused the Serum Institute of India (SII) to cater to domestic demand, resulting in a delay in global shipments of up to 90 million doses.“AstraZeneca has sent us a legal notice (for delays in supplying the vaccine) and the Indian government is also aware of that. I cannot comment on the legal notice as it is confidential, but we are examining all avenues to amicably manage and resolve legal disputes over contractual obligations that Serum Institute is not able to fulfil due to its prioritisation of Indian supplies. Everyone has been very understanding so far. The government is evaluating what it can do to resolve the issue,” Poonawalla said.Also Read| ‘Outstretched’ SII chief seeks ₹3,000-crore fillip to boost supplyPoonawalla, whose company is the world’s largest vaccine maker, separately told AP that SII will be able to restart exports by June if new infections subside in India since the company has “chosen to prioritise India temporarily for two months”.He acknowledged that has put a “strain on our contractual obligations” to provide vaccines to other countries. “I’ve had to politely explain to everybody the situation,” he said, adding that most leaders understood as they were facing the same issues.If India’s surge in infections doesn’t subside, “I am scared of what ... we will have to do, and what will happen,” he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/astrazeneca-serves-legal-notice-to-serum-institute-over-supply-delays-101617844156970.html
08-04-2021||India||Refund passengers who cancelled flights in lockdown last year: Govt to airlines||The ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) on Wednesday expressed dissatisfaction over airline companies defaulting on refunds to passengers over flight tickets that were booked for travel during the lockdown last year but got cancelled.MoCA Secretary on Wednesday chaired a meeting with representatives of airlines in connection with refund of credit shells of passengers. A credit shell is a credit note created against a cancelled PNR and can be used by the passenger for a future booking."MoCA Secretary has chaired the meeting today with all the airline companies regarding credit shells refund and expressed dissatisfaction towards airline companies who did not refund the money. GoAir and IndiGo have submitted their undertaking to the ministry that they have refund all the credit shells to the passengers", an official told ANI.The Supreme Court of India had ordered MoCA to clear all the credit shells and refund the passengers after the deadline of March 31.India's low-cost airline SpiceJet wasn't able to refund credit shells to the passengers, "Refunds are governed by the order of the Supreme Court and we are adhering to those directions. SpiceJet had written to all its travel partners and agents in March 2021 to share details of pending credit shell PNRs so that the airline can immediately reverse the credit shell amount back to the agency ID," a spokesperson for SpiceJet said.National carrier Air India is also yet to refund total credit shells to the passengers. As per sources said Air India has to clear credit shells to around five lakh twenty-five thousand passengers which amount to around ₹2000 crore."Air India is committed to processing its pending refunds claims expeditiously. Dissemination of information regarding refunds is already initiated. Air India has cleared close to ₹1000 Crore from 1st April 2020 till date in India. We are also addressing queries related to refunds from passengers through our social media platforms." Air India Spokesperson said.Air Asia and Vistara is also yet clear the credit shell to the passengers. "We are thorough with all our refunds except in a very few cases where we are trying to reach out to the passengers to revert with their bank account details in which the money is to be credited." An Air Asia India official told ANI.MoCA has to file an affidavit in the Supreme Court regarding the refund of credit shells. MoCA Secretary has shown dissatisfaction in the meeting over the airline companies' response in the meeting over refund on cancelled tickets.The Supreme Court in October accepting a recommendation of the civil aviation ministry and directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) ordered airlines to refund passengers the cost of the tickets of flights cancelled between March 25 to May 24 last year, also approved a credit shell scheme which was valid till March 31, this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/refund-passengers-who-cancelled-flights-in-lockdown-last-year-govt-to-airlines-101617842553127.html
08-04-2021||India||Centre, states face off over supply of Covid-19 vaccines||New Delhi: Several states said on Wednesday they will run out of coronavirus vaccines within days and requested the central government for replenishments, prompting a strong rebuttal from Union health minister Harsh Vardhan who accused three states – all under Opposition governments – of politicising the issue.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the state was left with 1.4 million doses, which would last only three days, and urged the Union government to prioritise shipments to the state, which is reporting close to 10 times higher number of new infections every day than the region with the next-highest numbers.Earlier, on Monday, CM Uddhav Thackeray wrote a letter to the PM asking permission to vaccinate all above the age of 25.The Union health minister issued a statement later on Wednesday evening, hitting out at what he said was attempts to “divert attention” from the state’s slow vaccination drive, and targetting Punjab, Maharashtra, and Delhi, all of which have asked for an expansion of the criteria for vaccination, something the Union government isn’t willing to do right away. “Doesn’t it seem evident that these states are trying to divert attention from their poor vaccination efforts by just continuously shifting the goal posts? Politicising such a public health issue is a damning indictment of certain political leaders who should know better,” said Harsh Vardhan in the statement that cited vaccination figures from Maharashtra, Delhi, and Punjab, which he said were lower than that of several other states.Later, the Union health ministry sent letters to Maharashtra, Delhi and Punjab, asking them to take “immediate corrective action” to ensure doses are delivered to health and front-line workers. The letter carried the same figures as disclosed by Harsh Vardhan in his statement.The Union government on Monday asked all states to stop registering more people as health and front-line workers.This confrontation comes a day before a meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called with the chief ministers of all states on Thursday. The meeting is meant to take stock of the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination drive, especially at a time when the country is going through its most severe wave of infections yet.On Tuesday, speaking about demands to open up the drive, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the drive was aimed at controlling fatalities, and that vaccines were being prioritised for those who “need” it, rather than those who “want” it.This week, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, too, wrote to the PM seeking the 45 years age bar removed, while his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh made similar demands earlier in the month. Harsh Vardhan gave a break-up of vaccination data for the three states to suggest they had not delivered adequate doses to health staff, front-line workers, and senior citizens.According to figures analysed from the Co-WIN dashboard, Maharashtra has delivered the highest number of doses among all states at 7.4 million, although in per capita terms, it has delivered 60,788 doses per million people, slightly lower than the national average of 65,329.Among states with large populations, Kerala, Rajasthan, Delhi, West Bengal and Maharashtra are the top five states in terms of doses delivered per million people. Officials in five other states – Rajasthan, Odisha, West Bengal, Bihar, and Uttarakhand – separately told HT that doses were close to running out.Officials in some BJP-ruled states, too, said they had stocks left only for a few days. Kuldeep Singh Martoliya, Uttarakhand’s extended programme for immunisation officer (the nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccinations), said that around 130,000 doses were left, which were to last for two more days at the current rate of vaccinations. In Bihar, which has delivered the lowest number of doses per capita at a little over 24,600, some districts were asked to go slow on immunisations till the next tranche of 900,000 doses arrive.Similar concerns were raised by Odisha, where the vaccination in-charge, Bijay Panigrahi, said till Wednesday morning, the state had a total 534,000 doses left. “With the state vaccinating nearly 2 lakh (200,000) everyday, the doses would get exhausted by Friday unless Centre dispatches more vaccines,” he said. Panigrahi said due to shortage of adequate vaccines, the state was able to run only 755 vaccination sites against 1,200-odd on Wednesday.Vaccine supply concerns have also been sounded by the manufacturers. Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Tuesday that his company, which is making the Covishield vaccine (over 90% of all doses given in India till now are of this), “was very outstretched”.An analysis of production capacities show that between SII and Bharat Biotech, which makes Covaxin, India’s current capacity is around 75 million doses a month, or roughly 2.5 million a day. Over the last week, 3.1 million doses a day on average have been delivered across the country.In his statement, Harsh Vardhan singled out Maharashtra for its officials and leaders flagging possible shortage and criticised what he said was “misgovernance and utter casual approach of Maharashtra government in battling the virus”.“Today, Maharashtra not only has the highest cases and deaths in the country but also has one of the highest test positivity rates in the world! Their testing is not up to the mark and their contact tracing leaves a lot to be desired... The performance of Maharashtra government in terms of vaccinating healthcare workers and front-line workers is also not great.”“Maharashtra government needs to do a lot more to control the pandemic and the Central government will help them in all possible ways. But focusing all their energies on playing politics and spreading lies to create panic is not going to help the people of Maharashtra,” he added.Reacting to this, Balasaheb Thorat, state revenue minister and former state Congress chief, later said in a tweet: “Why was there no strategy or planning put into the logistics of the vaccine programme? Why is there both extremely high wastage & an acute shortage of vaccines? Perhaps PM (Narendra) Modi should focus more on running the country than running for elections.”The Union government separately gave a break-up of supplies and said Maharashtra has been sent 10.6 million doses, of which 9 million had been used. The government said another 743,280 were in the “pipeline”, which authorities said meant as being in transit.“The union minister Prakash Javadekar had asked us to double the vaccination numbers and had assured to provide adequate stock. We accepted it as a challenge and increased the daily vaccination to 450,000 from 300,000. However, we have started facing shortage of vaccine stock and have to shut down many centres across the state as there is no stock left there,” Tope said on Wednesday morning.Javadekar, on Wednesday, tweeted that the “central govt replenishes more vaccine than what is needed for actual use”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-states-face-off-over-supply-of-covid-19-vaccines-101617838575286.html
08-04-2021||India||95-year-old farmer urges others to get vaccinated, says ‘must protect ourselves’||Karnal resident Chaudhary Bichha Ram, 95, says that the Covid-19 vaccine has not only given him protection against the disease, it is also helping him lead a normal life. “I got to know that Covid-19 vaccines have been developed but did not expect to get it so soon,” Bichha Ram said. He was administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine on March 19 at the Banso Gate primary health centre in Karnal.The reports of some beneficiaries battling side-effects were a cause of concern for the elderly farmer as well. “But I cannot stay away from my family, especially from my grandchildren, so I decided to take the vaccine to protect myself from the virus despite rumours about side effects,” Bichha Ram said.He lives with his family of six, including his son, two daughters-in-law, and two grandsons.His son, Ritesh Arya, 50, who is a farmer and also property consultant in Karnal, took Bichha Ram for a walk-in vaccination session.“The doctors and nurses were very supportive, and explained everything. As we were talking, the medics pulled up my sleeve and inoculated me quickly,” Bichha Ram said. He was also asked for a photo with the staff, being the eldest person at the centre to get vaccinated.Recalling how his family wsa forced to stay isolated in the past one year since the pandemic struck, he said, “Nature has its own ways, and nobody can change these rules. But we should protect ourselves. I am 95, but even I don’t want to die.”Interestingly, Bichha Ram has been an advocate of Ayurveda since he suffered a stroke in 2008. He said doctors and scientists “have done a wonderful job” with Covid vaccines. “It’s nonsense to say the vaccine is not safe, people should at least show respect for those who worked day and night to save mankind.”His family said that Bichha Ram has now become an inspiration for others.“If a 95-year-old man can come forward to take the jab, why should the others fear?” asked Meenu Arya, his daughter-in-law.So far, more than 2 million people have been vaccinated across Haryana, said Rajeev Arora, the state additional chief secretary, health.Of these about 310,000 frontline and health care workers have received the first dose, and about 157,000 have received the second dose. More than 1.54 million people in the above-60 and 45-59 categories have been vaccinated, Arora said.India opened up its vaccination drive to all people above 45 last week. The previous two phases of the drive — the first was aimed at frontline workers and the second at those above 60, or above 45 with comorbidities – were dogged by slow roll-out, teething problems, vaccine hesitancy, and misinformation. But people such as Bichha Ram are a testimony to the importance of taking the jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/95yearold-farmer-urges-others-to-get-vaccinated-says-must-protect-ourselves-101617837634658.html
08-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Urban hot spots drive surge, in greater need of jab scale-up||The second wave of the coronavirus disease in India is seeing an alarming rise in infections coming from cities, with a majority of daily new Covid-19 cases coming from urban centres, something that was last seen at least 10 months ago, during the first wave of the pandemic.The numbers, experts say, highlight the need to focus sharply on getting the disease under control by expanding the vaccination drive in urban areas, especially large cities.Nearly half (48%) of all Covid-19 cases reported in India in March are from urban areas, which are home to just 14% of the population, with cities having the largest proportion of new infections since June 2020, according to an analysis by Hindustan Times. In the first four days of April, a majority (51.9%) of new cases were reported from these urban areas.Also Read| As India records 126,260 new Covid-19 cases, curbs in more statesThe numbers are even more worrying when disaggregated at the city level. For instance, Mumbai, Pune, Thane and Nagpur together accounted for 59% of Maharashtra’s cases in the first four days of April. Add Chennai, Bengaluru, and Delhi to the mix, and the seven cities together accounted for 42% of India’s cases in the same period.Data analysed by HT shows that urban areas reported 1.5 times the cases reported from rural regions in the country in the first four days of April. These same areas reported 1.4 times the cases in rural areas in March. This distribution is similar to trends seen at the start of the country’s first wave from March to June last year.Experts said the numbers underline the need to prioritise the government’s vaccination efforts to urban regions and, in particular, focus on cities that are currently seeing a massive surge in infections to effectively combat the latest surge of infections. They also emphasised that expanding the eligibility for vaccination to include everyone over the age of 18 would further help to cover proportions of the population that are mobile, and thus likely to spread the disease further.Dr Shahid Jameel, director of Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University, said while poor testing and reporting in rural areas could be one of the reasons behind a bigger surge in reported numbers from urban areas, the infection is likely to spread faster in urban areas because of a higher population density. The shift in the burden of cases to urban areas, he said, requires a reorientation of the vaccination strategy with a focus on areas showing a bigger surge. “Maharashtra is showing a surge, Nagaland is not. So to say that only people above 45 will be vaccinated in both places, to me it really does not address the issue based on data and based on the flexibility and nimbleness that you need to demonstrate.”The urban-rural breakup was calculated by dividing India’s districts into three large groups – urban districts (less than 40% rural population), mixed districts (40% to 60% rural population) and rural districts (more than 60% rural population). The proportion of the rural population is based on the 2011 Census (the latest data available). District-wise data on the number of cases has been sourced from How India Lives.The classification is in line with how rural and urban districts are defined in the country.Of all new Covid-19 infections reported in April, 51.9% are from urban districts, the highest this proportion has been since June 2020 (when it was 67.2%). At the other end of the spectrum, rural districts constituted 33.6% of all infections in the month of April, their lowest share since June. From August to October last year, rural areas had a higher share of new cases than urban areas. It is not only in the distribution of cases that urban areas have rapidly overtaken rural areas in the past two months. They have also done so in terms of the spread of cases within their respective populations.Another reason for the surge, Jameel said, could be the mutant strains of the virus . “The only logical thing that explains the surge at this point after India having gone through a fairly long first wave is that the behaviour of the virus has changed. And the behaviour of the virus can only change if there are mutants. And I do believe that this is the reason why urban areas are now back again showing higher percentage of cases.”Also Read| PM Modi to interact with CMs on Covid-19 situation, vaccination strategy on ThursdayTo be sure, not everyone agrees with the strategy of expanding the pool of recipients of the vaccine. The government, for one, does not, and has indicated that it will stick to its defined prioritisation protocol for vaccination. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said that given the slow pace of immunisation it is important to focus on the more vulnerable population. “The idea of vaccination is to decrease the number of people who die and the number of people who are hospitalised. It’s more important to immunise people who are at higher risk,” he said.But easing the eligibility criteria could itself boost numbers (provided supply isn’t a constraint). Jameel said that one of the purposes of vaccination is to also control the pandemic. “Even the UK has turned the tide with vaccines. There is enough data to look at. Vaccines have to be deployed at scale. You can’t let the pandemic run wild,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/urban-hot-spots-drive-surge-in-greater-need-of-jab-scaleup-101617836285048.html
08-04-2021||India||Kumbh braces for crowds amid Covid-19 surge||Despite a raging pandemic, authorities in Haridwar are bracing for an influx of devotees to the Mahakumbh -- considered to be the largest religious congregation world over -- to participate in the Shahi Snan on April 12, officials said.Kumbh Mela officer-in-charge Deepak Rawat held a meeting on Wednesday, directing government officials to ensure all Covid-appropriate behaviour and protocols are followed during the shahi snan (holy dip in Ganga river).“As far as facilities are concerned for the pilgrims they are at par with any other fair. Owing to Covid-19 pandemic, strict implementation of Covid-19 norms is being ensured for the Kumbh. RT-PCR negative report is mandatory for all outside people entering the Kumbh Mela zone and strict checking is being done at border check post,” said Rawat.The month-long Mahakumbh began in Haridwar on April 1 amid strict Covid-19 restrictions, with chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat -- who was diagnosed with Covid-19 later -- assuring devotees that none would be “unnecessarily harassed in the name of Covid-19 restrictions”.The festival is being held despite concerns raised by experts that the month-long event, which is expected to be attended by 30-50 million people, could become a Covid-19 hotspot. The state only made a negative RT-PCR test mandatory for all those entering the state after the Uttarakhand high court stepped in.“We always make arrangements for the Kumbh in accordance with the largest estimated turnouts. So, we are well prepared to tackle any situation,” Mela IG Sanjay Gunjyal said. “But with the second wave of coronavirus infection getting stronger and the SOPs in force, we don’t expect huge crowds on the ghats on the Shahi Snan days,” Gunjyal told PTI.The ritual of shahi snan will be held on April 12, 13, 14, 21 and 27.Uttarakhand on Wednesday recorded 1,109 new Covid-19 cases, the state’s highest in 185 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kumbh-braces-for-crowds-amid-covid-19-surge-101617833920651.html
08-04-2021||India||With 2 MLAs joining TRS, Telugu Desam Party loses its presence in Telangana assembly||The Telugu Desam Party, which hitherto had a nominal presence in Telangana, lost its existence in the state assembly completely on Wednesday, with both the MLAs of the party joining the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi. The two lawmakers – Sandra Venkata Veeraiah from Sattupalli assembly constituency and Mecha Nageshwara Rao from Ashwaraopet constituency (both in Khammam district) – wrote a letter to assembly speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy on Wednesday evening, stating that they were merging the Telugu Desam Legislature Party with the TRS. Subsequently, state legislature secretary Narasimha Chary issued a bulletin, acknowledging the merger and the two TDP legislators as TRS members. In the December 2018 elections, the TDP won only two seats in the 119-member Telangana assembly. With both these members joining the TRS, the TDP has lost its identity in the state. The strength of the TRS has now gone up to 103. The Congress has six MLAs, while the MIM has seven and the BJP two. There is one vacant seat, that of Nagarjunasagar for which by-election is being held on April 17. In fact, Veeraiah has already been moving closely with the TRS for the last two years but Nageshwara Rao has been loyal to the TDP so far. Now, he, too, has moved to the TRS. “I was forced to take the decision, because I realised there is no future for the TDP in Telangana. That is why, I submitted my resignation to the TDP and joined the TRS for the sake of the people of my constituency and their development,” Nageshwara Rao said, after meeting TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at the latter’s residence Pragati Bhavan. He hoped that he would be able to do justice for his constituency as a TRS legislator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-2-mlas-joining-trs-telugu-desam-party-loses-its-presence-in-telangana-assembly-101617826410282.html
08-04-2021||India||Local body elections get Andhra HC nod||Hyderabad The Andhra Pradesh high court on Wednesday gave the green signal to the state election commission to conduct elections to 534 zilla parishad territorial constituencies (ZPTCs) and 7,621 mandal parishad territorial constituencies (MPTCs) in the state as per schedule on Thursday (April 8). A division bench of the high court on Wednesday dismissed the interim orders given a day before by the single judge bench of the court, stalling the elections to zilla parishads and mandal (block) parishads on the ground that the four-week period for the enforcement of model code of conduct was not being followed. Acting on a review petition filed by State Election Commissioner (SEC) Neelam Sawhney, the division bench gave the green signal to the commission to hold the elections as scheduled on Thursday. The bench, however, ordered that the counting of votes and declaration of results should not be done on April 10. It referred back to the single judge bench to settle the issue. Arguing on behalf of the SEC, senior advocate C V Mohan Reddy said petitioner Varla Ramaiah of the Telugu Desam Party had no locus standi to question the SEC’s decision as he was not a contestant in the elections. He also pointed out that the four-week time for implementation of model code of conduct was not made mandatory by the Supreme Court. It only gave a suggestion, while hearing the case in a particular context. If the code is implemented for four weeks, all the ongoing developmental works would come to a halt, he argued. In all, there are 660 ZPTCs and 9,984 MPTCs in Andhra Pradesh, of which 126 ZPTCs and 2,363 MPTCs were elected unanimously during the beginning of the election process in March 2020. Elections to the remaining ZPTCs and MPTCs will be held on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-body-elections-get-andhra-hc-nod-101617822631068.html
08-04-2021||India||TN CM’s Edappadi constituency records third highest voter turnout||Chennai: Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami’s constituency of Edappadi registered the third highest voter turnout at 85.60 per cent during the single-phased polling to 234 assembly constituencies on Tuesday, data revealed by the state election commission revealed on Wednesday. The seat belongs to Salem district that witnessed a turnout of 79.2 per cent. While Karur registered the highest voter turnout of 83.92 per cent,, Chennai witnessed the lowest turnout of 59.05 per cent.Palaniswami enjoys strong support in his native village Siluvampalayam and was elected four times from Edappadi constituency. With sleek roads, a flyover and an arts and science college in the past 5 years, the chief minister ensured a huge infrastructure facelift for his village and constituency. Karur, which topped the districts with the highest voter turnout, is witnessing a big political battle between former minister and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader V Senthil Balaji and transport minister and sitting MLA M R Vijayabhaskar.With the lowest turnout, Chennai reaffirmed the idea that it is the urban constituencies that bring down the overall count every election. The Villivakkam assembly segment in the city reported a turnout of 55.52 per cent.A similar situation was also witnessed in Kolathur in the state capital, from where DMK president M K Stalin is seeking re-election, as 60.5 per cent of the voters turned up. The assembly constituencies of both the chief minister (85.60 percent) and the opposition leader (60.5 per cent) polled morevotes than the average registered in their respective districts of Salem (79.2 per cent) and Chennai (59.05 per cent).On Wednesday, chief electoral officer Satyabrata Sahoo said the state had recorded an overall turnout of 72.78 per cent. The figure is slightly lower than what was recorded last year - 74.8 per cent. Experts, however, believe the state witnessed a good turnout as people visited polling stations despite the Covid-19 pandemic and surge in cases. “72% is fairly good and is marginally lower than 2016 which we can attribute to Covid-19,” says political analyst Maalan Narayanan. “The numbers indicate that this will be a neck-to-neck election and it is a waveless election. Popular leaders have also polled numbers similar to previous elections.” The election commission is yet to release the gender-wise data which would provide more insight, he said.Bodinayakanur, from where deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam is contesting his former partyman and rival DMK leader Thanga Tamilselvan, saw a turnout of 73.5 per cent. Coimbatore south saw a turnout of 60.7 per cent voters in a three-cornered fight between actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan, Bharatiya Janata Party’s national women’s wing president Vanathi Srinivasan and Congress’ Mayura Jayakumar. Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni, from where Stalin’s son Udhayanidhi made his electoral debut, registered a turnout of 58.41 per cent.“It seems like there isn’t any anti-incumbency, we may form the government,” an AIADMK leader said, preferring anonymity. “We are sure to win 170 seats. Even in 2014 Lok Sabha elections, we polled 72.4% so we will sweep the election again,” a DMK leader said on condition of anonymity. In 2019, the DMK won 38 out of 39 Lok Sabha seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tncms-edappadi-constituency-records-third-highest-voter-turnout-101617822509181.html
08-04-2021||India||Tight security for Mukhtar Ansari in UP prison||Gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari has been lodged inside barrack number 16 of the Banda district jail after his return from Punjab’s Rupnagar prison, officials said on Wednesday.A team of at least 100 policemen, including two deputy superintendents of police and six sub-inspectors, escorted the Bahujan Samaj Party’s Mau MLA on the over 800-km-long journey from Punjab after taking Ansari’s custody from the Punjab Police on Tuesday. The contingent comprised of GPS-enabled anti-riot vehicle Vajra and heavily armed policemen.The motorcade made only two stoppages in Agra – where drivers were changed – and then briefly in Satti in Kanpur, officials said.The transfer has come after the Supreme Court on March 26 allowed a transfer petition of the UP government seeking transfer of Ansari from Ropar jail in Punjab to Banda in UP. Ansari was initially lodged in a jail in UP as an undertrial when the Punjab Police obtained production warrant against him on a complaint of extortion and criminal intimidation and brought him to Punjab in 2019. As the Punjab government refused to shift Ansari to UP citing his medical condition -- he is reportedly suffering from hypertension, diabetes, back pain, skin allergy and depression -- the UP government moved the top court.Only the ambulance ferrying Ansari and one other vehicle were allowed to enter the heavily guarded Banda jail premises on their arrival on Wednesday morning, Banda circle officer Rakesh Singh said.Also Read| Gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari brought back to Banda jail from PunjabA statement issued by DG (prisons) headquarters said that Ansari was examined by a team of doctors from Banda medical college before being lodged in the barrack and doctors have found him medically fit. The report of Ansari’s Covid-19 test conducted at Punjab jail is still awaited and a sample was also collected at the Banda jail, the statement said.Additional security measures have been deployed in the jail premises, including round-the-clock video surveillance in the barrack, officials said.Banda jail superintendent PK Tripathi said that other inmates have been denied access to barrack number 16 where the 57-year-old MP has been lodged, and security staff in the barrack have been asked to wear body-cameras.During his earlier stay at the Banda jail, Ansari was lodged in barrack number 15 which was an isolation barrack and it did not have any CCTV cameras, a senior prison officer said.“As many as 30 PAC personnel will be deployed at the jail entrance to ensure tight security outside the gate. Apart from a jailer and two deputy jailers already posted at Banda jail, two deputy jailers have been deployed there to enhance security measures. Besides, the number of head warders and warders has been increased for internal security of the jail,” the official said, adding that a city magistrate rank officer has been made superintendent in-charge of the jail for daily review of security measures.Multiple close circuit television cameras have been installed in the barrack for 24x7 monitoring, the official statement said. Ansari’s activities could be examined from the central command centre set up at prison headquarters in Lucknow for video surveillance jails across UP.On Tuesday, Ansari’s wife, Afshan Ansari, moved the Supreme Court seeking safety for the Mau MLA while he is being shifted to Banda district jail in Uttar Pradesh from Rupnagar jail in Punjab, and also during his trial in pending cases in the state.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tight-security-for-ansari-in-up-prison-101617822269191.html
08-04-2021||India||Centre yet to clear HC judges’ names pending for 20 months||The central government is yet to clear appointment of ten judges in the high courts despite strong adjurations by the Supreme Court in the last three months, with the oldest recommendation in July 2019.On March 25, a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde criticised the government for delaying the process of appointment of judges, lamenting that it has been sitting on some recommendations for more than 20 months despite the final nod of the collegium.The bench, which also included justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant, had then underlined that 55 names were pending with the government for more than six months, and sought a categorical reply on the timeline to notify appointments of some judges and sending the rest of the names to the collegium for further consideration.The numbers included 10 names after final recommendation by the collegium, and 45 other names proposed in the first stage of the appointment. All 55 had been pending with the government for more than six months.As the Supreme Court is set to hear this matter again on Thursday, people familiar with the development have told HT that the 10 names finally approved by the collegium were yet to be cleared by the government.As read out by justice Kaul from a chart prepared by him during the last hearing, five names for appointments in the Calcutta HC had pending with the government for 20 months, since July 25, 2019, despite the final recommendation of the SC collegium.Similarly, one name for the Jammu and Kashmir high court has been pending for 17 months and four names for the Delhi HC, for seven months. These names have neither been cleared for appointments nor have been sent back to the collegium for a reconsideration or a review based on certain objections that the government may have, people cited above said.The vacancy in the Calcutta HC has gone up to more than half of its total strength. As on April 1, Calcutta HC has a shortage of 40 judges out of its total strength of 72. Similarly, Jammu and Kashmir HC is also short of more than 50% of judges. It has a vacancy of six out of 11 judges whereas Delhi HC has a shortage of 29 out of the total strength of 60 judges.The law ministry did not respond to queries about these pending names till the time of going to press.Meanwhile, the 45 names that were at the first stage of appointment have finally been referred by the government to the collegium for consideration after much delay.As mentioned by justice Kaul in the previous hearing, two names for the Himachal Pradesh HC have been pending for 14 months; 21 names for the Rajasthan HC, for 9 months; 9 names for the Calcutta HC and two names for the Gauhati HC, for 8 months; five names for the Punjab and Haryana HC, for 7 months; and 6 names for the Madhya Pradesh HC, 6 months.Regarding these names, the collegium will now look at the reports sent by the government and will also consult the SC judges which were elevated from the same high courts before making the final recommendations to the government for their appointments as judges.The collegium for the selection of high court judges comprises the CJI and two most senior judges of the apex court.On March 25, the bench had told attorney general KK Venugopal, who appeared for the government, that there had to be a reasonable time frame within which the law ministry must respond after receiving the recommendations from the collegium.This hearing had followed another appeal made by the top court on January 27 when the bench called it a “matter of great concern” that the collegium had not heard from the government for months after sending names and that a proposal will get stuck without knowing the reason. As on April 1, 2021, the 25 high courts in the country have a staggering vacancy of 411 judges -- more than a third of the total positions. There are only 669 judges out of the total sanctioned strength of 1,080.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-yet-to-clear-hc-judges-names-pending-for-20-months-101617822209186.html
08-04-2021||India||NSS gen secy’s remarks on Sabarimala sparks fresh political row||Thiruvanthapuram Nair Service Society general secretary G Sukumaran Nair’s remarks that Sabarimala Ayyappa devotees were “still bitter” about the events in 2018 triggered a fresh political row on Wednesday after Kerala law minister A K Balan alleged that the socio-educational body leader had scripted “history” by making political remarks on the issue. Speaking to reporters on the day of polling on Tuesday, Nair said the people of Kerala wanted a change of rule in the state and that there should be a government that stood for values and faith. Launching a fresh attack on the social body leader for his remarks, Balan said on Wednesday: “He will go down in history as the one who sacrificed the organisation’s policy of (maintaining) equidistance (from politics).”The minister on Tuesday had filed a complaint against Nair with the chief electoral officer for “misusing the traditions and names of Gods in an unprecedented manner” on polling day. He added that the general secretary had deliberately tried to polarise voters and portrayed the polls as a battle between believers and non-believers. Speaking on similar lines Communist Party of India (Marxist) party secretary A Vijayaraghavan said: “He (Nair) made a political statement. It was not expected of him.” Senior party leader M A Baby and CPI secretary Kanam Rajendran also decried the statement.The NSS, however, asserted that it was not a sin to point out the agonies and reservations of the believers and that it cannot be intimidated. “I said this when newsmen asked about the temple issue. I only shared the concern of millions of believers. It is not a sin in the country to say I am a believer. Let the government go ahead with its legal move,” Nair said. The opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party also rallied behind the social body over the temple row that has been one of the major poll planks during campaigns against the ruling party.“CPI(M) leaders are attacking the NSS blatantly. Every organisation has the right to air its opinion. It has every right to point out the concern of believers. The NSS has always fought for them and it has remained consistent in its position since the temple case began,” former chief minister Oommen Chandy said, adding that the ruling party was turning intolerant as it was expecting a humiliating defeat.Echoing similar sentiments, BJP state president K Surendran said: “Fearing a defeat, the CPI(M) has trained its gun on the NSS.” A body founded by freedom fighter and social reformer Mannath Padmanabhan in 1947, the NSS holds enough influence among upper caste Nairs and roughly constitute 13 to 14 per cent of the Hindu population in the state. The body’s stance on Sabarimala has been constant right from the beginning when the Indian Young Lawyers’ Association filed a public interest litigation in Supreme Court in 2006, challenging the temple’s practice of denying entry to women of child-bearing age, saying it was discriminatory and against gender justice. “We have been fighting for the temple customs for many years. It is wrong to mix it (customs) with gender equality. Different temples have different customs,” Nair said. During the temple agitation in 2018, the body had taken a proactive stand against the Supreme Court order that removed restrictions on women belonging to the 10-50 age group. Review petitions are pending before a nine-member bench of the apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nssgen-secy-s-remarks-on-sabarimala-sparks-fresh-political-row-101617822089228.html
08-04-2021||India||Former Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze blames top Maharashtra ministers for extortion||Suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze alleged on Wednesday that top Maharashtra ministers asked him to extort money from businessmen and establishments, echoing similar charges by former Mumbai commissioner Param Bir Singh that are being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government denied the allegations. Vaze, who is currently being probed by National Investigation Agency (NIA) for allegedly planting explosives in a car outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s house in February and murdering Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran in March, made the allegations in a letter he intended to submit before the special NIA court hearing his case.Transport minister Anil Parab debunked Vaze’s allegations saying he was not involved in any extortion case and it was the BJP’s conspiracy to defame the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “In order to defame the Chief Minister (Uddhav Thackeray), it was necessary to vilify someone close to the Chief Minister and this is a part of agenda being pursued by the BJP,” said Parab told reporters.“I am ready for inquiry by any agency whether NIA, RAW or anyone. I am even ready for narco test,” he added. He said if he was found guilty, his chief Uddhav Thackeray would hang him to death. He said he would fight this case legally.He said it was clear as state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil had claimed that the third minister will soon be in the dock showed he knew of this letter beforehand.Also Read| Sachin Vaze was reinstated at Param Bir Singh’s behest: Mumbai PoliceIn his four-page letter, Vaze alleged that former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and sitting transport minister Anil Parab asked him to collect money, but he refused. He also said that he was approached for money by a man claiming to be close to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.Deshmukh and Pawar belong to the Nationalist Congress Party, while Parab is a member of the Shiv Sena. The Congress is the third partner in the state’s coalition government.On March 25, Vaze requested the court to allow him to say something in connection with the case. The court asked him to put his submission in writing. When he brought the letter on Wednesday, the court refused to accept it.“We submitted the letter to the court, but the court refused to accept it and asked us to follow the correct procedure. The procedure here would be either give a confession statement or give a statement under section 164 of Criminal Procedure code (statement before the magistrate) which we are not willing to,” said Vaze’s lawyer Raunak Naik.NCP chief Sharad Pawar was not available for comment. Former home minister Anil Deshmukh did not respond to calls and text messages.“I am ready for inquiry by any agency whether NIA, RAW or anyone. I am even ready for narco test,” Parab said. He said he would fight this case legally.NCP said that the party was not happy with Vaze’s reinstatement which is a fact but the rest of his claims are completely baseless. Vaze made this attempt to save himself from the wrongdoing done in the past just like Param Bir Singh, it said.“There was displeasure in the NCP as far as Vaze’s reinstatement was concerned but claims about convincing Pawarsaheb is not true. The allegations are baseless and are the same as what Param Bir Singh has already said. Both Singh and Vaze were two-man army operating from the Mumbai police commissionerate working hand in gloves and everyone knows about it. Both are now trying to save themselves by making false allegations,” said Nawab Malik, NCP chief spokesperson and state minority affairs minister||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-cop-vaze-blames-top-maha-ministers-for-extortion-101617822030429.html
08-04-2021||India||Andhra: 4 die after drinking contaminated water, several hospitalised||Hyderabad Four persons, including two women, died while several others have been hospitalised in the last 24 hours due to severe gastroenteritis caused by contaminated drinking water in Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool district, officials said on Wednesday. While three persons from Nandyal died at different hospitals on Tuesday evening, a 50-year-old woman died in Adoni town on Wednesday morning. The three persons from Nandyal, however, were also suffering from other health complications, officials said.“A 35-year-old man was chronic alcoholic and was being treated at a private hospital following symptoms of diarrhoea. Another 56-year-old man, suffering from kidney-related ailment, was referred to a government general hospital at Kurnool where he breathed his last. Another 80-year-old woman, who also showed symptoms of diarrhoea, died due to age-related issues,” Kurnool district medical and health officer (DMHO) Dr Rama Giddaiah said. According to the DMHO, as many as 15 people from Aruna Jyoti Nagar in Adoni town were admitted to the local area hospital on Tuesday evening due to gastroenteritis. “Of them, eight are below 10 years of age and the remaining are adults. A 50-year-old woman died at around 8.20 am on Wednesday while she was being referred to a private nursing home. The condition of all the others is stable,” he said. The district authorities, who inquired into the source of water contamination, found that the victims had consumed water at Maremma Durgamma Devara, a folk festival at Gorakallu in Panyam block. “We have set up a health camp at Gorakallu where 35 cases of diarrhoea have been reported. A team of doctors treated 30 cases and referred the remaining five to Nandyal government hospital,” the official said. District collector G Veerapandian, who called on the affected people in the hospitals, directed authorities to stop the supply of drinking water from Gorakallu where the contamination took place. He also called for supply of clean and safe drinking water to the affected areas and adequate sewage management and sanitation. Following directions from the collector, authorities collected water samples from the affected area and sent them for testing. “The ASHA health workers are conducting a door-to-door survey and are supplying oral rehydration solution sachets to the people in the area,” Giddaiah said. A probe into the incident is underway and officials are likely to initiate action against the guilty once it is completed.Adoni MLA Y Sai Prasad Reddy said municipal authorities must clean water tanks regularly. “I have been closely monitoring the situation and have ensured best possible treatment to the patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-4-die-after-drinking-contaminated-water-several-hospitalised-101617821909708.html
08-04-2021||India||Italy gave families of two fishermen killed by marines ₹10 crore in damages||The central government on Wednesday informed the Supreme Court that the families of two Indian fishermen killed by Italian marines off the coast of Kerala in 2012 have been “adequately” compensated as it sought expeditious closure of proceedings before the top court and a criminal trial pending before a special court in Delhi. The Supreme Court agreed to hear the matter on April 9.According to the Centre’s compliance affidavit dated January 5, which HT has seen and reviewed, the Italian government offered to pay a total of ₹10 crore in damages. The families of the two deceased fishermen have agreed to a compensation of ₹4 crore each in addition to the ₹2 crore already paid by the Italian government. The injured owner of the boat had also consented to receiving damages of ₹2 crore.As per the affidavit, the Kerala government also accepted this proposal from the Italian government and the consent letters from the legal heirs of the deceased and the boat owner were sent to the foreign secretary in the ministry of external affairs. On Wednesday, solicitor general Tushar Mehta informed the bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde that the victims’ families have been paid the compensation, as ruled by an international tribunal in May 2020.“The victims’ families are also here, as asked by the bench on the last date of hearing. This is a short matter and only requires to be disposed of on the next date,” the law officer told the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.Mehta requested the bench to take up the matter for hearing on Friday saying “there is some urgency since it is between the Indian and Italian government” and the bench agreed.CJI Bobde retires on April 23. The government has sought an urgent hearing so that the matter could be disposed of by the same bench before the CJI demits office.During the last hearing in August 2020, this bench had said that it will close the proceedings only after the families of the victims are heard and given “adequate” compensation, after it noted that the victims’ families were not parties to the case before the Supreme Court.The case pending before the Supreme Court is an appeal filed by the two marines, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, against a May 2012 judgment of the Kerala high court, which held that Kerala had jurisdiction to try them. The high court ruled that the marines enjoyed no state immunity since their act of shooting at the fishermen was in defence of neither the vessel nor the state.The marines and the Italian government moved an appeal before the top court, which shifted the trial to a special court Delhi in 2013 where it went on till the Supreme Court stayed it in 2015 after taking note of proceedings pending before the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) at the Hague, Netherlands. In the meantime, the marines were allowed to go back home on a personal undertaking by the Italian ambassador that they would come back as and when required.The arbitral proceedings before the PCA were instituted under the United Nations Convention on Law of Seas (UNCLOS) on June 26, 2015 after Italy served a notice on India under the UNCLOS.The UNCLOS is an international agreement that defines the rights and responsibilities of nations with regard to their conduct and use of world seas and oceans and management of natural marine resources.In May 2020, the international tribunal ruled that the marines enjoyed immunity since they were exercising official functions in their capacity as Italian state officials when the incident occurred. It, therefore, ordered India to stop criminal proceedings against them.At the same time, the tribunal also held that Italy had violated India’s right to navigation by firing at the fishing boat and said that the country would have to compensate India for loss of life and damage to property.On July 3, 2020 the Centre moved the top court, saying it had accepted the PCA’s ruling and wanted the proceedings to be closed.“The Republic of India has taken a decision to accept and abide by the award passed by the (arbitral) tribunal which would have the bearing on the continuance of present proceedings before the Supreme Court. The applicant (central government) is, therefore, placing the award on record with a prayer that the proceedings with regard to the incident dated February 15, 2012 be disposed of in conformity with the Award passed by the tribunal”, its application before the Supreme Court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/italy-gave-families-of-two-fishermen-killed-by-marines-10cr-in-damages-101617821849203.html
08-04-2021||India||Apex court to hear Deshmukh’s plea against CBI probe into graft charges today||The Supreme Court will on Thursday take up petitions by the Maharashtra government and its former home minister Anil Deshmukh against the Bombay high court order on a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into allegations of extortion against Deshmukh, who resigned soon after that verdict.A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta will examine the petitions that have challenged the HC order citing “federal structure” and “misuse of central agencies” such as CBI.Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Abhishek Manu Singhvi are expected to appear for Deshmukh and the state government respectively. Former attorney general and senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi will represent former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, whose allegations prompted the high court to order the CBI probe on Monday, although the order itself was in response to a related public interest litigation filed by a lawyer.Singh alleged that Deshmukh asked policemen, including suspended officer Sachin Vaze, to extort ₹100 crore from bars, restaurants, and other establishments. The allegations followed drama over police investigations into the discovery of an explosives-laden vehicle outside the residence of billionaire Mukesh Ambani, and the alleged murder of businessman, Mansukh Hiran, linked to the vehicle. Vaze was arrested and has been named the main accused in both cases; Singh was transferred out for his handling of the case; soon after, Singh wrote to the chief minister airing his allegations and then approached the court.Also Read| Former Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze blames top Maharashtra ministers for extortionOn Tuesday night, CBI issued a statement saying the agency has registered a PE (preliminary enquiry) to investigate allegations against Deshmukh, as ordered by the Bombay high court.In his petition, Deshmukh contended that the CBI probe against him “impacts the federal structure”, and could lead to a “biased investigation”, apart from destabilising the state government.Nationalist Congress Party leader Deshmukh emphasised that the high court, relying on certain unsubstantiated allegations by Singh, entrusted the probe to an agency “which the state government has the least confidence in”. He also pointed out that the high court did not give him an opportunity to be heard before it passed the impugned order.Deshmukh resigned on Monday, hours after the order by the high court asking CBI to conclude a preliminary inquiry within 15 days, making him the most high-profile casualty so far in the twists and turns over the discovery of the explosives and the death of Hiran.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government, in its separate petition, has complained that the CBI investigation was ordered without any fact or formal pleadings and that the central agency was brought in without letting the state agencies first conduct their investigation.It also argued out that the state, for valid reasons, has already withdrawn its general consent to CBI to carry out investigations in Maharashtra, and that the high court should have remained mindful of this aspect before ordering the probe.The state further highlighted that Maharashtra has already ordered a judicial probe into the allegations on March 30 by retired Bombay HC judge KU Chandiwal and that the high court could not have straightaway passed the order on a CBI probe without examining the formal pleadings and submissions of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apex-court-to-hear-deshmukh-s-plea-against-cbi-probe-into-graft-charges-today-101617821669153.html
08-04-2021||India||Sachin Vaze was reinstated at Param Bir Singh’s behest: Mumbai Police||Mumbai Suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze was directly reporting to then police commissioner Param Bir Singh before his (the former’s) arrest on March 13, said Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale in an official report on Wednesday. Assistant police inspectors do not usually report directly to the chiefs.The report, submitted to the Maharashtra home department, added that Vaze was given executive posting in the crime intelligence unit (CIU) at the insistence of Singh despite resistance from then joint commissioner (crime), Santosh Rastogi. Vaze was suspended from the force in March 2004 for his involvement in a custodial killing case; he was reinstated in the force in June 2005 by a committee headed by Singh.Singh did not respond to calls and messages seeking comment.Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with an explosives-laden car found outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia on February 25, and the subsequent death of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran (in whose possession the car was) on March 5. The agency on Wednesday summoned Singh for interrogation in connection with the two cases.According to officials from the home department, the report was asked for immediately after Vaze’s arrest.In his report, Nagrale , who replaced Singh on March 17 , said all critical decision related to arrests, raids, remand applications, anticipatory bails were taken under Vaze’s directions. The report also said Vaze neither reported to his immediate bosses in the crime branch nor let his subordinates do so.“Vaze used to accompany Param Bir Singh during the briefing to the minister, home, on critical cases including TRP scam, Antilia explosive scare, Dilip Chhabria’s arrest. Vaze never obeyed the hierarchy of ranks to report over the cases under investigation,” the report said, referring to some high profile cases the Mumbai Police has investigated over the past few months -- allegations of manipulations of television ratings and celebrity car designer Chhabria’s involvement in a car financing fraud.Singh was transferred by the state government after the NIA and the state anti terrorism squad began investigation in the Antilia explosives and Mansukh Hiran case.The two connected cases have roiled the state government and the Mumbai Police. On February 25, a SUV with explosives was found outside Antilla with a threat letter addressed to the billionaire businessman and his wife. The vehicle has been reported stolen by Hiran, an auto parts dealer, on February 17. Vaze was initially put in charge of the case but removed when questions rose about his relationship with Hiran. It later emerged that the two did know ach other and Vaze had even borrowed the same Scorpio and used it for months before returning it in early February. Hiran’s body was recovered from a creek in Mumbai on March 5. NIA, which is investigating the two cases, and the state ATS, which was investigating the Hiran death before it was taken over by the federal agency, have both identified Vaze as the main accused in the case.Singh was transferred out on March 17, and soon after wrote a letter to the chief minister accusing the state home minister Anil Deshmukh of directly briefing Vaze to extort up to ₹100 crore a month from restaurants and bars. He approached the Supreme Court with a plea built around his letter, alleging that his transfer was motivated, and seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the allegations he raised.On April 5, the Mumbai High court said CBI should conduct a preliminary enquiry in the case. Shortly after, Deshmukh resigned.Nagrale’s letter also claims that Vaze’s appointment in CIU in June 2020 was strongly opposed by the then joint commisioner (crime) Santosh Rastogi.“The decision about the reinstatement of Vaze was taken in a suspension review committee meeting on June 5, 2020, chaired by Singh, joint police commissioner (administration) and other two senior officers. Vaze was reinstated on June 9 and was given posting in CIU, after initial appointnement in Armed unit,” the report stated.The report also said that though the CIU was earlier headed by an officer of the rank of inspector, Vaze was appointed on Singh’s direction.Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “We have been demanding the interrogation of Singh by NIA because of his close proximity with arrested API Vaze. It has been now established that Singh is as responsible as Vaze in these two cases. The DVR which has been misplaced from the Mumbai Commisioner office will certainly throw more light on this entire link, if retrieved.”The Congress, NCP, and Shiv Sena are partners in the state’s MVA government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaze-was-reinstated-at-param-bir-s-behest-mumbai-police-101617821309120.html
08-04-2021||India||Coronavirus: In Maharashtra, mutation raises infectivity concerns||One of the two mutations feared to have spread rapidly in Maharashtra may have the ability to make the Sars-Cov-2 more adept at infecting humans, improve its ability to multiply within a host and possibly escape a more complex part of the human immune response, a new study awaiting peer review suggests.The findings, if established, could explain the surge of cases in the western state, not just in capital Mumbai , but in other cities such as Pune and Nagpur as well.The findings relate to the mutation known as L452R, which is one of the two “double mutations” the Indian government said was detected in large numbers in parts of Maharashtra. The state is by far the worst-hit region in India, with an exponential rise in infections that has forced authorities to bring back lockdown-like curbs.Till now, little has been known about this mutation in particular, although it is part of the variant that has triggered a similarly serious wave of infections in California.Now, a team led by researchers from Japan has found the L452R mutation can “potentially increase viral infectivity” and escape from what is known as HLA-A24-restricted immunity, which refers to action by adaptive immunity in the human body.Also Read| Covid-19 in Mumbai: In second wave, kids more symptomatic“Frankly speaking, these two findings mean the L452R can be more dangerous than prototype (the predominant Sars-Cov-2 variant), particularly for people harbouring HLA-A24 type,” said Kei Sato, one of the authors and professor, Institute of Medical Science, University of Tokyo, in an e-mail exchange.HLA-A24 refers to a particular gene that some people carry, and the authors note that it is most commonly found in populations in East and Southeast Asian countries. It tends to influence how cellular immunity works in some people, which in this case appears to be hindered in the context of a Sars-Cov-2 infection.The study, based on laboratory experiments, showed L452R conferred multiple properties: it appeared to make the S protein (which the virus uses to latch on to human cells) more stable, it enhanced affinity to ACE2 (the receptor or doorway the virus uses to enter cells), and it seemed to enhance how the virus multiplied.Immune response to a pathogen such as Sars-Cov-2 typically has multiple levels, including antibodies that bind to the virus and stop it from infecting people and killer T cells that destroy infected cells.The HLA-restricted immunity influences the mechanism of killer T cells, which may be crucial since research has separately established a link between the timing and nature of immune response with how severe the disease becomes for someone: often, those with serious or fatal Covid-19 have a delayed immune response.“Therefore, it is conceivable to assume that the HLA-restricted CTLs (cytotoxic T cells, or killer T cells) play crucial roles in controlling SARS-CoV-2 infections and Covid-19 disorders,” the authors note in their study.Also Read| Maharashtra facing shortage of vaccine stock, many centres shut: Rajesh TopeThis is not the first time a particular Sars-Cov-2 mutation is shown to be evading some component of the cellular immunity, but it is the first time a widely spreading mutation has been shown to demonstrate that characteristic.Sato said the team will next evaluate how this mutation could influence immunity conferred by vaccines.To be sure, how the variant in Maharashtra behaves will require tests and epidemiological analysis involving that variant itself. A variant also includes multiple mutation, and these can combine to add or remove particular characteristics to the Sars-Cov-2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-maharashtra-mutation-raises-infectivity-concerns-101617821249685.html
08-04-2021||India||Students lost a year due to Covid-19, but learnt many lessons, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday interacted with 1.3 million students, teachers and parents from over 90 countries in the fourth edition of his Pariksha pe Charcha, saying that students “lost a year of their lives” due to the Covid-19 pandemic.In an hour-long virtual interaction, the PM also said that universities should study the impact of the pandemic on families.“As far as Covid is concerned, I believe that you have faced trials for a mistake that you did not make. This is a lesson that many times in life, events occur that are beyond your control. Students have lost a year of their lives and it will not be easy to make up for that,” the PM said in his annual interaction with students.While he highlighted the importance of the classroom set up, Modi also said that living indoors with families has made people realize “the importance of people in our lives”.“During the Covid-19 times if we have lost much, we have also gained. The biggest learning is that we have come to realise the importance of people in our live. We have learnt we can’t take anything for granted. The pandemic has also increased the bonding between families. I would want our universities to study the impact of Covid-19 on families,” he said.The Prime Minister also stressed on the need for positive motivation for students ahead of exams and creating a conducive environment for holistic growth.“The first step to motivating children is training. There are many ways to do this, through books, stories and experiences. If you want your child to wake up early, don’t force them to do it. Instead, introduce them to books and discuss with them the benefits doing the same,” the PM said.He said that by creating an environment of fear, children will work in a restricted ambit. “Negative motivation does not work. The fear will eventually fade, and child will return to old habits. The mantra for everyone should be positive motivation, which has a long-lasting impact,” Modi said.The PM even offered a “memory ki jadibooti (herbs)” and urged the students to “involve, associate and internalize.“When you listen to the national anthem, visualise yourself traveling through the entire country. If you get involved in the information, if you understand it, then you will not forget,” he said.Addressing the fear of exams, the PM said, “Exams aren’t a question of life and death. Parents tend to pressurise children, which causes them to fear exams. We should avoid that. Their confidence will increase only if we eliminate external pressure.”Abhishek Singh, CEO of Mygov, citizen engagement platform, said that the participation for the fourth edition increased exponentially. “For the first time, there has been international participation. There were participants from nearly 94 countries. Over 13 lakh people registered for the session.”In February, it was announced that Modi’s annual interaction with students would be held online this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The first edition of the PM’s interaction with school and college students “Pariksha Pe Charcha 1.0” was held at the Talkatora Stadium on February 16, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/students-lost-a-year-due-to-covid-but-learnt-many-lessons-says-pm-101617821249167.html
08-04-2021||India||IIT-Roorkee emerges as the latest hot spot after 80 students test +ve for Covid||In the latest case of an institute of higher education turning into a Covid-19 hotspot, the Haridwar district administration on Wednesday declared five hostels at the Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, as containment zones after 80 students tested positive for the viral disease.The IIT Roorkee administration has directed students to isolate themselves in their rooms and has turned one of its hostels into a Covid care centre, the institute’s media cell in-charge Sonika Srivastava said.While 60 tested positive till Tuesday, 20 more tested positive in the RT-PCR tests conducted by Haridwar district health department in the institute on Wednesday.“After the 80 students tested positive in the institute, five hostels named Cautley, Kasturba, Sarojini, Govind Bhavan and Vigyan Kunj have been sealed and declared containment zones by the Haridwar district health department. The institute has about 3000 students of which about 1200 are in these five hostels,” added Srivastava.“The institute has turned its Ganga Bhavan hostel as the Covid care centre under the supervision of district health department where the infected students are being treated. Apart from this, one guest house and another establishment have been turned into quarantine centres for the first contacts of the infected students,” she said.Haridwar chief medical officer Dr SK Jha said on Wednesday, “We had taken RT-PCR samples of about 2000 students and staffers from the institute after detection of infections. Till Tuesday, 60 tested positive and on Wednesday 20 more came out positive. However, many of them are asymptomatic and are undergoing treatment in the Covid care centre there under our supervision,” he said, adding that the health department is monitoring the situation.”Meanwhile, students attending online classes from homes have been asked not to return to the campus, Srivastava said.On Wednesday, the country recorded 126,260 new cases, taking the tally to 12,926,024.On Tuesday, as many as 40 doctors tested positive for Covid-19 at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) in Uttar Pradesh’s Lucknow, the university’s spokesperson Sandeep Tiwari said. Those infected have been admitted in the isolation ward of the medical college hospital, he added.The new cases have been reported days after the Ahmedabad campus of the Indian Institute of Management and the IIT Jodhpur campus were sealed after recording several cases.On Monday, the Jodhpur campus of IIT reported 70 cases, including 54 students, prompting district health authorities to seal the premises after declaring it a containment zone.Of the 54 students, 51 are under treatment at a isolation facility of a hospital on the campus, said Amardeep Sharma, the joint registrar of IIT-Jodhpur.Sharma said that the other infected people included housekeeping and security staff. “IIT-Jodhpur allowed post-graduate and PhD students to return to the campus for their thesis and project work. Some UG and first year PG students returned to the campus and they are being sent directly to the designated isolation wards. All students in isolation wards are getting tested for Covid-19 on the fifth day of their arrival. Only after obtaining a negative RT-PCR report, they are allotted rooms in regular hostels,” Sharma said.Late last month, IIM-Ahmedabad reported 191 Covid-19 cases, of which at least 86 were students residing in the hostels on campus. A statement from the institute released on Monday said that the Covid-19 spread was under control and all protocols were being followed.Meanwhile, the management at Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, has reiterated the need for following Covid-19 norms on the campus.The director of the institute, Prof Subhasis Chaudhuri said that at least 19 people, including staff and students, have tested positive for Covid-19 over the last two weeks and are currently undergoing treatment at the campus hospital.While the institute has restricted residents on the campus from venturing out, it has also intensified contact tracing. “We conduct reverse as well as forward contact tracing to try to identify what restrictions to place to avoid the spread. Based on this, we decided to maintain 10 day quarantine for students returning [from home]. We have not allowed any indoor eateries [other than hostel messes],” said Prof S Sudarshan, the deputy director of academic and infrastructural affairs at IIT-B.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iitroorkee-emerges-as-the-latest-hot-spot-after-80-students-test-ve-101617821129116.html
08-04-2021||India||Centre allows vaccination at workplaces||The Union health ministry has allowed vaccination drives at workplaces in a move, aimed at speeding up the pace of Covid-19 vaccinations even as the second wave of the viral pandemic rages through the country. The ministry has written to the states asking them that this be allowed from Sunday, April 11, provided there is an availability of at least 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries.“…in order to increase the access of vaccines to these populations, Covid-19 vaccination sessions may be organized at work places (both public and private) which are having about 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries by tagging these work places with an existing Covid vaccination centre (CVC). .. initiate due consultations with public and private sector employers and management to prepare for launch of work place vaccination. Such work place vaccination centres may be launched across states and UTs from April 11, 2021,” wrote Union health sectary, Rajesh Bhushan, to all state chief secretaries and principal secretary (health).While the move will help to some extent, especially in the cities, it is unlikely to address the two key issues slowing the vaccine drive -- supplies and a tight eligibility criteria. To be sure, much of India’s workforce (at least 80% according to the International Labour Organization) is in the informal sector.The vaccinations at the workplace will be a paid service, and the price is capped at ₹250 per dose.Also Read| Covid-19: Urban hot spots drive surge, in greater need of jab scale-upThe idea behind the move is to rapidly cover eligible beneficiaries . It will also ensure that people do not need to travel to get vaccinated, therefore, avoiding the risk of contracting the viral infection.“A substantial proportion of population aged 45 years and above are in the organised sector of the economy, and is involved in formal occupation in offices (government and private)…” Bhushan wrote in the letter.The threshold of 100 minimum eligible beneficiaries has been set to have optimal vaccine utilisation, and to avoid wastage as far as possible. It would, however, restrict the provision to companies with very large offices at a single location.The health ministry’s guidelines said it will be the responsibility of the district task force, chaired by district magistrate, and urban task force, chaired by municipal commissioner, to identify government and private workplaces after due deliberation with relevant employers and head of offices.Workplaces have been asked to designate an employee as a nodal officer to oversee and facilitate all aspects of the vaccination process.Experts welcomed the move.“This is a welcome step. Having more sites and involving more health workers is a prerequisite for enhancing coverage, including expanding to other age groups. Covering persons in workplaces can speed up the pace of vaccination. This approval is aligned with the requests made by some state governments. The next step should be to have outreach sessions, wherein front-line health workers can take vaccines to people,” said Dr Giridhara R Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health.Dr Ramanan Laxminarayan, founder and director, Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy, said, “Covering the 45-plus population that is at highest risk should be the priority at this time, but I am not sure that most of them are working in the organised sector.”Also Read| As India records 126,260 new Covid-19 cases, curbs in more statesThe ministry has warned against outsiders, non-employees or family members of employees, taking the jab during these sessions.According to the guidelines, beneficiaries will still need to register on the Co-WIN portal prior to vaccination. The facility of on-the spot registration will also be available to employees.To manage adverse events following immunisation (AEFI), all workplace vaccination centres will be attached to a hospital and have a medical officer as supervisor, an anaphylaxis kit, and a basic life support ambulance for shifting beneficiaries to the hospital, if required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-allows-vaccination-at-workplaces-101617821069017.html
08-04-2021||India||As India records 126,260 new Covid-19 cases, curbs in more states||More regions on Wednesday were forced to reintroduce lockdown-like curbs on social movement due to rising cases of the coronavirus disease with second wave of infections continuing on a relentless march as India, for the second day in a row, set a new record for daily surge in infections with 126,260 new infections.On Tuesday, a complete lockdown was announced in Chhattisgarh’s capital Raipur from April 9 till April 19, while the Punjab government extended its state-wide night curfew till April 30, even as Bengaluru ordered a ban on use of swimming pools and gyms in the city.These are the latest in a string of regions across the country that have again started enforcing a wide range of curbs ranging from night curfews to limits on public assembly as they struggled to reel under the second wave of Covid-19 cases.Pushed by Wednesday’s new infections, the seven-day average of daily cases touched 100,761 new cases a day on average, which means that India’s second wave has now surpassed the peak of the first wave, which peaked at 93,617 new cases for the week ending September 16, 2020. The seven-day average of daily cases is taken as a representation for the Covid-19 case curve of a region.Also Read| Covid-19: Urban hot spots drive surge, in greater need of jab scale-upOn Tuesday, Delhi had clamped a night curfew on movement and assembly of people between 10pm and 5am every day until April 30, joining the growing list of major cities such as Mumbai, Chandigarh that have been forced to reintroduce curbs on social movement. In Maharashtra, which is contributing roughly half of all cases in India, authorities have imposed a night and weekend curfew, ordered non-essentials businesses to shut down, and asked most offices to switch to remote working.Night curfews are among the most common non-pharmaceutical interventions used by governments to check the pandemic in Punjab, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra.In Chhattisgarh, which is currently India’s second-largest Covid hot spot after Maharashtra, the administration in Raipur district imposed an 11-day complete lockdown. In an order, Raipur collector, said entire district, including the capital, has been declared as containment zone and restricted several activities from 6 pm on April 9 till 6am on April 19. Raipur had reported 76,427 Covid-19 cases, including 1,001 deaths till Tuesday. In the last six days, the district witnessed 10,755 cases and 93 deaths.“During the lockdown period, the border of the district will be completely sealed and shops, including liquor, and commercial establishments will remain closed except medical stores,” the order stated adding that essential services such as hospitals, ATMs etc have been kept out of purview of restriction.On Wednesday, the state recorded 10,310 cases, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of infection in March last year.In Punjab, chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday ordered a ban on political gatherings and extended a night curfew to the whole state while capping numbers at indoor funerals and weddings to 50 guests and 100 for outdoors. He said those violating the ban on political gatherings, including leaders, will be booked under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemics Diseases Act.Also Read| PM Modi to interact with CMs on Covid-19 situation, vaccination strategy on ThursdayThese restrictions, coupled with the ones imposed earlier, which include closure of schools and educational institutions, shall remain effective till April 30. However, there was some respite for shop owners in malls, as the chief minister allowed entry of 10 people per shop at any given time, as against the earlier order of not allowing more than 100 people in the entire mall at a given time, according to the order. On Wednesday, Punjab recorded 2,963 new cases.In light of the rising number of cases in Karnataka, the Bengaluru Police has ordered a ban on the use of swimming pools and gyms within the city limits and imposed Section 144 of the CrPC in the city, banning gatherings at party halls, apartment and residential complexes. Of the 6,976 new cases reported in Karnataka on Wednesday, 4,991 were from Bengaluru Urban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-india-records-126k-new-cases-curbs-in-more-states-101617821009127.html
08-04-2021||India||Book civic chiefs for manual scavenging deaths: Madras high court||Chennai The Madras high court on Wednesday said that civic heads of corporations and municipalities must be booked if any more deaths occur due to manual scavenging “irrespective of whether engaged by them or (a) contractor”.The bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the observations while dealing with a batch of pending petitions filed against manual scavenging with one of the petitioners being the pan-Indian non-governmental organisation Safai Karamchari Andolan.The chief justice even contemplated if civic heads should be booked on charges of culpable homicide. "The court noted its earlier direction dated 16th March that the Government should make it clear to all heads of municipal corporations and municipalities in the state that any manual scavenging death within the jurisdiction of the relevant municipality or corporation will result in the commissioner or such authority being made to face criminal charges, and today further observed that unless the heads of local bodies were themselves made liable under Sec 304A of the Indian Penal Code, the menace would not be rooted out," said Srinath Sridevan, counsel appearing for Safai Karamchari Andolan.Manual scavenging has been banned since 1993 in India but it continues unabated with several deaths reported due to asphyxiation. By February 2021, Tamil Nadu had registered six deaths due to manual scavenging.The court stated that it was inclined to find a permanent solution for which it asked the state government to procure equipment tailor-made for cleaning the sewage system or overhaul the current method.The counsel for the state government, Jayaprakash Narayan informed the court that a circular has been issued that work orders of contractors will be cancelled and they will be blacklisted if they engage manual scavengers. He added that the state is mobilising funds to procure machinery for cleaning sewerage.The matter was adjourned for two weeks as the petitioner Safai Karamchari Andolan sought more time to respond to replies filed by the state government and the Greater Chennai Corporation on the issue. The NGO’s counsel told the court that there had been no deaths due to manual scavenging since the court’s last order on the issue on March 16. The court asked the state as well as the NGO to give inputs so that it could issue guidelines to “put this nonsense to a complete end”.In its previous order, the court said it was “high time” that heads of corporations and municipalities were held “personally liable” for deaths due to manual scavenging within their jurisdiction and face immediate arrest on criminal charges.The Madras high court’s order was long overdue, said Safai Karamchari Andolan activists.“We are very happy with the order passed today,” said its national co-convener Deepthi Sukumar.“Whenever there is a death, the government blames the contractor. The order fixes accountability and is an important measure in preventing deaths inside sewers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/book-civic-chiefs-for-manual-scavenging-deaths-hc-101617820768959.html
08-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to begin ‘active’ campaign for Bengal soon, says functionary||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will “actively” campaign in West Bengal for the ongoing assembly elections but only towards the last few phases to focus on the party’s strongholds, key functionaries said on Wednesday.Polling in the state, which is being held in eight phases, began on March 27 and will continue till April 29.The former Congress president has so far campaigned in the remaining three poll-bound states of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, and in the Union territory of Puducherry where the stakes remain high for the Grand Old Party.Gandhi is likely to visit Bengal only after the fifth phase.The Congress strongholds in Bengal are in a few districts such as Malda, Murshidabad, North Dinajpur and parts of north Bengal.Polling in these seats will take place in the last three phases.“He is definitely going. He will do a good campaign and the plans (for the same) are underway,” a key member of his team said, preferring anonymity.Former Bengal Congress unit chief Pradip Bhattacharya said: “For us, the main battle starts after the fifth phase. We have already finished primary talks with Rahul’s team about his campaign.”In Bengal, the Congress is fighting in 92 of the 294 seats in agreement with the Communist Party of India CPI(M)-led Left Front. In 2016, the Congress had bagged 44 seats while the Left had secured 26 seats.The two parties, however, have emerged as main rivals in Kerala. This has also added to speculations whether Gandhi will hold any joint campaign with the Left in Bengal.“The unwritten understanding is we will talk about the Bengal plan only after the Kerala elections are over. Even now, it’s psychologically too close to discuss Bengal with the top Congress leadership,” a senior CPI(M) leader said, preferring anonymity.While Abbas Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front (ISF) is also a part of the front and has got 38 seats from the Left, the Congress has tried to keep itself aloof from the new party.Congress leaders insist that Gandhi too will not share the dais with the ISF during his poll campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-to-begin-active-campaign-for-bengal-soon-says-functionary-101617820648975.html
08-04-2021||India||In state elections, decoding the PM’s campaign and his key messages||By addressing over two dozen rallies spread across four states — West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala — and the Union territory of Puducherry, Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave an impetus to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s election campaign and showed yet again why he remains the party’s most important political campaigner, irrespective of the nature of the polls.Since the elections were announced, spread over eight phases in West Bengal, three in Assam and a single phase in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry — only five phases in Bengal remain while the rest concluded on April 6 — the PM addressed 25 rallies as per the data collated by his office. Out of this, the PM has addressed 11 rallies in Bengal, seven in Assam; and three each in Tamil Nadu and Kerala and one in Puducherry.But it was not just the number of rallies: in each speech, the PM made significant pointers which revealed both his political worldview, the party’s strategy, governance achievements, and an attack on political rivals. Here is the main thrust of his messages.West Bengal - 11 ralliesThe PM’s first official election rally in the state, where the BJP is locked in a tight contest with the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), was in Kolkata’s Brigade Ground on March 7. This was followed by public addresses on March 18 in Purulia; on March 20 in Kharagpur; and on March 2 in Bankura. On March 24, the PM’s schedule included a rally in Kanthi followed by two more addresses in Uluberia and Jayanagar; on April 3, the PM addressed two meetings in Tarkeshwar and Sonarpur. On April 6, he was back in Cooch Behar and Howrah.His speeches have focused largely on the lack of development in the state, political violence and corruption. In sharp, calibrated attacks, the PM has kept the focus on corruption and the leakages in the public distribution system. “Where there is a scheme, there’s a scam,” — with statements such as these, the PM has not only lashed out at the TMC, but also posited the BJP as the alternative that has promised a sonar bangla or golden Bengal.“Asol Parivartan” or the real change has also been the PM’s key promise to the people of Bengal. On Tuesday, for instance, while speaking at a rally in Cooch Behar, PM Modi who has been calling for a poriborton or change, coined another slogan Chalo Paltai (let us bring about the change) to target CM Mamata Banerjee.Also Read | BJP internal assessment: Nandigram a contestWith the Opposition accusing the BJP of stoking communal polarisation in the state and turning the Jai Shri Ram slogan into a war cry, the PM retorted that had the BJP, like Banerjee, appealed for votes on the basis of religion, then it would have to face the music from the election commission as well as the media. At the same time, his speeches have been laced with critical references to “appeasement”, which is code for what the BJP alleges to be the pro-Muslim tilt of Mamata Banerjee’s government.In his speeches, the PM has also targeted the CM for not allowing the benefits of Central schemes such as the PM KIsan Nidhi from reaching beneficiaries. In multiple speeches, he has alleged that women, backward classes, farmers and tea garden workers have been deprived of social welfare schemes.The Opposition has dismissed the PM’s campaign.“I don’t think there will be much impact of his campaigning . People were curious about the PM and came to see him initially. But yesterday, he addressed a meeting in a rural area and it wasn’t packed. He is trying his best to polarise. But I feel it is having diminishing returns,’’said TMC MP Saugata RoyTamil Nadu -3 ralliesIn Tamil Nadu, where the BJP is contesting the election as an ally of the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), the Prime Minister addressed three rallies — on March 30 in Dharapuram and on April 2 in Madurai and Kanyakumari — with an aim of both showing the BJP’s respect for Tamil Nadu’s distinct culture and traditions and highlighting governance achievements.The PM largely spoke about how Central government schemes were beneficial for the people of Tamil Nadu. He also, repeatedly, invoked former chief ministers MG Ramachandran and J Jayalalitha, and accused the Congress of disrespecting democracy. The BJP in Tamil Nadu used the Vetrivel Yatra, designed to cover the six abodes of Lord Murugan in the state, as an attempt to cultivate its image as that of a party trying to revive Tamil pride, and the PM, while referring to the Central schemes and their benefits, said the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is inspired by the great Andal and Avvaiyar. It was, once again, in line with the deference shown to local culture and tradition that the PM brought up the United Progressive Alliance government’s stance on banning Jallikattu and how it was the NDA that cleared the ordinance brought by AIADMK, allowing Jallikattu to take place again.Also Read | TN polls: Clad in PPE kit, Covid-19 positive Kanimozhi cast vote in ChennaiAttacks against dynastic politics, as represented by both the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Congress, were part of the PM’s speeches. “NDA agenda is development agenda while Congress and DMK have only dynasty agenda. They only demean others and spread lies,” he said. Economic revival and an impetus to production, especially in the MSME sector, was also a highlight of the speeches.The Opposition, however, has accused the PM of being anti-Tamil.“It has become comical that every time Modi comes to Tamil Nadu, he starts quoting (Tamil saint) Thiruvalluvar and Avvaiyar but he’s against Tamils and the party is imposing Hindi on us,” says DMK MP and party spokesperson TKS Elangovan. “In Dharapuram, Modi made false statements that DMK treats women badly and he didn’t speak a word about the sex scandal in Pollachi (where two AIADMK functionaries were arrested and expelled from the party). Modi gives false information and his promise to make Tamil Nadu into Uttar Pradesh is dangerous and nobody will like that.”Kerala -3 ralliesIn Kerala where the BJP has a lone legislator in the assembly, the party has been trying to establish its footprint. Here, the PM addressed three rallies — in Palakkad on March 30, followed by two more in Thiruvananthapuram and Pathanamthitta on April 2.The PM sharply criticised both the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the Congress-led United Democratic Front, referring to them as twins in “misgovernance, corruption, casteism and nepotism” and accused them of committing “seven deadly sins”, which included “false sense of pride and arrogance, greed for money, wrath towards people, jealousy towards each other, lust for power, dynasty politics and laziness in work”.Also Read | Post-poll violence rocks Kerala, Muslim League worker stabbed to death in KannurThe Sabarimala issue that has emerged as a key poll issue found a mention in the PM’s speeches. In Konni, the epicentre of the Sabarimala agitation, he hit out at the LDF government for taking action against Ayyappa devotees during the agitation to prevent women of all age groups from visiting the sanctum sanctorum of the temple.The issues of disaster management and water availability in Kerala and economic revival were also part of the speeches where the election concluded on Tuesday. He listed some of the key projects that the Centre has sanctioned for Kerala in the recent Budget, including ₹65,000 crore for roads and highways as part of the Mumbai-Kanyakumari economic corridor, the second phase of the Kochi Metro and a plan for a fishing harbour in Kochi.The Opposition was critical.“The PM thinks about Sabarimala and Lord Ayyappa when he is in Kerala. During the last parliament election, he said that the Union government will protect interests of devotees. Two years have passed and nothing has been done. He is raking it up again eyeing votes. But devotees can’t be taken for a ride”, said Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala, also the state Opposition leader.Assam -7 ralliesIn Assam, where the BJP is pitted against the coalition of 10 parties including the Congress and the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), the issue of illegal immigrants and protection of Assamese traditions and culture has been high on the party’s agenda.Here, the PM addressed three rallies starting with Karimganj on March 18 followed by Chabua and Bokakhat on March 20 and 21. Bihpuria and Sipajhar were the next destinations for his rallies on March 23 and 24 and these were followed by a rally each in Kokjrajhar and Tamulpur on April 1 and 3.The PM’s speeches targeted the Mahajot or the Opposition’s alliance and referred to it as “Mahajhoot” or grand lies. Making a reference to the Assamese identity, he said people would not tolerate those who insult Assam’s pride and identity. The BJP alleges that the AIUDF is sympathetic towards illegal immigrants.Also Read | BJP to retain Assam, high voting signals pro-incumbency: Jitendra SinghWhile the BJP faced a lot of criticism following discrepancies in the National Register of Citizens and following the passage of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the PM chose to stress on the party’s inclusive politics. In the state with a 30% Muslim population, the PM said it is the country’s misfortune that working for a particular section is called secularism while working for everyone gets you called communal.He attacked the Congress for failing to curb the culture of violence, bombs, and gun in the state during its rule and said the NDA government is moving forward on the path of peace and prosperity with every partner of Assam.The Opposition attacked the PM.“We have seen how low politics has stooped low in this election in Assam. The kind of statements made by the Prime Minister and Union home minister during their campaign goes against Assam’s history, identity and culture. They have done a negative campaign and there was nothing positive for Assam in their campaign,” said Congress in-charge for Assam, Jitendra Singh.Puducherry - 1 rallyThe PM held a rally on March 30 in Puducherry, where the Congress government fell a few weeks before the election was announced. In his address, the PM attacked the Congress for failing to provide governance, ensure the welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and curbing corruption.Also Read | Puducherry records 81.70% turnout in assembly pollsHe also took potshots at the former chief minister V Narayanasamy who was not given a ticket to contest the polls. “The situation in Puducherry is unique… It reflects the condition of the Congress. He was denied a ticket despite being a loyalist for so many years” the PM said. The denial of ticket to the former CM was attributed as an example of the failure to govern. The PM assured voters of infrastructure development, job creation and a fillip to tourism if the BJP is elected.(With inputs by Umar Sofi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-state-elections-decoding-the-pm-s-campaign-and-his-key-messages-101617802587591.html
08-04-2021||India||As Maoist violence returns, decoding the rise of ultra left insurgency||The killing of 22 security personnel belonging to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), District Police Guard and a Special Task Force in one of the deadliest attacks by Peoples Liberation Guerilla Army of Communist Party of India (Maoist) at Jonaguda village in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district has raised questions about claims that left-wing extremism in the country is on the wane.The manner in which the 400-strong Maoist battalion No. 1 led by Madvi Hidma, chief of the Maoist party’s Central Military Commission, reportedly lured security forces into a trap and directly encountered them with assault rifles, rocket-launchers and fusillade of grenades, showed that the Maoists have not only grown in strength in some respects, but also gained the technical knowledge to fight a direct battle with the security forces, according to experts who have followed the trajectory of left-wing extremism.“The Maoists may have suffered heavy losses over a period of time, but have bounced back every time with the support of the Adivasis in the forests of Chhattisgarh,” said Ginugu Narasimha Reddy alias Jampanna, a former central committee member of Maoist party and head of its military commission in Chhattisgarh, before he surrendered to the Telangana police in December 2017. He said the fact that the Maoists could vacate the villages around the encounter spot within 20-30 minutes before the attack on the security forces,which would not have been possible without the support of the local people. “They have developed a strong information network,” Jampanna said.But how have the Maoists continued to retain their strength — if not wholly, then substantially — despite setbacks and a strong government offensive, especially in the south Chhattisgarh belt? The answer lies in returning to the past and tracing the evolution of the rebellion both in Chhattisgarh and its neighbouring regions.The Andhra experience Before 2005, the Nallamala forests encompassing Telangana and Andhra districts was an impregnable fortress of Maoists (who were earlier known as People’s War Group). This was more or less similar to the present Abujhmad region of Chhattisgarh, with police forces hardly having any access to the area. The killing of security forces and Maoists in exchange of fire was a routine affair.Also Read | Maoists cross a red line, again | HT EditorialAfter the lifting of the ban on Maoists and talks between the rebels and the then YS Rajasekhar Reddy government in combined Andhra Pradesh in October 2004, things changed in favour of the security forces. Talks failed despite initiatives of civil society groups, but it gave an opportunity to the security forces to access the Nallamala forests to help gain complete control over the region.After the failure of talks, the Greyhounds, a specialised force, and other security forces launched an all-out attack on Maoists, based on pointed intelligence, and inflicted heavy casualties. Top Maoist leaders, including Akkiraju Haragopal alias Ramakrishna and Sudhakar, who took part in the talks, fled to Chhattisgarh and Andhra-Odisha borders. Many other top leaders such as Madhav, Shyam, Mahesh, Murali, Chandramouli, Prasad, Patel Sudhakar Reddy and Sakhamuri Appa Rao were killed in encounters. And some other central committee members such as Kobad Ghandy and Malla Raji Reddy were arrested from different parts of the country.“Between 2004 and 2009, nearly 400 Maoists, including top leaders and state secretaries were killed in encounters. The Nallamala forests were liberated from Maoists,” a senior police official, who played an active role in the talks with the Maoists in 2004, said.The implementation of a socio-economic agenda, coupled with effective police action and field level intelligence, led to the decline in Maoist activity in the then unified Andhra Pradesh after 2005. The setting up of tribal welfare residential schools even in the remotest areas, setting up of health care centres in every panchayat, development of road infrastructure to interior villages, various other programmes through Integrated Tribal Development Agencies (ITDA) and implementation of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme also helped lead to the decline in Maoist activities in Telangana and Andhra districts, bordering Chhattisgarh and Odisha.“Young people are not inclined towards Maoists anymore and have become career-oriented. They are looking towards towns and cities, rather than jungles,” observed S Venkatesh, an NGO activist in Bhadrachalam.Renewed focus on Chhattisgarh After facing reverses in erstwhile Andhra Pradesh, the Maoists began consolidating their position in Chhattisgarh. Although they entered in Chhattisgarh in early 1980s, the region was initially used only as a buffer zone, but since the 1990s, the rebels stepped up their offensive against security forces.“Geographically, the Maoists have found Chhattisgarh forests very convenient to gain hold, compared to Telangana and Andhra. They could easily gain the support of the local Adivasis, who were agitated over the plundering of mineral wealth by the big companies with the support of the governments,” Jampanna, the former Maoist leader, said.Also Read | Maoists issue statement, say their fight not against security forcesThere were other factors that enabled the rise of Maoists in the region.According to senior police officials, the development strategy adopted by the combined Andhra government (and later Telangana government) did not work out in Bastar district due to a vacuum in administration and poor penetration of developmental agencies. “The massive corruption in the lower-rung revenue and forest officials also led to alienation of tribals,” a police official said.Chhattisgarh was also a newly formed state (it was carved out of Madhya Pradesh in 2000) and had limited police strength — there were just about 1,000 policemen in undivided Bastar district. Unlike the Greyhounds of Andhra, the police personnel in Bastar were initially not trained adequately to fight the guerrilla warfare of Maoists.And then there was the Salwa Judum experiment, which, by all independent accounts, only deepened alienation among tribal communities in the region and led to human rights violations, providing a fertile ground to the Maoists to recruit and spread their ideology. The Salwa Judum was essentially a counter-insurgency group formed from within Adivasis to take on the Maoists. It was supposed to be a peace mission, and was launched by Mahendra Karma, a former Communist-turned-Congress leader in June 2005.The failed Judum experiment Projected as spontaneous uprising of tribals against the violence unleashed by Maoists, the Judum comprised mostly local Koya or Dorla tribes, who are believed to be semi-urban, compared to Muriya or Gothikoya tribes, who live deep inside the forests. While the Gothikoyas had become supporters of Maoists, the Koyas were exploited by the security forces in the name of Salwa Judum.Between 2005 and 2010, 644 tribal villages were evacuated and 100,000 brought into the Salwa Judum camps and provided with arms by the police to counter the Maoists. This led to massive armed conflicts between Salwa Judum tribals and Maoists, leading to countless deaths. The Salwa Judum experiment failed subsequently and it had to be wound up following a direction from the Supreme Court in July 2011. Its founder Mahendra Karma was brutally killed by Maoists on May 25, 2013.Also Read | Maoists release photograph of missing CoBRA commandoAfter the failure of Salwa Judum experiment, the Maoists stepped up their recruitment drive. Top Maoists leaders, mostly from Telangana, mingled with the local tribals and assimilated their distinct culture and tradition.The Maoists also started taking care of the needs of the tribals in the deep forests by setting up Janatana Sarkars (people’s governments) in the tribal hamlets, which are essentially local self-governments – they set up schools and banks run by local tribals, created irrigation facilities by constructing check dams on local streams, introduced collective farming and run revenue administration.“For the tribals, the Maoists are the real government, since they have not seen any other official coming to them so far. Naturally, they are prepared to lay down their lives for Maoists and fight with the police forces,” a teacher in a Bastar village, who did not want to be named, said.The absence of roads and bridges on rivers like Indrawati and its tributaries like Chintavagu and Sabri also helped Maoists isolate villagers for over six months in a year, thus giving them opportunity to “brainwash” the tribals.At the same time, the Chhattisgarh Police did not have a specialised anti-Naxal force like the greyhound of Telangana, while Maoists were able to create a specialised army in the form of PLGA with batallions, companies and platoons. Its approach of winning over tribals was coupled with coercion, which took the form of direct attacks on security forces and political leaders, as well as a reign of coercion over people in areas they controlled.The most significant Maoist attack on security forces was when they killed 76 CRPF personnel near Chintalnar village in Dantewada on April 6, 2010. A month later, they killed 36 persons, including 12 special police officers in an attack on a bus at Dantewada and 26 more CRPF jawans at Narayanpur on June 29, 2010.Earlier, they had killed 55 armed Salwa Judum forces and policemen at Rani Bodli in Bijapur on March 15, 2007 and 30 policemen, including Rajnandagaon superintendent of police, at Madanwada on July 12, 2009.In 2013, in one of their most audacious attacks, the Maoists wiped out almost the entire top leadership of the Congress in the state in an attack in Jiram Ghati, killing senior Congress leaders such as Nand Kumar Patel, Mahendra Karma, Dinesh Patel and VC Shukla.In the meantime, Operation Green Hunt, which was believed to have launched in November 2009 by the Central government simultaneously in five states — Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal — but was never officially confirmed, played a role in containing the Maoist movement to a large extent, but it did not completely weaken the left-wing extremism as these attacks showed.The response from RaipurOfficials believe that the Raman Singh government was more aggressive in tackling Maoists, with a higher number of anti-Naxal operations planned by the police and Central forces during the Bharatiya Janata Party’s rule. But this, civil liberties activists claim, was accompanied by greater human rights violations.In 2014, a controversial Inspector General SRP Kalluri was posted in Bastar. While human rights activists alleged that the violation of human rights was at its peak during Kalluri’s tenure, his supporters lauded him as a superhero in containing Maoist activity — and spoke of his strategy of forcing the surrender of Maoists and enhancing the state’s penetration in rural areas. He was subsequently removed from Bastar in 2017.The Congress government, led by Bhupesh Baghel, which succeeded the Raman Singh government in December 2018, has claimed that the Maoist violence in the state has gone down. There are two views on this decline.On one hand are officials in the field who believe that the decrease in violence in 2019 and 2020 because of the reduced engagement of security forces in core areas with Maoists and “defensive strategy” of forces in the last two years.On the other side of the debate are senior police officials who claim this decline is because of a set of measures — including “offensive and intelligence-based operations” by state police and other paramilitary forces; the opening up of new operational base camps in the affected areas which has helped the police regain control over more than 8,000sqkm area in Bastar Range; and policies and programmes to provide employment to tribals of Bastar.The dip in Maoist strength According to official figures tabled in the Chhattisgarh state assembly during the recent budget session, there has been a decline in the encounters in the state – from 211 in 2016 to 198 in 2017, 166 in 2018, 121 in 2019 and 84 in 2020. The Maoists have made a tactical retreat due to stepping up of combing operations.“The Maoists were also short of funds due to lockdown and demonetisation, and thus wanted road construction and other activities to continue in lieu of levy, so there is a marked decrease in arson,” said an IPS officer posted in Bastar.A section of intelligence officials believe that the death of key Maoist leaders like Ramanna due to medical illness and poor health of other ageing top Maoists working in the state have decreased their mobility, thus leading to a vacuum, especially at the level of strategists. Top leaders are not able to move freely as in the past.However, despite the widespread sense that the Maoist forces have weakened, the PLGA remains strong. “They still have more than 1,000 automatic weapons looted from policemen,” a senior police official said.In the last two years, two serious incidents — the Minpa attack in 2020 and Tarrem in 2021 — occurred when forces were in operations. The PLGA forces rehearsed their ambush plans many times, and when forces arrived, they rearranged themselves in very short time, thus surprising security forces.“Although Maoists are now not in a position to attack police camps and police stations as they did in past, they still possess the capability to ambush security forces in their core areas due to their terrain knowledge, village support, civil recce teams leaking all movements of security forces and their fearless lightening attacks,” the police official said.Is there a way out? After Saturday’s encounter at Bijapur, Union home minister Amit Shah who called on the injured CRPF jawans at Jagdalur and Raipur declared that the Centre would decisively crush the Maoist movement.Experts offer different prescriptions.Ramesh Kanneganti, a Hyderabad-based internal security expert and executive director of Centre for Human Security Studies, said, “There is an urgent need to work on more robust state-level and Central-level multi-agency coordination to achieve greater operational and strategic alignment to weed out Maoists. National security and human security approaches should be blended to liquidate the menace with more emphasis on technology and human intelligence merger.”Professor G Hara Gopal, rights activist and former professor of Hyderabad Central University, who played a major role in the AP government-Maoist talks in 2004, said the whole problem lies in the Central government dealing with the issue as a “law-and-order problem, instead of socio-economic problem.”“As long as the government follows this path, the problem is going continue for a long and there is going to be loss of human life on both sides. This is very unfortunate. There is a need to engage Maoists in dialogue and the government should try to resolve the fundamental issues being raised by them,” he said. He added that there was also a need for a vibrant civil society which should take the initiative in bringing about a dialogue between the government and the Maoists. “Before the 2004 talks, there was a big exercise by such civil society groups, including former IAS officer S R Sankaran. Now, there is no such atmosphere in Chhattisgarh,” he regretted.Irrespective of what approach the government adopts, or the mix of strategies it weaves together, the battle against Maoists is entering a new phase in India. The past offers lessons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-maoist-violence-returns-decoding-the-rise-of-ultra-left-insurgency-101617789625729.html
08-04-2021||India||What is driving India’s second Covid-19 wave?||We have seen miracles, and we have seen disasters. In September 2020, India came close to 100,000 Covid-19 cases a day, and it seemed an inexorable rise. And then magically, the cases started to dip, and with a few blips here and there in specific cities, by January, we were seeing fewer than 10,000 new cases a day. In February, the numbers starting heading up again, and we have now breached 100,000 new cases per day, the second country in the world to do so.Why did this happen now? Why did the numbers escalate beyond what India had at its peak the first time? For the Sars-CoV-2, it does not take a lot of virus to infect another person. When people mingle, speak, shout and sing, they unknowingly spew out infectious virus. This clear mode of transmission is what makes masks, distancing and ventilation so effective. In September, we cared about prevention, and emerging from severe restrictions, were willing to do what it took to keep spread down. From then on, week by week, we have been slipping, first in some regions, then others, with some activities and then others. Crowding on public transport, in markets, at festivals, at family celebrations and during elections are back to being acceptable. The communication from the government and of experts seem to go unheard.Also Read | India surpasses US to become fastest Covid-19 vaccinating country, says CentreAlso Watch | How India could have avoided second Covid wave & why next 45 days is crucialThis lack of appropriate behaviour that could prevent the virus’ spread has increased, and potentially been amplified, because of viruses that are more transmissible than the ancestral version of the virus that we had last year. We are still not clear about the proportion of B.1.1.7 or the United Kingdom variant, which spreads more easily and may cause more severe disease, and which has badly affected Punjab, and possibly other states.The new Indian so-called “double mutant” variant is now the global lineage B1.617. But is this virus more transmissible? Does it cause more severe disease? Will vaccines work? These are questions that we will be able to answer if we can interrogate our health data and back it up with standardised laboratory investigations as in other parts of the world.We have two vaccines that work well against Sars-CoV-2. Covishield had the advantage of large-scale clinical trials being conducted elsewhere that generated efficacy data quickly, requiring small scale studies in India. But it also has a disadvantage — the initial messy data about doses, intervals and age groups and miscommunication by AstraZeneca have led to confused messaging about how to use the vaccine. Covaxin has the advantage of tremendous support from the government of India but the disadvantage of needing to do large-scale clinical trials in India, never an easy task, given the lack of clinical research experience at many sites.But the roll-out of vaccines, despite the fast-tracking of approvals, prioritisation frameworks, central procurement, efforts at preparedness for vaccination sites and sessions, establishment of process and development of the CoWin app, has been slow. The government originally planned to immunise 300 million people by June-July (later July-August), and this appears very unlikely if the pace of vaccination does not increase several-fold.Are we in the same position that we were in during the rapid increase of the first peak in India? If not, what makes it different? From the serological surveys, between a quarter and one-third of the population has been infected but this is not evenly distributed by place and stratum of society; so those who had the ability to isolate last year and are not yet vaccinated, are more likely to get infected. But given that vaccines work much better than expected, it is not unreasonable to suppose that our immune systems are capable of handling this virus well. This means that previously infected people should expect some protection against severe disease for several months.Additionally available vaccines provide some, not complete, measure of protection against most viral variants. If one-third of the population is already protected at least against severe disease, and we can ramp up vaccination quickly while continuing the measures that we know restrict the spread of the virus, then control is feasible, even with the new variants.We know what works, but to use the tools we have most effectively, we need more detailed data. We are not in the same situation today that we were in last year, so control measures cannot be one-size-fits-all.We need to know more about the people who are getting infected. Where are they from? Age? Gender? Vaccinated? Previously infected? Disease severity? If we have this information and can tie it together, we can achieve more tailored strategies for control instead of strategies that have an uncertain effect. What does a night curfew prevent and how effective is it? We don’t really have the data.Yet, on the other hand, we are bombarded by news that affects vaccine uptake, for instance, “Doctors infected after vaccination”, “Healthcare worker in XX dies two days after vaccination”. Conveying both truth and uncertainty is important, as is explaining with facts that vaccines are not perfect, that care continues to be required when there are high numbers of cases in our communities, that we have a surveillance system for picking up vaccine side-effects, but it may not be always able to assess the relationship with the vaccines.This is a challenging time, but we have the science to help us get through this pandemic and future ones. We need to use it, together.Gagandeep Kang is professor, Christian Medical College, Vellore The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19battling-india-s-second-wave-101617783024598.html
08-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh ambush: Maoists release image of missing commando||A photograph of a commando from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF)’s elite CoBRA unit -- missing after a deadly April 2 ambush by Maoist ultras in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma-Bijapur region -- was released on Wednesday by Maoists, who have demanded that a mediator be appointed by the government to negotiate his release.This photograph, which was circulating on social media, surfaced on a day the soldier’s family protested in Jammu, demanding that the government facilitate his swift return.The photograph showed Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, 35, a commando with the 210th CoBRA battalion, sitting alone in what appeared to be a hut. According to local journalists in the region, the photo was sent on WhatsApp. “At 11.27am, a photograph of the missing jawan was sent on a WhatsApp number by Maoist leader Vikalp,” said Sukma-based journalist Raja Rathore.When asked about Manhas’s photograph, inspector general of police (Bastar range), Sundarraj P, said the situation was being closely monitored.“All best possible efforts are being made to secure the safe return of the jawan,” he was quoted as saying by PTI.On Tuesday evening, the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) issued a press release, signed by its spokesperson Vikalp, asking the government to decide on a mediator to discuss Manhas’s release. The note, issued by the Maoist Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee said: “The state government should appoint interlocutor, we will then handover the jawan to them. Until then, the jawan will be safe in the custody of Jantana Sarkar.”Though no interlocutor has been named, tribal activist Soni Sori left for the encounter site on Wednesday to appeal to Maoists to release the abducted jawan. “The government should have taken steps to secure the release of the jawan. I just want that the jawan be freed safely, for which I am going to the incident site,” Sori told reporters.Meanwhile, in Manhas’s home town in Jammu, hundreds of protesters, including the commando’s family, staged a sit-in at Barnai Chowk on Wednesday, and demanded that the government show the same urgency to facilitate his release that was shown in bringing back wing commander Abhinandan Varthaman, who was taken hostage by Pakistan after the 2019 Balakot strike.Manhas’s wife, Meenu, who learnt of his abduction from a local reporter in Chhattisgarh on the day of the ambush, said: “It’s been four days since my husband was abducted by Maoists but the government is doing nothing to ensure his release from captivity... If a jawan is late to report to duty by just one day after leave, action is taken against him, but here, he is missing since Saturday and nobody is bothered.”She added that the family has not heard either from the government or the CRPF, and whatever information they had was through the media. Manhas is the family’s sole breadwinner, and has a five-year-old daughter.Twenty-two soldiers from the CRPF’s CoBRA unit, District Reserve Guard, and the Special Task Force lost their lives in a five-hour-long clash with Maoists. This was the deadliest Maoist attack in the region in the last four years, and prompted Union home minister Amit Shah to describe it as a “decisive turn” in the fight against Maoist ultras. Shah also said this week that the issue would reach its “logical end”.Officials said that several Maoists -- HT reported that officials estimated the number to be between 12 and 20 -- were also killed in the gunfight. The Maoists, however, claimed in a statement on Tuesday that only four of their cadre were killed.“The Maoists are showing definite interest for talks in each of their press notes after this sad incident. Possible negotiation to release the CRPF jawan can be a very good beginning in an otherwise very grim situation if followed through creatively,” Shubhranshu Chaudhary, a peace activist working in Bastar, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maoists-release-photograph-of-missing-cobra-commando-101617780384486.html
08-04-2021||India||From Munger to NCR, an inside account of how Delhi’s criminals source their arms||Till a decade ago, the illegal arms factories of Munger in Bihar almost always found a way in the confessions of criminals caught with guns in Delhi. Today, Munger, about 1,200km from Delhi, is no longer a source of concern for the police in the national capital, for the trend of Delhi’s criminals sourcing weapons from Bihar’s infamous factories has dissipated, according to key police officials.But that’s where the good news ends. The police have a bigger worry. In Delhi, when, on an average, there are at least two incidents involving the use of firearms in crimes every day, factories have now mushroomed in the vicinity of the capital itself. Those who ran the small arms factories in Munger have now joined hands and trained people in western Uttar Pradesh. HT spoke to many police officers, both retired and serving, to understand the market of illegal gun trade in Delhi.The last time Munger’s illegal firearm factories were in the headlines was in March 2020, when a 7.65 bore countrymade pistol was seized from the house of Shahrukh Pathan, the north east Delhi resident whose video of pointing the gun at a policeman during Delhi riots went viral on the internet — the pistol was manufactured in Munger. A year later, the Delhi Police have not been able to arrest the person from whom Pathan had purchased the gun or locate the factory in Munger where it was manufactured, despite multiple visits to the district.“This is because illegal gun factories in Munger have got crippled in the last five-six years and those skilled in the trade have shifted themselves to other states. They are now adopting newer strategies to earn their livelihood. In fact, the skilled labourers of those factories are now being hired by gun runners who are operating from Delhi’s neighbourhood such as Meerut and Aligarh,” said a crime branch officer.From Munger to west UPBetween 2012 and 2015, the Delhi Police’s special cell and crime branch teams would make at least two visits every month to Munger to bust owners of illegal gun factories, arrest gunrunners and people involved in the trafficking chain, following any recovery of illicit firearms in Delhi. These days, the teams hardly visit the district once a year.But the use of illicit arms in street crimes such as robbery and dacoity in the national capital, or the numbers of seizure of such guns, has not gone down. What has happened is that manufacturing units have come closer to clients, police officers working on gunrunning rackets said.Also Read | Man wanted in 39 criminal cases arrested after brief exchange of fire with policeEarlier, illegal gun factories of Munger catered to 60% to 70% of total supply of illicit guns in Delhi and its neighbouring states while Madhya Pradesh’s Khargone, Khandwa, Burhanpur and Dhar were the secondary suppliers. But in the last two-three years, the trend has changed. Gunrunners based in Meerut, Aligarh and a few other places in western Uttar Pradesh are now catering to a majority of the demands of illicit firearms by criminals in Delhi-NCR.This is also evident from the fact that Delhi Police and UP Police have been taking action against illegal gun factories and gunrunners in recent times in this area.On March 27, the UP Police seized 133 illicit firearms after busting four illegal gun factories and arresting eight gunrunners in Meerut.A week before that, Delhi Police arrested five men with three countrymade pistols, which, the men revealed, they had procured from one Aamir Saifi, a gunrunner based in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut. Just five days before their arrest, the same team had seized 10 guns from six arrested persons, including a trafficker of illicit firearms — it was during their questioning that the name of Aamir Saifi as a key supplier of the weapons surfaced.Similarly, in June last year, an illegal mini-arms factory with 516 firearm barrels, 10 manufactured pistols, and lots of manufacturing parts, was busted in Aligarh following a joint raid by Delhi’s special cell and Aligarh police.Decoding the shift There are various reasons behind the shifting of illegal gun factories from Munger to Delhi’s outskirts. But the primary among them were the non-stop raids, seizures and arrests in Munger by the Bihar police as well as police from other states, and the proximity between the suppliers and the clients, experts as well as police officers from Bihar and Delhi said.“The last prominent raid in Munger was carried out last year, when the Delhi Police teams camped in the district for several days to arrest the gunrunner through whom Shahrukh Pathan (mentioned above) had purchased the pistol that he had pointed at a policeman during the Delhi riots. Since then, no state police have carried out any operation in Munger. These days, mostly notices are received from other state police following the arrest of Munger’s illegal gun manufacturers in their states,” said Manavjit Singh Dhillon, superintendent of police (Munger).Also Read | 5 hitmen, part of Lawrence Bishnoi gang, arrested in north DelhiRetired Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Ashok Chand said that the Delhi Police’s crackdown on gun factories in Munger started in 2012 following a murder case wherein a man allegedly killed his wife and in-laws using a countrymade pistol that was found to be manufactured in Munger.With that information and the fact that a majority of the illegal firearms seized during that period had Munger links, the then police chief Neeraj Kumar directed the special cell and crime branch teams to neutralise the entire nexus, said Chand.“For the next three-four years, Delhi and Munger police carried out incessant drives against illegal gun factories, forcing criminals involved in the unlawful trade to shift their bases and adopt newer strategies to run their business,” said Chand.Between 2017 and 2018, at least 125 AK-47s, fabricated from parts of weapons presumably phased out or condemned by the army and dumped in its stores in Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, reached Bihar’s Munger and then found their way into the hands of Maoists and gangsters. The recovery of many such guns and arrests of some key players grabbed the government’s attention and the national investigation agency (NIA) was roped in to investigate the matter.“The crackdown that followed nearly wiped out the deadly arms factories from the district and a majority of the skilled labourers shifted,” said another Delhi Police’s crime branch officer.The new operational manual Even as the illegal gun trade from Munger has declined, it has led to dislocation rather — with people involved in the manufacturing, supply and sale of firearms now hiring skilled workers from Munger, and shifting them to places around Delhi, thereby creating newer fabrication hubs, smaller in scale and more dispersed.As most of the firearms were caught during their transit, the gunrunners adopted the strategy of looking for safe zones around Delhi. The gunrunners look for low income group neighbourhoods, take houses on rent for three-four months, set up their machines and begin assembling firearms, said deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav.“Many of the gunrunners we have arrested and interrogated in the last two-three years revealed that they hire blacksmiths from Munger skilled in manufacturing sophisticated guns, procure raw materials such as springs, butt and barrels from different places and assemble the guns in their temporary gun factories,” said Yadav.Unlike earlier, when gunrunners used to transit bigger consignments from Munger or Madhya Pradesh, suppliers have now become careful and take many precautions while adopting newer ways to smuggle illegal weapons into Delhi. They mostly procure raw materials from their older hubs, and the assemble guns at rented places around Delhi. Deals between clients and supplies are no longer happening in open telephone calls but encrypted mobile applications to avoid police attention and stay away from their radar.Analysis of confessional statements reveal that traffickers of illegal firearms avoid taking the border routes which are under close police watch. When railways are used, the operators prefer not to land at the stations located in Delhi but get down at stoppages just before Delhi and from there, use local public transport to enter the city.In many cases, women accompany the male carriers and they pose as couples to avoid police attention while travelling in private vehicles or in public transport. Police have also found that hiding the illegal firearms in special cavities created in a car doors or boot is another way of smuggling such weapons.The costingAssembling a pistol takes just a day or two and the total investment is between ₹2,000 and ₹3,000. The gun is finally sold at prices ranging between ₹20,000 and ₹30,000, depending on its quality.The high profit margin has made this illegal business lucrative, attracting people who want to become rich overnight, said Chand, who last served in Delhi Police’s crime branch.Over a decade ago, the demands of firearms in Delhi and other north Indian states were fulfilled not only by the gunrunners based in Munger or Madhya Pradesh—supplies also came from Pakistan. Earlier, foreign-made firearms, mostly Chinese guns, were in high demand among gangsters and criminals because their quality was seen to be better than the crude pistols manufactured in India’s illegal factories.“And it was the reason that even Indian Mujahideen (IM) terrorists had involved themselves in the illegal trade. One illegal firearm manufacturing factory that was set up by IM’s co-founder Yasin Bhatkal was busted by the Delhi Police in 2011. I was on the force then and many such operations were carried out across the country,” said Chand.But as the smuggled foreign-made guns were costly and risky to traffick across borders, the gunrunners in India started using good metal and materials to manufacture guns of better quality.“Unlike the previous crudely made pistols, the barrels of these sophisticated pistols do not burst after one or two shots or cause injuries to the users,” explained Chand.The impact on Delhi’s crime scene Even as the Delhi Police data shows that the use of firearms in crimes in the city has decreased over the past three-four years, on an average, two crimes, in which firearms were used, were reported everyday in this period.Police data shows that firearms were used in 672 crimes in 2020 while in 2019 this number was 736. Similarly, there were 897 cases of use of firearms in crimes in 2017 and the number came down to 810 the following year (2018).In March 2021 alone, there have been at least 20 cases wherein firearms were used for street crimes such as robbery and snatching or heinous crimes like murder and attempt to murder. On March 25, a group of seven-eight assailants opened fire at a police team at GTB Hospital in their bid to release a jailed gangster.On March 23, in a suspected gang rivalry case, four motorcycle-borne assailants fired nearly two dozen bullets in south Delhi’s Dakshinpuri to kill a 31-year-old meat shop owner. Around a week ago, a 45-year-old chartered accountant was shot dead at his under construction building in Adarsh Nagar during a robbery bid. On March 12, two armed men who were out for snatching fired and injured a policeman after he tried to stop their motorcycle and overpower them in Defence Colony area.These incidents show that criminals carrying firearms become violent even during snatching a gold chain or a mobile phone. They do not hesitate in firing on the police as well.Be it crude or refined, guns continue to be the favourite weapon of criminals, as they are the ultimate display of power for them. There is no better way of defining the stature of a criminal than by mentioning what kind of weapons he posses or uses, says deputy commissioner of police (crime) Chinmoy Biswal, who is also Delhi Police’s spokesperson.But Biswal also said that police have launched a massive crackdown on illegal guns and the number of weapons every year is proof of that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-munger-to-ncr-an-inside-account-of-how-delhi-s-criminals-source-their-arms-101617774684313.html
