09-04-2021||India||New Delhi hopes trade pact talks will resume at India-EU Summit||New Delhi India on Friday expressed the hope that negotiations with the European Union (EU) on trade and investment agreements will resume at the India-EU Summit to be held in Portugal next month.This was conveyed by the Indian side during a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Dutch counterpart Mark Rutte. The two sides also agreed to upgrade their joint working group on water to the ministerial level and to launch a “strategic partnership in water”. India and EU member states have decided to launch negotiations on separate trade and investment pacts as both sides believe it will be easier to finalise an agreement on investments, while contentious issues related to market access will take more time to be addressed. The EU is also keen to a predictable investment regime as individual agreements with most European states have already lapsed. “The India-EU Summit was discussed, and we expressed the hope that in the summit in Porto, there will be resumption of negotiations for the India-EU trade agreement and the investment agreement,” Sandeep Chakravorty, joint secretary (Europe West) in the external affairs ministry, told a briefing after the summit. “The Dutch prime minister was appreciative of this and said it is important both India and the EU have these agreements in place to incentivise more trade and investments,” he said, adding that the Netherlands is the third largest investor in India and an important player in the EU. On the bilateral front, Modi and Rutte agreed to launch a “strategic partnership on water” in view of strong synergies between the water-related challenges of India and the expertise of the Netherlands, and to elevate the joint working group on water to the ministerial level. The Netherlands is seen as a world leader in water use and management, especially in flood control, inland waterways and waste water recycling. The two leaders also reviewed the ongoing bilateral projects under the Namami-Gange Programme and discussed upcoming joint interventions in projects such as “Water as Leverage” in selected towns in the Ganga Basin and a pilot project on pollution and waste management in a textile industrial cluster in Panipat. The Netherlands, France and Germany have already adopted Indo-Pacific policies and are working to help the EU frame its strategy for the region. Chakravorty quoted Rutte as saying that India will have a critical role in any Indo-Pacific strategy. Rutte also said a Dutch frigate will sail to the Indo-Pacific in the coming months and exercise with the Indian Navy. Covid-19-related cooperation and vaccines were also discussed in detail by the two leaders and Rutte appreciated India’s role in supplying personal protective equipment (PPE), pharmaceuticals and vaccines to other countries. Rutte also noted that an Indian company was present in the Netherlands to set up a European vaccine hub. The Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, acquired Bilthoven Biologicals of the Netherlands in 2012, and is currently working to make this a hub for vaccine manufacturing. “The two sides favour a well-balanced trade system in pharmaceutical products. Patients and industry have an interest in securing transparent, open and predictable supply chains, and avoiding critical dependencies in active pharmaceuticals and in formulations,” said a joint statement issued after the summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-delhi-hopes-trade-pact-talks-will-resume-at-india-eu-summit-101617992895413.html
09-04-2021||India||CBI books former TMC Rajya Sabha MP KD Singh for cheating investors||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against former Trinamool Congress (TMC) Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament --- K D Singh and others for allegedly cheating investors by promising villas/plots/apartments through his companies - Alchemist Infra Realty Limited and Alchemist Township Limited, people familiar with the development said. The case was earlier registered by the Uttar Pradesh Police in 2019, which has been handed over to the central agency for further investigation. Earlier this week, a Delhi court granted bail to KD Singh in a money laundering probe of the Enforcement Directorate, which arrested him on January 13 this year. His company is also under investigation for Ponzi scheme irregularities worth over ₹1,900 crore. The ED had, in September 2019, attached his properties worth over ₹230 crore under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). In the latest case, registered on Friday, CBI has claimed that K D Singh, through his two companies cheated 291 residents of Kanpur by making false promises of allotment of plots/villas/apartments. However, the investors neither got any plot/villa nor their received back their money, according to the FIR. The ED probe against Singh and a firm linked to him (Ms Alchemist Infra Realty Limited) dates back to September, 2016 when it filed a criminal case under the PMLA taking cognisance of a charge sheet filed against the company, its directors and others by market regulator SEBI.“Investigation revealed that the proceeds of crime generated by Alchemist Infra Realty Ltd were laundered through the web of companies. Investigations also revealed that the funds mobilised by the firm from various investors were never utilised for the purpose for which they were collected and the same were transferred to bank accounts of other group companies which were mainly paper companies from where they were systematically siphoned off by the accused and used to purchase properties at various locations in the country. All such assets in Punjab, Haryana, Shimla and bank accounts in HDFC Bank worth ₹239.39 crore identified during the course of investigations have been provisionally attached,” the ED said in a statement in January 2019. It has been alleged by the probe agencies that the company launched an illegal collective investment scheme, also called a ponzi or chit fund scheme, and mobilised funds of about ₹1,916 crore from the public in the years preceding 2015. The firm allegedly launched the scheme “without the approval” of the SEBI and led to cheating of gullible investors.K D Singh or his legal representative could not be located for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-former-tmc-rajya-sabha-mp-kd-singh-for-cheating-investors-101617991275262.html
09-04-2021||India||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, Assam issues guidelines to celebrate Rongali Bihu||Amid an increase in Covid-19 cases, Assam on Friday issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) to celebrate Rongali Bihu, the Assamese New Year, which begins next week. The order issued by the health and family welfare department stated that the guidelines would be applicable to other occasions like Ram Navami, Ramzan etc. to “ensure people are able to celebrate their much-loved festivals with joy and gusto, simultaneously adhering to Covid-19 protocols”. Rongali or Bohag Bihu, starts in the middle of April and celebrations continue for several weeks, mainly concentrated in cultural functions held all over the state where thousands gather. Last year, the celebrations didn’t take place due to the Covid-19 enforced lockdown. Friday’s order directed all event organizers to seek permission to hold functions and inform about the capacity of the places where the events would be held and how many people are expected to take part. All organizers and volunteers involved with the functions will have to get themselves tested for Covid-19 three days prior to and also after the event. The event sites should be spacious kept open from all sides and there should be adequate space for social distancing among audience at the venues. There should be multiple entry and exit points and organizers must take measures to prevent overcrowding. All visitors as well as participants are to be screened for fever using thermal scanners and anyone having high temperatures should be directed to the nearest Covid-19 testing facility. Use of face masks is mandatory at the venues and the organizers should keep hand sanitizers at the entry points and parking areas. The venues should be sanitized twice-once before the event and again after it is over. On Thursday, Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma stated that the government won’t enforce lockdown or night curfew and people would be allowed to celebrate Rongali Bihu this year. On Thursday, 245 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection were detected across Assam—the highest figure this year. At present, there are 1023 active Covid-19 cases in the state. In view of the increase in Covid-19 cases in other states, the state government has made it mandatory for all passengers arriving from Mumbai and Bengaluru to undergo tests at airports and railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-assam-issues-guidelines-to-celebrate-rongali-bihu-101617981554519.html
09-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: EC removes West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee's security officer and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.West Bengal: Election Commission removes Mamata Banerjee's security officerHours before the fourth phase of the 2021 West Bengal assembly elections are slated to begin, the Election Commission of India on Friday removed chief minister Mamata Banerjee's security officer Ashok Chakraborty. Read moreMI vs RCB, IPL 2021: Yuzvendra Chahal completes special 'century' and 'double century' in one matchThe IPL 2021 opening match between Mumbai Indians and Royal Challengers Bangalore turned out to be a special one for RCB spinner Yuzvendra Chahal as he completed a special 'century' and 'double century'. Read moreRimi Sen says she thought Bigg Boss was 'a useless show', did it for moneyActor Rimi Sen has often spoken about her disdain for the reality show Bigg Boss, which she did a few years ago. Read moreUnlock boss mode: Entire list of keyboard shortcuts you will ever need for WhatsApp desktop app, WhatsApp webWhatsApp has a whole bunch of keyboard shortcuts for both WhatsApp Web and the desktop app and these include actions like marking a message as unread, muting the chat, deleting a chat and more. Read moreKhloe Kardashian shares message of self acceptance post bikini picture debacleAmerican reality TV show, Keeping Up With The Kardashians star Khloe Kardashian on Wednesday took to her Instagram to clear the air about an unauthorised bikini photo of her surfaced over the weekend. Read moreWatch: Amit Shah clarifies on vaccine shortage & poll campaigning amid CovidRefuting reports regarding Covid-19 vaccine shortages in various states, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday said all states are being provided with an adequate number of vaccine doses. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ec-removes-west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-s-security-officer-and-all-the-latest-news-101617979708276.html
09-04-2021||India||Ask them first: Ravi Shankar Prasad hits back at Rahul over vaccine letter||Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Friday launched a scathing attack on Rahul Gandhi after the Congress leader wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to allow states to have a greater say in the procurement and distribution of Covid-19 vaccines. In a series of tweets, Prasad also called Rahul Gandhi a part-time politician and a ‘lobbyist’ for pharmaceutical companies. “First he lobbied for fighter plane companies by trying to derail India’s acquisition programme. Now he is lobbying for pharma companies by asking for arbitrary approvals for foreign vaccines,” Prasad wrote on Twitter.Fighting a pandemic is not a one trick game. Apart from vaccination, there needs to be adequate focus on testing, tracing & treating. Rahul Gandhi’s problem is that he doesn’t understand all this and his ignorance is compounded by his arrogance.Prasad then asked Gandhi to stop Congress-led governments in states from stalling the Centre’s vaccination programme. “Rahul Gandhi must know that shortage in Congress ruled states is not of vaccines but of basic commitment towards health care. He should write to his party’s governments to stop their vasooli ventures and concentrate on administering the lakhs of vaccines they are sitting upon,” he further added.India is not facing vaccine starvation but Shri Gandhi is facing attention starvation. Why has Rahul Gandhi not yet taken vaccine?Is it an oversight or he doesnt want it or has he already taken one in many of his undisclosed trips to foreign locations but doesnt want to disclose?The Union minister also questioned the 50-year-old Gandhi for not getting vaccinated. “Why has Rahul Gandhi not yet taken the vaccine? Is it an oversight or he does not want it or has he already taken one during many of his undisclosed trips to foreign locations but doesn't want to disclose?” Prasad asked. Gandhi had visited his grandmother in Italy in December, a day ahead of the Congress Foundation Day, which was also criticised by BJP leaders.Gandhi in his letter to the Prime Minister also sought fast-track approval of other Covid-19 vaccines. He also took a jibe at PM Modi, saying that the vaccination drive should focus on guaranteeing maximum vaccination rather than putting an ‘individual’s picture on the vaccine certificate.’ He also criticised the decision to export vaccines to other nations calling it an ‘oversight.’Several states in the past weeks have complained that they are facing a vaccine shortage. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said that the state has 14 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine which would only last for three days. On the same day, Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said that he requested the Centre to provide more Covid-19 vaccines in order to control the spread of the coronavirus disease, news agency ANI reported. Sudhakar later clarified that the state is not running short on vaccines on April 8.Andhra Pradesh’s Nellore and West Godavari districts also faced a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, people familiar with the developments told news agency ANI on Thursday. Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta and Odisha chief minister Naveen Pattnaik also highlighted vaccine shortages in their respective states.Union minister for health Harsh Vardhan and Union home minister Amit Shah rubbished reports of vaccine shortage, highlighting that all states have received an equal number of doses. Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said that the alarm raised by several states regarding vaccine shortages were attempts to hide their incompetence with connection to conducting inoculation drives. “Hue and cry by certain states about partisanship by the Union government is just a farce, an attempt to hide their own incompetence. Maharashtra and Rajasthan are 2 of the top 3 states based on allocation of Covid-19 vaccine doses,” Harsh Vardhan said in a tweet.The Union health ministry said that more than 9.43 crore (in millions) people have been vaccinated against Covid-19 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ask-them-first-ravi-shankar-prasad-hits-back-at-rahul-over-vaccine-letter-101617979138632.html
09-04-2021||India||Johnson & Johnson in discussion with India to start clinical trails of its Janssen Covid-19 vaccine||US pharma giant Johnson and Johnson on Friday said it is in discussion with the Government of India to soon begin bridging clinical trials in the country for its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine Janssen."At Johnson & Johnson, we remain fully focused on bringing a safe and effective Covid-19 vaccine to people around the world, if authorized for use by local health authorities. We are in discussions with the Government of India with the objective of starting a bridging clinical study of our Janssen Covid-19 vaccine candidate in India, subject to local regulatory approvals," a company statement said.A bridging study tests the safety and immunogenicity of a vaccine. Janssen vaccine is currently approved for use in the United States, the European Union and other nations including Thailand and South Africa.India currently has two approved vaccines in use, one developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and the other a shot from local player Bharat Biotech.Faced with a surge in coronavirus cases and heightened demand from states, the country is looking to ramp up its vaccine doses.The country reported over 1.20 lakh new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours on Thursday.With 1,26,789 new cases in the last 24 hours, India's active caseload reached 9,10,319 yesterday.India recorded 59,258 recoveries were registered in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative recoveries to 1,18,51,393. The national Recovery Rate is 91.67 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/johnson-johnson-in-discussion-with-india-to-start-clinical-trails-of-its-janssen-covid-19-vaccine-101617975549687.html
09-04-2021||India||Assam issues Covid-19 guidelines for Bohag Bihu, other festivals||The Assam Health and Family Welfare Department on Friday notified Covid-19 appropriate guidelines for the upcoming Bohag Bihu and other festivals in the state in view of the fresh spike of Covid-19 cases in many parts of the country.The notification stated that the guidelines to be strictly adhered to and followed by all the event organisers /visitors/participants of functions and other festivals in the state for the general safety and security of all participants against Covid-19.It said that the guidelines for public gathering during the Bohag Bihu and other festivals such as Ram Navami, Ramadan, was for ensuring that people are able to celebrate their festivals with joy and simultaneously adhering to Covid-19 protocols.The notification said the event organisers are to seek permission from the concerned district administration for organising any event resulting in public gathering.It said all programmes/festival/events should conclude by 11 pm and all the organisers and volunteers involved in the organisation of functions and festivals must test themselves for Covid-19 three days prior to and after the event mandatorily.Stating Assam has geared up its Covid-19 management strategies and is taking up various need-based steps to contain the spread of Covid-19, the notification said every participant is to be screened for fever using thermal scanners and anyone with higher temperature than normal may be advised to report to the nearest health facility for testing and should not be allowed to enter the event area.Use of mask and hand sanitiser has been made compulsory for visitors/organisers, besides keeping hand sanitizer at the entry gate and other areas, including parking lot.The guidelines also included sanitising the event area twice daily - once before the crowd gathers and again after they leave the venue - as a strict public health measure.The event organisers must engage an adequate number of volunteers inside and outside the event area to ensure that visitors maintain physical distance, wear masks properly and sanitise hands, while volunteers themselves follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour while interacting with visitors.The guidelines also mandated that the organisers mention the number of people likely to gather at the proposed event to avoid crowding at all cost and the maximum capacity of the place/site where the event is proposed to be held enabling the district administration to extend all possible support to them for successful and safe celebration of the event.Regarding arrangements at the programme/festival/ event site, the guidelines said it should be spacious and must be kept open from all sides, the event area must have adequate space for arrangement of physical distancing as per Covid-19 protocol, have separate multiple entry and exit gates.The sitting arrangements should be made in such a way that social distancing is maintained between the chairs. In case of fixed chairs, alternate seats may be considered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-issues-covid-19-guidelines-for-bohag-bihu-other-festivals-101617974869623.html
09-04-2021||India||India conveys concern over US Navy’s ‘freedom of navigation’ operation in EEZ||India said on Friday it had conveyed its concerns to the US over an American warship transiting through the country’s exclusive economic zone (EEZ) without prior consent in what was described by the US Navy as a “freedom of navigation operation”.Though the US Navy has conducted similar operations in Indian waters in recent years, they were not publicised, as it happened in the case of the latest operation on April 7. The US Navy’s 7th Fleet issued a press release that said the freedom of navigation operation (FONOP) by the guided missile destroyer USS John Paul Jones “upheld the rights, freedoms, and lawful uses of the sea recognised in international law by challenging India’s excessive maritime claims”.The strongly worded US Navy release didn’t go down well with the defence ministry or the external affairs ministry, especially at a time when the US and India are working jointly to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific through forums such as the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.“The USS John Paul Jones was continuously monitored transiting from the Persian Gulf towards the Malacca Straits. We have conveyed our concerns regarding this passage through our EEZ to the government of USA through diplomatic channels,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement.The Indian government’s stated position on the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) is that the convention “does not authorise other states to carry out in the Exclusive Economic Zone and on the continental shelf, military exercises or manoeuvres, in particular those involving the use of weapons or explosives, without the consent of the coastal state”, the statement said.The US Navy’s release said USS John Paul Jones “asserted navigational rights and freedoms approximately 130 nautical miles west of the Lakshadweep Islands, inside India’s exclusive economic zone, without requesting India’s prior consent, consistent with international law”.The release noted that India’s position on prior consent for military exercises or manoeuvres in its EEZ or continental shelf was “inconsistent with international law”. It further said the US Navy conducts routine and regular FONOPs and will continue to do so in future, and that such operations “are not about one country, nor are they about making political statements”.The 7th Fleet is the largest of the US Navy’s forward deployed fleets. The US had sent elements of the 7th Fleet to the Bay of Bengal to pressure India during the 1971 war with Pakistan that ended with the liberation of Bangladesh.Every coastal country’s EEZ extends to 200 nautical miles (370 km) from its shores and the country has exclusive rights to all resources in the water, including oil, natural gas and fish. Any military activity in the EEZ requires India’s permission, navy officials said, asking not to be named.“If you have to do anything in our EEZ, you have to notify us and take permission,” Indian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh had said in 2019 after a Chinese vessel was repelled after intruding into Indian waters near the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.Former navy chief Admiral (retired) Arun Prakash tweeted: “FoN ops by USN ships (ineffective as they may be) in South China Sea, are meant to convey a message to China that the putative EEZ around the artificial SCS islands is an ‘excessive maritime claim.’ But what is the 7th Fleet message for India?”He added in another tweet, “There is irony here. While India ratified UN Law of the Seas in 1995, the US has failed to do it so far. For the 7th Fleet to carry out FoN missions in Indian EEZ in violation of our domestic law is bad enough. But publicising it? USN please switch on IFF (Identification friend-or-foe)!”The development came at a time when the navies of India and the US have just concluded multilateral drills in the eastern Indian Ocean. France, India, the US, Japan and Australia carried out complex maritime drills in the region to enhance interoperability among their navies during April 5-7.The US defence department’s annual freedom of navigation reports posted online show that US warships had conducted “freedom of navigation challenges” in India’s EEZ in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2019. These operations were conducted mainly to challenge India’s “excessive maritime claims”, the reports said. However, no press releases were issued at the time to publicise these operations.In a statement issued on March 10 along with the freedom of navigation report for 2020, the US defence department said American forces “operationally challenged 28 different excessive maritime claims made by 19 different claimants throughout the world”. India wasn’t among the countries listed in the 2020 report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-conveys-concern-over-us-navy-s-freedom-of-navigation-operation-in-eez-101617975852220.html
09-04-2021||India||Senior health officer assesses Covid-19 preparations in J&K, calls for more RT-PCR tests||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases over the past two weeks, the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Friday assessed the preparations and called for increasing the rate of RT-PCR tests.Financial Commissioner, Health and Medical Education, Atal Dulloo chaired a meeting with senior officers of the department here to discuss issues like availability of general and oxygen-supported beds in hospitals across the Union Territory, an official spokesman said.Speaking to the officers, the Financial Commissioner said the capacity to conduct RT-PCR tests will be increased in excess of 10,000 tests per day.He also set a target of immediate functioning of a minimum of 18 oxygen generation plants in Kashmir and five such plants in Jammu division, the spokesman said.He also directed for an officer to be deputed to look after availability of these facilities in government hospitals in both the divisions.The Financial Commissioner assured availability of additional medical staff whenever and wherever required.He ordered the health directors from both the divisions to visit designated Covid hospitals and ensure availability of all facilities round the clock, the spokesman said, adding that the Chief Medical Officers were directed to complete forthwith the pending works pertaining to Covid mitigation.He said Dulloo directed for deputing intensive care teams at Category-1 dedicated Covid hospitals. In addition to these teams, the health department was asked to ensure availability of ICU beds, ventilators and portable ventilators in the next couple of days.Similarly, for Category-2 Covid health centres, round the clock presence of a physician, ECG machine, oxygen cylinders, oxygen manifold and bedside monitors was also mandated, the spokesman said.Regarding Covid Care Centres, the spokesman said the availability of isolation beds, bedding, oxygen concentrator, BP apparatus, pulse oximeters, nebulisers, non-contact thermometers, PPE kits and hypochlorite solution is to be ensured by the health department.These facilities are to be given to patients who lack space for home quarantine, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-health-officer-assesses-covid-19-preparations-in-j-k-calls-for-more-rt-pcr-tests-101617974220287.html
09-04-2021||India||3 rhino calves rescued during floods at Kaziranga to be shifted to Manas Tiger Reserve||Three rhino calves rescued two years ago during floods at the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve in Assam will be trans-located to Manas Tiger Reserve (also in Assam) on Saturday. The calves---two females and a male--- are being taken from the Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation and Conservation (CWRC) near KNPTR where they were kept for the past two years to their new home at MTR located nearly 300 km away. The translocation is part of an ongoing effort to increase wildlife at MTR, a national park, which was ravaged for nearly two decades due to insurgent activities and rampant poaching. The two females were rescued by the forest department and Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) personnel from Hatimura (Biswanath- North Bank) and Kuthuri areas whereas the male was rescued from Solmara during the Kaziranga floods that hit in July-August 2019. “These rhino calves have undergone a protocol of rehabilitation for two years before they are trans-located to MTR. On Friday, all three had health check-ups and markings done before they were loaded in individual crates for the translocation,” said a WTI release. The convoy is expected to reach MTR in the early hours of Saturday for the scheduled release of the animals in their dedicated enclosure, where they will be kept for a stipulated period for habituation before their final release in the wilderness of the reserve. “It is the right time to release them, as the calves will be developing horns. The intra-state rhino translocation will help in improving the gene pool and give respite from any epidemics in future,” P Sivakumar, director, KNPTR. Till date 19 rhinos have been trans-located to MTR since 2006 taking the rhino population in the reserve to 44 at present. “The release of flood-rescued and rehabilitated rhinos into MTR is a part of the long-term project where the trans-located rhinos have bred, and their progeny have added to the rhino population of the reserve,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-rhino-calves-rescued-during-floods-at-kaziranga-to-be-shifted-to-manas-tiger-reserve-101617974352328.html
09-04-2021||India||Southern Railway says 75% trains being operated, services to be expanded in phased manner||The Southern Railway on Friday announced it was operating over 75 per cent of its Mail/Express trains and said the services will be expanded in a phased manner.It was ensuring safe travel in these pandemic times, it said.Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas appealed to people not to believe in rumours doing the rounds on overcrowding of stations.He urged the public and rail users to avoid sharing old videos and false reports in this connection.In order to ensure safe travel amid the pandemic situation, the Southern Railway is currently running over 75 per cent of Mail/Express trains."More train services will be announced in a phased manner," he told a virtual press conference.On the situation in the suburban railway network, he said the restriction for travel during peak hours in the city shall continue to be in force to avoid crowding.Thomas asked rail users and general public to follow COVID-19 appropriate behavior such as wearing face masks at railway stations and onboard trains.Rail passengers should refrain from travel if they experience any COVID-19 symptoms such as fever and cough so that others do not get exposed to the virus, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/southern-railway-says-75-trains-being-operated-services-to-be-expanded-in-phased-manner-101617970955496.html
09-04-2021||India||Remove age limits in Covid-19 vaccination: Goa health minister||Health Minister Vishwajit Rane of BJP-ruled Goa on Friday said Covid-19 vaccination should be carried out without age restrictions so that all above 18 years of age can be covered.He, however, added that this was his personal opinion.The opposition parties, led by the Congress, have been attacking the vaccination policy of the Centre and have been demanding that age limits be removed and the export of doses be stopped so that sufficient stocks can be made available within the country."I feel the age limit should not be restricted. Even the younger generation should be vaccinated. All above the age of 18 years should be given the vaccine," Rane told reporters here.He said the state government would reach out to all village panchayats as part of its mass vaccination programme and asked elected representatives to help give a boost to the initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remove-age-limits-in-covid-19-vaccination-goa-health-minister-101617970959521.html
09-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Telangana police asks shop owners to not serve customers without masks||The Telangana police on Friday requested shops and other commercialestablishments to not serve customers who come without masks in view of the rapid increase in Covid-19 cases. Police across the State have been told to coordinate with all stakeholders in the local communities such as residents' welfare associations, officials at the village/ward-level to ensure strict implementation of the mask-wearing rule, said Director General of Police (DGP) M Mahender Reddy in a press release. Strict enforcement measures, including prosecuting repeat offenders by registering specific cases, will be undertaken," the DGP said. The owners of malls, wine shops, pubs, hotels, restaurants, kirana shops and petrol pumps, among others, have been told to not allow the entry of people without masks, the DGP was quoted as saying in the release. The trade establishments have also been directed to display signage to this effect on their premises as required under the National Disaster Management Act, the release said. In a separate release, the DGP said the Police Department shall reach 95 per cent-level of vaccination for all its police personnel, including Home Guards, in the next one week. The special police units, including Telangana State special police, training institutions, CID, intelligence, greyhounds and octopus, among others, have been asked to complete vaccination in their respective units by next week, it said. Chief Minister of the State K Chandrashekhar Rao on Thursday instructed officials to impose ₹1,000 fine on people who do not wear masks. Rao wanted the DGP to instruct the police department to strictly enforce the mask rule, a press release had said quoting Rao. The Chief Minister had urged all those aged above 45 to get vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-telangana-police-asks-shop-owners-to-not-serve-customers-without-masks-101617970238824.html
09-04-2021||India||'May his soul rest in peace': PM Modi condoles Prince Philip's death||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday condoled the passing away of Prince Philip, husband of Britain’s Queen Elizabeth II, and remembered the duke's military career and his services to the community. "My thoughts are with the British people and the Royal Family on the passing away of HRH The Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. He had a distinguished career in the military and was at the forefront of many community service initiatives. May his soul rest in peace," PM Modi tweeted.Buckingham Palace announced the death of Prince Philip. He was 99. His death came just months before his 100th birthday in June. "It is with deep sorrow that Her Majesty The Queen announces the death of her beloved husband, His Royal Highness The Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. His Royal Highness passed away peacefully this morning at Windsor Castle. Further announcements will be made in due course. The Royal Family join with people around the world in mourning his loss,” the palace said in a statement.The duke had been admitted to the King Edward VII Hospital in London on February 17 after feeling unwell. On March 1, he was transferred to St Bartholomew's Hospital, also in London, where doctors continued to treat the infection as well as undertake testing for a pre-existing heart condition. After heart surgery, the duke was discharged from the hospital in mid-March.The couple had been living largely in isolation at Windsor Castle because their advanced age put them at heightened risk from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Prince Philip and the queen received their first vaccinations against Covid-19 in January. Prince Philip was married to Queen Elizabeth II for more than 70 years and became the longest-serving consort in British history.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-his-soul-rest-in-peace-pm-modi-condoles-prince-philip-s-death-101617969233874.html
09-04-2021||India||No new Covid-19 case in 149 districts in last 7 days: Harsh Vardhan||Several districts in the country have not reported any new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and some have not witnesses any infections in the last 28 days, Union minister of health Harsh Vardhan said on Friday as India recorded the highest single-day spike so far. Harsh Vardhan said 149 districts have seen no new Covid-19 cases in the last week, eight districts have not registered any new infection in a fortnight, three districts since 21 days and 63 districts since the last 28 days, according to a statement.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday that 131,968 fresh infections were registered in the last 24 hours and that Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan have shown a steep rise in daily cases accounting for 83.29 per cent of the new infections. India's active caseload has gone up to 979,608 after 69,289 Covid-19 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours.Also watch | ‘780 deaths due to Covid in last 24 hours’: Health Minister Harsh Vardhan﻿Harsh Vardhan said that “with renewed focus on collective efforts for effective adherence of the Health Ministry’s SOPs for containment and management of Covid, and individual discipline in following oft disseminated Covid Appropriate Behaviours, India shall be able to overcome the recent surge,” according to the statement.Also read | With Covid-19 spike, these states have imposed night curfewThe director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Sujeet Kumar Singh, said that India's seven-day case growth rate as of Thursday, April 8, was at 12.93% and is next only to the US and Brazil. Singh said the national case fatality ratio has declined to 1.28 per cent even though the country was seeing an average growth rate of 5.37 per cent in the daily cases of the coronavirus disease. Singh also said the national recovery rate has declined to 91.22 per cent amid the surge in infections.Officials also pointed out 11 states contribute 54 per cent of the Covid-19 cases and 65 per cent of the deaths in the country and that disproportionately higher fatalities in Maharashtra and Punjab have risen during the last 14 days. They also said that a majority of the cases in the 11 states with a high burden are reported among people in the 15 to 44 years age bracket and most of the deaths are among those above 60 years. A high test positivity rate is seen in Maharashtra where it is 25 per cent and in Chhattisgarh where it is 14 per cent, they added.Harsh Vardhan also said that more than 30 million vaccine jabs have been administered to senior citizens. "India has also supported the global community through 'Vaccine Maitri', under which 6.45 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been sent to 85 countries. While 3.58 crore doses have been supplied to 25 countries under commercial contracts, 1.04 crore doses have been sent to 44 nations as grants, and 1.82 crore to 39 countries under Covax,” Vardhan was quoted as saying in a statement.Also read | No data yet on changing Covid vaccines between doses: WHOAccording to the health ministry, “India continues to remain at the top in the world with an average of 37,94,328 doses administered per day. Cumulatively, 9,43,34,262 vaccine doses have been administered till 7 am today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-new-covid-19-case-in-149-districts-in-last-7-days-harsh-vardhan-101617968239243.html
09-04-2021||India||Not even fear of Covid-19 can disrupt protest, say agitating farmers||The alarming rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi notwithstanding, farmer leaders on Thursday said that nothing, not even the fear of coronavirus, can disrupt their protest against the agri laws.Over the past four months, the farmers have managed to keep their agitation going, withstanding extreme cold, rains, and heat.They devised many ways to deal with these issues - for cold there was ample supply of winter wear, for rain they elevated their beds, and to prepare for the heat, they have started building houses, and arranging for ACs, coolers and fans.Tackling the second wave of Covid-19 won't be very different for them, they said, adding they are prepared with certain basic precautions in place."We have been making announcements from the stage at the Singhu border about the necessity of wearing masks, and washing hands frequently. We are also encouraging the protestors to get vaccinated," said Lakhbir Singh, vice president (Punjab) of All India Kisan Sabha.With multiple health camps at these protest sites, immediate medical assistance is always at the farmers' disposal in case a protestor develops symptoms like fever or breathlessness."If somebody has fever or cold, or any other Covid-like symptoms, then the doctors here take a call. The patient is either admitted to a hospital, or sent back to their village for 8-10 days," said Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda).On Friday, India registered a record single-day spike of 1,31,968 new COVID-19 cases. Delhi too, recorded 7,437 fresh cases in its highest single-day spike this year, with the capital's death roll reaching 11,157 on Thursday.According to Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav, farmers do treat the pandemic with a "certain indifference", but also pointed out that none of the protest sites were Covid-19 hotspots either, making it difficult to challenge the farmers' attitude."If you would notice, each of these places has doctors, clinics. They are not doing Covid testing, but if many people are reporting fever and so on, they would get to know because qualified doctors are there in every single morcha."Some of them have proper hospitals. If there was a surge in fever and breathlessness that would have been noticed immediately," he said.He added that while the habit of wearing masks and washing hands was being cultivated among the farmers, "distancing has not worked", which, he added, was true for most places in the country."Farmers are just like any ordinary Indian citizen… they are just about as careful as other citizens are, or about as careless, as most Indian citizens are," Yadav said.One of the major threats that seems to loom over the farmers movement with the rising number of Covid-19 cases, is the repeat of what happened to the Shaheen Bagh protest last year - they were forced to end the agitation fearing the spread of the disease.This year, Yadav said, however, the situation was different."That time, there was a sense of doom, a sense of 'you don't know what would happen' with corona. It was just the beginning… we didn't know anything at that point."Now, that unspecified sense of doom is not there, and therefore, while at that time the government could use that as a pretext to get the protestors to move away, using that now would be utterly cynical," he said.He added that if the government uses the coronavirus as an excuse to remove the protesting farmers, it would only expose their "hypocrisy" with the election campaigning underway in West Bengal."In that case they should ban election campaigning in Bengal. The first thing they should do is to ban BJP's own rallies, where the home minister is addressing the crowds. The hypocrisy of that would obviously be seen," Yadav said.Thousands of farmers from different parts of the country have been protesting against the three farm laws since the last week of November, 2020.While the government has been projecting these laws as major agricultural reforms, farmers have expressed apprehension that the move would lead to the elimination of the Minimum Support Price system, and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.Ask Paramjit Singh if the farmers are afraid of contracting the disease that has already claimed over 1.6 lakh lives in the country, and he said, "what choice do we have?""Our lives are already on the line. We were afraid of the biting cold, and are afraid of the heat that awaits us, so yes we are afraid of the disease but there is no other option."We are taking precautions at individual levels by wearing masks and avoiding shaking hands with people, but the movement has to and will continue," the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) Punjab general secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-even-fear-of-covid-19-can-disrupt-protest-say-agitating-farmers-101617968732476.html
09-04-2021||India||How EC is dealing with grievances during state assembly polls||From exchange of money and other freebies to tampering of electronic voting machines (EVMs) and the use of foul language, the Election Commission (EC) has dealt with representations from several political parties and citizens to ensure free and fair polls in the states of Kerala, Assam, Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of Puducherry that concluded on April 6, and in West Bengal, where five phases of polling remain. The results of the state polls will be declared on May 2. Of all the states, Kerala, which received 161,579 complaints, has managed to resolve most at the state level, with the intervention of the Commission not being required, while the Union Territory of Puducherry, which saw 1,341 complaints, also settled them at the chief electoral officer (CEO) level. EC received 5,879 complaints from Tamil Nadu, of which only 27 are pending redressal. The number of complaints in Assam was 1,374, but at least two of them were escalated to the Commission. There have been over 19,582 complaints with regard to West Bengal, of which 15,763 have been found valid and 99 cases are pending. According to an EC official familiar with the matter, these polls have witnessed fewer complaints than those held in 2016. “The number of complaints has been fewer this time,” said the official. “Take Bengal for instance, the number of cases of political violence have been lesser than the ones that took place in 2016.” HT on March 3 reported that the Commission decided to hold an eight-phase election in West Bengal on the basis of a report made by central agencies regarding political violence in West Bengal. KeralaOf the 161,549 complaints, the state managed to resolve 158,258 valid complaints, with only 78 still pending. These include campaigning during the ban, property defacement, religious or communal messages and transportation of voters on polling day. Posters placed without permission made a bulk of the cases in Kerala. A second EC official said that the large number of cases in Kerala was also due to individual grievances being more promptly expressed. Also Read | EC sends notice to Mamata Banerjee over ‘central forces’ remarkA third EC official, familiar with Kerala, said that as few as 20 major complaints were received in the state and most of these were resolved at the state level and did not need to be escalated to the Commission in New Delhi. “Traditionally, the people of Kerala are more law-abiding,” the official said. “The Commission ensured that the official machinery was impartial and neutral. An atmosphere was created wherein it was ensured that all the laws of the land were obeyed.”The official added the few complaints received were regarding foul language used against a candidate or personal insults. Very few complaints regarding the use of money or muscle power were received. “Money is not that big an issue in Kerala,” the official said. “The seizures were also higher than last time, leading to a sense of fear and reducing the number of cases.” He added that complaints related to violence were practically non-existent. “There have also been no complaints related to EVM-tampering. The only slightly major complaint received was regarding duplication of entries in the voters list and that was swiftly resolved.”The poll management in Kerala has drawn a contrasting response from the state’s ruling and Opposition parties. “Booth capturing and bogus voting was rampant in some of the party villages in north Kerala. Besides this, we made a fresh compliant to the EC on postal votes. We have information that many postal votes were cast by officials who have allegiance to Left service unions,” said state Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress.But the ruling Left has rejected his contention. “The Opposition leader makes wild allegations twice a day, one in the morning and another in the evening. The latest [complaint] is also part of this. The Congress is worried over its impending defeat, so it is natural for him to make such charges,” said Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), acting secretary A Vijayaraghvan.Tamil Nadu In Tamil Nadu, EC has received 5,879 complaints, of which only 27 are pending to be addressed. There were more miscellaneous complaints in Tamil Nadu, followed by grievances over the alleged distribution of money and gifts/coupons. Also Read | Bengal: EC sends notice to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari for ‘hate speech’ in NandigramIn the most prominent complaint, the Commission took action against Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leader A Raja and removed him as a star campaigner and barred him from campaigning for 48 hours for making derogatory comments against Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami. Raja made a controversial remark about Palaniswami’s mother during an election rally on Saturday and was served a show-cause notice by the poll body on Tuesday. EC said that it is of the view that the “contents of the speech made by you are not only derogatory, but also obscene and lower the dignity of motherhood of women, which seems to be a serious violation of the provisions of Model Code of Conduct”.The Opposition has alleged that the EC did not act against violations by the ruling dispensation. “Money distribution was organised in Tamil Nadu polls by the ruling party and EC turned just spectator,” Congress MP Manickam Tagore said. “EC has lost more credibility than it gained.”Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s CT Ravi, who is the party in-charge of Tamil Nadu, dismissed the allegations. “The Election Commission has done an excellent job of conducting a free and fair election in Tamil Nadu. It identified 105 expenditure sensitive constituencies and deployed 118 expenditure observers to monitor expenditure by candidates as well as parties. The EC ensured that nearly 60 officers and 3 IGs were transferred. This proves its impartiality.” He added, “The Congress will always find mistakes with others. Earlier it had problems with the judiciary and EVMs. Today it is blaming the Election Commission by making baseless allegations.”AssamIn Assam, of the 1,374 complaints, 411 were dropped, while 961 were found valid. These include complaints regarding liquor distribution, money distribution, paid news, display of firearms, intimidation and religious or communal speeches or messages. Two complaints are yet to be addressed. In the most prominent case, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Himanta Biswa Sarma was reprimanded for a violation of the model code of conduct based on a complaint lodged by Congress on March 30 in which it alleged that Sarma had “openly threatened” to send Bodoland People’s Front Hagrama Mohilary to jail by misusing National Investigation Agency (NIA). “If Hagrama does extremism with Batha, he will go to jail. This is a straight talk. (We) already have lot of evidence. This case is being given to NIA,” read the transcript of Sarma speech as mentioned in the EC notice. While Sarma was initially barred from campaigning for 48 hours, EC reduced the period to 24 hours following an apology from the leader. Following the controversy, wherein an EVM machine was found in the car of a BJP candidate in Assam, the Commission intervened and transferred six officials involved in the matter. The officials had taken a “lift” in a car that belonged to a BJP candidate after the second phase of the polls. The Commission also ordered a repoll in the constituency following the incident. This has, however, trigger a call for more careful and rigorous measures by the EC. “Considering several unwanted incidents already reported with respect to the EVMs and the discrepancy associated with them in several places of the state, it has now become ver essential to ensure protection of the EVMs from rigging by any means, after conclusion of all the three phases of election in the state to protect the interest of democracy,” state Congress president Ripun Bora wrote in a letter to chief electoral officer, Assam, Nitin Khade, on Wednesday. “As strongrooms are already under CCTV camera surveillance with access to the concerned election officers to ensure protection, it would also afford satisfaction to the contesting candidates if the access/link of the surveillance is provided to them and the same will definitely ensure holding of the present assembly election in the state in a fair and impartial manner,” the letter added. The BJP, however, has dismissed the Congress’ call as the party’s typical tactic in the face of an imminent defeat. “We have full faith in the EC and its conduct of the polls. The Congress’s worry stems from the fact that they are losing. They always blame EVMs when they lose, but are happy with the machines when they win,” BJP Assam spokesperson Rupam Goswami said. Puducherry There were 1,341 complaints received with regard to Puducherry, of which 58% were resolved, while 42% were found to be untrue, a official familiar with Puducherry polls said. None of these complaints needed the intervention of the Commission in Delhi either. Of the 1,341 complaints, 474 were regarding distribution of cash to voters. Hindustan Times on April 4 reported that all 30 of the elected constituencies in Puducherry had been earmarked as expenditure sensitive by the Commission. Expenditure-sensitive constituencies are identified by the Commission to ensure that no unfair trade of cash, liquor, drugs or other items takes places in exchange for votes by political parties. In terms of sheer numbers, Tamil Nadu was the worst this election followed by Assam, West Bengal, Puducherry and Kerala. Other kinds of complaints received by Puducherry included canvassing beyond permitted times, distribution of freebies, posters and banners without permission, violation of model code of conduct and supply of liquor. “We received a number of complaints, but all were swiftly resolved,” the official familiar with Puducherry mentioned above said. West Bengal In West Bengal, arguably the most fiercely contested of the five states, complaints, which came in from February 26 to April 8, ranged from displaying posters without permission to display of firearms and intimidation. The Commission also conducted seizures of bombs in the state.A case similar to Assam also occurred with VVPATs and an EVM being found at the home of a Trinamool Congress (TMC) candidate, along with the official responsible for the same ahead of the third phase of polling held on April 6. The official who had “slept over” at the candidate’s house was suspended, along with a sub-inspector, for their negligence. There have been a number of other cases in Bengal, with the TMC and Mamata Banerjee alleging violence, dereliction of duty by police forces and EVM malfunctioning. EC found the allegations to be “factually incorrect, whiteout empirical evidence and devoid of substance”. In a letter dated April 3 sent to chief minister, EC secretary general Umesh Sinha offered a detailed rebuttal of all the allegations made by Banerjee and TMC. “It is self-evident from the perusal of all the reports that the allegations mentioned in your hand-written note are factually incorrect, without any empirical evidence whatsoever and devoid of substance,” the Commission said in its rejoinder. TMC leader Derek O’Brien also appealed to EC to find Prime Minister Narendra Modi in violation of the model code of conduct for misuse of his power and position, for his politically charged speech in Bangladesh. While the Commission is yet to formally reply to his complaint, an official familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times that it is “unlikely to be found in contravention of the MCC”. EC, on Wednesday, also issued a notice to incumbent West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for violating the model code for her alleged appeal to minority voters to not allow their votes to be split among different political parties. The Commission has given her 48 hours to explain her stand. She was served a second notice on Thursday for her remarks against the central armed police forces. The EC said her statements may create a “wedge of distrust” between the state police and central forces. On Thursday, the Commission also pulled up BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari for his communally charged remarks with reference to Banerjee as “begum”. TMC MP Derek O’Brien said that the EC had acted in an “extremely compromised” manner during the elections. After the EC served the notice to Adhikari, TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said, “The EC has done the right thing for the first time. Why didn’t he face this action before the polls in Nandigram?” HT reached out to BJP’s Amit Malaviya but did not receive a response immediately.Evaluating the mechanism of complaints and actionsThrough the elections, the EC’s role has come under a scanner. While the BJP believes that the commission has been fair, Opposition leaders have alleged partisanship BJP leader and Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said that the Commission took immediate action whenever it was confronted with a complaint. “Look at Assam, the Commission immediately stepped in and took action against the officials. In West Bengal, when Mamta Banerjee violated the RP Act, the Commission again prompt in issuing her a notice.”Naqvi added that social media and access to complaint portals posed a significant new challenge for the EC. “At the same time, their accessibility has also increased. They have managed to effectively ensure free and fair polls.” Congress secretary, media in-charge, Pranav Jha, however, said that the party was disappointed in the way the Commission had dealt with the representations. “We presumed the Election Commission of India to be an independent body,” Jha said “But to our dismay the Commission is unable to enforce its own guidelines. It was shocking to see that in Assam, after first phase polling, it couldn’t stop the BJP from advertising that it won all the seats in the first phase. Worse is that it appeared as news. Same thing was repeated in Tamil Nadu by AIADMK [All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam], an ally of BJP. Icing on the cake was reversal of Himanta Biswa Sharma’s ban from campaigning for 48 hours, on April 3, to less than 24 hours.”Jha added that it seemed EC had one set of rules for opposition leaders like A Raja , Mamata Banerjee and others, and quite another for those belonging to BJP. “I am not even mentioning BJP leaders’ divisive speeches or PM’s campaigning while people are polling in neighbouring areas. It’s indeed dangerous for India’s Parliamentary democracy,” he said. Former chief election commissioner VS Sampath said that in the last six-seven years, access to internet and filing complaints has become easier. “Earlier they had file by post to CEO or district officer and only when CEO felt that the complaint was serious, a show-cause notice would be noticed by EC.”Jagdeep Chhokar of the Association of Democratic Reforms said that anecdotally, one can say that the frequency and intensity of complaints about electoral malpractices appear to have been on the increase in the last few years. “However, some seemingly obvious violations of the model code of conduct do not seem to attract anyone’s attention,” he said. “The onus for this rests entirely with the Election Commission of India, which has to become more vigilant, more active and more transparent. The EC should not only be fair but should also appear to be fair.”(With inputs from Ramesh Babu, Tanmay Chatterjee and Utpal Parashar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-ec-is-dealing-with-grievances-during-state-assembly-polls-101617968411099.html
09-04-2021||India||High-level meet in Srinagar to discuss Amarnath Yatra security||A high-level security meeting was held in Srinagar to discuss security arrangements for Amarnath Yatra on Thursday. Registration for the annual pilgrimage to the Himalayan cave shrine of Amarnath from the twin routes of Pahalgam and Baltal began on April 2 this year.The 56-day yatra to the 3,880-metre-high shrine is scheduled to start simultaneously from both the routes on June 28 and will culminate on August 22. The meeting was chaired by Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, and attended by senior officers of Srinagar, Budgam, Bandipora and Ganderbal districts. The officials discussed the security arrangements to be made for the upcoming yatra.Also Read | After Sopore attack, authorities take stock of security for Amarnath YatraA police spokesperson said that in the meeting, Kumar was briefed about the proposed security measures through a detailed presentation. “The presentation included various security aspects like proposed deployments, arrangements for camp security, road opening parties, general security scenario in their respective areas, preparation for disaster management, and cut off timings. The participating officers also shared their valuable inputs and suggestions for strengthening the security grid and providing fool proof security cover to yatris during their journey.”The spokesperson said that in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Kumar directed the officers to make all possible arrangements at district levels so as to meet medical emergencies. “He also emphasised upon the need to strengthen the intelligence grid and maintain strict vigil over terrorist associates and other anti-national elements,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highlevel-meet-in-srinagar-to-discuss-amarnath-yatra-security-101617967990945.html
09-04-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Sachin Vaze remanded to judicial custody till April 23 in Ambani bomb scare case||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ambani bomb scare: NIA court remands Vaze to judicial custody till April 23A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday remanded suspended police official Sachin Vaze to judicial custody till April 23. Vaze was arrested for his alleged role in planting an explosive-laden car outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in February. Read moreIrrfan's son Babil weeps as he accepts honour on dad's behalf, says warm words: 'We'll make this journey together'A video of the film industry paying tribute to the actor Irrfan Khan at a recently conducted awards ceremony has been shared online. Irrfan's son, Babil, was in attendance at the ceremony, which will be televised over the weekend. Read moreIPL 2021: Yuzvendra Chahal, Kyle Jamieson’s ‘wrestlemania’ viral clip will make you giggleWith only a few hours to go, cricket fans are eagerly waiting for IPL 2021 to begin. The first match of the season, between Mumbai Indians (MI) and Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB), is set to start at 7:30 PM at the MA Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai. Read moreIPL 2021, MI vs RCB Preview: Can Kohli break open Mumbai's aura of invincibility?Cricket is a game of great uncertainties and those uncertainties are at its peak in the sport's shortest format. T20 cricket's biggest pull is its unpredictability and that is the reason why the IPL sells like hot cakes. But one team is making all those uncertainties go away, in a very positive way. Read moreGauahar Khan in ₹66k embroidered ivory saree is six-yards of sheer eleganceGauahar Khan has a magnificent style sense. The actor who was in Delhi last night for an event looked breathtaking in her saree and proved that the six-yards of elegance works great, if not better, as evening attires. Even though she looks good in everything and has a girl next door sartorial vibe, there is something about Gauahar in an ethnic outfit that does magic. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-sachin-vaze-remanded-to-judicial-custody-till-april-23-in-ambani-bomb-scare-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101617966404250.html
09-04-2021||India||‘It finally caught up’: National Conference’s Omar Abdullah tests Covid-19 positive||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and National Conference (NC) leader Omar Abdullah on Friday tweeted he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease, days after his father Farooq Abdullah contracted Covid-19. “For a year I did my best to dodge this damn virus but it’s finally caught up with me. I tested positive for Covid-19 this afternoon. I’m completely asymptotic. Based on medical advice I’m self-isolating at home and monitoring my parameters like oxygen saturation levels etc,” he tweeted.For a year I did my best to dodge this damn virus but it’s finally caught up with me. I tested positive for #COVIDー19 this afternoon. I’m completely asymptotic. Based on medical advice I’m self-isolating at home & monitoring my parameters like oxygen saturation levels etc.Many people replied to his tweet, wishing him a speedy recovery. In response, Omar Abdullah tweeted, “I am very grateful to everyone reaching out to me here on Twitter to wish me well. I apologise for not replying individually. For the next few days I’m focusing on beating this virus and will be back here after the battle is won.”The news comes on a day when India reported a fresh spike in the number of daily Covid-19 infections with 131,968 cases. Also, the active caseload in India is moving towards the one-million mark and currently stands at 979,608 cases.Also read | 5 states account for over 73% of India's active caseload: GovtOmar Abdullah received his first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 in Srinagar on Wednesday (April 7). “Got my 1st dose of the Covid-19 vaccine this morning. It was a smooth and painless affair. I am grateful to everyone at SKIMS, Srinagar for vaccinating me today,” he tweeted along with a picture of him being inoculated. However, he did not mention whether he received the Covaxin or the Covishield vaccine.On March 30, he said he isolated himself after Farooq Abdullah, also the former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, tested positive for the disease. “My father has tested positive for Covid-19 and is showing some symptoms. I will be self-isolating along with other family members until we get ourselves tested. I request anyone who has come in to contact with us over the last few days to take all the mandated precautions,” he tweeted confirming the news.My father has tested positive for COVID-19 & is showing some symptoms. I will be self-isolating along with other family members until we get ourselves tested. I request anyone who has come in to contact with us over the last few days to take all the mandated precautions.Farooq Abdullah had received his first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on March 2, a day after India’s vaccination drive entered its second phase. “Thank you to the doctors, nurses and staff at SKIMS, Srinagar. Today my 85 year old father & my mother had their first COVID jab. My father has a number of health issues including being on immunosuppressants for a kidney transplant. If he can get the vaccine, you should as well,” Omar tweeted after his father was vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-finally-caught-up-national-conference-s-omar-abdullah-tests-covid-19-posit-101617964570815.html
09-04-2021||India||Foreigners married to Indians cannot enjoy OCI status after divorce, Centre tells HC||Foreigners registered as OCI cardholders because of their marriage to Indian nationals cannot continue to enjoy that status after their divorce, the Centre has told the Delhi High Court.The submission has been made by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) while defending the decision of the Indian Embassy in Brussels, Belgium asking a Belgian woman to surrender her OCI card after the dissolution of her marriage with an Indian national.The woman has challenged in the high court a provision of the Citizenship Act - section 7D(f) - under which a foreign spouse of an Indian national would lose Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) status on divorce.Defending the provision, the MHA in an affidavit has said that the section under challenge makes a clear classification based on the intelligible differentia as it applies to foreigners who were registered as OCI cardholders on the strength of their spouse being a citizen of India or an OCI cardholder, and whose marriage has been subsequently dissolved. "The provision has the object of cancellation of registration as an OCI cardholder of such foreigners as they are no more eligible under the Citizenship Act, 1955," the MHA has said in its affidavit filed through central government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul.The ministry has said that the woman was issued a Person of Indian Origin (PIO) card by the Embassy of India, Brussels, Belgium on August 21, 2006 on the basis of her marriage with an Indian national. She had legally divorced her husband in October 2011, and subsequently the PIO card issued to her on the strength of the marriage should have been cancelled, but it was not done at that time, the ministry has said.It has further said that an OCI card was inadvertently issued to her in 2017 even though she was not married to an Indian citizen or an OCI card holder at that time.The ministry has also claimed that the woman's OCI status has not been cancelled yet and she was only requested to surrender the card.It has said that a reasonable opportunity shall be given to her to explain her stand before taking any action to cancel her registration as OCI cardholder.The ministry has said that foreigners like the petitioners may apply for a visa under the prevailing laws and rules to legally stay in India.The woman has contended that asking her to surrender her OCI card has no basis in law and "also violates the twin doctrines of legitimate expectation and promissory estoppel for the simple reason that she was already divorced when she received her OCI card on February 15, 2017.She has said in her petition that she received the OCI card when the Indian government merged the Person of Indian Origin (POI) and OCI schemes."Hence, the concerned provisions of the Citizenship Act by way of which a foreign national married to an Indian citizen loses her right to hold an OCI card in case of divorce have no application to her whatsoever," she has claimed in her plea.She had received her POI card in 2006 and it was valid till August 2021, the petition has said and added that she had divorced her husband in 2011 which was communicated to the Indian embassy in Belgium in 2016.She has also said that she has a daughter, who holds an OCI card, with her ex-husband and since during the prevailing pandemic tourist travel to India is not possible, their only hope of coming here to meet relatives was the OCI card."There is also the very real chance that if the daughter of the petitioner travels to India and is stranded because of some sudden travel restrictions that might be imposed, the petitioner might end up getting separated from her on a medium-term basis," the petition has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreigners-married-to-indians-cannot-enjoy-oci-status-after-divorce-mha-101617957285887.html
09-04-2021||India||Amid rise in Covid-19 cases, Tripura closes school for classes 1, 2 indefinitely||With the rise in Covid-19 cases, the Tripura government has announced closure of school for classes 1 and 2 indefinitely from Friday. The decision came within 48 hours of chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb and deputy chief minister Jishnu Devvarma testing positive for Covid-19. While schools will remain open for class 5 onwards, offline classes for grades 3, and 4 will be held alternatively for three days every week. School hostels will also remain open. “There has been a sudden hike in Covid-19 cases in our state. But the situation is better compared to other states in the country. Still, considering the situation, we have suspended school for classes 1 and 2. Sports events, cultural programmes, and any kind of gatherings at schools would be suspended as of now, “ said education minister Ratan Lal Nath. Also Read | Tripura CM Biplab Kumar Deb tests positive for Covid-19He added that it would be applicable for all government, and government-aided schools, including the private ones. On Thursday, the state ordered closure of all gymnasiums, recreation centres, and creches located in government buildings. All sports events, mass government programmes in public halls, and even the practice of biometric attendance in government offices were suspended. The government also restricted official meetings to a maximum of 20 people keeping at least one-metre gap between chairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-tripura-closes-school-for-classes-1-2-indefinitely-101617963775938.html
09-04-2021||India||Former J&K CM Omar Abdullah tests positive for Covid-19||A few days after National conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah, his son and former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah also tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Omar Abdullah made the announcement on social media on Friday afternoon and said he had no symptoms.“For a year I did my best to dodge this damn virus but it’s finally caught up with me. I tested positive for #COVID-19 this afternoon. I’m completely asymptotic. Based on medical advice I’m self-isolating at home & monitoring my parameters like oxygen saturation levels etc,” Omar Abdullah wrote on twitter.Omar Abdullah had received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine two days ago.On Tuesday, Farooq Abdullah was discharged from SKIMS hospital where he had been admitted last week after he developed complications due to Covid-19.Also Read | Covid-19 positive Farooq Abdullah getting better, tweets son OmarThe octogenarian tested positive for the disease on March 30. He was kept in home isolation initially, but doctors later decided to shift him to a hospital for better medical care. While visiting the veteran NC leader, Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha had instructed doctors to provide him with the best treatment. The L-G had also offered to shift the leader to another facility or hospital for better monitoring and care.Many leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi had wished Farooq Abdullah a speedy recovery on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-j-k-cm-omar-abdullah-tests-positive-for-covid19-101617963597442.html
09-04-2021||India||With Covid-19 spike, these states have imposed night curfew||With the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surging in the country once again, a number of states have introduced strict restrictions, including night curfews and weekend lockdowns. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday during a meeting with chief ministers on the pandemic that there will be no lockdown and stressed the need to work on war footing again to fight against the rising Covid-19 cases in the country. "A challenging situation is emerging again. I request you all to give your suggestions to tackle the Covid-19 situation," PM Modi said.According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday, India reported 131,968 Covid-19 infections in a single day, which took the active cases tally to 979,608. A total of 780 people have died of the disease in the last 24 hours, it also said.Owing to the spike in Covid-19 cases, the following states are currently under night curfew:1. Delhi: Delhi imposed a night curfew from April 6 in view of rising Covid-19 cases. The night curfew is from 10pm to 5am and the order will remain in place till April 30. Officials said that during the night curfew hours, the movement of essential services will be allowed with e-passes.2. Maharashtra: Maharashtra has imposed both weekend lockdown and a night curfew on weekdays. The night curfew in Maharashtra will be in effect from 8pm to 7am, whereas the weekend lockdown will be in force from 8pm on Friday to 7am on Monday.3. Rajasthan: The Rajasthan government has imposed a night curfew and ordered the closure of multiplexes, gymnasiums besides suspending Classes 1 to 9 at schools till April 19. The night curfew will remain in force from 8pm to 6am. Dining at restaurants and hotels during the curfew hours has been prohibited while home delivery of food has been allowed.4. Punjab: The Punjab government has issued an order to extend the existing Covid-19-related restrictions till April 10. As per the order, the state government has now decided to extend the night curfew to 11 such districts from 9pm to 5am, including Patiala and Ludhiana, which had started recording rise in Covid-19 infections.5. Odisha: The Odisha government has imposed a night curfew in 10 districts of the state. The night curfew will take place from 10pm to 5am in Sundergarh, Bargarh, Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Balangir, Nuapada, Kalahandi, Malkangiri, Koraput and Nabarangpur districts.6. Gujarat: The Gujarat government has announced a night curfew from 8pm to 6am in 20 cities till April 30. The government has also banned political and social gatherings till April 30 and reduced the number of guests who can attend a marriage ceremony. It has also reduced the number of people who can attend a marriage ceremony from 200 to 100.7. Karnataka: Bengaluru and six other cities in Karnataka will enforce a night curfew from 10pm to 5am starting April 10. "The curfew, which will be in place till April 20, will also be imposed in Mysuru, Mangaluru, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Tumakuru and Udupi-Manipal," chief minister BS Yediyurappa said.8. Uttar Pradesh: Night curfew has been imposed in Noida and Ghaziabad district till April 17. The night curfew will remain in effect from 10pm to 5am. The Uttar Pradesh government has imposed a night curfew in many districts of the state, including Moradabad, Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur and Prayagraj till April 30. The timing of the curfew is different for every district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-covid-19-spike-these-states-have-imposed-night-curfew-101617959211992.html
09-04-2021||India||'No plan to curtail train services': Railways||Indian Railways’ top official said on Friday there were no plans to stop train services in view of the coronavirus pandemic, which has led to authorities imposing several restrictions across the country on the movement of people. Railway Board chairperson Suneet Sharma cleared the air around the government body's plan amid rising cases of the infection.Talking specifically about Maharashtra, one of the worst-hit regions by Covid-19, Sharma said there was no request from the state government to curb train services, including those of suburban trains. He also said there was no shortage of trains and the crowd seen on stations was usual during these months.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"Crowds seen at railway stations is a result of a normal surge seen during these months, wherever there is a surge in demand we will increase trains. There is no shortage of trains for those who want to travel. I assure everyone that trains will be provided on demand wherever the need arises," he said.Watch: Plans to curtail train services? Exodus amid Covid surge? Railways clarifiesCurrently, the Indian Railways is running total 1402 specials train services on an average per day, according to a release issued by the Ministry of Railways. "Total 5381 suburban train services and 830 passenger train services are also operational. Apart from this, 28 special trains are being operated as clones of highly patronized trains with high patronage," it read.When the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24 last year, the Indian Railways, for the first time since its inception, shut down all its services, leaving thousands of migrants stranded far from their homes.The Railways' clarification comes as the centre and various state governments are imposing new Covid-19 restrictions amid the second wave of infections. States of Maharashtra, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat among others have either imposed a statewide night curfew or have announced partial lockdowns in their cities to curb the spread of the infection. The national capital too, imposed a night curfew from 10pm to 5am on April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-plan-to-curtail-train-services-railways-101617959973388.html
09-04-2021||India||When India’s military czar laid out top national security challenges||India’s senior-most military commander has identified building capability to defend against cyber threats, jointness among the three services to extract the full potential of India’s combat power, integration of civil and military technological efforts and building a symbiotic relationship between internal and external security as some of the key focus areas to take on emerging security challenges that could threaten national interests. In a recent talk on preparing the armed forces for current and future challenges, chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat stressed that India cannot fight its next war premised on the experiences and structures of wars it fought in the past, and it was critical to balance today’s requirements with what the country needs to do differently to face future challenges. From proxy war to non-contact, conventional and collusive wars under a nuclear overhang, the country faces multiple threats across the full spectrum of conflict, the CDS said in a detailed talk at the event organised by Vivekananda International Foundation on April 7. He said the changed global environment demanded a change in India’s outlook and policies. While the CDS and Indian military chiefs have often intervened in the public sphere, what stood out in Rawat’s remarks was the candour with which he spoke. “Traditional strategies, which used to account for India’s national security paradigm such as inter-state and intra-state conflict, no longer adequately capture the complex security linkages existing across seemingly disparate issues,” Rawat said. Appointed as India’s first CDS on January 1, 2020, Rawat wears three hats — he is the permanent chairman of chiefs of staff committee (COSC), heads the department of military affairs (DMA), and is the single-point military adviser to the defence minister. Preparing for cyber threats The CDS said China was way ahead of India in technology, and it was capable of launching cyber attacks and disrupting a large number of Indian systems. Rawat said the biggest gap between the two countries was in the cyber domain and India was looking at collaborating with western nations to overcome deficiencies in the critical area. Also Read | Asserted navigational rights off Lakshadweep without India’s permission: US NavyHe said cyber agencies in the military were working to ensure that “the downtime and the effect of a cyber attack” did not last long. “We should be able to overcome cyber attacks and continue with our systems either through an alternative or preventive means through firewalls,” he said. Experts said the cyber threat that India faces from China is not exaggerated and demands urgent attention. Chinese cyber capabilities are well known and the recent intrusions in the power sector by Chinese hackers are a pointer to how India’s critical infrastructure is under threat, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). A few weeks ago, Recorded Future, a US-based security consultancy, reported that Chinese groups had intruded into the networks of at least a dozen Indian state-run organisations since mid-2020 in an attempt to insert malware that could cause widespread disruptions. To be sure, India denied any data breach in the attempts made by Chinese hackers to target the country’s power grid. “Our normal response has been to downplay this (cyber) threat and I am glad the CDS has given a realistic picture. This should trigger the crafting of a comprehensive strategy to deal with this danger,” Hooda said. He added that technology support from western nations is welcome to overcome deficiencies in the short term, but ultimately there is no option but to develop indigenous IT systems for use in the critical infrastructure. “Reliance on foreign hardware and software is a serious vulnerability. Indigenisation must be given the highest priority,” Hooda pointed out. The CDS described the cyber threat as alongside biological risks and economic disruptions as major challenges.“Recent events show that many of the biggest threats we face today respect no borders and must be met with collective action, e.g. the Covid-19 pandemic, biological risks, escalating climate crisis, cyber and digital threats, international economic disruptions, protracted humanitarian crises, violent extremism and terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction,” Rawat said. Also Read | The long, rocky and uncertain story of India-Pakistan peacemakingCyber has, perhaps, come to acquire a pivotal position in any nation’s security architecture, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “While preparing to acquire offensive capability, it is critical that one’s own systems are protected. While we may be lagging behind China, our nation does not lack cerebral capital to catch up. All efforts must be made to tap the nation’s inherent cyber know-how to protect our vital infrastructure from cyber intrusions,” Bahadur said. Jointness and challenges Jointness, integration and modernisation in line with the changing security environment as well as utmost optimisation of resources is critical, the CDS said. The government expects Rawat to bring about jointness among the three services in a three-year time frame (by January 2023). One of the means to achieve jointness is the setting up of integrated theatre commands for the best use of military resources to fight future battles. “The current CDS system in India is evolutionary and will progressively adopt more means of integration and joint functioning for an integrated system to emerge finally,” Rawat said. Nobody expects the road to theaterisation to be smooth and the ongoing efforts to bring about jointness among the three services are expected to face resistance. Rawat said India as a nation believed in status quo and there was always a hesitation to change. “There is a feeling amongst the three services that army being a very large service — compared to navy and Indian Air Force — will possibly usurp the two entities and everything will become army-centric. I think this is a misnomer because the army, navy and IAF have their own specialties. They will retain their autonomy and integration will only ensure that we have systems that at least operate together,” Rawat said. India is set to begin a formal roll-out of its long-awaited theaterisation plan to best utilise its military’s resources amid growing security threats, with the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command set to be launched by May. India will also have three other integrated commands to secure its western, northern and eastern fronts — these are likely to be rolled out by December 2022. In addition, a logistics command is in the works to avoid duplication of efforts and resources. The CDS’s mandate includes bringing about jointness in operations, logistics, transport, training, support services and repairs and maintenance of the three services. Theaterisation is imperative to meet and mitigate future security challenges which as the CDS defined are multi domain and multidimensional, said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations. The operational control of all the theatre commands will eventually come under the CDS, with the service chiefs being responsible for raising, training and sustaining their forces. “The CDS has defined an effective way forward, including transition management, wherein till theaterisation is achieved the responsibility of operational readiness will be with the service chiefs and that of defence preparedness with the CDS and COSC. But once theaterisation is achieved, there needs to be a role reversal with the CDS being responsible for operational preparedness and service chiefs for defence preparedness,” Bhatia said. He said apprehensions about theaterisation among the services were natural as there will always be a resistance to change. “The challenge will be to manage the mindsets and the transition. This can best be achieved by a transparent road map taking all stake holders on board,” Bhatia said. Greater emphasis would now be on advancing jointness and integration across the board so as to develop trust among the rank and file and shape the congruent perception to operate efficiently and effectively, the CDS said. Integrating civil and military efforts The CDS highlighted the need to integrate civil and military technological efforts for achieving self-reliance and strengthening the country’s security. He said cooperation between government and commercial facilities in research and development (R&D), manufacturing, maintenance operations, combined production of similar components and sub components on same production lines would optimise commercial and defence industrial base to maximise resource utilisation and reduce manufacturing and life cycle costs for military equipment. Rawat said synergising military and civil efforts was crucial in the backdrop of shrinking budgets. “The contracting envelope of the defence budget makes it imperative to create dual use infrastructure through civil military fusion. We must examine the feasibility of integrating civil-military airports to strengthen aviation safety, airspace management and combat support capabilities. Satellites for remote sensing and reconnaissance, communications, positioning and navigation must also meet requirements of the armed forces with desired in-built encryptions,” the CDS said. He said railway wagons and civil truck trailers must be manufactured for dual use — capable of transporting heavy military equipment including armoured fighting vehicles. The CDS added that construction of communication towers and electricity infrastructure along with rail, roads, bridges and tunnels in border states must be of specifications that facilitate utilisation by the military as well. “Civil-military integration in infrastructure development holds the key to Whole-of-Nation approach towards national security,” Rawat said. Experts said synergising military and civil efforts was vital for national security. India is already lagging behind in civil-military fusion which other countries, especially China, have already embarked on. “The strengths of civil R&D institutions, manufacturing infrastructure and knowledge bank need to be dovetailed with defence capability needs so as to leapfrog with respect to time and technology standards. To achieve this, a top-down approach would be required through formulation of national level directives and policies,” Manmohan Bahadur said. Internal and external security Rawat said in today’s complex world, security has a much broader construct that cover geopolitical interests, internal stability and economic and social security. “It envisages a symbiotic relationship between internal and external security, reinforcing the premise that a country’s external security posture is organically linked to its internal strength,” the CDS said. He said while external challenges could be met by effective diplomacy and adequate defence capability, internal stability required strong political institutions, economic growth, social harmony, efficient law and order machinery, expeditious judicial relief and good governance. “National security stands redefined, deepening from state to individual security and broadening from military threats to issues like economy, environment etc. The coronavirus pandemic has brought to fore the importance of public health in the national security equation,” the CDS said. “In an environment of ambiguity, uncertainty and frequent opacity, the political leadership needs to be provided with comprehensive, complete and evaluated options on matters of national security in the form of a ‘single point advice’, requiring multiple inputs from political, military, diplomatic and intelligence agencies,” Rawat added. The CDS has made a comprehensive pointer at imperatives to deal with threats in the internal and external dimensions, said former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd). “Recent adaptations of threats such as terrorism, increasing cyber-attacks backed by adversary-led networks, support to insurgency movements, immigration flows etc can be best addressed by the contours of direction by the CDS,” Lamba pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-india-s-military-czar-laid-out-top-national-security-challenges-101617959815348.html
09-04-2021||India||5 states account for over 73% of India's active caseload: Govt||India’s Covid-19 active caseload is getting closer to the one-million mark and currently stands at 979,608 cases. This accounts for 7.5 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases detected in India so far. Also, it has spiked by 69,289 cases from the 910,319 reported on Thursday, according to data from the Union health ministry.Five states, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala, account for more than 73 per cent of India’s active caseload.#Unite2FightCoronaIndia’s total Active Caseload reached 9,79,608 today; comprises 7.50% of the total Positive Cases. A net incline of 69,289 cases recorded from the total active caseload in the last 24 hours. pic.twitter.com/sXOFkK3Mf4Maharashtra, which remains the worst affected state by coronavirus diseases, contributed 53.84 per cent of the overall active cases, according to the latest data. Among its districts, Pune with 97,242 active cases is the highest contributor followed by Mumbai (83,693), Thane (69,993), Nagpur (61,711) and Nashik (34, 919). Despite the increasing daily new cases in the state, Maharashtra’s share in the active cases has seen a slight decline over the past week.Also read | India records highest-ever spike of 24 hours with 1.31 lakh fresh infectionsThe state had contributed to 59.36 per cent active cases on April 3, 58.19 per cent on April 4, 58.23 per cent on April 5, 57.42 on April 6, 56.17 per cent on April 7 and 55.26 per cent on April 8.Following Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh accounted for 7.01 per cent and Karnataka for 5.50 per cent of the active cases, the second and third highest respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s update on Friday.In Chhattisgarh, Raipur with 17,079 active cases and Durg with 16,995 remain the worst-affected districts. The state also reported 10,652 new cases in the last 24 hours, according to the latest update from the ministry.Watch | Rahul Gandhi slams PM Modi’s ‘Tika Utsav’ call; questions export of vaccines﻿Earlier on April 7, Raipur district collector announced that Raipur district will become a containment zone from 6pm on 9th April till 6am on 19th April. All the borders of the district will remain sealed during this period,” news agency ANI reported.Meanwhile, Bengaluru Urban district with 38,946 active cases remains the worst affected district in Karnataka. It is followed by Kalaburagi with 1,637 cases, Bidar with 1,577 cases, Mysuru with 1,576 cases and Tumakuru with 1,429 cases, data from the ministry showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-states-account-for-over-73-of-india-s-active-caseload-govt-101617957975064.html
09-04-2021||India||7 terrorists killed by security forces in 2 encounters in J-K's Shopian, Pulwama||Seven militants, including terror outfit Ansar Ghazwatul Hind chief Imtiaz Ahmad Shah, were gunned down by security forces in two encounters in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian and Pulwama districts, police said on Friday."Five terrorists have been killed in a Shopian operation, while two others were killed in the encounter at Nowbugh in Tral area of Pulwama district," a police official said.Earlier, the Kashmir Zone Police had said that efforts were being made to get two militants hiding inside a mosque in Shopian after an overnight encounter to surrender."Brother of holed up #terrorist & local Imamsahab sent inside mosque to persuade the #terrorists to come out & #surrender. Efforts are on to save the mosque," the police said in a tweet.The police had earlier tweeted about the Ansar Ghazwatul Hind chief trapped inside the mosque."Chief of proscribed #terrorist outfit AGuH (JeM) trapped," the tweet said.The encounter in Shopian town broke out on Thursday evening. Giving an update about the operation the same night, police said three militants had been killed and four security forces personnel injured.In a separate encounter in Tral area of Pulwama on Friday morning, security personnel gunned down two unidentified militants, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-terrorists-killed-by-security-forces-in-2-encounters-in-j-k-s-shopian-pulwama-101617957094279.html
09-04-2021||India||Northern Railways to run 4 Shatabdi, 1 Duranto from April 10 on these routes||Northern railways will run four Shatabdi Specials and one Duranto Express from April 10 to April 15 for the convenience of the passengers, the ministry of railways announced on Thursday.Indian Railways announces 04 Shatabadi Specials & 01 Duranto Spl train:-◆02013/14 & 04053/54 New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi◆04051/52 New Delhi-Daurai Shatabdi◆02046/45 Chandigarh-New Delhi Shatabdi◆02265/66 Delhi Sarai Rohilla-Jammu Tavi Duranto Special. pic.twitter.com/FEUjDqAsbJRailways minister Piyush Goyal informed about the new trains in a tweet. “Four Shatabdi Express and one pair each of Hamsafar and Duronto will begin services between April 10 to April 15. This has been done to provide railway commuters safe and comfortable journey,” the tweet, in Hindi, read.The special trains that will run during the above period include:Train no 02013/14: New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi will run daily. 02013 will run from New Delhi daily from April 10 till further notice and 02014 will run daily from Amritsar from April 11 till further advice.Train no 04051/04052: New Delhi – Daurai Shatabdi Special Express will also run daily. 04051 from New Delhi and 04052 from Daurai will run from April 10 till further advice.Train no 0405/04054: New Delhi – Amritsar- New Delhi Shatabdi Special Express will run weekly. 04053 from New Delhi and 04054 from Amritsar will run every Thursday from April 15 till further advice.Also Read | UP panchayat poll: BJP gives ticket to Unnao rape convict Kuldeep Sengar’s wifeTrain no 02046/02054: Chandigarh-New Delhi- Chandigarh Shatabdi Special Express will run six days a week, except Wednesday. 02046 from Chandigarh and 02045 from New Delhi to run from Saturday till further advice.Train no 02265/02266: Delhi Sarai Rohilla – Jammu Tawi-Delhi Sarai Rohilla Duranto Special Express to run three days a week. 02265 from Delhi Sarai Rohilla will run every Tuesday, Friday and Saturday from April 11 till further advice and 02266 from Jammu Tawi will run every Wednesday, Saturday and Monday from April 12 till further advice.The ministry also advised to strictly adhere to Covid-19 safety protocol during travel and at railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northern-railways-to-run-4-shatabdi-1-duranto-from-april-10-on-these-routes-101617957000622.html
09-04-2021||India||Covid-19 restrictions: Jewellery, hospitality industries suffer loss amid fresh curbs||The second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) this year is bringing back the memories of 2020 when the pandemic hit the country leading to a nationwide lockdown. Amid the fresh surge of Covid-19 infections in 2021, authorities across the country have imposed strict curbs to control the spread of the virus. The restrictions like night curfew, weekend lockdowns, the cap on attendees in functions have affected many who were still recovering from the losses of lockdown.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Many states like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Punjab and Maharashtra have imposed a night curfew. Raipur, Bhopal and Maharashtra will go under weekend lockdown from Friday, while Chhattisgarh’s Durg district is under nine-day lockdown since April 6. The state governments have also reduced the number of guests allowed in wedding ceremonies to control the spread.The Covid-19 restrictions have adversely affected these sectors/people:Workers in the informal sector, daily wage workers have again been affected the most. Fearing the tragedy of 2020 and the rise in Covid-19 cases in the metropolitan cities, migrants workers in large numbers are going back to their native states. “We are leaving for our hometown in Uttar Pradesh. As of now, there is a night curfew in place. It is very likely that a lockdown will be put into place. To avoid chaos like the previous lockdown, we are travelling back to our native place. Not sure when, whether we will come back here,” ANI quoted a migrant worker leaving Mumbai for Uttar Pradesh as saying.The jewellery industry in Maharashtra wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to allow the opening of stores during the upcoming festival of Gudi Padwa that can increase their sales 30-40 per cent. The All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) chairman said that the lockdown restrictions will impact many artisans and craftsmen who have migrated from different states and will also impact self-employed retailers, reported PTI.Also Read | Rahul writes to PM Modi, asks why govt allowed Covid-19 vaccine exportsConcerned with the new restrictions, the hospitality industry in Maharashtra has formed an umbrella front United Hospitality Forum (UHF) and initiated a campaign #MissionRoziRoti to protest against the curbs. “As of Wednesday, 30 per cent of the hotels and restaurants in the country have shut down permanently due to financial losses. Over 20 per cent of hotels and restaurants haven't opened fully after the lockdown. The remaining 50 per cent continue to run in losses and revenues are below 50 per cent of the pre-Covid levels,” PTI quoted Federation of Hotel and Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI) honorary secretary Pradeep Shetty as saying.The event management industry is another such sector that is worried about the new restrictions. The curfew led many people to reschedule their wedding ceremonies, reduce the budget of their grandeur functions and the number of guests as per the guidelines. Businesses of band companies, tent companies, banquet hall owners fear their sustainability and how will they pay salaries to their employees.Local traders and retailers in Pune are also protesting against the restrictions as they want the state government to allow the opening of their shops.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-restrictions-jewellery-hospitality-industries-suffer-loss-amid-fresh-curbs-101617956292107.html
09-04-2021||India||Vaccine shortage a serious issue, not an Utsav: Rahul Gandhi slams PM’s idea||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said that vaccine shortage is a cause for serious concern and not an occasion to celebrate, in an apparent dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a Tika Utsav [vaccination drive] to encourage more people to get themselves inoculated.“Amid surging Covid cases, vaccine shortage is a very serious matter, and not an Utsav,” Gandhi tweeted in Hindi. Just a day ago, in his meeting with the chief ministers, Prime Minister Modi had proposed to hold Tika Utsav, a drive from April 11-14, so that the maximum number of eligible beneficiaries across states were vaccinated.Also Read | ‘Fatality rate witnessing downward trend’: Union health minister Harsh VardhanRaising questions over the exports of vaccines to other countries at a time when India itself is grappling with the second wave of Covid-19 infections -- the country has been logging over 100,000 daily cases for the past three days now -- Gandhi tweeted, “Is it right to export vaccines by putting the lives of citizens of the country at risk? The central government should help all the states without any bias. We have to work together to defeat this pandemic.”.India has shipped vaccine to 85 countries, some in the form of “gifts”, others in line with commercial agreements signed between the vaccine makers and the recipient nations, and the rest under the Covas Scheme, led by the World Health Organisation.In his meeting with the chief ministers, addressing the issue of alleged vaccine shortage, the prime minister had said the Centre prioritises supply as per the requirement, while suggesting to the states to avoid wastage. It was while urging the states to get maximum people vaccinated against this deadly virus that he proposed Tika Utsav or vaccine festival on April 11-14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-shortage-a-serious-issue-not-an-utsav-rahul-gandhi-slams-pm-s-idea-101617954354727.html
09-04-2021||India||Asserted navigational rights off Lakshadweep without India’s permission: US Navy||In a move that could potentially trigger a diplomatic row, the US Navy has announced that it asserted navigational rights and freedoms inside India’s exclusive economic zone (EEZ) without seeking India’s prior consent. “This freedom of navigation operation (FONOP) upheld the rights, freedoms, and lawful uses of the sea recognised in international law by challenging India’s excessive maritime claims,” the US 7th fleet said in a statement on April 7. It said USS John Paul Jones, an Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyer, asserted navigational rights and freedoms around 130 nautical miles west of the Lakshadweep Islands. The 7th Fleet is the largest of the US Navy’s forward deployed fleets. The US had sent elements of the 7th Fleet to the Bay of Bengal to pressure India during the 1971 war with Pakistan that ended with the liberation of Bangladesh. Every coastal country’s EEZ extends to 200 nautical miles (370km) from its shores and the country in question has exclusive rights to all resources in the water, including oil, natural gas and fish. Any military activity in the EEZ requires India’s permission, navy officials familiar with the matter said, asking not to be named. Also Read | Pakistan’s steadily diminishing equity with the US may have hit rock bottom“If you have to do anything in our EEZ, you have to notify us and take permission,” navy chief Admiral Singh said in 2019 after a Chinese vessel that had intruded into Indian waters near the Andaman and Nicobar Islands was repelled. There was no official reaction from the navy or the ministry of external affairs when this report was filed. “US Forces operate in the Indo-Pacific region on a daily basis. All operations are designed in accordance with international law and demonstrate that the United States will fly, sail and operate wherever international law allows,” the 7th Fleet statement said. “We conduct routine and regular FONOPs, as we have done in the past and will continue to in the future. FONOPs are not about one country, nor are they about making political statements,” it added. The US Navy regularly carries out FONOPs in the disputed South China Sea. “FoN ops by USN ships (ineffective as they may be) in South China Sea, are meant to convey a message to China that the putative EEZ around the artificial SCS islands is an “excessive maritime claim.” But what is the 7th Fleet message for India?” former Navy chief Admiral Arun Prakash (retd) said in a tweet on Friday.He said in another tweet, “There is irony here. While India ratified UN Law of the Seas in 1995, the US has failed to do it so far. For the 7th Fleet to carry out FoN missions in Indian EEZ in violation of our domestic law is bad enough. But publicising it? USN please switch on IFF (Identification friend-or-foe)!” The development comes at a time when the navies of India and the US have just concluded multilateral drills in the eastern Indian Ocean Region (IOR). France, India, the US, Japan and Australia carried out complex maritime drills in the eastern IOR to enhance interoperability among their navies from April 5 to April 7. On April 7, the US Navy said in another statement that USS John Paul Jones asserted navigational rights and freedoms in the vicinity of the Maldives by conducting “innocent passage” within its EEZ without seeking prior permission. It said this was consistent with international law. The US Department of Defense (DoD) released its annual Freedom of Navigation (FON) Report for 2020 on March 10, 2021. These reports identify the broad range of excessive maritime claims that are challenged by the US government. “This year… US forces challenged 28 different excessive maritime claims made by 19 different claimants throughout the world,” the State Department said in a statement on March 16. DoD’s operational challenges, also known as FONOPs, are designed to challenge coastal state maritime claims that unlawfully restrict navigation and overflight rights and freedoms and other internationally lawful uses of the sea related to these freedoms guaranteed in international law as reflected in the 1982 Law of the Sea Convention, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asserted-navigational-rights-off-lakshadweep-without-india-s-permission-us-navy-101617954115129.html
09-04-2021||India||'Was this an oversight?' Rahul questions Covid-19 jab export, says Congress made India vaccine hub||Though India has the first mover advantage in vaccination, the pace is not enough and at this rate it would take years to vaccinate 75 per cent of the population, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wrote in a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Presenting his seven-point demands, the Congress leader said the government must place an immediate moratorium on vaccine export and open vaccination to everyone who needs it. The other demands of the Congress leader include providing vaccine suppliers with necessary resources to increase manufacturing capacity, fast-tracking the approval process of other vaccines as per norms and guidelines, increasing the allocation of ₹35,000 crore for vaccine procurement, as announced in Union Budget 2021, to double, allowing states a greater say in vaccine procurement and distribution, providing direct income support to the vulnerable sections.Vaccine shortage not 'festival': Rahul Gandhi's dig at PM Modi's Tika Utsav"Historically, India has achieved abundant experience in designing and executing some of the world's biggest vaccination programmes. Yet in the present case, we have managed to fully vaccinate less than 1% of the population in 3 months," Gandhi wrote in his letter.Was the export of vaccines also an "oversight", the Congress leader asked in his letter, referring to the recent order issued by the finance minister on interest rate cut on small savings. The order was withdrawn a day after and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said it was an oversight.Questioning why state governments have not been given the authority to procure vaccines according to their need, the Congress leader wrote, "Even though public health is a state subject, our states have been bypassed right from vaccine procurement to registration."Crediting his party for building the vaccine framework of India and making the country a vaccine hub, Rahul said the vaccination programme has to move beyond "an individual's picture on the vaccine certificate, towards guaranteeing maximum vaccination".The letter comes at a time when several states are complaining of vaccine shortage and the inoculation drive on Friday stopped at many vaccination centres in Mumbai. However, the Centre dismissed these claims as "fear-mongering" and said the stocks are being replenished on a regular basis and there is no vaccine crunch in any state.According to Centre's data, India has so far exported 6.45 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses to as many as 84 countries. Out of these doses, 1.05 crores have been given as grants to 44 countries, while 3.58 crore doses to 25 countries have been given under commercial contracts and 1.82 crore to 39 countries through World Health Organization (WHO)'s COVAX facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/would-take-years-to-vaccinate-75-of-against-covid-19-rahul-gandhi-writes-to-pm-101617953848474.html
09-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mayor says no information on Covid-19 vaccines scheduled to reach Mumbai and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'PM Modi is proactive but..': Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on vaccine shortageMumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said she was informed that about 76.000 to 1 lakh doses are about to reach Mumbai, but Pednekar does not have any official information on that. Read moreIPL's caravan into the unknownHow do you conduct a mega tournament involving thousands of people, spread over 51 days, even as the worst wave since the pandemic began is hurtling towards an unprecedented peak? Read moreNavya Nanda is in love with her 'nani' Jaya Bachchan's vintage pics, wishes her happy birthdayActor Abhishek Bachchan and his niece, Navya Naveli Nanda, have wished Jaya Bachchan a happy birthday. Jaya turned a year older on Friday. Read moreWhen Kiara Advani and Anushka Sharma wore the same denim jumpsuit worth ₹19kMany-a-times Bollywood celebrities end up wearing the same outfits. From slaying in similar Manish Malhotra sarees at events to donning identical airport looks and jumpsuits at shoots, a lot of celebrities have been snapped in the matching outfits. Read moreNurses in Brazil use gloves to simulate ‘human contact’ for Covid patient, pic is viralThe ongoing pandemic has drastically changed people’s lives across the globe. The situation is especially rough on those who are battling the virus in isolation away from loved ones. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mayor-says-no-information-on-covid-19-vaccines-scheduled-to-reach-mumbai-and-all-the-latest-news-101617952391313.html
09-04-2021||India||Covid-19: No more platform tickets at these Maharashtra railway stations||The Indian Railways has decided to stop selling platform tickets at Maharashtra's Lokmanya Tilak Terminus, Kalyan, Thane, Dadar, Panvel and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus from Friday. The move comes in the wake of rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Maharashtra, with the state reaching near the 60,000 mark in the past week. "Sale of platform tickets have been stopped with immediate effect from today at the following stations —Lokmanya Tilak Terminus, Kalyan, Thane, Dadar, Panvel, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Chief Public Relation Officer (CPRO), Central Railway, told news agency ANI.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageRubbishing rumours of overcrowding at railway stations, the CPRO said, "Some old videos showing large crowds at various stations are making rounds on social media. Some reports also falsely mention that there is a mass movement of people. We appeal to everyone to avoid sharing such videos. People are requested not to believe in such rumours," the official said,Last month, the Central Railway hiked the price of platform tickets at some key stations under the Nagpur and Bhusawal divisionsin order to discourage citizens from overcrowding the platform. "The platform tickets are priced at Rs50 at Nagpur station and Rs30 at Betul, Chandrapur, Balharshah and Wardha station in Nagpur division," an official said. Prices of platform tickets at Nashik Road, Jalgaon, Bhusawal, Badnera, Madgaon, Shegaon, Akola, Amravati and Khandwa stations in Bhusawal division had already been raised from ₹10 to ₹50 before last month's hike. This is a commonplace practice for many years and is used as a short-term measure for crowd control.Meanwhile, Maharashtra has imposed new Covid-19 restrictions as part of which a weekend lockdown and night curfew during the weekdays from Monday to April 30 has been announced. Non-essential shops will also remain closed till April 30 in addition to a slew of other restrictions like the closure of private offices, theatres and salons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-no-more-platform-tickets-at-these-maharashtra-railway-stations-101617951969583.html
09-04-2021||India||'Reviving stories of sacrifice for youth to fill in new resolutions': PM at release of ‘Odisha Itihaas’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday released the Hindi translation of the book ‘Odisha Itihaas’. The book is written by 'Utkal Keshari' Dr Harekrushna Mahtab. He said, "Today we are reviving the stories of sacrifice and sacrifice of freedom fighters so that our youth do not only know it, but experience it, fill in with new confidence and move forward with new resolutions to do something."Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Biju Janata Dal (BJD) MP and son of Harekrushna Mahtab, Bhartruhari Mahtab were also present at the event.The Prime Minister said it is very necessary that the comprehensive and diverse history of Odisha reached the people of the country. "About a year and a half ago, we celebrated the 120th birth anniversary of 'Utkal Kesari' Harekrushna Mahtab ji. Today we are launching the Hindi version of his famous book 'Odisha History'. It is very necessary that the comprehensive and diverse history of Odisha reached the people of the country," he said."Utkal Keshari Harekrushna Mahtab is remembered for his great contributions to Odisha’s progress and India’s freedom struggle. He was passionate about Odisha’s culture," PM Modi said.He said Mahtab was such a person who made history, saw it and wrote it. "In fact, such historical personalities are very rare. Such great men themselves are important chapters in history," he added.PM Modi further said that Mahtab took big decisions as the chief minister of Odisha. "Even after reaching power, he considered himself to be a freedom fighter and he was a freedom fighter all his life," he asserted.He added that Mahtab dedicated his life to the freedom struggle, and even served sentence in jail. "But the important thing is that along with the freedom fight, he also fought for society," he said.PM Modi said the book has been published in the year when the nation is celebrating Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav. "This year also marks 100 years of the incident when Harekrushna Mahtab left college and joined in the freedom struggle. When Gandhi ji started Dandi Yatra, he led the movement in Odisha," he added.'Odisha Itihaas', available in Odia and English so far, has been translated into Hindi by Shankarlal Purohit.Dr Harekrushna Mahtab is a notable figure in the Indian Independence Movement. He also served as Odisha chief minister from 1946 to 1950 and from 1956 to 1961.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-releases-hindi-version-of-book-odisha-itihaas-101617950902726.html
09-04-2021||India||Three health workers allegedly missing in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur||Three health workers have gone missing from the Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh’s Left-wing insurgency-hit Bastar region and are suspected to have been abducted by Maoists, people aware of the matter said on Friday.The workers were reported missing a day after a commando of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), who was taken captive by the insurgents after a gunfight between Maoists and security forces, was released.The three were last seen in a village in the Gangaloor area. “Maoists tied their hands and took them away in the jungles..,” a person said on condition of anonymity.Also Read | Days after Bijapur ambush, Maoists set CRPF commando freePolice officers, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Maoists might have taken away the three for treatment of their cadres and will release them soon.Inspector general (Bastar range) Sunderaj P said that he has been informed about the possible abduction and he is verifying the information. “ We have information, and a team has been sent.”Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, the CRPF commando released on Thursday, was taken captive after the April 3 gunfight between paramilitary forces and Maoists. He was released deep in a jungle and brought to Chhattisgarh’s Terrem police station along with the facilitators who went inside the jungle to trace his location.Twenty-two security personnel were killed in the gunfight with Maoists on April 3 before Manhas was taken hostage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-health-workers-allegedly-missing-in-chhattisgarh-s-bijapur-101617950754433.html
09-04-2021||India||'PM Modi is proactive but..': Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on vaccine shortage||Amid reports that half of Mumbai's Covid-19 vaccination centres on Friday did not start vaccination as their stock is over, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said she was informed that about 76.000 to 1 lakh doses are about to reach Mumbai, but Pednekar does not have any official information on that."PM is serious and proactive about our issued but it seems that the people under PM are not taking this issue with the same seriousness," the mayor said to news agency ANI amid the ongoing exchange of barbs between the Centre and Maharashtra.The controversy over vaccine shortage started on Wednesday when Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state's vaccine stock would last for three days and the state has written to the Union health ministry informing it of the impending vaccine shortage. In a reply, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan issued a statement and said there is no shortage of vaccines in the country and such allegations by states are 'baseless', attempt to cover up their own failure. The minister, in his statement, also said Maharashtra's vaccine coverage percentage has not been impressive.Vaccine shortage not 'festival': Rahul Gandhi's dig at PM Modi's Tika UtsavSeveral BJP ministers rallied against Maharashtra leaders' claims about vaccine shortage and slammed the state for wastage. The bickering went on throughout Thursday as Rajesh Tope accused Union minister Prakash Javadekar of inflating Maharashtra's vaccine wastage figure.On Friday morning, many vaccination centres across Mumbai, including a jumbo Covid-19 facility in Bandra-Kurla Complex, suspended inoculation. As many as 75 of the 120 centres, mainly at private hospitals suspended vaccinations, news agency PTI reported."We are doing everything possible to combat the Covid-19 situation in a better way by increasing of beds and ramping up facilities on war footing," Mumbai mayor said.While the Centre is reiterating that fresh supplies are being made to states and it is a continuous process, Rajesh Dere, the dean of BKC jumbo vaccination centre, said so far since the beginning of the vaccination, the centre has always received buffer stock and never did a situation like this arise when vaccination has to be stopped. "From day 1, we used to get vaccines before a day as buffer stock. Till yesterday, we had a sufficient number of vials for this centre. Last night, we were expecting to get today's dose but it has not come. Now we have only 160 doses," the dean said.From day 1 we used to get vaccines before a day as buffer stock, till yesterday we got a sufficient number of vials for this centre. Last night we were expecting to get today's dose but it has not come. Now we have only 160 doses: Rajesh Dere, Dean, BKC Jumbo vaccination Centre||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-is-proactive-but-mumbai-mayor-kishori-pednekar-on-vaccine-shortage-101617949747697.html
09-04-2021||India||The long, rocky and uncertain story of India-Pakistan peacemaking||The history of India-Pakistan relations is one of hope triumphed by trepidation, of lack of trust and intransigence that have made leaderships stop short of turning a new leaf.That’s largely because the interlocutors battle on two fronts — across the negotiating table and in public courts back home. Given the mindsets nurtured over decades, the approach has been of unwavering suspicion. Even when one side dealt straight, the other saw in it a sleight of hand.So when the two armies announced on February 25 the restoration of the November 2003 ceasefire handed down from the Atal Bihari Vajpayee era, the predominant reaction was of doubt and disbelief. Even the most hardened among the optimists found incredulous the possibility of a substantive dialogue process that hasn’t been resurrected from the ruins of the 2008 terror attack on Mumbai.The assault orchestrated by gunmen trained and controlled by Pakistan has continued to haunt bilateral ties; the intermittent tactical engagements thwarted by other cross-border misadventures from Pathankot to Pulwama. The wounds thus inflicted are open and festering.Also Read | India-Russia relations not influenced by ties with other countries: MEAThe sceptics were proved right when the Imran Khan regime put on hold a proposal to import sugar and cotton from India. The move proved abortive as it signified a policy shift away from Islamabad’s stated position of “no engagement” with India till it undid the August 5, 2019 revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. Pakistan’s “U-turn on the U-turn”There are conflicting narratives in Pakistan of the authors and cancellers of the trade initiative. For instance, noted journalist Najam Sethi refused to believe the federal cabinet’s economic coordination committee (ECC) led by finance minister Hammad Azhar could have moved without the PM’s nod. His prognosis: Khan either played off his “own bat” or misread what the “higher” authorities (read the army) desired. In his view, the PM backed down and Hammad became (the) scapegoat. To Sethi, that explained the U-turn on a U-turn (from the stand against talks with India till it restored the changed status of J&K).“Now the PM says nothing doing until Article 370 is restored. Since that is not going to happen, wait for another U-turn sooner or later,” tweeted the journalist who once served as Punjab’s caretaker chief minister. But his version leaves unexplained as to how could there be a communication gap on such a vital matter between Rawalpindi and the civilian government it patronises. The question is relevant also because it was General Qamar Javed Bajwa, the incumbent army chief, who first made out a detailed case for Pakistan and India to “bury the past and move forward”.The general didn’t make an off-the-cuff remark. He made the point in his March 18 policy-laying address at the Islamabad Security Dialogue: “Stable India-Pakistan relation is a key to unlock the untapped potential of South and Central Asia by ensuring connectivity between East and West Asia....Our mature behaviour in the crisis situation with India manifested our desire to change the narrative of geo-political contestation into geo-economic integration.”The formulation bore a discernible newness. It read like a road map, predicated nevertheless on the “peaceful resolution” of the Kashmir dispute, without which “the process of sub-continental rapprochement would remain susceptible to derailment...” From the Pakistani perspective, limited imports from India made good business and economic sense. The idea ran into a wall in the absence of public diplomacy to contextualise the expedient push with domestic sugar scarcity and a failed cotton crop that has hit the apparel industry. It turned into a mess because the proposal flew in the face of Bajwa’s and Khan’s appeals to New Delhi to create a conducive (the general’s word) and enabling (the PM’s lexicon) environment in Kashmir for the resumption of a constructive-result oriented dialogue.No matter who put the cart before the horse, the civilian regime or the army or both, Sethi’s comment before the ECC’s proposal got junked by the Cabinet, was a neat summing up of the Pakistani flip-flop. He tweeted: “After India killed Article 370, we said it didn’t matter since we hadn’t accepted it in the first place. Then we protested and banned all trade and contacts until it (Kashmir’s special status) was restored. Now we are ready to “normalise” without restoration of Article 370. Great foreign policy strategy (sic)”. The veteran journalist wasn’t alone in flagging what came to be seen as a Pakistani climbdown. There were questions aplenty across the political spectrum and the media on the advisability of Pakistan reverting to “business as usual” without a cogent India revert on its calls for a conducive/enabling environment in Kashmir. Quite obviously, the civil-military establishment had no memory of the incremental peace approach that preceded and followed the 2003 border truce it chose to revive with India.Vajpayee’s statesmanship It was in the middle of Operation Parakaram triggered by the December 2001 terror attack on Indian Parliament, that Vajpayee made his famous April 18, 2003 “hand of friendship” speech in Srinagar. His overture caught many among his cabinet colleagues, unawares, including then external affairs minister Yashwant Sinha, who admitted as much in his book Relentless: An Autobiography.That Vajpayee had prepared the ground before going public with the dialogue offer became evident when the armies on either side started withdrawing troops that were eyeball-to-eyeball for over a year. But border de-escalation wasn’t enough to mobilise public support for another peace bid by the leader twice betrayed — in Kargil after his historic February 1999 bus-ride to Lahore on Nawaz Sharif’s invite and during the 2001 Agra summit with General Pervez Musharraf.Also Read | Pakistan’s failed quest to project soft powerEach time hopes of a dialogue rise, so do efforts at peace. It was an all-party delegation of Indian MPs to Pakistan, including those from the Bharatiya Janata Party, which the PM personally cleared, that lifted tack-two diplomacy from the conference rooms to the public domain. For the three days that their visit lasted, the Indian leaders, notably the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Lalu Yadav, captured popular Pakistani imagination like never before. Almost overnight, talking friendship became fashionable. The climate for peace so indispensable for any dialogue to sustain was brought about by the saturation media coverage. Newspapers carried banner headlines; TV channels hosted leaders from both countries in discussions moderated by anchor-journalists from India and Pakistan.That happened in August 2003. In November came the formal ceasefire announcement about which General Musharraf had assured the visiting MPs (at a presidential reception) that it could happen with the ‘blow” of a whistle. The backchannels were active all this while between the Indian PM’s principal secretary, Brajesh Mishra and his Pakistani counterpart, Tariq Aziz, who served the Pakistan president in the same rank.A couple of months later came the substantive outcome of these efforts: Vajpayee and Musharraf signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on January 6, 2004 on the sidelines of the SAARC summit in Islamabad. The agreement was Vajpayee’s most significant foreign policy achievement. Its import lay in Pakistan’s commitment to not permit use of any territory under its control to support terrorism in any manner. Yashwant Sinha, who saw it happening, explained: “(In the joint press statement), India’s readiness to resume the dialogue process...was made conditional on Pakistan’s promise to not allow territory under its control...for violence and terrorism against India. Implicit in it was the admission on Pakistan’s part that the territory under its control was indeed being used for such violence and terrorism..The theory that terror and talks could not go together flows out of this commitment.” To build on the climate supportive of talks, Vajpayee subsequently green signalled the Indian cricket team’s tour of Pakistan for what came to be known as the friendship series. In a call they made on him before departure, he asked the players to “not only win the matches in Pakistan but also the hearts of the people there...”The 2004 general elections were scheduled within weeks of the March-April cricket tour. Looking back, Vajpayee’s decision to delink relations with Pakistan from domestic political exigencies comes across as statesmanship at its prime. The cricketers returned victorious, winning hearts and the matches they played. But the BJP veteran lost the general elections for reasons other than reaching out to Pakistan.The foreign policy template he set cannot but be extolled for its broader objective of subcontinental reconciliation. He was the man who risked waging peace against the eventuality of war.On both sides of Wagah, Vajpayee statecraft and its outcome remain relevant. That is, if the quest for peace and economic prosperity is mutual and seriously strategic — not a one-off tactic. His initial effort set the table for discussing a paradigm shift — from the new borders objective to a no borders approach — to crack the Kashmir imbroglio. Returning to the Kashmir formula The discussions in the Manmohan Singh decade spanned three Pakistani dispensations: Musharraf, Asif Zardari and Nawaz Sharif. Mumbai happened when Zardari offered a nuclear doctrine of no first use to match India’s. The peace formula had, at its core, confidence building measures (CBMs) and jointly run overarching institutions that would give Kashmiris on both sides a way of life to which they get used to. As the late Pranab Mukherjee once told this writer in a private chat: “That’s the best way forward as the Kashmir issue cannot ever be settled vide a bilateral pact or treaty...” The interlocutor’s baton after Brajesh Mishra was held by Satinder Lambah, the former Indian High Commissioner to Islamabad. He said the backchannel agreement wasn’t outdated. It remained relevant, given its focus on the future of the two countries in a regime-agnostic way. Arguing similarly in a New York Times piece in March 2019, Pakistan’s well regarded foreign policy expert, Ahmed Rashid also felt the “way forward” for the two sides was in going back to what was deliberated from 2005-2014.The counsel makes sense as governments are a continuum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-long-rocky-and-uncertain-story-of-india-pakistan-peacemaking-101617948174121.html
09-04-2021||India||'Fatality rate witnessing downward trend': Union health minister Harsh Vardhan||Amid the second coronavirus disease (Covid-19) wave in the country, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Friday that the fatality rate in the country has been witnessing a downward trend and currently stands at 1.28 per cent.“Right now 0.46 per cent of the active critical patients are on ventilators, 2.31 per cent are in ICU and 4.51 per cent are on oxygen-supported beds,” Dr Vardhan said.Health minister Vardhan also informed that 94,334,262 vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far, of which 3,691,511 doses were administered in the past 24 hours.“Last week we even gave 43 lakh doses one day, probably the highest given anywhere in the whole world. As far as healthcare workers are concerned, over 89 lakh have got first dose & over 54 lakh have got the second dose. As far as frontline or field level workers are concerned, over 98 lakh have got the first dose & over 45 lakh have got the second dose,” Vardhan said at a meeting of the high-level group of ministers on Covid-19.Read more: Maharashtra will cross 1.1 mn Covid cases by Apr 30 if not curbed: Health dept“For those between 45 & 59 years of age, first dose has been received by over 2.61 crore people & second dose has been received by 523,268 people. For those above 60 yrs of age, over 3.75 crore people have received first dose & over 13 lakh people have received second dose,” Vardhan added.Watch: ‘780 deaths due to Covid in last 24 hours’: Health Minister Harsh VardhanReferring to the country’s vaccine diplomacy policy, health minister Vardhan apprised that India has exported vaccines to 84 countries so far. “Till now we have exported 6.45 crore doses to 84 countries, which includes 1.05 crores to 44 countries as grants, 3.58 crores to 25 countries as commercial contracts & 1.82 crores to 39 countries through the Covax facility of WHO” Vardhan said.Read more: At Covid review meet, PM Modi politely rejects Uddhav Thackeray’s requestCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday questioned the government’s export of Covid-19 vaccines and said the vaccine shortage is a very serious problem which must be addressed by the central government."Shortage of vaccine in view of the rise in Corona cases is a very serious problem and not a celebration," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi.Read more: Covid-19 vaccines: Is there real shortage in Odisha, Maharashtra?"Is it right to export the vaccine and put our countrymen at risk. The central government should help all states without any bias. We all have to fight this pandemic together and defeat it," Gandhi added.बढ़ते कोरोना संकट में वैक्सीन की कमी एक अतिगंभीर समस्या है, ‘उत्सव’ नहीं-अपने देशवासियों को ख़तरे में डालकर वैक्सीन एक्सपोर्ट क्या सही है?केंद्र सरकार सभी राज्यों को बिना पक्षपात के मदद करे। हम सबको मिलकर इस महामारी को हराना होगा।India on Friday reported 131,968 new Covid-19 cases and 780 related deaths in the past 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry dashboard. The infection tally in the country stood at 13,060,542, while the number of active cases stood at 979,608. Single-day recoveries in the country also increased as 61,899 patients were discharged in the past 24 hours which took the total number of recoveries to 11,913,292.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-94-million-vaccine-doses-administered-so-far-union-health-minister-vardhan-101617947468564.html
09-04-2021||India||Vaccine shortage not 'festival': Rahul Gandhi's dig at PM Modi's Tika Utsav||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said vaccine shortage in the country is a serious issue and not a festival, in an apparent dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call to observe 'Tika Utsav' from April 11 to 14.Blaming India's vaccine export for the shortage, the Congress leader said the Centre should support all states without any bias. "We all have to work towards defeating the pandemic," the Congress leader said.On Wednesday, after the Maharashtra government said its vaccine stock would soon get over, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan dismissed the complaint and said it was a tactic to divert attention from the state's failure in managing the pandemic situation.The controversy over vaccine shortage soon snowballed into a Centre versus non-BJP states debate as Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh leaders alleged that the health minister singled out these two states as they are not BJP ruled.As Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope questioned why Gujarat got almost an equal amount of vaccine doses despite its population and infection rate being lesser than that of Maharashtra, Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said both Maharashtra and Rajasthan have been allocated the highest number of doses, and both are ruled by non-BJP parties.Holding a meeting of the chief ministers of all states and Union territories, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said there is no need to panic as Centre will be replenishing the stocks continuously.Urging states to get maximum people inoculated, PM Modi said states should observe a 'vaccine festival' between April 11-14 to inoculate the maximum number of eligible beneficiaries. April 11 is also the birth anniversary of social reformer Jyotirao Phule, PM Modi said urging youngsters to help those above 45 years of age to get vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-shortage-not-festival-rahul-gandhi-s-dig-at-pm-modi-s-tika-utsav-101617946005548.html
09-04-2021||India||'Bound to affect kids' mental health': Priyanka Gandhi on exams during Covid||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday slammed the authorities for their decision to conduct board examinations amid the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and said the education system needs to 'drastically alter its attitude'. The added pressure of having to appear for examinations, even as the country reeled under the pandemic, will affect the mental health of children, she said."While corona is ravaging our country again, the added pressure of exams is bound to affect the mental health of children. Our education system needs to drastically alter its attitude and start reflecting sensitivity and compassion towards children rather than just talk ..about at their conclaves and conferences," she tweeted.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDemanding that the exams be cancelled or rescheduled, she said the students should not be mandated to appear for them at examination centres."It is downright irresponsible of boards like the CBSE to force students to sit for exams under the prevailing circumstances. Board exams should either be cancelled, rescheduled or arranged in a manner that does not require the physical presence of children at crowded exam centres," she added.Board examinations for Classes 10 and 12, which usually begin in February and conclude in March, have been slated to take place in May.The decision to hold exams was met with a protest by students amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country. India on Friday registered a record single-day spike of 1,31,968 fresh Covid-19 cases, pushing the infection tally to 1,30,60,542.Also Read: Students of classes 10, 12 want board exams cancelledAfter the exam schedule was announced, over one lakh students signed petitions urging the government to either cancel them or conduct them in online mode, according to news agency PTI.In their defence, both the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) have said that adequate safety arrangements have been made and and all Covid-19 guidelines will be followed during the exams."Adequate arrangements are being made to ensure the students are safe and all Covid protocols are followed. The number of exam centres has been increased by 40-50 per cent to ensure social distancing. The staff at exam centres is being sensitised to ensure all guidelines are followed," a senior CBSE official told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bound-to-affect-kids-mental-health-priyanka-gandhi-on-exams-during-covid19-101617945272612.html
09-04-2021||India||India administers over 94 mn Covid vaccine doses; 43 mn doses in stock||India had administered 94 million vaccine doses across the country by Thursday evening even as several states continued to warn that they would run out of their stock soon. Union health minister assured the nation on Thursday that more than 43 million vaccine doses are in stock or in the pipeline.In all, 94,096,689 doses have been given in the country till now. This includes 8,974,122 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 5,448,206 who have got their second dose as well. Then, 9,809,525 frontline workers have had their first dose while 4,541,636 have got their second dose too. In the 45-59-year age group, 25,955,762 people have got their first dose and another 520,339 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 37,495,435 people have been administered their first dose while 1,351,664 have had their second dose as well.In all, 3,473,083 vaccine doses were given on Thursday, till 8pm. Of this, 3,081,621 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 391,462 beneficiaries received their second dose as well, as per the provisional report.India on Friday reported a single-day spike of 131,968 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total infection tally to 13,060,542, while the number of active cases has been pushed to 979,608. This is the fourth time India’s 24-hour tally breached the 100,000-mark, forcing many states to impose curbs. While MP announced a weekend lockdown, Karnataka announced a night curfew in six cities. Tamil Nadu banned all religious gatherings from April 10 till the 30th, and UP also imposed night curfew in some districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-administers-over-94-mn-covid-vaccine-doses-43-mn-doses-in-stock-101617944693483.html
09-04-2021||India||‘It is Diwali for us,’ says mother of CRPF commando freed by Maoists||It was nothing short of Diwali at Rakeshwar Singh Manhas’ house located Jammu’s in Lower Barnai after the kin of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) commando learnt about his release from the Maoists on Thursday. Manhas, 35, went missing during a deadly encounter in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur on Saturday.“I am very happy. I can’t explain my happiness. We have come to know from media reports. Some CRPF officers had also come to convey to us the message and we are really very happy. He has come back just how wing commander Abhinandan Varthaman was freed,” his wife, Meenu, said.Manhas’ mother, who was in tears, said, “we are waiting eagerly for him to come home. It is Diwali for us”.The commando’s five-year-old daughter said, “God has sent my father back. I am very happy.”Superintendent of Police (SP) in Sukma, KL Dhruw confirmed Manhas’ release saying, “I have got to know that he has been freed. This is confirmed.”According to reports, Soni Sori, a social activist from Bastar, was in talks with the Maoists for Manhas’ release.Manhas’ family members and relatives distributed sweets to everyone present in the house. The moment Manhas’ images were aired by TV channels, his family, relatives and friends started shouting slogans like “PM Modi Zindabad (long live PM Modi” “home minister Amit Shah Zindabad (long live home minister Amit Shah)” and “Bharat Mata Ki Jai (all hail mother India).”The family and relatives expressed their gratitude towards PM Modi, home minister Amit Shah and the Chattisgarh government for all their efforts to ensure a safe release of Manhas.The family lit ‘Akhand Jyoti’ before the local deities in their pooja room (place of worship) of their house ever since Manhas’ capture.According to people privy to the developments, Manhas was reportedly brought to a camp in Tarrem — the area where the encounter took place - where he underwent health checkups.Manhas had joined the CRPF in March 2011 and got married in 2014. The couple has a five-year-old daughter.A CRPF jawan, Manhas was transferred to Chattisgarh three months ago. Earlier he was posted in Assam.As many as 22 jawans were killed and around 31 sustained injuries in the encounter with Maoists in Chhattisgarh on Saturday. Security forces launched an operation along the Sukma-Bijapur border, where an intense face-off resulted in the deaths of 22 jawans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-is-diwali-for-us-says-mother-of-abducted-crpf-commando-freed-by-maoists-101617944275087.html
09-04-2021||India||Maharashtra will cross 1.1 mn Covid cases by Apr 30 if not curbed: Health dept||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra is likely to cross the 1.1 million-mark by April 30 in the absence of adequate measures to control the spread of the virus, according to the state health department. This is being considered as the second wave in the state, which began around February 11.State health department principal secretary Pradeep Vyas said on Wednesday, “We are recording more cases than we predicted. The state has already recorded 50% more active cases during this wave, in comparison to the previous wave in September 2020. If cases increase in this proportion, by April 17 we will have around 568,000 active cases.”On Thursday, Maharashtra reported 56,286 new Covid-19 cases, and 376 deaths, taking the tally to 3,229,547 and toll to 57,028. The active cases in the state have now touched 521,317. The cumulative case fatality rate in the state is now 1.76%. On Wednesday, a total of 236,815 tests were held, with a positivity rate of 23% for the day.Also Read | Migrant labourers leave Mumbai in packed trains fearing lockdownOn Wednesday, the state recorded 59,907 cases, its highest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic. Mumbai recorded 8,938 cases on Thursday, taking its cumulative positives to 491,980. Mumbai is expected to cross half a million cumulative cases on Friday, civic officials said. The city recorded 25 deaths on Thursday, taking its overall fatalities to 11,881.The surge is causing immense stress on the health infrastructure in the state. To streamline availability of beds for Covid-19 patients, health minister Rajesh Tope has directed all district collectors and municipal commissioners to adopt Mumbai’s model of centralised bed allotment. In the state, 80.51% Covid-19 beds are occupied, 32.77% oxygen beds are occupied, 60.95% ICU beds are occupied.Despite the current shortage in vaccine vials, Tope said the state has requested the Centre to allow vaccination of all citizens in the age group of 18-45 years, as the maximum cases in this wave are being recorded from this age group. So far, a total of 8,081,358 beneficiaries have received the first dose of their vaccine shots across the state and 874,560 have received their second shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-will-cross-1-1mn-covid-cases-by-apr-30-if-not-curbed-health-dept-101617942892996.html
09-04-2021||India||India records highest-ever spike of 24 hours with 1.31 lakh fresh infections, active cases near 9 lakh-mark||India on Friday reported a single-day spike of 1,31,968 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total infection tally to 13,060,542, while the number of active cases has now been pushed to 9,79,608. This is the fourth time India's 24-hour tally breached the 1-lakh mark. India reported 103,558 cases on April 5 and 115,736 infections on April 7. On April 8, the 24-hour tally was 1,26,789.With Friday's rise, India's active cases settled at 9,79,608 —7.04 per cent of the total tally. In February, the active Covid-19 caseload of the country reached the lowest as daily infections were on a steady decline. On February 12, there were 1,35,926 active Covid-19 cases, comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections.At Covid review meet, PM Modi politely rejects Uddhav Thackeray’s requestSingle-day recoveries in the country are also increasing as in the last 24 hours, 61,899 patients were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 11,913,292. A total of 780 people have died of the infection in the last 24 hours.In the last 24 hours, 13,64,205 samples were tested, which is about one lakh more than the number of samples tested the day before yesterday.The rise comes at a time when containment measures are being tightened and several states have announced mini-lockdowns, night curfew, weekend lockdowns etc.As the curve of the second wave of the pandemic is going up steadily, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a meeting of chief ministers and emphasised the need for increasing testing, without being pressured by the number of positive cases.In the last few days, Chhattisgarh has been reporting the second-highest number of infections in the country, after Maharashtra. In the last 24 hours, the state reported 10,652 fresh infections, which is the highest single-day spike in the state so far.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-1-31-968-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-last-24-hours-101617940590888.html
09-04-2021||India||In opening session, Sensex sheds 140 points at 49,648, Nifty trades flat at 14,882||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 150 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid largely negative cues from global markets.The 30-share BSE index was trading 186.94 points or 0.38 per cent lower at 49,559.27.Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 44.10 points or 0.30 per cent to 14,829.70.Bajaj Finance was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank, HDFC Bank and Reliance Industries.On the other hand, HUL, Sun Pharma, ITC, ONGC, PowerGrid and SBI were among the gainers.In the previous session, Sensex settled 84.45 points or 0.17 per cent higher at 49,746.21, and Nifty advanced 54.75 points or 0.37 per cent to 14,873.80.Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth ₹110.85 crore on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data."Surging Co-19 cases have become an area of serious concern. Unless this second wave peaks soon and subsides, economic activity will be impacted and the market assumptions of above 10 per cent GDP growth and above 30 per cent earnings growth will be challenged," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.This big uncertainty will weigh on market sentiments for some time, he added.Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading in the red in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was trading with gains.Top stock exchanges on Wall Street ended on a positive note in overnight trade.Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.03 per cent lower at USD 63.18 per barrel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sensex-sheds-140-points-at-49-648-nifty-trades-flat-at-14882-101617940079002.html
09-04-2021||India||Unruly passenger strips naked, misbehaves with crew onboard AirAsia flight||AirAsia passengers on Tuesday witnessed an unprecedented incident on i5-722 Bengaluru to Delhi flight when an unruly passenger stripped naked onboard.A passenger who was onboard told ANI, "Firstly, the unruly passenger started a heated argument with the cabin crew about life jackets. He later misbehaved with the crew onboard and suddenly took off all the clothes in the flight."Confirming about the incident, AirAsia India Spokesperson said, "An inebriated guest onboard i5-722, from Bengaluru to New Delhi on April 6, 2021, behaved in an inappropriate manner including with a cabin crew on duty inflight. The guest was advised repeatedly and paid heed only after multiple requests by crew members," AirAsia India Spokesperson said.A crew member of AirAsia somehow controlled the unruly passenger onboard with the help of co-passengers and informed the pilots about the unwanted incident, following which the pilot of the aircraft informed Delhi's Air Traffic Controller (ATC) about the incident and sought priority landing. Just after landing, the passenger was handed over to police with help of aviation security CISF.The spokesperson of the airline further said, "The matter was reported on landing at Delhi Airport to the police and necessary action has been initiated by AirAsia India based on regulations governing the safety and well being of aircraft and passengers under the disruptive passenger handling policy. As an airline that has consistently emphasised and worked towards the security and well being of our guests and crew, we have a zero-tolerance approach to disruptive behaviour on our flights and strongly condemn incidents of such nature."The Delhi police have registered a case against the passenger under the appropriate section. The airline is yet to put him on the no-fly list. Further investigations are under process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unruly-passenger-strips-naked-misbehaves-with-crew-onboard-airasia-flight-101617939673447.html
09-04-2021||India||Former J&K deputy CM Kavinder Gupta welcomes Rohingya verdict||Former Jammu & Kashmir deputy chief minister Kavinder Gupta has welcomed the Supreme Court’s order rejecting a plea seeking the release of at least 197 Rohingya refugees detained in a Jammu and stalling their deportation.“It is a historical decision by the Supreme Court... The issue of illegal immigrants has become a chronic problem in India. Their deportation was talked about time and again but seldom were any steps taken in this direction,” said Gupta. “Now, how to deport them under the ambit of the law remains to be discussed and soon a decision should be taken on it.”Gupta called for a probe into how the Rohingya arrived in Jammu & Kashmir and who provided them Indian identity documents.The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to stop the deportation of the refugees detained in a Jammu prison to Myanmar, noting that the right not to be deported can arise out of the fundamental right to settle in India which is available only to citizens.Also Read | SC rejects plea to stall deportation of Rohingyas from JammuHighlighting the Union government’s stand that the Rohingya posed a serious threat to the internal security of the country, the bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, also dismissed the plea to release them from the detention centre.There are close to 7,000 Rohingya refugees in Jammu & Kashmir.On March 6, on the instructions of the Union home ministry, the J&K administration started a verification drive of the Rohingya community, and moved some of them to a holding centre, pending their potential deportation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-j-k-deputy-chief-minister-welcomes-rohingya-verdict-101617939291953.html
09-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: 5 terrorists gunned down in two separate encounters in Jammu and Kashmir and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.5 terrorists gunned down in two separate encounters in J&KFive terrorists were eliminated by security forces in two separate encounters in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday. Read moreWestern Disturbance to bring scattered rain to Western Himalayas over weekendA fresh Western Disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region from April 10 which will bring scattered rainfall to the region, according to India Meteorological Department. Read more75-yr-old urges others to follow ‘vaccinated, protected’ mantraWith a prick of the injection of just my first dose, all my Covid related worries disappeared, said veteran hockey player Balbir Singh Randhawa, who got the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on March 3 along with his wife Bhupinder Kaur, 75, in Amritsar. Read more'Follow due procedure’: Supreme Court rejects plea to stall Rohingya deportationThe Supreme Court on Thursday refused to stop the deportation of at least 150 Rohingya refugees detained in a Jammu prison to Myanmar, noting that the right not to be deported can arise out of the fundamental right to settle in India which is available only to citizens. Read more'This isn't Test cricket, it's T20, can he do that under pressure?': Lee not sure of Pujara's place in CSK's Playing XIAfter going unsold for six years, Cheteshwar Pujara finally has an IPL side. At the IPL 2021 auction in February this year, Pujara, India's Test specialist was picked by three-time champions Chennai Super Kings at his base price of ₹50 lakh. Read morePriyanka Chopra confesses her love for Sridevi and her 'giant, gorgeous eyes'Actor Priyanka Chopra has confessed her love for Sridevi. Speaking to a US magazine about her favourite beauty icon, Priyanka revealed that she considers the late actor as hers. Read moreTaapsee Pannu tells who wears the pants in her house as she dons a classic black three-piece suitWith her choices and her bold attitude, Taapsee Pannu has already proved to us that she is a strong woman who can fight all hindrances coming her way in this man's world and she does it with elegance. Read moreWatch: Journalists recall release of CRPF jawan by Naxals in Chhattisgarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-5-terrorists-gunned-down-in-two-separate-encounters-in-jammu-and-kashmir-and-all-the-latest-news-101617937544520.html
09-04-2021||India||'Won't say anything': PM Modi's veiled dig at Covid-19 vaccine 'politics'||In a veiled reference to the ongoing politics over allocation of Covid-19 vaccines, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said those who want to do politics are doing it. "I am seeing this from day one and I have been putting up with all kind of statements. I choose not to open my mouth because I believe serving the people of India is our responsibility," PM Modi said.His comments comes after Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan accused Maharashtra of diverting people's attention from its dismal management of the pandemic by blaming the Centre for vaccine shortage. Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leaders criticised Harsh Vardhan's specific attack, which appeared to be "politically motivated", they said. Apart from Maharashtra, the health minister also pointed out Chhattisgarh's failure in containing the spread of the infection. Both these states are non-BJP-ruled and are contributing the highest number of fresh infections to India's daily caseload.Centre says 43 million Covid vaccine doses in stock after shortage alarmPM Modi said there is no need to panic about the vaccine supply, and more focus should be given to increasing the number of testing.On Thursday, several vaccination centres in Maharashtra, Odisha were temporarily shut as there was no vaccine stock. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan dismissed the claims and said the Centre is constantly monitoring the stock of the states. States have 4.3 crore vaccine doses wither in stock or are being in transit. Maharashtra and Rajasthan are the two states which have been given the highest number of doses, the health minister said, adding that both are non-BJP-governed states.Hue & cry by certain States about partisanship by the Union Govt is just a farce, an attempt to hide their own incompetence. Maharashtra and Rajasthan are 2 of the top 3 States based on allocation of #COVID19Vaccine doses. Both are non-BJP governed States. pic.twitter.com/ycrBcdJBXGThe information that the health minister shared shows Maharashtra has been allocated 1.06 crore doses of vaccines, while Rajasthan has got 1.04 crore doses and Gujarat 1.05 crore. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday questioned why Gujarat was given so many vaccine doses.States should not compete regarding the number of infections. "If more positive cases are being reported, test more, without coming under any pressure. "The evaluation that you are doing it badly if there are more cases is not right," PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-say-anything-pm-modi-s-veiled-dig-at-covid-19-vaccine-politics-101617938263856.html
09-04-2021||India||5 terrorists gunned down in separate encounters in J&K||Five terrorists were eliminated by security forces in two separate encounters in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday. In Tral area of Awantipora, two terrorists were gunned by the security forces. "The operation is still underway," news agency ANI quoted the Inspector-General of Police as saying.The encounter began at around 8am at Nowbugh. The area has been cordoned off by the security officials.More details are awaited regarding the gun-fighting.In Shopian district, where security forces are engaged in a fierce gun battle with terrorists for more than 12 hours now, three terrorists have been killed. According to the ANI report, two more are inside a mosque and still firing from inside.Chief of proscribed terrorist outfit Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind (JeM) is among the terrorists in the Shopian district. However, as the identity has not yet been ascertained of deceased terrorists, it is not known if he is still inside the mosque.The encounter between security forces and terrorists started in Shopian on Thursday where terrorists are holed up inside a mosque. According to ANI report, the Jammu and Kashmir Police last night sent the brother of one terrorist and a local Imam inside the mosque to persuade the terrorists to surrender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-terrorists-gunned-down-in-two-separate-encounters-in-jk-101617938632216.html
09-04-2021||India||37 doctors test positive for Covid-19 at Delhi's Sir Gangaram Hospital||At least 37 doctors of Delhi's Sir Gangaram Hospital have tested positive for coronavirus, as per the hospital sources on Thursday." 37 doctors of the hospital have tested positive for Covid-19 while treating Covid-19 patients at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. A majority of these Health Care Warriors have mild symptoms. 32 doctors are in home isolation and 5 are admitted in the hospital", informed hospital sources.Meanwhile, Delhi Government has issued an order directing 115 private hospitals to reserve 50 per cent of their total ICU and ward bed capacity for Covid-19 patients amid the massive spike in coronavirus cases.Also, Delhi Government ordered an increase in the total number of beds reserved for Covid-19 patients from presently 1000 to 1500 at Lok Nayak Hospital and from 500 to 1000 at GTB Hospital.It also ordered Dental and Ayush doctors to be deployed at Covid-19 hospitals in Delhi.In view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi today held a meeting with chief ministers amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in several states."The number of tests being done on daily basis needs to be significantly increased with the aim to reduce positivity to 5% or less, with focused and targeted testing in containment zones and areas where clusters of cases are being reported," said PM Modi during a meeting with Chief Ministers.Delhi reported a significant spike in new Covid-19 cases by registering as many as 7,437 fresh cases and 24 related deaths in last 24 hours, the health department informed on Thursday evening. 5,506 cases were reported on Wednesday.Thursday's spike was the highest single-day rise witnessed in Delhi since November 19 last year when 7,546 Covid-19 cases were registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/37-doctors-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-delhi-s-sir-gangaram-hospital-101617936512528.html
09-04-2021||India||PM Modi to release hindi version of 'Odisha Itihaas' by Dr Harekrushna Mahtab today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release the Hindi translation of the book 'Odisha Itihaas' written by 'Utkal Keshari' Dr Harekrushna Mahtab on Friday at 12 noon from Ambedkar International Center, Janpath, New Delhi.The book, available in Odia and English so far, has been translated into Hindi by Shankarlal Purohit.Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Bhartruhari Mahtab MP(LS), Cuttack will also be present on the occasion."The event marking the release of the Hindi version has been organised by Harekrushna Mahtab Foundation,' informed the press release by the Prime Minister's Office.Dr Harekrushna Mahtab was a notable figure in the Indian Independence Movement. He also served as Chief Minister of Odisha from 1946 to 1950 and from 1956 to 1961. He wrote the book 'Odisha Itihaas' in Ahmednagar Fort Jail, where he was imprisoned for more than two years during 1942-1945.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-release-hindi-version-of-odisha-itihaas-by-dr-harekrushna-mahtab-today-101617933862652.html
09-04-2021||India||Migrant labourers leave Mumbai in packed trains fearing lockdown||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, trains at Mumbai's Lokmanya Tilak Terminus were seen packed with migrant workers as they feared an impending lockdown.Speaking to ANI, a migrant worker who was travelling in an Uttar Pradesh bound train said, "This train will go to Gorakhpur. We're leaving the city because Covid-19 cases are rising here."Taking cognisance of the emerging situation, Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam talked to the officials and asked the authorities to allay the fear of the migrants and monitor the Covid-19 situation. He said to the reporters, "Many of them fear that a lockdown will be imposed in the state due to rising Covid cases. However, our state government has no such plans. We do not want businesses or small businessmen to incur losses.""Many of them have not even got themselves tested for Covid-19 and have boarded the train illegally. We are looking into the situation. However, I can assure you that none of them can return back to our state without showing a Covid negative report", he said.Also Read | Mumbai weekend lockdown: Home delivery, maids allowed but conditions applyAnother migrant worker told ANI, "We are leaving for our hometown in Uttar Pradesh. As of now, there is a night curfew in place. It is very likely that a lockdown will be put into place. To avoid chaos like the previous lockdown, we are travelling back to our native place. Not sure when, whether we will come back here."Due to a sharp rise in Covid cases, Mumbai's BMC on Thursday imposed a weekend lockdown in the city until further orders.With 1,26,789 new cases in the last 24 hours, India's active caseload reached 9,10,319 on Thursday.India reported 59,258 recoveries were registered in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative recoveries to 1,18,51,393. The national Recovery Rate is 91.67 per cent.Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Kerala and Punjab have shown a rise in the Covid daily new cases. 84.21 per cent of the new cases are reported from these 10 states.Maharashtra reported 56,286 new Covid-19 cases, 36,130 recoveries, and 376 deaths in the last 24 hours, the state health department informed on Thursday.According to the state government's data, the active number of Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 5,21,317.Out of 56,286 new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, 8,938 cases were reported in Mumbai and 12,090 in Pune. The total count of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai now stands at 4,91,698 while the active Covid-19 cases in Pune is mounted to 89,598.As a sign of relief, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 9.40 crore yesterday. A total of 9,40,96,689 vaccine doses have been given, as per the provisional report till 8 pm yesterday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-labourers-leave-mumbai-in-packed-trains-fearing-lockdown-101617932836476.html
09-04-2021||India||Raipur, Bhopal, Mumbai: These cities are coming under lockdown from today||The last weekend ahead of upcoming festivals of Navratri, Ugadi, Gudi Padwa, Baisakhi etc., will see several urban areas locked up, markets closed as the peak of the ongoing second wave of the pandemic is expected in mid-April. Local restrictions, mini lockdowns, night curfews have already made a comeback starting from March. But as India saw unprecedented rise in the number of daily infections, the list of cities coming under lockdown is only getting longer. Northeastern states have proved to be insulated from the second wave and are free from local restriction.Also watch | 'Corona fear': Migrant workers leave Mumbai in jam-packed train fearing lockdown﻿﻿Here's a list of cities which are under strict restrictions starting from today:Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur -- Entire MaharashtraFrom 8pm today, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and all cities and districts of Maharashtra will come under strict lockdown till Monday 7am as night curfew and weekend lockdown will get combined. This is the first weekend of this year that the state will be under lockdown. No movement apart from essential services will be allowed. Mumbai authorities have issued separate guidelines for the city.Covid-19 in India: Hard lockdown ruled out, PM Modi says focus on testingRaipurChhattisgarh's Raipur has been declared a containment zone and its border will be sealed from 6pm, April 9 till 6am, April 19. Only essential services will be allowed for these 10 days and students appearing in exams will be beyond restrictions. Offices of Central government, state government, semi-government, as well as private offices and banks will remain closed.BhopalAll cities of Madhya Pradesh, including Bhopal, will come under a 60-hour lockdown starting from 6pm today, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has announced. Many Madhya Pradesh districts were already observing Sunday lockdowns. But this weekend, there will be strict restrictions in all urban areas of the state.Cities/districts already under restrictionChhatisgarh's Durg is under a nine-day strict lockdown, which began on April 6.Cities under night curfewDelhi, Noida, Chandigarh, Gujarat's Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot, Odisha's Sundergarh, Bargarh, Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Balangir, Nuapada, Kalahandi, Malkangiri, Koraput and Nabarangpur, Rajasthan's Jaipur, Uttar Pradesh's Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur, Prayagraj are already under night curfew.Bengaluru night curfew from April 10Bengaluru will comes under a corona curfew from April 10 along with other districts of Karnataka, including Mysuru, Mangaluru, Kalaburgi, Bidar, Tumkurum, Udupi and Manipal.Do weekend lockdowns, night curfews work?Lockdown is a measure to break the transmission chain of the virus. It can delay the spread of the infection, if properly enforced. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain recently said night curfew became necessary as people were gathering at night for parties, which increasing the threat of the infection spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raipur-bhopal-mumbai-these-cities-are-coming-under-lockdown-from-today-101617931972606.html
09-04-2021||India||Rafale jets deal ‘middleman’ paid in ‘secret commissions’: French report||Mediapart, a French online journal, claimed in the third part of its Rafale story on Thursday that it was in possession of documents that showed Dassault Aviation, which manufactures the Rafale jet, and its industrial partner Thales, a defence electronics firm, paid “middleman” Sushen Gupta several million euros in “secret commissions” in connection with the ₹59,000 crore deal for 36 jets for the Indian Air Force (IAF).In the third and final part of its investigation into the Rafale deal, the journal claimed that the payments to Gupta were channelled through offshore accounts and shell companies, using inflated invoices for software consulting. Gupta’s name figures in the AgustaWestland charge sheet.According to the journal, the bulk of the payments were made before 2013. “According to an accounts spreadsheet belonging to Sushen Gupta, an entity called simply “D”, which is a code he regularly used to designate Dassault, paid 14.6 million euros to Interdev in Singapore over the period 2004-2013,” the report said. It said Interdev was a shell company with no real activity, and administered by a straw man for the Gupta family.The report said according to another accounts spreadsheet belonging toGupta, which only covers the years 2004 to 2008, Thales paid 2.4 million euros to another shell company.Numerous controls are carried out by official organisations, including the French anti-corruption agency, and no violations were reported, notably in the framework of the contract with India for the acquisition of 36 Rafales, Dassault said in a statement on Thursday, adding that the plane maker acts in strict compliance with laws.“Since the early 2000s, Dassault Aviation has implemented strict internal procedures to prevent corruption, guaranteeing the integrity, ethics and reputation of the company in its industrial and commercial relations. In the context of the Sapin 2 law (anti-corruption law), the company has completed and strengthened its system for the prevention and detection of corruption and influence peddling, both at the level of the parent company and its subsidiaries,” the statement said.Thales did not respond to an HT query on the Mediapart report. The Enforcement Directorate also didn’t comment on the revelations.In the first part of its series that came out on Sunday, Mediapart claimed that Dassault Aviation paid €1 million to Gupta for the manufacture of 50 large replica models of Rafale jets, even though the plane-maker provided inspectors of French anti-corruption agency Agence Française Anticorruption (AFA) no proof that these models were made. The Congress on Monday demanded an independent investigation into the matter, even as law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad termed the report “baseless.”“As middleman for Dassault and Thales, Sushen Gupta, amid the discussions over the Rafale deal in 2015, obtained confidential documents from India’s defence ministry relating to the activities of the negotiating team. The Enforcement Directorate, in its official charge sheet against him, wrote that Gupta had gained ‘sensitive data which should have only been in possession of the Ministry of Defence’,” the Mediapart reported on Thursday.HT is reaching out to Gupta and will update the copy once he responds.The French website claimed that Dassault and European missile-maker MBDA worked hard to remove anti-corruption clauses from the Rafale fighter contract, which was subsequently signed by then French defence minister, now foreign minister, Jean-Yves Le Drian.“In July 2015, in an annexe to the contract concerning the weaponry of the jets, supplied by MBDA, the French side wrote into the text that the two anti-corruption clauses were “Not Applicable”. But the Indians deleted this and reintroduced the anti-corruption clauses,” according to the journal.“Those anti-corruption clauses could have had costly consequences for the industrialists, for they allow for India to rip up the contract and/or to demand compensation not only if acts of corruption are discovered, but also if the seller paid an agent in order to ‘intercede, facilitate or in any way to recommend [the seller] to the Government of India or any of its functionaries’,” the report claimed.François Hollande, who was French president between May 2012 and May 2017 said he was “at no moment informed of these aspects of the negotiation”, and that he, therefore, could “not have approved an eventual removal of these [anti-corruption] clauses,” the website said.It said it contacted MBDA, which replied that it “does not habitually comment on negotiations concerning contracts.”Six months later (after July 2015), in the contract proposed on January 13, 2016 by the French team, concerning Dassault’s supply of the aircrafts, the two anti-corruption clauses were again marked “Not Applicable,” the journal said.“According to a report in The Hindu, the Indian authorities finally approved the removal of the clauses in September 2016, just before the signing of the final contract, at a meeting presided by the Indian defence minister, Manohar Parrikar,” the journal reported.Dassault and Thales paid a lot for Gupta’s know-how in the defence sector, Mediapart claimed. “They hired him at the beginning of the 2000s, at the very moment when India announced it was looking to buy 126 fighter jets. According to evidence from the ED’s case file, the two French firms paid him several million euros over the 15 years leading up to the signature of the contract,” the report claimed.Gupta was investigated by Indian agencies over his role in the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper scam.ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) are probing allegations of money laundering in the 2007 contract for the purchase of 12 luxury VIP helicopters for use by top political leaders, including the President, the Prime Minister, and former PMs.The deal was cancelled in early 2014 over allegations of wrongdoing. Among the people named in the charge sheets filed by ED is Ratul Puri, the nephew of former Madhya Pradesh chief minister and senior Congress leader Kamal Nath.In the second part of its investigation, Mediapart reported on Tuesday that the former head of the financial crimes branch of France’s public prosecution services shelved an investigation into alleged evidence of corruption in the Rafale jet deal with India despite the objection of colleagues. Éliane Houlette, former head of the financial crimes branch of the public prosecution services, justified her decision to shelve the investigations as preserving “the interests of France, the workings of institutions”, Mediapart reported.French President Emmanuel Macron and his predecessor, François Hollande, were cited in allegations levelled in the case, the report said.Mediapart has written about the Rafale deal earlier too.In October 2018, it raised questions about the offset contract that was part of the Rafale deal. It said a senior official in Dassault Aviation saw the partnership with Anil Ambani’s Reliance Group as “imperative and mandatory” to getting the “export contract” with India for the Rafale aircraft.The National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) decision to enter a $8.7 billion government-to-government deal with France to buy 36 Rafale warplanes made by Dassault was announced in April 2015, with an agreement signed a little over a year later. This replaced the previous United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime’s decision to buy 126 Rafale aircraft, 108 of which were to be made in India by the state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL).The deal became controversial, with the Opposition, led by the Congress, claiming that the price at which India is buying Rafale aircraft now is ₹1,670 crore for each, three times the initial bid of ₹526 crore by the company when the UPA was trying to buy the aircraft. It has also claimed the previous deal included a technology transfer agreement with HAL.The NDA has not disclosed details of the price, but the UPA deal, struck in 2012, was not a viable one, former defence minister Manohar Parrikar has previously said, implying that it would have never been closed and that, therefore, any comparison is moot. Indeed, the UPA was not able to close the deal till 2014, largely over discussions related to pricing of items not included in the initial bid.The NDA government has said that it cannot disclose the details of the price on two counts: a confidentiality agreement with France, and the strategic reason of not showing its hand to India’s enemies; however, it said that the current deal also includes customised weaponry.The Supreme Court heard a public interest case on the deal and in November 2019, said it saw nothing wrong in it. In a February 2019 report, the government’s auditor, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India audited the deal and said India had not overpaid for the jets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-jets-deal-middleman-paid-in-secret-commissions-french-report-101617929804931.html
09-04-2021||India||India gifts 100,000 Covid-19 vaccines to Bangladesh Army||Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane on Thursday handed over 100,000 Covid-19 vaccines to his Bangladeshi counterpart Gen Aziz Ahmed who thanked India for its commendable cooperation in helping his country tackle the coronavirus pandemic.Gen Naravane is visiting Dhaka at the invitation of his Gen Ahmed. The visit comes less than two weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi travelled to the neighbouring country.During their meeting, the two generals discussed issues related to the good relations between the armed forces of the two countries and mutual cooperation in the future, the Dhaka Tribune reported.Issues related to the implementation of the Border Road Organisation, training of Army pilots, exchange of defence experts and trainers, mutual defence cooperation were discussed, it said.Gen Naravane handed over 100,000 Covid-19 vaccines to Bangladesh Gen Ahmed. Gen Aziz expressed gratitude for India's commendable cooperation in helping Dhaka tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, the report said.Gen Aziz hoped India would support Bangladesh in resolving the Rohingya crisis.Earlier, Naravane paid tributes to the fallen heroes of Bangladesh's 1971 Liberation War after arriving in the country on a five-day visit to further strengthen the close and fraternal ties existing between the Armed Forces of the two nations.The year 2021 marks the 50th anniversary of India-Bangladesh diplomatic relations, the liberation of Bangladesh from Pakistan and the birth centenary of 'Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-gifts-100-000-covid-19-vaccines-to-bangladesh-army-101617928575539.html
09-04-2021||India||‘Follow due procedure’: Supreme Court rejects plea to stall Rohingya deportation||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to stop the deportation of at least 150 Rohingya refugees detained in a Jammu prison to Myanmar, noting that the right not to be deported can arise out of the fundamental right to settle in India which is available only to citizens.Highlighting the Union government’s stand that the Rohingya posed a serious threat to the internal security of the country, the bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, also dismissed the plea to release them from the detention centre.There are close to 7,000 Rohingya refugees in Jammu & Kashmir, numbers that have increased since the late 2000s when they first arrived in the region after escaping from Myanmar, where they were facing religious persecution. India has previously deported Rohingya refugees.On March 6, on the instructions of the Union ministry of home affairs, the Jammu & Kashmir administration started a verification drive of the Rohingya, and moved some of them to a holding centre, pending their potential deportation.“It is true that the rights guaranteed under Articles 14 and 21 (right to equality and life) are available to all persons who may or may not be citizens. But the right not to be deported, is ancillary or concomitant to the right to reside or settle in any part of the territory of India guaranteed under Article 19(1)(e),” said the bench that included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.The bench also pointed out that India is not a signatory to the Refugee Convention, 1951 and thus, the Centre has emphasised that there was no obligation on it to follow the principle of ‘non-refoulment’ to restrain it from expelling a refugee who feared persecution in the home state. “Regarding the contention raised on behalf of the petitioners about the present state of affairs in Myanmar, we have to state that we cannot comment upon something happening in another country,” it added while underlining that a similar plea to stop deportation of Rohingya was rejected by the top court in 2018 as well.The bench, however, has added a caveat that Rohingya in Jammu, on whose behalf the application was filed, “shall not be deported unless the procedure prescribed for such deportation is followed.”Representing the Centre on March 26, solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the court that the procedure to deport Rohingya involved their identification and verification of their citizenship by the Myanmar government.On the last date, the Centre opposed the plea by applicant Mohammad Salimullah while emphasising that India cannot become “the international capital of illegal immigrants”.The government called the Rohingya “absolutely illegal immigrants” who posed “serious threats to national security” and also contended that the right to settle in India could not be asserted by illegal immigrants under the garb of the Constitution’s Article 21, which guarantees the right to life and liberty.Mehta added the Centre has begun the process of deporting Rohingya after receiving a confirmation from the Myanmar government regarding their nationality, and that the apex court should steer clear of the “diplomatic issue” since it fell within the exclusive domain of the executive.Representing the J&K administration, senior advocate Harish Salve had also cautioned the bench against “starting a dangerous trend” by interfering with a subject related to illegal immigrants and diplomatic relations with another country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/follow-due-procedure-supreme-court-rejects-plea-to-stall-rohingya-deportatio-101617927407136.html
09-04-2021||India||Days after Bijapur ambush, Maoists set CRPF commando free||A commando of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF)’s CoBRA unit taken captive by Maoists in Chhattisgarh after the April 3 gunfight was released on Thursday.Commando Rakeshwar Singh Manhas was released deep in the jungle and was brought to the Terrem camp.“At around 4.30pm the abducted jawan Rakeshwar Singh Manhas returned safely to the Terrem police station along with the facilitators who went inside the jungle to trace his location. He has now been admitted to the Basaguda field hospital for medical examination,” inspector general of police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P said.Some reporters accompanied the facilitators, including representatives of social groups, and recorded a video of his release. Visuals showed armed Maoists with their faces covered freeing the jawan tied with ropes.“The facilitators include Padmashree awardee Dharampal Saini from Mata Rukhmani Ashram Jagdalpur and Telam Boraiyya, senior leader of the tribal community in Bijapur. In the effort to release the jawan, local journalists Ganesh Mishra and Mukesh Chandrakar also played an important role,” the IG said.The Maoists earlier released a photograph of the 35-year-old which showed him sitting alone in what appeared to be a hut. Manhas is a commando with the 210th CoBRA battalion.His family in Jammu had appealed to the Centre to ensure he is released unharmed. He is the family’s sole breadwinner and has a five-year-old daughter.After he was released, his wife Meenu expressed her gratitude to the government and said, “Today is the happiest day of my life. I always remained hopeful of his return. I thank the government.” Twenty-two soldiers from the CRPF’s CoBRA unit, District Reserve Guard, and the Special Task Force lost their lives in a five-hour-long clash with Maoists on April 3||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/days-after-bijapur-ambush-maoists-set-crpf-commando-free-101617927160207.html
09-04-2021||India||Covid-19 in India: Hard lockdown ruled out, PM Modi says focus on testing||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday effectively ruled out the imposition of another hard national lockdown, defended his government’s approach to vaccination, and repeatedly and, at length, emphasised the importance of testing, tracing, and Covid-safe behaviour, which, he pointed out, helped India get the better of the first wave of Covid-19 infections in the country, and at a time when it was not even certain that a vaccine would be discovered to prevent the illness.Modi’s comments came at an emergency meeting with all chief ministers, during which he asked for 100% testing in containment zones and the tracing of at least 30 contacts within 72 hours to ensure symptomatic patients can be tracked quickly and further spread of disease can be prevented.With many states imposing partial lockdowns, there were fears in some quarters of a national lockdown, which would have hit a recovering economy hard, and the Prime Minister virtually ruled out the imposition of one.He also asked chief ministers to launch a special vaccination campaign from April 11-14 (meant to coincide with the birth anniversaries of Jyotirao Phule and BR Ambedkar) focused on zero wastage of doses.In the meeting, many CMs demanded more vaccines and suggested inoculation of younger people.The PM maintained that the Centre needs to prioritise vaccines depending on affected areas and suggested the states to reduce wastage of doses for better vaccination management.The Centre can’t just focus on one area, he said; it has to look at every one. He also added that work is on to enhance vaccine capacity.“Factories do not come up overnight,” he said.But time and again, the PM returned to testing.“Don’t take testing lightly. We must talk more about testing than vaccines and maximum emphasis has to be on testing. We must contain the human source of Covid and everyone must be tested in the containment zones,” Modi told the CMs and quipped that during the second wave, “we forgot testing and shifted (focus) to vaccines”.The PM prescribed that tests must be increased to achieve less than 5% positivity rates.The focus should be on reducing the case fatality rate, Modi said. Government officials have repeatedly pointed out that this is the government’s primary focus, and explained that it is the driving idea behind the prioritisation of vaccines.In the meeting, some states raised the issue of shortage of vaccines, but the Union health ministry pointed out that vaccines are not given for an extended period such as a month but for a maximum of 7-8 days.The states were also told that there is no shortage and replenishments will arrive every three or four days.Modi observed that in some states, the administration too is showing signs of weariness, even as people have become casual about following Covid-19-safe behaviour.“People have become casual and in most states the administration can be seen as weary,” the PM said, asking states to focus on the creation of well-defined micro-containment zones and renaming night curfews as corona curfews.Referring to criticism of the government’s management of the vaccine drive, the PM said he has been avoiding politicising the issue.“Those who want to do politics can continue to do so, but all of us must come together to prevail over the disease,” he said. Over the past two days, largely over the supply of vaccines, there have been sharp exchanges between the Centre and the states.On Thursday, Modi seemed to want to put an end to that and said no government should be held guilty for high number of cases.“Don’t think you have done wrong. If testing leads to more positive numbers, let it be. Our target has to be 70% RT-PCR tests,” he said, referring to the gold standard Covid-19 test. He also expressed concern and said he had heard that in many places, sampling was not being done properly.“If you don’t take samples properly, there will be wrong reports. If a person is detected positive, there will be treatment. Otherwise, the person will go undetected.”Asking for more speed in contact tracing to ensure no one remains untested, Modi called upon the young people of India to become role models of Covid appropriate behaviour.He also asked them to get involved in the vaccine drive by ensuring everyone eligible (all people over the age of 45 years) are vaccinated, especially in areas of high disease incidence.“We must also remember that after getting a vaccine, people should still be careful. From Day 1, I have insisted on dawai bhi, kadai bhi (we must take the inoculation and remain vigilant),” he said.The PM also asked states to involve governors and suggested that both the CM and the governor can address all elected representatives and reach out to social influencers such as religious leaders, artists, writers and civil society to build awareness of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-in-india-hard-lockdown-ruled-out-pm-modi-says-focus-on-testing-101617925294364.html
09-04-2021||India||75-yr-old urges others to follow ‘vaccinated, protected’ mantra||With a prick of the injection of just my first dose, all my Covid related worries disappeared, said veteran hockey player Balbir Singh Randhawa, who got the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on March 3 along with his wife Bhupinder Kaur, 75, in Amritsar.“There was no reason to be afraid of the vaccine, especially the rumours of getting side-effects which circulated across social media,” Randhawa said. The two were administered the second dose of the Bharat Biotech manufactured Covaxin at the city’s Nayyar Hospital on April 7.Dismissing reports of side-effects as “rumours and myths”, Randhawa said that he had faith in the government, scientists working on the vaccines and the frontline workers. “People in India blindly follow rumours and believe in myths. As a responsible citizen, it is our duty to join hands with government and frontline workers and to step up for getting vaccinated. Being vaccinated, we will not only save our families from getting infected but also help in breaking the chain of infections,” he said.Many of his relatives, who reside in Canada, were hesitant about the vaccines and have now been infected, he said.“We were eagerly waiting for the vaccination drive. Many people aged over 60 were infected and many died. In the second wave of pandemic, more such cases will be reported. As soon as the drive started] we booked an appointment at the hospital, took the Covaxin jab and felt more than relieved,” he said.“The vaccine didn’t have any side effect on my body,” he said. Randhawa suffers from hypertension and diabetes.Before the vaccination drive began, the elderly couple adhered to all Covid-19 guidelines. “To avoid getting infected with the virus, I and my wife ensured that we always wear face masks and maintain social distancing in public places,” Randhawa said.The two also followed an exercise regimen and a healthy diet. “But a constant fear of getting infected was looming over my mind due to age and comorbidities,” Randhawa said.The former hockey player, who played for the Indian Navy’s team for 11 years, is now urging people to follow the “Vaccinated and Protected” mantra.“I urge all the people to get rid of hesitancy as the India-made vaccines are completely safe. Believe in Vaccinated and Protected mantra,” Randhawa said.“We are thankful to the medical fraternity and the government. People should shun apprehensions and get themselves vaccinated,” Kaur urged.Randhawa, however, added that people should not let their guard down even after getting vaccinated.“Despite being vaccinated, I follow every Covid safety guideline, including wearing mask at public places. Vaccine is just another layer of protection against the virus. Till the time everybody gets vaccinated, we must follow Covid appropriate behaviour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75yrold-urges-others-to-follow-vaccinated-protected-mantra-101617924431170.html
09-04-2021||India||India, China to hold 11th round of talks||Senior commanders of the Indian and Chinese armies will meet in eastern Ladakh on Friday to negotiate the next steps of a complex disengagement process that was completed in Pangong Tso in mid-February with the pullback of front-line troops and weapons, but is yet to make any headway at other friction points, officials familiar with the developments said on the eve of the dialogue.The 11th round of talks between corps commander-rank officers is expected to focus on outstanding problems with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang, the officials said. It will begin on the Indian side of the Chushul-Moldo meeting point at 10.30am, they said.While disengagement began and ended in the Pangong Lake sector in less than 10 days, it appears to have lost its initial momentum going by the absolute lack of progress at other friction points along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), said a top retired commander, asking not to be named. “I don’t expect much from the dialogue as we are not building enough pressure on the Chinese.”The ministry of external affairs spokesperosn, Arindam Bagchi at weekly briefing on Thursday said, “We would like to see disengagement in the remaining areas, which would lead to de-escalation in eastern Ladakh and that would hopefully lead to restoration of peace and tranquillity and provide conditions for progress of our overall bilateral relationship.During the meeting on March 12 of the Working Mechanism on Coordination and Consultation (WMCC), both sides had agreed to convene the 11th round of the senior commanders meeting.”The 10th round of talks between corps commander-rank officers of the two armies took place on February 20 after the completion of disengagement on strategic heights on both banks of Pangong Tso. Both sides pulled back their front-line troops, tanks, infantry combat vehicles and artillery guns under the disengagement agreement.At a marathon 16-hour meeting between senior commanders on February 20, the Indian and Chinese armies agreed to resolve outstanding issues at friction points on LAC in a “steady and orderly” manner, were unanimous that the Pangong Tso disengagement provided “a good basis” for resolving pending problems and decided to take forward the military dialogue to stabilise the ground situation in eastern Ladakh. China on Thursday said it was in contact with India to hold the 11th meeting of military commanders to resolve the tension along the LAC.Responding to a question on the meeting, the Chinese foreign ministry blamed India for the “situation” at the border but denied that the talks have been delayed though the 10th round was nearly seven weeks ago.“China and India are in communication for holding the 11th round of talks. There is no delayed meeting as you cited,” ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian said at the briefing on Thursday in response to a question.“I have no information about the upcoming talks,” he said, responding to a related question.“I want to stress that the merits of the situation at (the) India- China border are very clear and the responsibility does not rest with the Chinese side,” he said.“We hope Indian side will work with China to follow through the important consensus of our two leaders, abide by relevant agreements and treaties to de-escalate the tension at the border,” Zhao added.To a question on whether China will consider India’s proposal of restoring the status quo of April 2020, Zhao said: “For the proposal you mentioned I believe it should be talked in the meetings and I already made clear my position on the border issue just now.”The two neighbours have been locked in a standoff since May last year after Chinese troops impeded patrols by Indian forces. A brutal clash at Galwan Valley last June – which left 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops dead and was the first incident on the LAC involving fatalities since 1975 – took bilateral ties to an all-time low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-hold-11th-round-of-talks-101617924102715.html
09-04-2021||India||‘Was in wrong place at wrong time,’ says Deep Sidhu on R-Day violence||Actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, accused of inciting violence during the tractor rally by farmers on Republic Day, told a Delhi court on Thursday he did not incite the crowd at Red Fort that led to the hoisting of a religious flag at the historical monument and that he was merely exercising his “fundamental right” to protest.Additional sessions judge Nilofer Abida Parveen was informed by advocate Abhishek Gupta, Sidhu’s lawyer, that his client is not associated with any of the farm unions that are protesting against the three new agriculture laws and that the actor just happened to be at the “wrong place at the wrong time”. Gupta added that Sidhu was being made a “scapegoat” in the case that has become a “media trial”.“Right to protest is a fundamental right, that’s why I was there. Neither I indulged in violence, nor did I urge anyone to indulge in the violence,” Sidhu said in his submission to the court. Countering his statement, the public prosecutor for Delhi Police said fundamental rights do not mean that one can harm police officials.Sidhu was arrested by Delhi Police on February 9 for his alleged involvement in the January 26 violence.Gupta said Sidhu should be granted relief on grounds of parity as the other accused in the case had been granted bail. The prosecution opposed the bail application.“Hundreds of policemen were injured. Swords, sticks, etc, were used. Protesters tried to crush policemen under tractors. All this started only after hoisting of Nishan Sahib (flag) at the Red Fort, which the accused had instigated... In the name to fundamental rights they created violence,” the public prosecutor said.“He [Sidhu] was even helping the police, he hasn’t been a part of violence. Only people who have indulged in violence can be prosecuted. Mere presence does not make him a part of unlawful assembly... He is being made a scapegoat as he is a known face,” Gupta told the court.“FIR says that people broke the gates and climbed the rampart at 12.30pm. He reached there after 2pm,” the lawyer submitted. The court adjourned the matter for Monday and asked police for transcripts of Sidhu’s speeches.With inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/was-in-wrong-place-at-wrong-time-says-deep-sidhu-on-r-day-violence-101617917351170.html
09-04-2021||India||Night curfew clamped in 8 J&K districts||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Thursday ordered night curfew in the urban areas of eight districts, including Jammu and Srinagar, to check the spread of the soaring coronavirus cases.The night curfew will come into effect from Friday, Sinha said. In a tweet, Sinha said, “Directed the divisional administration to impose corona curfew from 10pm to 6am in the urban areas of eight districts affected by the recent Covid spike.”These districts are Jammu, Udhampur, Kathua, Srinagar, Baramulla, Budgam, Anantnag and Kupwara, it said.The curfew will be in force in the municipal limits of the urban local bodies of these districts. Reasi district will be under close observation for any possible spikes in cases, it added. 835 Covid cases in J&KThe decision comes as J&K recorded 835 new Covid cases on Thursday, taking the UT’s case tally to 1,35,662, health officials said.The UT also recorded another fresh fatality in Kashmir taking the death toll to 2,019. Of the new cases, 555 are from Kashmir while 280 are from Jammu. Of the day’s cases, 163 are travellers.Officials said with 349 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new cases, followed by 148 in Jammu, 74 in Baramulla, 47 in Reasi and 35 in Udhampur. Nine of 20 districts reported single-digit cases. Ahead of V-P Naidu’s visit to IIM Jammu, 19 test positiveA day before vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu is slated to attend the convocation at the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Jammu, 19 people, including staff and students, tested positive for Covid on Thursday. “As many as 180 samples were sent for testing on Wednesday, of which 19 samples came out positive. Of the 19, two were students and the rest were faculty members,” said health officials. “Those who tested positive were not part of the convocation scheduled to take place here at Convention Centre, Canal Road on Friday,” said the institute’s spokesperson. Similarly, 10 more people, including some students tested positive at the Government Gandhi Memorial Science College , raising the number of infected to 40. The institution has been shut since Wednesday. Twenty-three students and seven staff members had tested positive as part of a special drive in the college on Wednesday, prompting the management to close the institute till Monday to allow sanitisation of the building along with the hostel premises. Naidu will address the third and fourth annual convocation of the IIM. Union minister Jitendra Singh and Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha will be the guests of honour for the event. In the last three days, 95 people including 82 Vaishno Devi pilgrims have tested Covid positive in Reasi district. “Out 95 people, 82 were Vaishno Devi pilgrims. They were tested at the Katra Railway Station,” said a health official. However, the pilgrimage remains on. Himachal logs 622 casesHimachal Pradesh on Thursday recorded 622 fresh Covid-19 infections taking the state’s case count to 67,512 while death toll mounted to 1,083 after six patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 109 were reported in Kangra, 87 in Shimla, 83 in Una, 68 in Hamirpur, 56 each in Mandi and Sirmaur, 40 in Kullu, 23 in Bilaspur, 17 in Chamba and one in Kinnaur. Active cases have shot up to 4,514.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-clamped-in-8-jkdistricts-101617909648512.html
09-04-2021||India||Covid-19 cases in Andhra, Telangana breach 2,000 daily mark with jump in infections||For the first time this year, the number of Covid-19 cases in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh crossed the 2,000-mark on Thursday, with both the Telugu states reporting a 100 per cent jump in the infections over a period of one week. In Telangana which reported 965 positive cases for Covid-19 on April 1, the number shot up to 2055 cases by Wednesday night, according to a bulletin released by the state medical and health department on Thursday morning. The number of deaths rose from five to seven in a span of one week. In Andhra Pradesh, the number of Covid-19 positive cases, which was 1,271 on April 1 shot up to 2,558 on Thursday morning. The number of deaths has been steadily increasing steadily from three on April 1 to 11 on April 7, but it came down to six on Thursday. While ruling out fresh restrictions in the state despite a steady rise in the Covid-19 infections across the state, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed the authorities to step up tracing, testing and treatment of the patients. He directed that all the 66 Covid-19 hospitals be equipped with all facilities in the event of a surge in the number of cases. He instructed that the private hospitals should not collect exorbitant fees from patients for treatment and there should be no scarcity of beds, oxygen units and ventilators. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams announced suspension of Sarva Darshanam (free darshan for common pilgrims) in the Tirumala temple with effect from April 12 on the lines of Shirdi temple in Maharashtra, in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases across the country in the recent times. “Pilgrims who obtained darshan tokens till April 11 evening only would be allowed, after which the queue lines would be closed,” the TTD said in a statement. However, the darshan for pilgrims in the ₹300 paid slots would continue.The TTD said the above decision was taken keeping in view the safety of devotees and any resumption of tokens in future would be formally announced. Another famous temple of Andhra Pradesh – Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Swamy temple in Srisailam also reported a sudden spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases. According to a temple official, as many as 31 people in the temple administration, tested positive for Covid-19. In Hyderabad, the capital of Telangana, the merchants’ association in Begum Bazar, one of the busiest markets in the city, announced closure of shops in the evening hours with effect from Friday. In a statement, the Hyderabad Merchants Association said several traders were infected with Covid-19 in the last few days and accordingly, it was decided to keep the shops open only between 9 am and 5 pm, as a precautionary measure. “We also told traders not to open shops if they develop symptoms,” said association president, Laxminarayan Rathi, adding that all the shop keepers were asked to practise social distancing without failure and ensure the customers also practised the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-cases-in-andhra-telangana-breach-2-000-daily-mark-with-jump-in-infections-101617909408447.html
09-04-2021||India||Experts see rashes, allergies in Covid surge||BengaluruThe increasing cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Bengaluru have also shown a higher number of people with relatively newer symptoms such as rashes, allergies, extreme fatigue and even eye infections, experts and medical practitioners said.At least two medical practitioners and members of Karnataka’s technical advisory committee (TAC) on Covid-19 said that newer symptoms, which were not seen last year, were being reported among patients in the ongoing second wave in Karnataka and its capital, Bengaluru.“There is more severity and symptoms are also a little different this time. People are coming with allergies, rashes, fever with rashes, conjunctivitis, eye infection among others,” said Dr CN Manjunath, director of the Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research.He added that although diarrhoea was one of the symptoms last year as well, it has become a strong indicator of the infection in the second wave. He also listed symptoms such as abdominal pain, even vomiting.The symptoms may be on account of mutant strains of the virus, which may be also driving the surge in cases in the city, experts said -- though there isn’t enough genomic evidence to suggest that this is the case anywhere in India. Still, experts believe that much of the surge in Maharashtra is likely being caused by mutant versions of the virus. Bengaluru has seen an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases as people continue to move around freely without wearing masks, following social distancing or any other safety protocols.Bengaluru has been averaging over 3,000 cases for the past week and reported nearly 5,000 new Covid-19 infections on Wednesday, indicating the rapid pace of the spread. Bengaluru’s case load is reaching the levels of Delhi and it is among the top 10 worst impacted cities in the country.Experts said the second wave in Bengaluru could go on for another three more months before it starts to subside, if the experience in Europe and other countries is anything to go by. The vaccination drive has helped reduce the severity of cases among the pool that have been inoculated, but challenges remain in the younger population that may have undiagnosed comorbidities, said experts. The senior population has remained largely indoors since the outbreak of Covid-19 last year, but the working age-groups, between 18 and 45, continue to be at risk, they added.“A large number of elderly people with comorbidities have already got infected. Some of them died and many of them recovered. So, the susceptible pool in the community is now the younger age group. We know that the younger people withstand the virus better and mount a better response,” Dr V Ravi, former head of the neurovirology department at NIMHANS and member of Karnataka’s TAC on Covid-19, said.He, however, added that the younger people were showing newer symptoms like extreme fatigue and diarrhoea.“All mutations have not translated into different clinical phenotypes,” Ravi said, adding that there was absolute evidence of mutation only for UK, Brazilian and South African variants.Karnataka has 29 persons with the UK strain and three with the South African strain, according to government data. A March 2021 study by the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) Bengaluru said that the SARS-CoV-2 virus was mutating at a faster rate in Bengaluru than in the rest of the country. The study found 27 mutations in three isolates of SARS-CoV-2 with over 11 mutations per sample, while the national average is 8.4 and the global average is 7.3.A study by Hyderabad’s CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, has found around 7,684 mutations of SARS-CoV-2 in India.The study has been published in the Journal of Proteome Research.In Bengaluru, the severity of the cases has gone up and the same has been acknowledged by health authorities.“Mortality among young, mid-age groups is a cause for concern,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s health, family welfare and medical education minister said on Tuesday.Of the 4,719 Covid-19 related deaths reported in Bengaluru so far, over 800 were between the ages of 19 and 50, according to government data.There is an average of 11-19% of those infected who have been shifted to hospitals or Covid care centres in Bengaluru, according to data by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-see-rashes-allergies-in-covid-surge-101617908627854.html
09-04-2021||India||Over 131,000 new Covid cases logged in India, active cases near 1 million again||India on Thursday reported 131,830 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the third day in a row that the country has set yet another record for single-day infections, as the second wave of the viral outbreak continued a relentless expansion far beyond anything seen during the previous wave of the disease.The number of cases recorded on Thursday was a sharp increase from the 126,260 new infections reported even a day earlier, and represents a surge that has been steadily growing for nearly two months now. Deaths also continued to rise, with 802 new fatalities reported in a span of 24 hours, according to HT’s dashboard.The seven-day average of cases across India has touched 107,963, the highest for any country in the world currently, and has comfortably surpassed the first wave in the country when this number peaked at 96,317 for the week ending September 16.Daily infections, which surpassed 100,000 for the first time this Monday, have now exceeded that mark four times in the past five days. The spike, much faster than last year’s first wave, has caught the authorities by surprise. The government blames the resurgence mainly on crowding and a reluctance to wear masks as shops and offices have reopened.Meanwhile, in yet another alarming trend, the number of active cases in the country is again nearing the million mark. After Thursday’s tally, there are 979,384 active cases in the country. Active cases – those Covid-19 patients still under treatment – is a crucial metric because it directly reflects the pressure on the health care system for any region. It is calculated by subtracting the number of recovered patients and deaths from the total tally. During the peak of the first wave, the number of active cases in India crossed the million-mark in September, but started dropping since. This receding trend, however, reversed in February with the start of India’s second Covid wave.At least 10 states – Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Kerala and Punjab – have shown a massive rise in the daily Covid-19 cases from the middle of February, according to data. There were 56,286 new infections in Maharashtra, which continued to dominate the national figures, accounting for 43% of all infections reported in the country on Thursday. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 10,652 while Uttar Pradesh reported 8,474 new cases. Delhi was on the fourth spot with 7,437 new cases on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-131k-new-cases-logged-active-cases-near-1mn-again-101617908087637.html
09-04-2021||India||At meeting with PM Modi, CMs share vaccination concerns||Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray urged Centre to dispatch more doses and Punjab’s Amarinder Singh sought greater flexibility in deciding eligibility, highlighting issues relating to the coronavirus vaccination during their meeting on Thursday with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The meeting was held against the backdrop of an unrelenting build-up of a second wave of infections. The spike has stressed resources in several hard-hit states and in recent days also frayed their relationship with the Union government, with a war of words breaking out this week over vaccine supply.“We aim to vaccinate 17.70 million people and for this we need 4million vaccines weekly. At this moment, we are facing shortage due to which many centres have shut. We are going to get 1.7 million vaccines on April 15 but till then our vaccination drive will be interrupted,” a Maharashtra government official cited the CM as saying.Thackeray also asked the Centre to source oxygen cylinders and ventilators from other regions for Maharashtra.The meeting was attended by chief ministers of all states and union territories, except Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee, who was represented instead by the chief secretary. All chief ministers did not speak at the meeting.Singh sent a letter to the PM immediately after the video conference, asking the central government to come up with a locally flexible vaccination strategy that could allow all adults in a high prevalence area to be immunised, as well as those with liver and kidney diseases under the age of 45 to become eligible.“The CM also assured the PM during the meeting of all-out efforts by the state government and in his letter stressed on the fact that Punjab’s wave of infections was being dominated by the UK variant, which has been found in a large number of samples,” an official said, asking not to be named.Singh urged the Union government to share vaccine shipment timelines in advance and asked that genome surveillance to detect the spread of variants be accelerated.Maharashtra and Punjab are among a clutch of several states, mostly under non-BJP governments, that have raised concerns of vaccine shortage or sought permission to give doses to people under the age of 45 – which the current central government vaccination policy prohibits at present.The Prime Minister defended the vaccination strategy, saying it was at par with other countries, and said the centre needs to prioritise vaccines depending on affected areas, while suggesting states to reduce wastage of doses for better vaccination management.Singh told the PM that his administration believes the spread in Punjab has primarily been driven by a public fatigue in following Covid-appropriate behaviour, large political, social and religious gatherings, and the opening of schools and colleges.In the case of Maharashtra, Thackeray told the PM the spike appeared to have been driven by recent rural elections and rise in weddings, as well as a mutant variant. “From the last one and half years, we have been fighting this virus under your leadership. We had even succeeded in curbing this virus as new cases fell to 2,500-3,000 level. However the consequent Gram Panchayat elections and rush in weddings contributed to increase in number of cases. We saw whole families getting infected in parts of Vidarbha. Despite all precautions, Maharashtra had to bear the brunt,” said Thackeray.The chief minister of Uttarakhand, where concerns of the outbreak being fanned further is high due to the Kumbh Mela, held a review with state officials after the PM’s meeting and asked for RT-PCR testing as well as vaccinations to be increased in frequency.Chief ministers of several other states too held meetings with their administration officials following the PM’s video conference and asked for preparations to be made for the April 11-14 “vaccination festival”. Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy set a target for at least 600,000 people to get doses every day in the period, while Telangana’s K Chandrasekhar Rao asked authorities concerned to ensure all frontline workers are vaccinated within the next week.Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh and Goa’s Pramod Sawant too decided to mobilise the state machinery for the April 11-14 campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-meeting-with-pm-cms-share-vaccination-concerns-101617908028222.html
09-04-2021||India||Centre trying to politicise Covid-19 vaccination drive: States||States have reacted sharply to the Centre’s claim of below par vaccination in Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Delhi saying the Centre is trying to politicize Covid vaccination in opposition ruled states with Chhattisgarh health minister T S Singhdeo terming this disappointing and unfortunate.Health minister Harsh Vardhan, in a Wednesday letter, flagged low vaccination of eligible beneficaries saying the performance of these states on vaccination was below national average and they were raising Covid vaccine shortage issues to “hide” their vaccination failure and spreading panic among people by demanding vaccination of all without inoculating enough eligible beneficiaries.Following the minister’s letter, union additional health secretary Manohar Agnani said that the performance of these states and UT were below the national average of 85.8% of health care workers vaccinated and needed improvement. Agnani urged these states to undertake immediate necessary corrective actions towards improving the performance of Covid-19 vaccination drive in their regions.Reacting to the two letters claiming that Maharashtra was not able to use the vaccines made available, state health minister Rajesh Tope said his government has told the Centre that it needs 4 million vaccine doses every week as the state seeks to accelerate its vaccine drive, but that the Centre has actually reduced the allocation.“How can a state that has the most number of Covid cases in the country get fewer vaccine doses than Gujarat? Tope asked. Gujarat’s population is half of Maharashtra, their active cases is 17,000. Still Gujarat got 10 million vaccine doses and we got 14 million, he said, claiming Bharatiya Janata Party ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana have got higher vaccine doses than Maharashtra.Trying to strike a balance, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said, the Central government is cooperating with the state government in these tough times. “We all have to come together and fight this menace. The State and Centre both have to come together and find out a way to fight the pandemic.”Singhdeo said he was ‘disappointed’ by Union minister Harsh Vardhan’s statement targeting Chhattisgarh for “incited vaccine hesitancy”.“When we talked on the day he was having meeting with the health ministers, the union minister had said that we are working as a team…his statement does not give me the sense of being part of the same team,” Singhdeo said.“We shared everything – figures, targets, deficiencies at the meeting only and after sharing that if the statement like this comes then it is very disappointing,” said Singhdeo.He was reacting to Harsh Vardhan’s statement that regular comments by leaders from Chhattisgarh on vaccination are intended to spread misinformation and panic and he would urge the state to focus its energies on ramping up health infrastructure rather than on petty politicking.Delhi health minister, Satyendar Jain took a dig at the union health ministry saying the low vaccination rate among healthcare workers in Delhi is because of low turnout at the four Centre-run hospitals in Delhi.“The Centre said that vaccination is less among health care workers in Delhi, but even we can say that it is because the Central government hospitals saw less vaccination. Only 30 or 40% people in Central government hospitals (where Covaxin was provdied) have been immunised. In Delhi government hospitals, 75% have been immunized,” he said.Hesitancy for the vaccine was high in January, owing to the lack of phase III efficacy data for Covaxin and the issue was highlighted by resident doctors from Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, he said.He added that the fight against coronavirus is not a Centre versus state issue and should not be politicised. “I would say our common fight is against the coronavirus pandemic, and it is not a state vs Centre thing. So, we should not politicise the issue, and fight it together.”“The vaccination drive is going well in Delhi; we have received some vials yesterday. The vaccination stock is available for four to five days with us. We will be receiving it continuously as per our demand.”The Centre’s letter mentioned that the coverage among frontline workers and those above the age of 45 was higher in Delhi than the national average. Till Wednesday evening, 73.24% of the registered frontline workers received their first dose as against a national average of 71.1%. And, 40.98% received their second dose as against the national average of 29.97%. The coverage among those above the age of 45 years stands at 18.66% in Delhi as against the national average of 16.71%, said Delhi government officials, quoting the letter.Punjab health minister Balbir Sidhu said that Vardhan’s statements “may demoralise health and frontline workers”. “We all should stay united in this fight and everyone is trying to give its best to end the pandemic. Statements about pin-pointing states by alleging that they are not doing enough, may demoralise the health and frontline workers who are giving their best in these tough times,” said Sidhu, adding that he will write a letter to the Union health minister in this regard on Friday.“We have been demanding vaccination for working population below 45 also as they are the one who are becoming more infectious as they have to go out for jobs and other purposes. But Centre is silent on the issue. We have taken up the issue with PM this evening as well,” Sidhu said.Jharkhand Health Minister Banna Gupta on Thursday reiterated the state’s demand for vaccines saying they are left with stock for a couple of days. “We have stock for the next 1-2 days. We have made a request to the Union Health Minister and I am hopeful that he will provide the vaccines,” he said. So far, six states have informed the Centre about shortage of vaccines leading to slowing down of vaccinations in the state.(With inputs from states bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-trying-to-politicise-drive-states-101617908027712.html
09-04-2021||India||As Covid-19 cases rise in India, more states impose curbs||Four more states on Thursday imposed restrictions on movement of people, activities, the nature of establishments that can be open (and the duration for which they can be), joining several other regions that have been forced to reintroduce lockdown-like curbs with the second wave of the coronavirus disease raging across the country.While Madhya Pradesh announced a weekend lockdown in all urban areas and a complete lockdown in five districts till April 17, Karnataka announced night curfew in six cities including capital Bengaluru and Mysuru even as Tamil Nadu banned on all religious gatherings from April 10 till April 30 and Uttar Pradesh government clamped night curfews in some districts of the state.There were also reports of migrant workers in some states rushing to their home towns fearing a complete lockdown such as the one imposed by the central government last year, although the Prime Minister made it clear in a meeting with chief ministers on Thursday that a hard lockdown wasn’t even being considered.Through the week, weekend lockdowns have been imposed in parts of Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, while Delhi, Punjab, major cities in Gujarat and urban areas of Rajasthan have announced night curfews. Almost all states have limited the capacity of restaurants and bars and banned public events.On Thursday, the Madhya Pradesh home department imposed a complete lockdown in five districts. In Chhindwara, the lockdown will come into effect from 6pm on Thursday and remain in force till 6am on April 16; in Betul, Khargone, Katni and Ratlam, the restrictions will be from 6pm to 6am between April 9 and April 17. Madhya Pradesh, which reported 4,324 new cases on Thursday, has already seen its case rate soar to levels far beyond the first wave.In Tamil Nadu, two days after voting was held for the assembly elections, chief secretary Rajeev Ranjan banned all religious gatherings and public celebrations for festivals from April 10. The government also prohibited retail sales in Chennai’s Koyambedu vegetable market, which emerged as a Covid-19 hot spot during the first wave of infections last year.To be sure, the restrictions in the state come after parties across the political spectrum flouted all Covid-safety protocols with impunity with local health departments, the Union health ministry, and the Election Commission all turning a blind eye.The chief secretary also reduced the occupancy at eateries by half and directed that all business established be shut by 11pm. In addition to these social restrictions, the state has also ordered that no passengers will be allowed to travel standing in buses. There were 4,276 new cases in Tamil Nadu on Thursday, the highest single-day increase in the state in 173 days.In Tripura, a day after chief minister Biplab Deb tested positive, the government closed all public gyms and recreation centres located in government buildings. Gatherings for sports events, government programmes in pubic halls and biometric attendance have also been suspended, officials said on Thursday.The Uttar Pradesh government, meanwhile, has imposed a night curfew in Noida. On Thursday, the state set a an all-time record for the most number of new infections reported in the state in a single day – 8,474. The state, along with Odisha and Maharashtra has also restricted the number of people visiting government offices.As reports of migrant workers leaving Gujarat’s most severely affected districts, Surat and Ahmedabad, emerged, the state government clarified that the numbers of those returning to their home states were not high. Gujarat is also among the worst-hit regions in the country, and like MP, the seven-day average of infections in the state has surpassed first wave records.“There are no formal reports which suggest that a large number of migrants are leaving. However, we have asked district authorities to ensure that workers do not face any trouble,” news agency PTI quoted state additional chief secretary, labour and employment, Vipul Mittra as saying.In Ahmedabad, a number of migrant workers, mostly hailing from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, have been rushing to the city’s Kalupur railway station, said Yogesh Mishra, member of the Zonal Rail Users Consultative Committee.The migrants are apprehensive that they will be stranded or forced to travel on foot if a lockdown is imposed, Mishra said. The waiting list for reserved seats in trains has also increased, he added. The Gujarat high court earlier this week suggested the imposition of a lockdown after a steep rise in cases.Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, however, has ruled out a lockdown in the state, adding that celebrations for the Assamese New Year, Rongali Bihu, next week will be held with precautions.“Last year, we were not able to celebrate Bihu due to Covid-19. It affected lot of people associated with the celebrations. This year, we will hold celebrations and some SOPs (standard operating procedures) will be introduced,” he said.Addressing mediapersons, Sarma said that the state will increase the number of tests to 100,000 daily from the about 50,000 tests on Thursday.“We have decided to increase testing to around 100,000 daily in the next few days. Due to this we are likely to see a rise in number of positive cases,” he said.On Wednesday, Assam recorded 195 new cases in the highest single day-spike this year belying Sarma’s recent claim that “there was no Covid” in the state in a TV interview where he was explaining why masks were redundant in Assam . Of these, 104 new cases were recorded in state capital Guwahati. At present there are 847 active Covid-19 cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-cases-rise-more-states-impose-curbs-101617907967713.html
09-04-2021||India||Centre says 43 million Covid vaccine doses in stock after shortage alarm||Several states continued to warn that they would run out of coronavirus vaccines in the next few days, with some complaining that they were forced to shut inoculation centres on Thursday, prompting Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to reiterate that there was no shortage and the country has more than 43 million doses in stock or in the pipeline.To be sure, the problem seems to be more a result of last-mile allocation of vaccines within states, since, at the aggregate level, all of them have at least as many doses as they administer in a couple of days.States including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Jharkhand, complained that they are facing a shortage of vaccines, while reports emerged from several other states that vaccine centres were shutting early or turning people away due to supplies running out. Officials in states such as Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Assam said they only had supplies for the next few days would be forced to close some vaccination centres if supplies are not replenished.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan called for “an end to fear mongering”, and said that more than 43 million doses were either in stock or nearing delivery to states. With his post, he shared a chart that showed that 91 million doses had been administered, 24 million were in stock and another 19 million were in the pipeline.“There is no vaccine shortage; the central government has been reiterating time and again. We shared the latest data on supplies, consumption and doses in pipeline publicly...,” he said.The number of doses consumed also include those that were wasted, which in effect means of the 43 million doses a percentage will go to waste.According to the Union health ministry data shared last month, India’s national average for Covid-19 vaccine wastage is around 6.5%. Even though 6.5% wastage is well within the acceptable limits of 10%, the centre asked states to keep it under 1% so that the supplies are used optimally.“Let’s put an end to fear mongering now!” Vardhan said on Twitter. “Where does question of shortages arise? We’re continuously monitoring and enhancing supply.”Government officials compared the noise regarding vaccine shortages to similar complaints by some states regarding medical oxygen supply last year. Speaking on condition of anonymity, they said that the issue is not that states do not have adequate supply, but that a problem has been created due to improper distribution of supplies and a matter of sending the right number of doses to the right places.“Nationally we have adequate supply, but within the state re-appropriation may have to be done from one consignee point or cold chain point to another,” said a senior central government official. “At any given moment of time, states are given supply for four to eight days based on their average daily consumption. Either on the third-fourth day, or the seventh-eighth day of their request, they are sent fresh supplies (replenishment),” the official added.The 19 million referred by the health minister is the replenishment.A majority of Covid vaccination centres have also been unable to plan ahead for walk-ins which have ended up being a high proportion of their issued doses, other officials said. “While they know how many people register before coming in, some vaccination centres end up underestimating the number of walk-ins, thus creating an artificial shortage, which becomes a challenge for them to anticipate in advance,” officials from one of the states explained.“We’re continuously monitoring and enhancing supply [of vaccines]. Hue and cry by certain states about partisanship by the Union government is just a farce, [and is] an attempt to hide their own incompetence. Maharashtra and Rajasthan are two of the top three states based on allocation of vaccine doses. Both are non-BJP governed states,” Harsh Vardhan said.Maharashtra, the country’s worst-hit state, has only two days worth of vaccines in stock, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday. “Vaccination has stopped in districts like Satara, Sangli and Panvel. There are many more districts where it has stopped,” he said. “I have just been informed that the Centre increased Covid-19 vaccine doses from 700,000 to 1,700,000. Even this is less because we need 40,000,000 vaccine doses in a week and 1,700,000 doses are not enough,” he said. His reference is to the 1.7 million doses in the pipeline for Maharashtra.Tope alleged that other states such as Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, etc were getting “more vaccines” when seen in the context of their population and Covid-19 cases.In Delhi, Union minister Prakash Javadekar responded that 500,000 doses were wasted in Maharashtra due to lack of planning by the state government. He added he has information that 2.3 million doses of the vaccines are available with the Maharashtra government. “...which is a stock for five to six days. Now, to distribute in villages and districts is the responsibility of the state government,” Javadekar said.Officials in at least five states – Jharkhand, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and West Bengal – separately said that their vaccine stock would only last only another day or two. A majority of them said they have asked for more shots of the vaccine, and expect to receive them soon. In a sixth state, Assam, officials said they are mulling closing down some vaccination centres, especially in rural areas, if fresh stocks of vaccines don’t reach the state soon.In Jharkhand, health minister Banna Gupta said the state only has stock a “few days, and that he has asked Centre for a million doses that he expects to receive in a day or two.”The Centre’s strategy has always been to continuously replenish vaccines -- a measure aimed at ensuring equitable allotment and freshness of stock.Kuldeep Singh Martoliya, Uttarakhand’s state’s nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination, said, “We are moving vaccines from other districts to districts where shortage is being witnessed. But within a day or two, they won’t have any vaccines left.”Meanwhile, reports have come from across the country on people are being turned away from vaccination centres due to doses running out.Lok Sabha MP and Nationalist Congress Party leader Supriya Sule on Wednesday alleged that 109 vaccination centres were shut in Pune on Thursday due to a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines. The Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in Maharashtra similarly stopped its vaccination drive due to the shortage of vaccines. Dr Anand Gosavi, medical officer of PCMC said, “We have suspended the vaccination drive for a few days due to the shortage of vaccine. We now have stock for second doses. Once we get the vaccine stock again, we shall resume our drive.”The other reason leading to artificial shortages could be that certain states are hoarding vaccine doses to administer the second dose later. “States have been assured time and again that there was no shortage of vaccine supplies, and they must not hoard doses for the second shot,” said a government official aware of the matter.In Odisha, health minister Naba Kisore Das said they have shut half the state’s 1,400 vaccination centres and that if the states do not receive vaccines within the next two days then they may have to temporarily halt the vaccination drive.Bihar was also forced to close down some session sites, and refuse vaccines to many at private centres, officials said. Darbhanga civil surgeon Dr Sanjiva Kumar Sinha said: “We will have to stop the vaccination programme in the district on Friday due to shortage of vaccines. If we get the stock by Friday evening, we will resume the vaccination drive from Saturday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-says-43mn-doses-in-stock-after-shortage-alarm-101617907367614.html
09-04-2021||India||Not in favour of appointment of ad hoc judges, Centre tells Supreme Court||The Centre on Thursday told the Supreme Court that it was not in favour of appointing ad hoc judges in high courts until recommendations for all regular appointments were not made by chief justices of the courts concerned.As on April 1, all 25 high courts in the country had a vacancy of 411 judges -- more than a third of the total positions. There were only 669 judges out of the total sanctioned strength of 1,080. Moreover, there have been no recommendations from high courts for 214 of the 411 vacancies, people familiar with the development said.The bench was hearing a public interest litigation by NGO Lok Prahari that sought appointment of ad hoc judges to tackle the ever-mounting pendency of cases in the high courts.Conveying its views before a bench headed by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, the government said that the constitutional provision regarding appointment of ad hoc judges should be resorted to only after all the sanctioned vacancies in the 25 high courts are filled.“The pendency of cases is alarming and some urgent steps are required. The stand of the Union is not adversarial. However, the stand is that let all recommendations be made, vacancies be filled up and then provision under Article 224 A (regarding ad hoc judges) should be used,” additional solicitor general (ASG) R S Suri, appearing for the government, told the bench which included justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant.“If all vacancies are filled up, there may not be a need at all to have ad hoc judges. That’s the wisdom of the government. There should be no incentives to appoint ad hoc judges in lieu of making regular appointments. Chief justices of high courts should first make recommendations for filling up the sanctioned vacancies,” Suri added.At this, the top court clarified that the idea behind having temporary judges in the high courts emanated from the necessity of urgently dealing with the massive pendency of cases and that it could not be understood as a substitute for regular appointments.“Regular appointment will go on but ad hoc judges are there to help high courts in the interregnum till the process of regular appointment is not over… on principle, ad hoc judges can’t be in lieu of regular appointments and that’s why we want to keep the Supreme Court collegium in the loop on these temporary appointments. None of us are of the view that this can be used in lieu of making regular appointments,” the bench said.It, however, added that certain guidelines will have to be laid down regarding the volume of pendency when ad hoc judges should be appointed in a particular high court and the procedure to be followed while making these appointments.The bench also asked senior advocate Arvind Datar, who represented the Orissa high court, to convene a meeting with the lawyers of the other high courts and suggest common points about the way forward.“Convene a conference and collate your points and give us a joint perspective on when the high court chief justices should initiate the process, for how long the tenure of ad hoc judges should be and how many judges should be appointed. Also, tell us about the process of appointment,” the bench told Datar, and adjourned the matter to April 15.More than 40 lakh cases are pending before the high courts, according to the National Judicial Data Grid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-in-favour-of-appointment-of-ad-hoc-judges-centre-tells-sc-101617906407523.html
09-04-2021||India||Court orders ASI panel to survey Gyanvapi mosque in Varanasi||A Varanasi court on Thursday ordered an archaeological survey of a centuries-old mosque complex abutting the famous Kashi Vishwanath temple, saying the exercise is required to decide on pleas that allege the mosque was built by Mughal emperors after partially demolishing a Hindu shrine.Civil judge (senior division) Ashutosh Tiwari ordered a five-member committee, comprising two Hindu, two Muslim members and an archaeological expert, to oversee the “comprehensive physical survey”. A court-appointed observer will chair this panel.The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will conduct the exercise at its expense without any media briefings, the judge ordered. The court fixed May 31 as the next date of hearing.“This court finds that survey by ASI alone can bring truth of the matter before this court. Irrespective of what surfaces, the survey by ASI may go on to help not only to the plaintiffs, but also to the defendants, if their version is indeed true,” the order read.Muslim parties opposed the decision and said they will approach the Allahabad high court.The decision came on a clutch of petitions that claimed that Mughal emperor Aurangzeb demolished a portion of the Kashi Vishwanath temple to build the Gyanvapi Masjid in the 17th century, and demanded that the land on which the mosque stands be restored to Hindu parties.The religious dispute – similar to the one in Ayodhya that was resolved in 2019– is decades old and first reached the courts in 1991, when local Hindu priests sought permission to worship in the mosque area. The hearing was later suspended by the Allahabad high court.But the case gained steam in December 2019 when Vijay Shankar Rastogi filed an application in the civil court as the next friend of the presiding deity of the temple, Swayambhu Jyotirling Bhagwan Vishweshwar. Rastogi demanded that the mosque area be surveyed. Rastogi claimed in his petition that Mughal rulers had demolished a part of the temple and illegally built a mosque. In law, a next friend is a representative of someone incapable of maintaining a suit directly.The petition came roughly a month after the Supreme Court paved the way for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, resolving a decades-old religious dispute at the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid site. “The survey will bring out facts that we have been saying for so long,” Rastogi said.Abhay Nath Yadav, who represented the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board, expressed his dissatisfaction and said he would challenge the order in the Allahabad high court. Anjuman Intezamia Masjid Committee, which runs the Gyanvapi Masjid, also opposed the decision. “I am dissatisfied with the decision and will challenge it in the court,” said committee’s joint secretary SM Yasin.The Gyanvapi mosque dispute, along with a similar row in Mathura, was a core part of the Hindutva agenda in the 1980s but largely petered out after 1991, when the then Narasimha Rao government passed a law freezing lawsuits to reclaim any place of worship after India was declared independent in 1947, except Ayodhya.In effect, this meant that seers and Hindu activists put movements in Mathura and Varanasi on the backburner and focused their energies on the Ram Janmabhoomi. But ground mobilisation picked up in 2019 after the Supreme Court favoured the Hindu parties in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit. Last month, the top court agreed to review the 1991 law, boosting the hopes of Hindu activists.The Sunni Central Waqf Board said that the case was barred under the 1991 law. “Even otherwise, we can say as per legal advice that the order of survey is questionable because technical evidence can only supplement certain foundational facts. No evidence has been produced before the court that suggests that there was a prior existing temple at the site of the mosque...this practice of mosques being ‘investigated’ by the ASI has to be stopped,” said said Zufar Ahmad Faruqi, chairman of the board.In its order, the court said it was unable to determine whether the mosque was built illegally after partially demolishing a Hindu shrine. It held that revenue department records – which showed that a mosque stood on the site – was not enough.The court said the five-member panel will find out if the mosque at the site was a superimposition, alteration or addition, and if a Hindu shrine ever existed before the mosque was built. During the survey, devotees shouldn’t be prevented from offering prayers and, if necessary, alternative places within the mosque premises should be provided. The work will be done under strict security and without media reporting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-orders-asi-panel-to-survey-gyanvapi-mosque-in-varanasi-101617906347502.html
09-04-2021||India||No names finalised as CJI holds collegium meet||Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde’s final push for the collegium to make its first recommendation of a judge to be appointed to the Supreme Court during his 14-month tenure has fallen short, making him perhaps the first CJI in the judicial history to earn this unsought distinction.The meeting on Thursday failed to finalise any name for appointment to the Supreme Court, in what was possibly the last such meet to be headed by Justice Bobde in his tenure, people familiar with the matter said.Justice Bobde will be the first CJI in the judicial history who will retire without making recommendation for a single appointment in the top court despite having a term of more than a year after the advent of the collegium system in 1990s. He retires on April 23.Even during an unprecedented standoff between the judiciary and the central government over the National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC) that aimed to redefine the appointment process, the then CJI, HL Dattu, made one appointment; of justice Amitava Roy in February 2015.On Thursday, the CJI had a brief meeting with the other members of the collegium, which includes justices NV Ramana, Rohinton F Nariman, Uday U Lalit and AM Khanwilkar. The meeting took place even as the notification for appointment of Justice Ramana as the next CJI had come through two days ago. The meeting was held as agreed upon by the five senior judges in their last meet on March 17.Some of the names of HC judges were briefly discussed in the meeting but the deliberation remained inconclusive, and no decision was taken on recommending any name to the central government for the elevation, the people cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-names-finalised-as-cji-holds-collegium-meet-101617906227474.html
09-04-2021||India||Supreme Court junks pleas against CBI probe in Maharashtra||The Supreme Court on Thursday cleared the decks for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into allegations of extortion against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, underscoring that “the nature of allegations and personas involved needs an inquiry by an independent agency”.Terming the investigation “a matter of public confidence”, the bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul dismissed petitions by Deshmukh and the Maharashtra government appealing against a Bombay high court order for a CBI probe passed on Monday.The bench, which also included justice Hemant Gupta, emphasised during the hearing that the probe by an agency from outside the state was imperative since the personalities involved were the home minister of a state and a former police commissioner (Param Bir Singh).“Will it not be a case of a CBI investigation when personas involved are home minister and a police commissioner? The two personas were closely working together till they fell apart. Both of them hold very important positions and that’s why an independent agency must inquire...it is not a case of a political or a business rivalry. It is a case between a very senior officer and a senior minister,” the bench told senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Kapil Sibal, who represented the state government and Deshmukh, respectively.The bench affirmed the high court order, which took note of accusations by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh that Deshmukh asked policemen, including suspended officer Sachin Vaze, to extort ₹100 crore from bars, restaurants, and other establishments. The allegations followed drama over police investigations into the discovery of an explosives-laden vehicle outside the residence of billionaire Mukesh Ambani, and the alleged murder of a man linked to the car. Vaze is the main accused in both cases according to the national Investigating Agency.The top court also took a critical view of the fact that the Mumbai Police did not register an FIR following Singh’s allegations and Deshmukh chose not to step down after a judicial inquiry was initiated under a retired high court judge.“Everything happened at the time when he (Deshmukh) was the home minister. The allegations were levelled when he was the home minister. He battled it out till the high court order was passed. He didn’t even resign after the judicial inquiry was ordered. He resigned only after the high court order. This shows that he was clinging to his office,” said the bench, rejecting an argument that there was no need for an outside agency to probe the matter now that Deshmukh has resigned.Deshmukh resigned on Monday, hours after the order by the high court asking CBI to conclude a preliminary inquiry within 15 days, making him the most high-profile casualty so far in a case that started with the discovery of the explosives and the death of Mansukh Hiran, the man linked to the car.On Thursday, Deshmukh’s lawyer Sibal questioned the propriety of the high court order, saying he would be very happy if the Supreme Court lays down a legal principle that a CBI probe should take place in every case involving allegations against high officials, even if these are unsubstantiated and based on hearsay.But the bench retorted: “We will also be very happy if we don’t come across a case where a police commissioner raises such allegations against a home minister...he was once your right hand and now he made these allegations. Let an independent agency look at it now. If you are clear, you are clear.”The Maharashtra government argued that it had withdrawn general consent to CBI to probe matters in the state, and the high court order would impact the “federal structure”.However, the judges remained unmoved: “There is no issue of federalism here. It is a particular episode and it doesn’t happen every day. So, there is no question of federal structure. They both have been heads of important institutions where things have gone seriously wrong.”The bench further rejected a request by Nationalist Congress Party leader Deshmukh and the Maharashtra government to hand over the probe to a special investigation team that could be picked by the top court. “You cannot pick and choose the agency that should probe,” it said.Responding to Sibal’s objection that his client (Deshmukh) was not even heard by the high court before the order was passed, the apex court said that there was no such requirement in law to hear Deshmukh at this stage since the order was only for a preliminary enquiry.Senior lawyer Mukul Rohatgi was present in the court to represent Singh but he was not required to argue since the bench passed its final order after hearing the counsel for Deshmukh and the Maharashtra government.CBI on Tuesday night registered a preliminary enquiry (PE) into the episode and examined Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil, one of the petitioners before the high court whose plea led to the order. On Thursday, it recorded the statements of Singh, ACP Sanjay Patil, and Vaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-junks-pleas-against-cbi-probe-in-maha-101617906047430.html
09-04-2021||India||Huge crowd expected at Jagan’s sister’s party launch amid Covid challenge||YS Sharmila, sister of Yuvajana Sramika Rythu (YSR) Congress party, or YSRCP, president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, will launch a new regional party at a big public meeting at Telangana’s Khammam on Friday, at a time when some states have banned mass gatherings including political rallies due to ta surge in Covid-19 cases across the country.The Sankalpa Sabha (meeting to take a resolve) at Pavillion Grounds is expected to draw at least 100,000 people and a procession of nearly 1,000 vehicles that will bring Sharmila and her followers from her Lotus Pond residence in Hyderabad’s Banjara Hills to the rally ground in Khammam.Former YSRCP leader Konda Raghava Reddy said permission for the rally was taken from Khammam police and all Covid-19 containment norms will be followed at the event.“We shall ensure that everybody wears a mask and maintains social distancing. We shall supply sanitiser to the crowd,” he said.A total of 2,055 fresh Covid-19 infections were reported in Telangana till late Wednesday evening, pushing the tally to over 318,000, while the death toll rose to 1,741 with seven more fatalities. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases (398), followed by Medchal Malkajgiri (214) and Rangareddy (174), a government bulletin said on Thursday. The state has 13,362 active cases and the case fatality rate was 0.54%, compared to 1.3% nationally.Reddy blamed Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leaders for trying to “jeopardise” the meeting by citing the coronavirus disease scare. “In fact, the number of Covid-19 cases in Khammam is very less. Yet, we shall take all precautions,” Reddy reiterated.Senior TRS leader from Khammam and legislative council member Balasani Lakshmi Narayana said there was no need for the TRS to create any hurdles for Sharmila's public meeting in Khammam on Friday. "We don't consider it as a big development, as Sharmila is no big force. Maybe, some people who wefre benefitted during her father YSR's regime might turn up at the meeting, but that will hardly have any impact on the state politics," Lakshmi Narayana said.Khammam town assistant commissioner of police (ACP) B Anjaneyulu said permission was granted for the rally on the condition that Covid-19 norms are strictly adhered to by the organisers. “We are not bothered about the turnout at the meeting; we have asked them to follow Covid-19 restrictions as per the government order. If there is any violation, we shall take stringent action,” the ACP said.Covid-19 containment guidelines issued by the Centre on March 23, effective from April 1 allow mass gatherings outside containment zones leaving the states to decide on restrictions locally depending upon the situation. It directs states to strictly enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour, including wearing masks, maintaining hygiene, and 6 feet distance in public places. States that are worst-hit by the second wave of Covid-19 have announced a slew of restrictions ranging from night curfew, local lockdowns, transport shutdown and a ban on mass events. Punjab is the first state to have banned political rallies to prevent the spread of the disease.Sharmila, who earlier announced her entry into Telangana politics, chose Khammam for the inaugural rally because of the huge support base for her father, former chief minister of combined Andhra Pradesh, late Y S Rajasekhar Reddy. Her brother’s YSRCP won a Lok Sabha seat and two assembly seats in Khammam in the 2014 general elections.Sharmila will announce the party’s name, unveil the party flag and spell out her party’s ideology at the meeting and explain her reasons for entering Telangana politics. She had earlier declared her intention to establish “Rajanna Rajyam” (regime of Rajasekhar Reddy) in the state.Her mother YS Vijayalakshmi will also attend the rally as a chief guest, according to her close associates. Vijayalakshmi, who became an MLA on a YSRCP ticket from Pulivendula after her husband’s death, has kept away from active politics after her loss in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections from Visakhapatnam.Political analyst S Ramakrishna said Sharmila would definitely make an impact in the Telangana politics, at least in some pockets of Khammam, Nalgonda, Ranga Reddy and Mahbubnagar districts. "There is a definitely some vacuum in Telangana politics at least on the opposition side, as there is no strong opposition for the TRS. People who are looking for alternative might vote for Sharmila party in some areas," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/huge-crowd-expected-at-jagan-s-sister-s-telangana-party-launch-amid-covid-challenge-101617883714494.html
09-04-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccines: Is there real shortage in Odisha, Maharashtra? | All you need to know||Contradictory claims over vaccine stock have been made since Maharashtra on Wednesday said that its vaccine stocks are depleting as it has massively increased the number of daily vaccinations. Several other states, including Odisha, claimed vaccination shortage. On Thursday, vaccination centres in Maharashtra, Odisha remained shut as those centres ran out of vaccines doses. The Centre has strongly refuted the claims.Here is all you need to know about the present claims of vaccine shortage:> The Centre has reiterated that there is no vaccine shortage in the country. And such a situation will not arise as vaccine distribution in being constantly monitored centrally.> The alarms the states are raising are pre-emptive. For example, Maharashtra on Wednesday said its vaccine stock would last for three days. On Thursday, health minister Rajesh Tope said that Centre has increased its one-time allocation from 7 lakhs to 17 lakhs doses, which presumably will tide over the situation.> Odisha has also written to the health ministry asking for additional allocation of vaccine doses as nearly 50 per cent of the centres were shut on Thursday as there were no vaccines. In Maharashtra too, several vaccine centres were temporarily shut on Thursday.> Vaccine shortage can also take place because of the percentage of wastage. If one vaccination centre records more wastage than another, its stock will naturally be depleted soon. So this shortage also depends on specific vaccination centre.> As all states are now increasing their daily vaccination capacity, their one-time allocation is getting over sooner than before. The Centre has warned states and Union territories against hoarding vaccines.> All states are not allocated an equal number of doses. The doses that the Centre allots to a state or a UT depends on its population, its pace of vaccination.> Supplying vaccines to states is an ongoing process and there is no one-time allocation of vaccines to states and UTs.> The issue became a political one as Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday issued a statement chastising Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh for "spreading panic among people".> Maharashtra has the maximum number of people vaccinated but the percentage of its healthcare workers, frontline workers, senior citizens inoculated against the virus is not impressive, the health ministry has accused. The Maharashtra government, on the other hand, accused the Centre of allotting fewer doses to Maharashtra in comparison with Gujarat.> India is administering Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Serum Institute of India's Covishield. Both are ramping up their production to meet the increased demand of vaccines in India after vaccination drive was opened to everyone above the age of 45.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccines-why-maharashtra-odisha-complaining-of-shortage-all-you-need-to-know-101617874637784.html
09-04-2021||India||As forest fires rage in Uttarakhand, spotlight back on colonial-era problem||Around 1,400 such incidents since January in Uttarakhand’s lower hills have put a spotlight on forest fires in the state, where 4,500-hectare forest area was damaged in infernos in 2016 alone. Experts blame pine tree plantation, encouraged by Britishers as part of their focus on commercial forestry, and inaction by successive governments for the failure in controlling the fires.Pine needles are highly combustible and are the main triggers for the fires. Experts say before the colonial period, forests were a major source of sustenance for the locals, who sourced fodder, fuelwood, timber, fruits and construction material from them and had high stakes in protecting and conserving them collectively. The Britishers declared forests as reserved in 1878 and locals suddenly realised their say in the management of their own jungles had been restricted with regulations imposed over community ownership of natural resources.The curtailment of forest rights, indiscriminate logging, especially in Kumaon and encouragement of plantation of trees with commercial value like pine during the colonial era contributed to the loss of a sense of ownership.Officials say the alienation continues and blamed it for the failure in getting community participation in dealing with forest fires. ₹1 or ₹2 per kg is paid for the collection of the needles and is hardly seen as an incentive. The state, which has over 71 % forest cover, annually generates nearly 2.3 million tonnes of pine needles.Forest burning as a form of protestBetween 1916 and 1921, people burnt huge chunks of forest land to register their protest against the Britishers for not allowing them to use forest resources. This was after years of fight for forest rights.Also Read | Uttarakhand HC takes suo moto cognisance of alarming forest firesEnvironmentalist Ajay Singh Rawat said in 1921, 2.5 lakh acres of forests were burnt in Kumaon in 317 incidents and earlier in 1916, as many as 111,000 hectares were burnt in Nanital, Amora and nearby areas by angry locals.Forest burning, as a form of protest, has largely ended. But people continue to resort to such a measure occasionally. In 2018, enraged over a leopard killing a seven-year-old child, villagers in Bageshwar burnt a nearby forest.Invasive pine trees, a major contributor to forest firesPine trees have also kept replacing the local trees, especially oak in Kumaon. The state has unsuccessfully tried to seek permission from the Centre to cut pine trees located at an elevation of above 1,000 metres. For the felling trees in an area of more than a km, permission is needed from the Centre under the Forest Conservation Act.In February, government think tank NITI Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar suggested the state should gradually replace the pine trees with local treesPine trees need less water, and due to this reason, they have been growing in abundance. They are mostly resistant to forest fires even as other trees are damaged in forest fires. Unlike water-retaining oak trees, pine trees make the land they grow on drought-prone. This is due to the absence of bacteria in its root system, which reduces the water-retaining capacity of the soil. The pine trees also retard the undergrowth, affect the food supply for herbivores, which has the potential to increase human-animal conflicts. Wherever pine grows, it does not allow oak trees to grow.Environmentalist Ajay Singh Rawat, who has written books on forests in Uttarakhand, said the failure of the authorities to take locals into confidence has made it difficult to get mass participation in dealing with fires. He added the British were not farsighted when it came to forest management as they did not have much experience in dealing with vast forests in their country.“They destroyed their forests during the industrial revolution. In India, they introduced the German school of forestry. In Germany, most of the forests were privately owned during the 19th century and in Uttarakhand, forests were transferred to state control in 1878.”Rawat said in Uttarakhand, as the economy was forest-based, people revolted against this new forest policy. “In 1916, Kumoan Association came into existence and it sensitised people against the British forest management. When this seething discontent reached its climax, people started burning forests to mark their resentment in 1921. After five years again, forest burning became part of the freedom struggle and peoples’ movement here.”Rawat said the negative impact of British forest policy and forest fires continued even after Independence. “After 1947, people did not burn forests, but they did not support the forest department in extinguishing forest fires.”Shekhar Pathak, a historian, said the Forest Conservation Act does not allow cutting trees in areas above 1,000 metres. “This has also contributed to the flourishing of pine in higher reaches. The people want to save their forests, but for that forest officials have to come forward to seek their participation in extinguishing forest fires, which need a collective effort of government and communities together.”Forest fires are generally reported from February to June. They usually peak in May and June. Over 90% of forest fires are man-made. The fires impact biodiversity, be it the microorganisms in the soil, wildlife, small insects, birds and people living in and around the forests, affecting the overall ecology of an area.The forest department has also failed to prevent the local practice burning forest floor vegetation from May to June for the growth of fresh grass for cattle.Since the formation of Uttarakhand in 2000, the state has lost over 49,000 hectares of forest land to forest fires. Since January 1, the state has reported 1,150 forest fire incidents that have damaged 1,854 hectares of land.Till Wednesday evening, over 75 forest fires raged and over 93 acres of forest land were damaged over the previous 24 hours. Of the 1,422 forest fires, the maximum (611) has been reported in Pauri-Garhwal, followed by 220 in Tehri, 179 in Almora and 180 in Bageshwar, according to the government.Maan Singh, the nodal officer for forest fires, said nearly 5,000 forest staff is engaged in firefighting. “All possible efforts are being made with the help of the locals to check these forest fires. The main challenge is that the state has over 71 % forest cover and forest fires are taking place in many areas this year due to deficient rainfall and rise in temperature.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-forest-fires-rage-in-uttarakhand-spotlight-back-on-colonial-era-problem-101617861513037.html
09-04-2021||India||Covid lapses at farm stir may hit 4 states||The ongoing farmer agitation on the outskirts of Delhi will continue despite a surge in Covid-19 cases in the country, senior leaders of the movement insisted, despite warnings from health experts and government officials that the thousands-strong protest could become a virus superspreader that impacts four states.Some leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) said they will ask farmers to adopt precautions such as masks but many farmers at the protest sites of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur expressed disbelief about Covid-19 protocols, said farmers have “higher immunity”, and termed the virus a “government conspiracy”.“Farmers have higher immunity. In our protests since last year, not a single Covid-19 case has happened. Why are only the farmers’ protests seen as a Covid risk? Why are questions never raised over mass election rallies being held in Bengal, Assam and Kerala?” asked Balbir Singh Rajewal, a key member of SKM.Other leaders of the movement also said that events such as a march to Parliament in May and blocking of highways in April will continue as scheduled. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Dakaunda general secretary Sukhdev Singh, however, said that social distancing will be implemented at protest sites.Hundreds of thousands of farmers have camped outside Delhi since November last year in protest against three controversial central laws that aim to liberalise the farm economy.When the agitation began, the first wave of Covid-19 cases was on the wane. But over the past two weeks, cases have surged across India, which is firmly in the grip of the second national wave, and experts warn that the farm gatherings – where hundreds of families live in cheek-by-jowl trawlers on the highway and where scores of young men and women huddle together – is potentially an unchecked virus hot spot. “Gatherings are increasing the chance of transmitting the infection and that’s why they need to be avoided,” said Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicine department at Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi.To be sure, the caution is not limited to farm events and extend to any high-density event such as religious events, or political rallies.Travelling back and forthThe farm protests are unique because they pose a health risk to four states of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh as cultivators from all these regions have flocked to the Capital’s borders over the past six months to support the agitation, and keep going back and forth from the protest site to their homes.“So far we have not encountered any Covid case at the protest site but we are concerned about those who visit Punjab, Haryana, and Delhi these days as they might pick up the virus from places outside the protest site,” said Swaiman Singh, a cardiologist from New Jersey who has been volunteering at the Tikri site. It was not clear, however, what level of testing was happening at the site, and whether asymptomatic cases may be going undetected.Of particular concern is Punjab, which has recorded a big spike in cases and deaths in the past two weeks.On Wednesday, the state posted 2,963 cases even as the government clamped night curfew and announced additional curbs, including a ban on political gatherings.“We have a rotational basis for the protests. Ten fresh protestors come every week to relieve 10 people already taking part in the protests. This will continue,” Rajewal said, describing a system that, experts believe, underscores the heightened risk.Punjab govt not worriedThe Punjab government said it had no plans to check the ongoing stir. “There is hardly any rally being done by the farmers and if they are getting together at any place, they are doing it for the genuine demands against the three black laws. We cannot say anything to them as it’s a matter of their future generations,” said Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu.The state health department also maintained there was no direct link between the stir and rising Covid-19 cases. “Our analysis reveals that 70% of cases reported this year are from urban areas. Only 30% are from rural areas that are hubs of farmer protests,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.Health experts said that farmers may have escaped the scourge of the virus so far because the current surge was driven by urban areas. But they warned that the protest may become a hot spot, especially because testing in the villages was inadequate due to a boycott call given by farmer unions.In Haryana, additional chief secretary, health, Rajiv Arora said the farmer gatherings were a cause for concern.“The situation is under control in Jhajjar and Sonepat, the two Delhi bordering districts where the farmers have assembled in big numbers. But it is certainly a cause of concern. Such gatherings can lead to a wider and deeper spread of infection, particularly in light of the fact that a big number of agitating farmers come from Punjab where the infection and mortality rate is very high. The back-and-forth movement of farmers can also contribute to spread of contagion,’’ he said.State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary, said any congregation – political, social or religious -- would cause a rise in cases.“People neither appear for testing nor vaccination. If the virus is so dangerous, why did Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar address a condolence meet in memory of Rohtak MP Arvind’s father and why did deputy CM Dushyant Chautala hold a rally ahead of Holi in Palwal? Are the rules only for protesting farmers? We will continue our agitation until our demands are met,” said state secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha, Balbir Singh Thakan‘Higher immunity’In Uttar Pradesh, where farm unions have organised a number of mahapanchayats – large rallies where tens of thousands of farmers participate – farmers said they were not worried. Large numbers of cultivators from the state’s western districts joined the protests in January after farm leader Rakesh Tikait’s emotional appeal.At the headquarters of the BKU in Sisauli town of Muzaffarnagar district, also the birthplace of Tikait, farmers said their resolve to continue the protest was unshaken by the Covid-19 surge. “Our immune system is strong and virus poses no danger to us. The government shouldn’t think of enforcing curbs on us,” said Dheeraj Latoyan, a farm leader.At the three protest sites on the Capital’s borders, the crowds have thinned from the peaks of December-January but thousands remain camped on the highway, and enthusiastic about the future course of the stir.The majority of protesters don’t use masks or sanitisers, and the disbelief about the virus still persists. Several farmers said they do not need a Covid-19 testing facility.“There is no such thing as coronavirus. The government is again doing the same as they did during last year to harass the poor. Their curbs and curfews won’t deter the spirits of protesters,” said Sukhbir Singh, a farmer from Moga.Delhi government officials said they periodically set up Covid-19 test camps near the protest sites that are open to everyone. “We have also periodically set up help desks in the sites to encourage people to get vaccinated. We have ambulances reserved in the sites to help with any kind of emergency situation,” said a senior official.Delhi police officials, meanwhile, said they are not taking any chances. Rajiv Ranjan, DCP (outer-north), under which the Singhu border falls, said all personnel deployed at the sites have received at least a single dose of vaccine. “Almost all the police and paramilitary personnel deployed at the border are vaccinated with at least one dose,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-lapses-at-farm-stir-may-hit-4-states-101617834421837.html
