11-04-2021||India||Covid-19 norms flouted in 50 worst districts: Centre||New Delhi The Centre on Sunday warned the three worst affected states — Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab — that Covid-appropriate behaviour was not being followed in 50 of their districts, necessitating greater enforcement efforts. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to these states based on feedback received from central teams sent last week.“These teams were to assess the situation on the ground, share their feedback, and work closely with the state authorities in looking for solutions. The health secretary’s letter is based on the feedback received from these teams, and asks them to plug the loopholes,” said a senior official in the health ministry. The central teams found a lack of adequate surveillance measures being taken by the state administrations, especially in areas declared containment zones, inadequate testing using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, insufficient manpower on Covid-19 duty, among other things.The teams sent to Maharashtra found containment operations sub-optimal, especially in the Satara, Sangli and Aurangabad districts, with less than satisfactory perimeter control, a lack of active surveillance for influenza-like illness cases, mostly due to limited human resources. The testing capacity in many districts such as Satara, Bhandara, Palghar, Amravati, Jalna and Latur is currently overwhelmed, resulting in delays in reporting of results. Also, some districts have a skewed RT-PCR and rapid antigen testing ratio that needs improvement.“According to central government guidelines, at least 70% of the tests being conducted to detect Covid-19 need to be done through RT-PCR. All states will have to comply with this directive as RAT (rapid antigen test) is meant to be used in certain situations such as containment zones where mass testing is required to know the disease spread in a short span of time. It cannot replace RT-PCR testing,” said a health ministry official, who did not wish to be identified. Some districts are reporting a large number of cases from outside containment zones, for which the Centre advised states to expand containment areas or to notify new zones so that adequate surveillance measures can be taken.ln Bhandara and Satara districts, a large percentage of Covid-19 patients are under home isolation, which requires rigorous follow-ups to minimise mortality. However, such a thorough follow-up is not happening currently.In Chhattisgarh, the team from Raipur and Jashpur reported a lack of perimeter control in containment zones, with no restriction on movement of people inside these zones either.“…Containment zones including micro containment zones need to be strictly implemented. Contact tracing efforts need to be reinforced in Korba. Resistance (even attacks on health care workers) to containment activities and testing was reported by the team from Dhaneli village, Raipur. This needs to be addressed on an urgent basis,” read Bhushan’s letter. Another issue flagged by the expert teams was shortage of RT-PCR testing facilities in Korba, Durg, and Balod districts, for which the state has been advised to explore the use of mobile testing labs.Ambulance services need to be strengthened in certain districts as is the overall hospital infrastructure. In Punjab, it was pointed out that there is an acute need for adopting enhanced contact tracing measures, especially in Patiala and Ludhiana.“Additional manpower must be deployed for contact tracing on a priority basis. Low rates of testing have been reported from Patiala. Also as reported by the team, there is no RT-PCR testing laboratory in Rupnagar. This has been addressed urgently. There is no dedicated Covid hospital in SAS Nagar and Rupnagar districts, and patients are being referred to neighbouring districts or Chandigarh... Teams have also reported issues with procurement of ventilators for proper case management in SAS Nagar. ln Rupnagar, although ventilators are available, these are not being optimally utilised due to shortage of health care workforce, particularly doctors and nurses…,” the team noted.The Centre advised the state to make contractual hiring of health care workers as per its additional requirement. Slow pace of vaccination among the elderly and those above 45 with comorbidities, especially in Patiala and Ludhiana, needs to be addressed on priority, it said.For the lack of Covid-appropriate behaviour in the general public, stricter ground-level enforcement of rules has been suggested.“All these problems have been discussed threadbare with the states for them to take appropriate action soonest,” said the official.Experts say the way case numbers are rising, it is imperative to take strict containment measures to curb the disease spread.“The virus is very much in circulation, and clearly spreading faster than before. What we need to do is take stringent measures in terms of increasing testing, tracking and isolating cases in time so that they don’t spread the disease within the community. There is also a need for enhancing community-level surveillance so that no case is missed, for as long we keep missing cases, the virus will continue to spread” said Jacob John, former virology head, CMC, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-norms-flouted-in-50-worst-districts-centre-101618165412570.html
11-04-2021||India||1 more Cong ally moves candidates out of Assam over poaching fears||GUWAHATICongress’s Assam ally Bodoland Peoples’ Party (BPF) has flown its candidates, who contested the just-concluded assembly elections, to an undisclosed location. The third and the last phase of polling in Assam was held on April 6. The results of the polls will be declared on May 2.The move has come days after the All India United Democratic Front, another member of the Congress-led alliance, flew 18 of its 20 candidates to Jaipur in Congress-ruled Rajasthan saying it feared the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will try to influence them.While it was unclear where the BPF candidates were taken, people familiar with the matter said that at least 10 of them were taken to Bhutan on Saturday and were likely to stay there till May 2. “I am not sure where they (the candidates) are now. But the candidates are outside Assam, that’s confirmed. I am not going anywhere,” said senior BPF leader Pramila Rani Brahma, who contested from the Kokrajhar East seat. The BPF, which was part of the BJP-led state government, joined the Congress alliance ahead of the assembly elections and contested on 12 seats, most of which fell in the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) in Lower Assam. In 2016, the BPF won 12 seats and had three cabinet ministers in the Sarbananda Sonowal-led BJP government. The Congress-led alliance in the state hopes to wrest power from the BJP. While rejecting any plans to move its own candidates, the Congress said that its alliance partners were trying to “safeguard their candidates from the dirty tricks of BJP. “We can imagine our alliance partners doing what they think best to safeguard their candidates from the dirty tricks of BJP. We have already witnessed in Goa, Manipur and other places, how BJP can manipulate voters’ verdict to gain power. Congress is not taking its candidates anywhere,” senior Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Pradyut Bordoloi said. The BJP, however, dismissed the allegations and said the party will retain power in the state.“The fear among Congress’s partners shows their own lack of confidence in their candidates. They are resorting to such antics as they know they would lose. We don’t need to seek support of their candidates are the ‘mitrajot’ is coming back to power very comfortably,” said BJP spokesperson Subhash Dutta. The party has allied with Asom Gana Parishad and the United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL).In 2016, BJP won 60 seats and came to power in Assam for the first time with the support of AGP and BPF.Political analysts said that all parties in the state feared poaching of candidates. “The present scenario could be the outcome of the Tamulpur incident when the BPF candidate joined BJP just days ahead of polls. The fear of such incident getting repeated can be seen not just in AIUDF and BPF but also in Congress. These incidents are also not good for a democracy and a tremendous insult on conscience of voters. Such events even before counting of votes could also lead to young voters, who are very careful observers of the political process in Assam, losing faith in the election process ” said Akhil Ranjan Dutta, professor of political science at Gauhati University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-more-cong-ally-moves-candidates-out-of-assam-over-poaching-fears-101618165413111.html
11-04-2021||India||5 terrorists, including 2 linked to soldier’s killing, shot dead||Security forces on Sunday shot dead five terrorists, including two involved in the killing of a jawan in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, in two separate encounters, police said.While two terrorists affiliated with Lashkar-e-Taiba were killed in Anantnag, three others from the Al-Badr outfit were killed in Shopian district.The gunfight in Anantnag erupted on Saturday evening after a joint team of police, Army and the CRPF began a search in Semthan village of Bijbehara area following specific information about the presence of the militants in a house.Officials said the terrorists were given an opportunity to surrender but they fired indiscriminately on the security forces. The operation was halted in the night after “all the civilians trapped in the gunfire” were rescued, the officials said.“Two terrorists were eliminated who were responsible for the killing of Havildar Mohd Saleem Akhoon of Territorial Army on Friday,” said public relations officer of Army’s 15 Corps Lt Col Emron Musavi.The terrorists were identified as Towseef Ahmad Bhat, a resident of Takia Maqbool Shah Bijbehara and Aamir Hussain Ganie, a resident of Goriwan Bijbehara, Anantnag.The two were affiliated with the proscribed outfit LeT, officials said, adding that they were responsible for shooting at Akhoon, who was on leave, outside his residence at Goriwan in Bijbehara area of the district on Friday. Akhoon succumbed to his injuries while undergoing treatment at the hospital.“They were also involved in threatening and intimidating the civilian population of the area and enticing the young boys to join terror ranks,” the police spokesman said.In a separate encounter, three terrorists, including a 14-year-old boy, were killed in the orchards of Reban Bandpawa area of Shopian district.A police spokesperson said that the encounter began on Saturday evening when the forces received information about the presence of terrorists in the orchards of Reban Bandpawa area of Shopian.While they were given an opportunity to surrender, the terrorists fired indiscriminately upon the search party, the spokesperson said.“In the initial retaliatory firing, one terrorist was killed, but the operation was suspended to give the trapped terrorists another chance to surrender. The joint teams exercised maximum restraint and facilitated the presence of family members of a holed up terrorist to encounter site so as to persuade him to surrender,” he said.While one of the slain terrorists was the minor, the second one was identified as Aasif Ahmad Ganai, officials said. Official are yet to identify the third terrorist.The spokesperson said that they were affiliated with the proscribed outfit Al-Badr and were involved in many “terror crime cases”.Kashmir Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar made an appeal to the youngsters to “shun the path of violence”.“Once again [we] make a fervent appeal to all misguided youth who have joined terror ranks to shun the path of violence and return to mainstream,” Kumar said.In the past three days, 12 terrorists have been killed across south Kashmir.On Friday, seven terrorists were killed in two separate encounters in South Kashmir. In one of the encounters, the chief of Ansar-ul-Gazhawat-ul-Hind was killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-terrorists-including-2-linked-to-soldier-s-killing-shot-dead-101618163039525.html
11-04-2021||India||Mamata’s call to gherao forces behind violence, deaths: Shah||Kolkata: Union home minister Amit Shah alleged on Sunday that West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s directions to “gherao” central forces instigated people to attack Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel in Cooch Behar, resulting in four deaths in firing by the security forces.The fourth phase of assembly elections in West Bengal was marred by violence as five people were killed in two separate incidents — including four in firing by central forces — in Cooch Behar, prompting the Election Commission of India to temporarily ban the entry of political leaders into the district even as rival parties continued to trade blame over the attacks. The CISF personnel opened fire allegedly after coming under attack from locals, who “attempted to snatch their rifles”, the police said.“Mamata Banerjee advised people to gherao central forces. Is that not responsible for the deaths in Sitalkuchi? Her advice instigated the people to attack the CISF,” Shah said after a roadshow in Santipur in Nadia district.“It is an unfortunate incident. Some people attacked a polling booth and tried to snatch guns from CAPF personnel. They had to open fire and four youth died. The incident is now being politicised,” the senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said. “Finding politics in death is a good example of the degradation Bengal’s politics has suffered during Mamata Banerjee’s regime,” Shah said.“I want to ask her (Banerjee) a straight question. Wasn’t your speech responsible for the deaths of these four youths? You instigated them and became the reason for their deaths,” he added.Describing the incident of firing in Cooch Behar as “genocide”, Banerjee said on Sunday the Election Commission has restricted the entry of politicians in the district for 72 hours as it seeks to “suppress facts”. The Trinamool Congress chief said central forces “sprayed bullets aiming at the torso of the victims” in Sitalkuchi area when the fourth phase of polling was underway.The BJP’s Bengal president, Dilip Ghosh, said: “In Bengal, women feel unsafe on the streets. They are harassed. When somebody complains, Banerjee says ‘naughty boys’ do such things. From where did so many naughty boys come? Yesterday, these naughty boys were shot in Sitalkuchi. This is just the beginning. Those who thought central forces brought guns just to show off have felt the heat of the bullets. There will be more Sitalkuchi (similar firings). Mamata Banerjee used these ruffians in politics and made them leaders.” Abhishek Banerjee, the chief minister’s nephew and TMC’s youth wing president, later played a clip of Ghosh’s remarks at his rally at Minakha in North 24 Parganas district to criticise the BJP leader’s statement. The bodies of those killed in the firing were returned to their families after postmortem examination on Sunday. The chief minister also spoke to the families over the phone. A state government official said that in view of the elections, the administration has sought the EC’s consent for giving a sum of ₹5 lakh each to the families of deceased and ₹2 lakh to those who injured in the incident.The Congress and the Left also targeted the BJP and the EC over the incident. Bengal Congress president Adhir Chowdhury said: “The incident has proved that EC is a complete failure in conducting polls.”Communist Party of India (Marxist) politburo member Brinda Karat, who was in Kolkata, said: “We need an impartial inquiry. The police broke protocol and opened fire.”The TMC also held protest rallies throughout the state and demanded Shah’s resignation.Addressing a rally at Basirhar in North 24 Parganas, Shah said: “I am willing to bow my head and resign if the people of Bengal ask me to. But at 2pm on May 2, you (Banerjee) will be going to the governor to submit your resignation. This is not a fight between the BJP and the TMC. It is a fight between the people of Bengal and you.”“By and large, polls have been peaceful so far although four or five BJP workers have been killed. Mamata Didi did not say anything on these deaths as well. I urge people to vote peacefully in the next four phases and vote for the party of their choice,” said Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamatas-call-to-gherao-forces-behind-violence-deaths-shah-101618165292623.html
11-04-2021||India||‘He asked us to forgive him’: Family of 14-yr-old killed in J&K’s gunfight||Srinagar: The family of the 14-year-old, who was among the three Al-Badr members killed during a gunfight with security forces in J&K’s Shopian district on Sunday, said he went missing a week ago and they did not hear from him till the encounter broke out on Saturday.The son of a farmer from Shopian’s Chitragam Kalan village, the boy was a student of Class 10, his family said. “He left home last week and we thought he was playing cricket with his friends. When he did not return till evening, we called him on his phone but it was switched off,” said the boy’s grandfather.Station House Officer Khalid Ahmad said the boy’s family filed a missing person’s report on April 6.The family said they were not aware that the boy joined the terror outfit blamed by authorities for several attacks on security forces and civilians. They said the teenager called them on Saturday, asking for forgiveness. “He said that he is trapped in an encounter and we should forgive him. I told the child to his raise hands and come out to surrender. He said he would consider it and cut the phone call,” the boy’s 80-year-old grandfather said. Authorities and the boy’s grandfather said the security forces gave the 14-year-old an opportunity to surrender. “Police and security forces made sincere efforts to make the newly recruited terrorist surrender. His parents also made appeals but the other terrorists didn’t allow him to surrender,” said Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar. The boy’s grandfather said the teenager’s family members were called to the encounter site to urge him to surrender. “The security forces suspended the operation for the night. We all went to the [encounter] site and made appeals on the public address system but there was no response. “In the morning, he came out with an associate who was firing. Then they were killed,” he said and added “What can be done now? We only want that his dead body is returned to us. He was just a child.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-asked-us-to-forgive-him-family-of-14-yr-old-killed-in-j-k-s-gunfight-101618165172521.html
11-04-2021||India||Bihar’s Covid-19 graph climbs higher with return of migrant workers||The return of migrant workers continued to push Bihar’s Covid-19 graph up as 56 of the 2,407 passengers who arrived from Maharashtra by four special trains tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. State capital Patna reported the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, accounting for 1,431 of the total 3,469 new infections in Bihar on Saturday. Three of the six Covid-19 deaths in the state on Saturday were from Patna. The total number of active cases has gone up to 11,998 in the state.So far, 97 passengers have tested positive out of the 3,668 who have arrived here by special trains from Maharashtra, beginning April 8, said health officials. Maharashtra has been reporting around 50% of India’s total Covid-19 cases, forcing the government to put curbs. This has led to another round of exodus of migrant workers to Bihar. All train passengers testing positive for the virus have been isolated at the Hotel Patliputra Ashok in Patna. Seventeen of the passengers testing positive on Saturday, had reached the Danapur railway station from Pune by the Pune-Danapur Express. Another 24 passengers tested positive out of the 803 passengers who arrived at the Danapur railway station by the Lokmanya Tilak Terminal to Patliputra train. Nine other passengers tested positive out of the total 576 who came to Patna junction by the Kurla-Patna train. Six other passengers tested positive out of the 326 on board the Lokmanya Tilak Terminal to Patliputra train after it arrived at the Patliputra railway station. Prior to that, 24 had tested positive out of the 606 passengers who arrived by the Kurla-Patna Express on April 9. Seventeen other passengers had tested positive for the virus out of the total 655 who arrived by the first of these special trains on April 8. Bihar’s single day spike in infections on Saturday was the highest in comparison to the total cases reported between March and May, last year. Bihar reported its first two Covid-19 cases on March 22 last year and the cases gradually began to rise by May. Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey, while talking to a TV channel on Sunday, said the spike in cases this year was because of higher testing in the state. He said the state was testing around 90,000 samples a day that was 30 times more than the 3,000 to 4,000 samples being tested in the initial three months of the pandemic in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihars-covid-19-graph-climbs-higher-with-return-of-migrant-workers-101618163373428.html
11-04-2021||India||On day 1 of 'Tika Utsav', over 2.7 mn doses of Covid-19 vaccine administered||The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said on Sunday more than 2.7 million doses of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were administered on the first of the four-day ‘Tika Utsav.’ “On Day-1 of Tika Utsav, more than 27 lakh vaccine doses were administered, till 8pm today. Sunday generally witnessed lower vaccination numbers (about 16 lakh on an average),” the ministry shared on its Twitter account.Also Read | India observes 4-day 'Tika Utsav' as PM Modi calls for mass Covid-19 vaccination“Day-1 of Tika Utsav saw many Workplace Vaccination Centres operational. On an average, 45,000 COVID Vaccination Centres (CVCs) are functional on any given day Today, 63,8000 CVCs were operational, a rise of 18,800,” it added.#LargestVaccineDrive #Unite2FightCoronaOn Day-1 of #TikaUtsav, more than 27 lakh vaccine doses were administered, till 8 pm today.Sunday generally witnessed lower vaccination numbers (about 16 lakh on an average).@PMOIndia @drharshvardhan @AshwiniKChoubey @PIB_IndiaPrime Minister Narendra Modi called for a ‘Tika Utsav’ or a vaccination festival to be observed across the country between April 11-14 during his virtual interaction with chief ministers on Thursday over rising daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country and amid complaints of vaccine shortage by some states. While April 11 is the birth anniversary of social activist Jyotiba Phule, April 14 marks the birth anniversary of BR Ambedkar, also known as the “Father of Indian Constitution.”Also from Sunday, all those who were eligible to be vaccinated in the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive, became eligible to be inoculated at their workplaces.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccination at workplaces in India begins today: All you need to knowIndia’s vaccination drive began on January 16, with healthcare workers and frontline workers getting the doses in the first phase. In the second phase, from March 1 onwards, those of the age of 60 and above, as well as those between 45-59 years old with co-morbidities, became eligible. From April 1, which marked the beginning of the third phase, vaccination was opened for everyone above the age of 45.India has authorised two vaccines for its inoculation drive. One is Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s shot, which is being manufactured here by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) as Covishield. The other shot is Covaxin from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited, India’s only homemade vaccine against the viral disease.According to MoHFW’s dashboard on Sunday morning, 101,595,147 vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far—the figures will be updated at 8am on Monday morning with the numbers of doses administered on Sunday. According to the health ministry, India is the fastest to the 100 million vaccination mark, surpassing the United States of America.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-day-1-of-tika-utsav-over-2-7-mn-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-administered-101618160586259.html
11-04-2021||India||What's behind India's Remdesivir shortage? Indiscriminate use, hoarding and black markets||India on Sunday halted the export of anti-viral drug Remdesivir and its active pharmaceutical ingredients used in Covid-19 treatment, in the wake of a sudden spike in demand due to a steady rise in coronavirus disease cases across the country. In an official press release, the central government said it is expecting a "further increase in demand" for the drug in the coming days. The World Health Organization (WHO) last year in November found no evidence that the drug improved survival and other outcomes in Covid-19 patients.Several states in India have reported a shortage of the drug following a rise in its demand amid a record surge in Covid-19 infections across the country.Here's a brief timeline, mapping the drug's journey:Remdesivir, originally developed to treat hepatitis C and subsequently tested against Ebola, initially made the headlines during the early stages of research into the coronavirus disease treatment. It was WHO that first hit the brakes on Remdesivir's prospects on November 20 last year, recommending that doctors avoid using the drug altogether."There is currently no evidence that Remdesivir improves survival and other outcomes in these patients,” the WHO noted, citing detailed studies it sponsored. “The evidence suggested no important effect on mortality, need for mechanical ventilation, time to clinical improvement, and other patient-important outcomes.” Even so, Gilead Sciences Inc, the drug's manufacturer, pushed back, saying it stood by Remdesivir and citing other studies supporting its efficacy.Gilead, which manufactures the drug under the brand name 'Veklury', issued a statement saying that it was "disappointed" in the WHO guidelines, which the company said ignored “robust evidence” from multiple randomised, controlled studies published in peer-reviewed journals that demonstrate its benefits. The company also listed key findings from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases’ (NIAD) ACTT-1 trials, which showed that the drug led to a "five-day faster recovery in hospitalized patients overall, and a seven-day faster recovery in people who required oxygen support at baseline, compared with placebo." The findings from these trials were peer-reviewed and published in the New England Journal of Medicine, the company said, adding that the anti-viral drug's inclusion has been supported in multiple treatment guidelines. The data has also supported regulatory approvals or temporary authorisations to treat Covid-19 in approximately 50 countries worldwide, it said.Speed is prized in the race to beat back Covid-19. In December later that year, researchers from University of Cambridge in the United Kingdom, gave the drug to a patient with Covid-19 and a rare immune disorder and observed a dramatic improvement in his symptoms and the disappearance of the virus. The journal Nature Communications carried the new study, and soon several countries, including India, were reported to be using the drug, banking on the insight. Remdesivir, researchers suspected, was likely to be the most beneficial when administered early in infection, before the virus is able to trigger a potentially catastrophic immune response.As Covid-19 cases in India surged, so did the demand for Remdesivir and with it came indiscriminate usage, hoarding, and black marketers, causing artificial shortage to jack up prices. In a press conference this week, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that the drug was being used indiscriminately without following appropriate official protocols. "The state is getting 50,000 doses every day and all of them are being consumed, leading to the shortage," said Tope, adding, "Pharmacists and stockists might be doing black marketing and that needs to be checked."The anti-viral dose was being used to treat Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) patients before it was directed for Covid-19 treatment last year. Currently, doctors and hospitals are prescribing the injection even for those suffering from the mild problem of breathlessness, Tope said, adding that it’s a violation of the protocol. The minister directed all district officials to ensure that every injection is used judiciously and cap the prices to check illegal hoarding.The owner of a medical store in Maharashtra's Parbhani district was arrested last Thursday for selling a single vial of Remdesivir for ₹6000, a much higher price than the MRP of ₹4800. To overcome a panic over the shortage of Remdesivir and to prohibit the black marketing and stocking of the drug, hospitals in Pune have been asked to provide the injection to the patients as opposed to their family members or relatives buying the drug.The issue is not just limited to Maharashtra. As per a Reuters report, India's drug regulator, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), and several state governments in the recent days raised concerns over the hoarding and black marketing of Remdesivir, which in some instances is being sold at over 10 times the maximum retail price. Social media posts on Sunday showed large queues of people in the western state of Gujarat waiting to buy Remdesivir injections for Covid-19 patients. Madhya Pradesh, too, had people queueing up outside medical stores for the drug, with some of them, agitated at not getting it, blocking a road in Indore for a brief period on April 9.Presently, seven Indian companies have licensed the drug from Gilead Sciences, with an installed capacity of about 3.9 million units per month, for local use. In a statement, the government asked manufacturers to step up supplies and informed that for now, the export of Remdesivir will remain banned "till the situation improves".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/careless-use-hoarding-and-black-markets-behind-india-s-remdesivir-shortage-101618148086724.html
11-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Himachal Pradesh makes negative RT-PCR test mandatory on arrival and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Negative RT-PCR report needed to enter Himachal Pradesh after April 16Himachal Pradesh joins Delhi, Assam, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Gujarat and Karnataka who have also issued similar orders following the rise in cases of the coronavirus disease across the nation. Read more here.Re-imposing lockdown after assembly polls will be a 'mistake': Asaduddin OwaisiAll India Majlis-e-Ittahad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi said the government must not reimpose a nationwide lockdown once the results of assembly elections in West Bengal, Assam, Puducherry, and Tamil Nadu are declared. Read more here. 'I was surprised to see Harbhajan Singh playing': Parthiv Patel weighs in on veteran off-spinner's KKR debutIPL 2021: One person who found Harbhajan Singh's KKR debut surprising was his former India teammate Parthiv Patel. Read more here. There is an animal hidden in this image. Can you spot it?The Internet is filled with different kinds of pictures showcasing wildlife. Usually, those images leave people impressed and at times surprised. Just like this post shared on Twitter by IFS officer Ramesh Pandey. Read more here. Sonu Sood wants to 'cancel board exams 2021', stands in support of students. Watch video message﻿Actor Sonu Sood has criticised the decision to go ahead with 'offline' board exams, amid the pandemic. Watch his video message here.Twinkle Khanna shares clip of deserted beach during lockdown, says weekends have 'gone to the dogs'. WatchThe actor-turned-author, whose husband Akshay Kumar tested positive for Covid-19 recently, shared a video of an empty beach with dogs roaming around and joked that the beach and weekends have 'gone to the dogs'. Watch here. 'On May 2, at 2 pm...': Amit Shah's message to Mamata Banerjee | Bengal election||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-himachal-pradesh-makes-rt-pcr-mandatory-on-arrival-101618153995639.html
11-04-2021||India||‘He was just a child’: Kin of 14-year-old militant killed in Shopian encounter||One of the three people killed in the encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian district was a minor and had gone missing last week, his family said. Son of a farmer and vehicle dealer from a village of Shopian, he was the only brother of four sisters and was studying in class 10th. The boy’s family said that he left home on Tuesday.“He left home last week and we thought he was playing cricket with his friends. When he did not return till evening we called his phone which was switched off,” said his distraught grandfather who is in his 80s.The boy and two other militants, including one Aasif Ahmad Ganai, were trapped on Saturday evening and killed in an overnight encounter with a joint party of police, army and CRPF in the orchards of Reban Bandpawa area of Shopian. Police said an AK-56 rifle, two pistols and other ‘incriminating’ materials were recovered from the site of encounter.“We knew nothing about him going with militants. He was just 14. He used to be with his books and was in class 10. When out he would be playing cricket,” he said.The grandfather said that they received a call from the boy on Saturday which shocked them all.“He said that he is trapped in an encounter and we should forgive him. I told the child to raise his hands and come out to surrender. He answered that he would think about it and dropped the phone,” he said.The grandfather said that the authorities gave them the chance to surrender.“The security forces suspended the operation for the night. We all went to the site and made appeals on the public address system but there was no response,” he said. “In the morning he came out with his other colleague who was firing, then they were killed,” he said.“What can be done now? We only want his dead body returned to us. He was just a child,” he said.Police said that they made sincere efforts to make him surrender. “Police and security forces made sincere efforts to take the surrender of newly recruited terrorist. Parents also made appeals but other terrorists didn’t allow him to surrender,” said Kashmir inspector general of police, Vijay Kumar.Station House Officer Khalid Ahmad said the boy’s family had filed a missing report on April 6. He said that the boy must be around 15-16 year old.“Another militant, Asif, 19, was his friend. That is why he went into militancy,” Ahmad said.The death has prompted anger against the militants for accepting children in their ranks as well as against the authorities for killing children and calling them terrorists.Author Gowhar Geelani posted on Twitter: “Smallest coffins are the heaviest. Children die like children. How can a child be killed? Or, recruited? No side can claim a moral high in this case”.“Killing of 12 militants in 4 encounters in 2 days denotes a robust CI (counter insurgency) grid but also the existence of a robust network of indoctrination and recruitment of even 14-year-olds in Kashmir. Spare children from this indoctrination & recruitment. Don’t kill and count them as terrorists,” said senior journalist Ahmad Ali Fayaz.This is not the first time that a minor ‘militant’ was killed in an encounter in Kashmir.Three militants, including a juvenile, were killed in a gunfight with security forces in Srinagar on December 9, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/he-was-just-a-child-kin-of-14-year-old-militant-killed-in-shopian-encounter-101618152514726.html
11-04-2021||India||Maharashtra, Punjab, C'garh: Govt points out gaps in Covid containment strategy||The Centre on Sunday wrote to Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab outlining feedback shared by the 50 high-level public health teams, deployed in these states witnessing a spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, saying they need to ramp up measures to tackle the pandemic.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan requested the health secretaries of the three states to implement the suggestions shared by the teams in order to check the sudden surge of Covid-19 cases. The public health teams, which are working with the administration of those districts with a high caseload, have highlighted issues related to testing, hospital infrastructure, containment operations, vaccination progress and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.MaharashtraThe central teams in Maharashtra reported that testing capacities in at least eight districts are overwhelmed. Satara, Bhandara, Palghar, Amrawati, Jalna, Nanded, Buldhana and Latur are delaying reporting of test results due to this. The teams pointed out that resistance to testing was also observed in Bhandara. The district is also reporting a large number of cases from outside containment zones.All the 30 teams deployed in Maharashtra reported that there was reluctance towards following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. It suggested the government increase efforts to strictly enforce adherence to Covid-19 preventive measures.Containment operations in Satara, Sangli and Aurangabad districts were not up to the standard while contact tracing operations in Buldhana, Satara, Aurangabad and Nanded were ‘suboptimal.’ Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Nandurbar districts have reported a high occupancy of hospital beds while Aurangabad is depending on neighbouring districts for treatment of its critical patients. The teams have urged the district administration to address hospitalization related issues on a priority basis.Aurangabad, Nandurabar, Yawatmal, Satara, Palghar, Jalgoan and Jalna districts have reported an acute shortage of healthcare workers. The Centre’s teams have advised the hiring of contractual workers to address these issues. Pune along with Bhandara. Palghar and Osmanabad are facing medical oxygen supply issues while Satara and Latur have malfunctioning ventilators affecting patients.ChhattisgarhChhattisgarh’s Korba, Durg and Balod districts are facing a shortage of RT-PCR testing facilities, the central team highlighted, which in turn has led to increased testing turnaround time. These three districts are also witnessing high hospital bed occupancy rates. According to the data shared by the central team, all ICU beds in these districts are currently occupied and the central team has suggested the state government help the district administration ramp up hospital infrastructure in these districts. The Centre team also highlighted that Korba is experiencing a shortage of Remdesivir.Durg, Jashpur and Rajnandangaon districts have also reported a shortage of healthcare workers. The central team also highlighted the lack of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in Rajnandangaon. The team also expressed concern regarding containment strategies in Raipur and Jashpur. It also highlighted that there were attacks on healthcare workers at Raipur’s Dhaneli village and observed resistance to containment measures as well as Covid-19 testing. It also recommended that teams vaccinating people in Balod and Korba districts go through a refresher training course.PunjabThe teams deployed in Punjab said that Patiala and Ludhiana were vaccinating people against Covid-19 at a slower pace and asked the government to address this issue on priority. Both districts were also lagging behind in terms of contact tracing according to the letter while the rate of testing in Patiala has also dropped. The teams pointed out that SAS Nagar and Rupnagar districts have no dedicated Covid-19 hospital. The latter also does not have a dedicated RT-PCR testing laboratory. Rupnagar’s hospitals are also facing a shortage in terms of manpower due to which ventilators in these hospitals are not being optimally utilised. Patiala and SAS Nagar are also witnessing a shortage in terms of healthcare workers.They have also asked the district administration to prioritise addressing hospital infrastructure in SAS Nagar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana as hospital bed occupancy rates continue to rise due to the rise in the number of coronavirus disease cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-punjab-c-garh-govt-points-out-gaps-in-covid-containment-strategy-101618149745637.html
11-04-2021||India||Govt bans export of Remdesivir: Know all about the drug||Amid increased demand for Remdesivir due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Centre on Sunday said the export of the antiviral injection and its Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) has been banned till the situation improves in the country. The decision comes days after several states reported a shortage of the anti-viral drug or injection used to treat novel coronavirus disease. Several areas in a few states are witnessing people queueing up outside medical stores for the drug as coronavirus cases in the country touch over daily highs for the last few days.On Thursday, the Maharashtra government capped the price of Remdesivir between ₹1100 and ₹1400 per vial and warned against its hoarding and black marketing.On Sunday, the Madhya Pradesh government said a sizeable batch of the drug has arrived and will be distributed to medical facilities as per requirement.What is Remdesivir?Remdesivir is an investigational antiviral drug to fight Sars-cov 2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Gilead Sciences Inc’s antiviral therapy Remdesivir in October 2020, making it the first drug to obtain formal clearance for treating the coronavirus disease. It was given to former US president Donald Trump in October last year when he was diagnosed with the viral disease.How did Remdesivir come into use?FDA had to issue an emergency use authorisation of Remdesivir to give doctors access to the medication outside of an investigational (clinical trial) setting. Beginning in May last year, doctors were able to give Remdesivir to patients who were hospitalised with severe Covid-19, rather than limiting its usage to those who were participating in clinical trials.After hospitalised Covid-19 patients nationwide began receiving Remdesivir, FDA evaluated new data about the drug’s effectiveness. In August, the FDA expanded its emergency use authorisation, allowing all hospitalised patients with Covid-19 to receive the drug, including people with mild and moderate disease. In October, FDA changed Remdesivir’s status from an emergency use authorisation medication to an approved drug.How is Remdesivir given to Covid-19 patients?The drug is given intravenously to hospitalised Covid-19 patients. People typically receive an injection once a day for 5 to 10 days, based on the severity of their condition.How does Remdesivir help Covid-19 patients?Remdesivir prevents coronavirus from producing a particular enzyme that is necessary for the virus to replicate itself. Once this happens, the virus is no longer able to spread within the body.Research shows that when patients with moderate Covid-19 receive Remdesivir, their symptoms improve more quickly. The drug has also been shown to shorten the duration of patient hospital stays. Among severely ill Covid-19 patients, Remdesivir has been associated with fewer deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-bans-export-of-remdesivir-know-all-about-the-drug-101618146751335.html
11-04-2021||India||Negative RT-PCR report needed to enter Himachal Pradesh after April 16||The Himachal Pradesh government said on Sunday it will issue a directive asking people travelling to the state from Punjab, Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh to carry a negative RT-PCR Covid-19 test report after April 16, the chief minister’s office said. The decision was taken after Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the state, his office said.Himachal Pradesh issued a similar order for people entering the state on Friday but it only made negative RT-PCR tests mandatory for labourers of other states entering the state’s Spiti valley for work. It also asked contractors to present the negative RT-PCR tests before entering the valley.The state over the past week has imposed fresh restrictions on gatherings as well due to a surge in Covid-19 cases. The government on Tuesday restricted gatherings at marriage ceremonies to 50 people indoors and with a maximum of 200 for outdoors. It also said that only 50 people will be allowed to attend funerals.Himachal Pradesh reported 941 cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, which took the state’s tally to 69,114. The state also reported 12 fresh fatalities and now its death toll stands at 1,102.Delhi, Assam, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Gujarat and Karnataka have also issued similar orders following the rise in cases of the coronavirus disease across the nation. Delhi on Saturday made the RT-PCR test mandatory for people entering from Maharashtra. The Odisha government on Thursday said any person entering the state via rail, road or air will have to present a Covid-19 negative test report. Assam took similar measures last Sunday making the RT-PCR test mandatory for people entering the state from Mumbai and Bengaluru. Neighbouring state Uttarakhand made the negative RT-PCR test report mandatory on arrival on March 30 after witnessing a surge in the number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/negative-rt-pcr-report-needed-to-enter-himachal-pradesh-after-april-16-101618145778391.html
11-04-2021||India||Re-imposing lockdown after assembly polls will be a 'mistake': Asaduddin Owaisi||All India Majlis-e-Ittahad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi said the government must not reimpose a nationwide lockdown once the results of assembly elections in West Bengal, Assam, Puducherry, and Tamil Nadu are declared. If Prime Minister Narendra Modi once again imposes a Covid-19 lockdown across India, it will be a 'mistake', Owaisi could be heard saying in a clip posted by the AIMIM's Twitter account on Sunday.West Bengal, Assam, Puducherry & Tamilnadu ke election results aane baad kahin Modi Ji phir se mulk me lockdown na karde, agar aisa karte hain toh ye bohat hee ghalat faisla hoga - Barrister @asadowaisi pic.twitter.com/2sWIPhPX7Q"I hope that the Prime Minister doesn't announce a nationwide lockdown a day after the election results for the assembly polls in Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry are declared on May 2," Owaisi said. He added that imposing such a measure would be incorrect and a "betrayal" against the poor and claimed that the India-wide lockdown announced in March last year resulted in 10 crore poor people losing their jobs. "Around 25-30 lakh white-collar workers had to face a deduction in their salaries and people died…. Hence, I hope the mistake which Prime Minister Modi had committed in March 2020 will not be repeated this year… Lockdown is not a correct way to tackle Covid,” Owaisi added.India is battling the second wave of coronavirus pandemic and the number of new Covid-19 cases in India surged to a record-high of 152,879 on Sunday as authorities push for faster vaccinations, with some states considering tougher restrictions to slow the spread of the virus. Daily cases have set record highs six times this week, according to data from the Union health ministry. India's tally of more than 13.35 million Covid-19 cases is the third-highest globally, behind only Brazil and the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reimposing-lockdown-after-assembly-polls-will-be-a-mistake-asaduddin-owaisi-101618142701907.html
11-04-2021||India||Amid 'Tika Utsav', BJP, opposition trade barb over Covid-19 vaccine||The four-day Tika Utsav to create awareness about vaccines against Covid-19 commenced on Sunday amid the BJP and the opposition trading barbs over the recent vaccine shortage reported by several states, which the Union health ministry dismissed.Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi earlier criticised the concept of 'vaccination festival' and said the ongoing vaccine shortage is a serious problem and not a festive occasion. On Sunday, as the festival began, he hit out at the central government and said the government has no control over the pandemic situation.As 'Tika Utsav' begins, PM Modi posts 4 requests for countrymen"No control on the corona, not enough vaccines, no employment...Neither the farmers and the labourers are addressed, nor Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) safe. No middle class is satisfied...It was okay to eat mangoes, but you could have left the common man," he wrote.Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi slammed the celebration of vaccination at a time when there is an ongoing shortage of vaccines.Watch: Tika Utsav begins in India; people reach inoculation centres to get Covid jabआज है ,टीका उत्सव दिन,वैक्सीन बिन! कम हैं वैक्सीन पर त्योहार चलते रहना चाहिए।As many of the Union ministers took to social media to extend support to 'Tika Utsav', Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri took a jibe at the Congress as he wrote, "In India's war against Covid-19, Congress as usual has not been able to decide which side it is on."They doubted India's Covid response.They doubted India's Covid numbers.They doubted efficacy of India'svaccines.They doubted India's ability to produce vaccines.In India's war against COVID19, Congress as usual has not been able to decide which side it is on."They doubted India's Covid response. They doubted India's Covid numbers. They doubted efficacy India's vaccines. They doubted India's ability tp produce vaccines," the minister wrote.After proposing 'Tika Utsav' in a recent meeting with state chief ministers, PM Modi on Sunday said this festival is the beginning of the second big war against Corona.This week has been tumultuous for vaccination, as several states, including Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan and Telangana complained of vaccine shortage. Many vaccine centres remained shut in Maharashtra, while the health ministry said the vaccine stock in each state is monitored real time and is replenished regularly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-tika-utsav-bjp-opposition-trade-barb-over-covid-19-vaccine-101618143008199.html
11-04-2021||India||‘Implement stringent safety norms instead of resorting to partial lockdowns’: CEOs||Three-fourth of the 710 chief executive officers (CEOs) expressed that partial lockdown measures would adversely impact the movement of goods and labourers, which would significantly affect the industrial output, a Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) CEOs poll said on Sunday.“Protecting livelihoods along with lives is essential and the industry is keen to work with the government on universal coverage (18 years and above) of the vaccination programme and in implementing strict health and safety protocols,” said CII president-designate TV Narendran. Narendran lauded the government and said that it handled both lives and livelihoods effectively during the first wave. “It could do so again by keeping industrial activities out of the ambit of partial lockdowns aimed at restricting social gatherings. This will help India recover from the economic contraction and stabilize the upward growth trends being currently witnessed in several sectors,” he added. As per the survey, stringent implementation of health and safety norms is better than partial lockdowns on any industrial operations. The poll covered CEOs from both manufacturing and services sectors. About 68% of the respondents belonged to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs).While 96% of the CEOs said the industry is well prepared for stricter health and safety protocols, 93% of them preferred “stringent implementation of safety norms” over partial lockdowns. About 60% of the CEOs polled said their production could be affected if there are restrictions on the movement of labourers during partial lockdowns and a majority of them feared up to 50% production loss if restrictions are imposed on the ecosystem that supports the movement of goods.While 57% of the companies expressed the need to stock raw materials in excess of just-in-time levels to meet any likely shortage of raw materials, about 31% of them said they would accommodate their labour force in the factory in case of movement restrictions due to the night curfew.More than 60% of the CEOs suggested that the government should allow the movement of workers in all shifts during night curfews and also free movement of goods along with the required personnel to facilitate the movement of goods. “This should be allowed with all workers and industry staff strictly following all health and safety protocols,” the CII statement, quoting the survey, said. Looking at ways to mitigate the impact of the restrictions, 67% of CEOs expressed their desire to work with the government for mass vaccination of eligible workforce who are age 45 years and above.The CII is observing ‘Tika Utsav’ from April 11-14 April across the country as announced by PM Modi, it said in a statement. The CII has already activated its 65 state offices and has written to over 9,000 members from the industry to facilitate vaccinations of the eligible workforce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/implement-stringent-safety-norms-instead-of-resorting-to-partial-lockdowns-ceos-101618142731771.html
11-04-2021||India||Centre halts exports of Remdesivir amid rising Covid-19 cases||The Centre on Sunday banned the export of anti-viral drug Remdesivir and Remdesivir Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) amid rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country. “India is witnessing a recent surge in COVID cases. As on 11.04.2021, there are 11.08 lakh active COVID cases and they are steadily increasing. This has led to a sudden spike in demand for Injection Remdesivir used in the treatment of COVID patients. There is a potential of a further increase in this demand in the coming days,” the government said in an order.The order said seven Indian companies are producing Remdesivir injection under a voluntary licensing agreement with US company Gilead Sciences, adding that they have an installed capacity of about 38.80 lakh units per month. “In light of the above, Government of India has prohibited the exports of Injection Remdesivir and Remdesivir Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) till the situation improves,” it said.The order also said that all domestic manufactures of Remdesivir have been advised to display on their website, details of their stockists or distributors to facilitate access to the drug. "Drugs inspectors and other officers have been directed to verify stocks and check their malpractices and also take other effective actions to curb hoarding and black marketing. The State Health Secretaries will review this with the Drug Inspectors of the respective States/UTs," it added.The department of pharmaceuticals has been in contact with the domestic manufacturers to ramp up the production of Remdesivir, it also said.India on Sunday recorded 152,879 new cases of Covid-19, witnessing another record in the daily tally. It also recorded 839 fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 169,275. The active cases have increased to 1,108,087 comprising 8.29% of the total infections, while the recovery rate further dropped to 90.44 per cent, the Union health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-prohibits-exports-of-remdesivir-till-covid-19-situation-in-india-improves-101618141980776.html
11-04-2021||India||UP schoolteachers to gherao DIOS office over non-payment of salary||The Uttar Pradesh Secondary Teachers' Association has warned they will gherao the office of the district inspector of schools (DIOS) if the teachers are not paid their due salaries within three days, a report by HT’s sister concern Hindustan said on Sunday. Teachers have not received their salaries for the month of March, for which a technical issue with the Management Information System (MIS) was reportedly cited. With the panchayat polls in the state days away, the teachers have now warned of agitation and even a potential boycott of the upcoming polls if they are not paid the salaries in time.The meeting of the UP Secondary Teachers' Association was held at the Sunder Lal Inter College in Rampur. It was noted during the meeting that therewas resentment among teachers as they are not being paid their salaries. The salary for February, the month when the last payment was made, was used to pay income tax and for Holi, they said. A month later, the teachers are finding it difficult to meet their daily needs due to the lack of funds.The school teachers in Uttar Pradesh's Rampur are demanding an early salary from the district school inspector, failing which they will gherao the DIOS office, the report said, citing people in the UP Secondary Teachers' Association familiar with the development.The panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh will be held in four phases from April 15. The final phase will be on April 29 and the results will be declared on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-schoolteachers-to-gherao-dios-office-over-non-payment-of-salary-101618135859520.html
11-04-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Imposing a lockdown in MP not a solution, says CM Chouhan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Possibility of lockdown in Madhya Pradesh: Shivraj Singh Chouhan weighs inMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday imposing a lockdown is not a solution to control the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state, which reported a record spike in infections on Saturday taking its tally over 332,000.Mamata 'silent' on fifth person’s death, says Shah on Cooch Behar poll violenceUnion home minister Amit Shah on Sunday accused West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee of “politicising” the poll violence in Cooch Behar during Saturday’s fourth phase of assembly elections in the eastern state. Five people, including an 18-year-old first-time voter, were killed in two separate incidents of poll-related violence in Cooch Behar.Priyanka Chopra is living the 'studio life' with Nick Jonas and their dogs, see picPriyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas have been stationed in the United Kingdom for a few months now. The actor is working on her upcoming projects in London, while Nick is working on his music from there. Priyanka took to Instagram Stories on Sunday to share a picture of her 'studio life', featuring the singer and their dogs.IPL 2021: 'He gives team a different dynamic,' Eoin Morgan explains role of returning KKR allrounder ahead of SRH clashAs Kolkata Knight Riders gear up for their opening game of the Indian Premier League 2021 season against Sunrisers Hyderabad, skipper Eoin Morgan opened up on the role that allrounder Shakib al Hasan will play in the season.Upcoming 2021 Jeep Commander SUV: All we know so farJeep is working on a new Commander three-row SUV which will be officially revealed later in 2021. The new SUV was previously spotted on tests in Brazil and has been codenamed H6. The upcoming SUV will sit above the Compass in Jeep's global line-up.3 terrorists gunned down in encounter with security forces in J&K’s ShopianThree terrorists gunned down in encounter with security forces in J&K’s Shopian. Security forces engaged in an exchange of fire with terrorists in Hadipora area.IPL 2021: Krunal Pandya teams up with nephew Agastya against Hardik PandyaA tweet shared by cricketer Krunal Pandya about his nephew is now winning people over and making them chuckle too. Pandya shared a few adorable pictures with his nephew Agastya, son of cricketer Hardik Pandya and actor Natasa Stankovic, along with a hilarious caption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-imposing-a-lockdown-in-mp-not-a-solution-says-cm-chouhan-and-all-the-latest-news-101618136555984.html
11-04-2021||India||437 Sikh pilgrims granted permission to visit Pakistan for Baisakhi||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), the top body of the Sikh community, said on Sunday more than 400 pilgrims have been allowed to visit Pakistan for Baisakhi by the ministry of external affairs (MEA). “Four hundred and thirty-seven people have been granted permission to visit Pakistan on the occasion of Baisakhi,” SGPC secretary Mohinder Singh Ahli told news agency ANI.Ahli also said that pilgrims will be paying a visit to the Nankana Sahib, a holy site for Sikhs, in Pakistan. On April 9, SGPC had organised a two-day camp at its office to conduct Covid-19 tests for the pilgrims scheduled to visit Pakistan. “Pilgrims will visit all major gurdwaras, including Nankana Sahib. All of them have tested negative for Covid,” Ahli was quoted as saying by ANI. “They will leave tomorrow and will return on April 22,” he added.Under the 1974 'Bilateral Protocol on Visits to Religious Shrines' signed between India and Pakistan, citizens of both countries can visit certain religious shrines. For the Sikhs, there are four occasions every year—Baisakhi, martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev, death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak—on which they can visit religious sites associated with their religion in Pakistan.SGPC spokesperson Kulwinder Singh told HT on Saturday that the body had originally sent 793 names for approval to visit Nankana Sahib, of which 356 have been rejected. “We had sent 793 names for issuing of visas of which 356 were rejected. The ministry of external affairs (MEA) and the Pakistan embassy in New Delhi should approve the maximum number of names sent by the SGPC as it is the apex body of the Sikh community. The names of a large number of pilgrims have been removed, causing a lot of resentment among pilgrims.” he said.In February, a Sikh Jatha wanted to visit Nankana Sahib to mark the Nankana Sahib massacre centenary but was denied permission to do so by the MEA. The ministry cited the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and said that the visit was not being covered under the ‘Bilateral Protocol on Visits to Religious Shrines’, adding no jatha had gone to Pakistan on that occasion in the past."Keeping in view the increasing number of cases of Covid-19 in Pakistan, a threat to the safety and security of a large number of Indian citizens during the visit and the ongoing suspension of cross-border traffic due to Covid-19 pandemic, permission was not accorded to the said Jatha," Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy told Parliament on March 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/437-sikh-pilgrims-granted-permission-to-visit-pakistan-for-baisakhi-101618138568193.html
11-04-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh has more active Covid-19 cases than Kerala; 60,000 new infections reported since April 1||Uttar Pradesh has added 60,743 Covid-19 cases to its tally since April 1, since when the state is seeing a steady spike in the number of daily infections. On Saturday, the state reported 12,787 new infections, which made it the third state after Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh contributing the highest number of daily infections in the country in the last 24 hours. On Sunday, the state surpassed Saturday's record and reported the highest single-day spike of 15,353 cases.Here is how Uttar Pradesh's Covid-19 tally rose:> According to Union health ministry, data on March 15, Uttar Pradesh had only 178 fresh cases. At that time, it was not a state of concern. Other states were reporting a higher number of cases. For example, on March 15, Maharashtra had 16,620 fresh infections, Chhattisgarh had 475, Karnataka had 934 and, with 407 cases, Delhi too had a higher single-day tally than Uttar Pradesh.> The first major spike was recorded on March 25, when Uttar Pradesh reported 734 fresh infections.> On March 27, the state's single-day tally breached the 1,000-mark for the first time in this year. On March 31, there was a slight dip as 918 cases were recorded.> From April 1, cases have been skyrocketing and the with an increase of about 1,000 cases on the previous d tally, the state breached the 5,000-, 6,000-mark gradually.> The gap between daily new infections and daily recoveries in the state is wide. While 12,787 new cases were recorded, only 2,207 people were discharged on Saturday.> With around 58,800 active cases, its contribution to India's active case tally at present is 5.31 per cent, more than Kerala, which has 3.62 per cent of India's active Covid-19 cases. On Sunday, the state active case tally reached 71,241.> As far as the number of fatalities is concerned, Uttar Pradesh has reported fewer deaths than Punjab and Gujarat on Saturday, but the daily toll remains between 30 and 50. The state has a recovery rate of around 90 per cent.> The state has administered 84,93,959 vaccine doses so far, according to the data of the Union health ministry.> The state government has ordered a night curfew in all districts which have more than 500 active Covid-19 cases. Lucknow has 16,690 active Covid-19 cases, the highest in the state.> Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, part of which fall in the National Capital Region, are also seeing a spike in daily cases. On Saturday, Ghaziabad reported 159 fresh cases, while 221 were reported from Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-has-more-active-covid-19-cases-than-kerala-60-000-new-infections-reported-since-april-1-101618137325532.html
11-04-2021||India||Former Tripura Congress chief led alliance wins territorial council polls||Tipraha Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance (TIPRA) Motha, led by former Tripura Congress president Pradyot Kishore Debbarma has swept the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) polls by winning 18 of the 28 seats that went to polls to elect representatives for the 30-member council on April 6. The BJP finished second, winning nine seats and one seat was won by an independent candidate. BJP’s alliance partner the Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT), the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Congress failed to win even a single seat. The result of the polls declared on Saturday marks the emergence of Pradyot’s party as a new regional force, less than two years ahead of the 2023 state assembly elections. Out of the TTAADC 30 seats, 28 are elected and two are nominated. The results assume significance since 70% percent of Tripura’s geographical area and close to one-third of its population is covered by the autonomous council. The BJP had won 36 seats in the 60-seat assembly in 2018 polls to form its first government in the state defeating the Left Front alliance, which could only win 16 seats.Debbarma won from Takarjala-Jampuijala constituency. Ananta Debbarma, Animesh Debbarma and Jagadish Debbarma were among the prominent winning candidates from the winning party. TIPRA Motha was a front including the TIPRA ( The Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance), Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT-Tipraha) and Tipraland State Party (TSP) and was in alliance with the Indigenous Nationalist Party of Twipra (INPT). Pradyot resigned from the Congress in 2019 and floated TIPRA Motha this year. In its campaign, the front promised to form a Greater Tipraland by including indigenous population living outside TTAADC region in Tripura and also other states such as Assam, Mizoram and even some parts of Bangladesh. I want to appeal to all through the media to maintain peace. There should be no violence against those who have lost the polls. We are Tiprasa and they are Tiprasa as well. After the poll, we will bring them with us to make our unity bigger,” Pradyot Kishore told the media after the front’s victory on Saturday.BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharjee said, “We didn’t field candidates in most of the seats. We are not unhappy with the poll results. Our alliance partner IPFT will discuss their performance.” No reaction from IPFT could be obtained. The CPM, which ruled the TTAADC for the last three consecutive terms, said it will analyse the results. “We lost the poll. However, we will analyse what led to our poor performance in the election,” said veteran party leader Radhacharan Debbarma.85.14% voter turnout was recorded during the April 6 polls. The council polls were postponed by almost a year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and Governor RK Bais ran the council in the interim. The TTAADC was formed in 1982.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-tripura-congress-chief-led-alliance-wins-territorial-council-polls-101618136671596.html
11-04-2021||India||Amid Mumbai lockdown talk, migrant movement seen on MP route||A severe spike in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and persistent talk of a "complete lockdown" there to tackle it has, like last year, made the national highway number 3 skirting past Madhya Pradesh's commercial hub Indore a prime route for wary migrants returning home to states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.The number of motorcycles, black-and-yellow mini trucks and autorickshaws, teeming with migrants, have been on the rise over the past few days on a bypass road connected to this route, popularly known as Mumbai-Agra road, eye-witnesses said on Sunday."The virus outbreak has once again got very severe in Mumbai. There might be a lockdown and it may, like last year, render us jobless. So we have decided to return home," said Ramsharan Singh (40), making his way back to Ballia in Uttar Pradesh in an autorickshaw.Similar is the case with Mohammad Shadab, going back to his hometown in Bihar's Bhojpur district."I work in a restaurant in Mumbai. I will think of returning there if the situation improves. Or else, I plan to stay back in Bihar and look for work," he said.Thanks to a weekend lockdown, and inter-state travel exempted from it, these vehicles moved past Indore quickly as normal traffic on the roads was thin.Last year, the route witnessed bumper-to-bumper traffic as people trying to escape a crippling coronavirus- induced lockdown in Mumbai and adjoining areas made their way home to eastern and northern states in some of the most helpless and trying travel conditions.Mumbai on Saturday reported 9,330 fresh cases and 28 deaths, taking the count of infections to 5,10,512 and the toll to 11,944.Mumbai division, comprising the metropolis and adjoining districts, reported 18,241 new cases and 89 deaths during the day, raising the tally to 10,64,221 and the fatality count to 21,028.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-mumbai-lockdown-talk-migrant-movement-seen-on-mp-route-101618135014476.html
11-04-2021||India||Tika Utsav day 1: People from across states take Covid-19 vaccine | In Photos||India began the ‘Tika Utsav’ (vaccination festival) on Sunday days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for mass vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) during his meeting with chief ministers of all states as the nation reels under the second wave of infections.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 vaccination centre here In a tweet this morning, PM Modi said, "We are going to begin 'Tika Utsav' today nationwide. I urge countrymen to abide by four things - assist those who need help getting inoculated, help people in COVID treatment, wear masks and motivate others and if someone tests positive, create a micro-containment zone in the area."People from across states were seen queuing outside vaccination centres to get their shots. One Kishan from Chennai told news agency ANI, "Definitely, it is a good festival that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced, I am grateful to him and I took my first dose of vaccine today.”Several states including Uttar Pradesh and Bihar appealed to eligible people to get themselves vaccinated during the duration of the 'Tika Utsav'.Here’s a look at pictures from the first day of the four-day ‘vaccination festival’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tika-utsav-day-1-people-from-across-states-take-covid-19-vaccine-in-photos-101618127782701.html
11-04-2021||India||No control on Covid-19, not enough vaccines: Rahul Gandhi targets Centre||Hitting out at the central government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the Centre could neither control the Covid pandemic nor address the problems of farmers and labourers."No control on the corona, not enough vaccines, no employment...Neither the farmers and the labourers are addressed, nor Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) safe. No middle class is satisfied...It was okay to eat mangoes, but you could have left the common man," read Rahul's tweet translated from Hindi.Rahul's remarks come against the backdrop when India reported more than 1.52 lakh new Covid-19 cases on Sunday. This is the fifth consecutive day when more than one lakh cases have been reported in the country.According to the Union Health Ministry, the country recorded 1,52,879 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of infections has reached 1,33,58,805 in India.Meanwhile, the four-day-long 'Tika Utsav', a mass Covid-19 vaccine programme, has started in the country on Sunday (Jyotirao Phule's birth anniversary) to April 14 (B R Ambedkar's birth anniversary), following Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for the same.From April 2, the government started vaccinating all people above 45 years. India started its vaccination drive on January 16 with priority given to all healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase. The second phase started on March 1 where doses were administered to people above the age of 60 and those between 45 and 59 years with specific comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-control-on-covid-19-not-enough-vaccines-rahul-gandhi-targets-centre-101618132238028.html
11-04-2021||India||5 states account for over 70% of India's active Covid-19 cases: Govt||The five states of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala cumulatively account for 70.82 per cent of India's active Covid-19 cases which have breached the 11-lakh mark for the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday.India's total active caseload has increased to 11,08,087 and it now comprises 8.29 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 61,456 cases has been recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours.Maharashtra alone accounts for 48.57 per cent of the total active caseload of the country, the ministry said.Besides, the ten states of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan have shown a steep rise in the daily new Covid-19 cases accounting for 80.92 per cent of the new infections reported in a span of 24 hours, the ministry highlighted.India's daily new cases continue to rise, the ministry said as 1,52,879 new cases of coronavirus infections were registered in a span of 24 hours, the highest single-day rise so far.Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 55,411. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 14,098 while Uttar Pradesh has reported 12,748 new cases.Sixteen states -- Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab and Kerala -- are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases.India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,20,81,443 with 90,584 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours.Daily deaths continue to show an upward trend with 839 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours.Ten states account for 86.41 per cent of the new deaths, the ministry said. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (309) and Chhattisgarh followed with 123 daily deaths.Ten states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours. These are D&D & D&N, Nagaland, Tripura, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Mizoram, Manipur, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 10 crore.Cumulatively, 10,15,95,147 vaccine doses have been administered through 15,17,963 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am, the ministry said.These include 90,04,063 HCWs who have taken the first dose and 55,08,289 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 99,53,615 FLWs who have received the first dose, 47,59,209 FLWs who have taken the second dose.Besides, 3,96,51,630 and 18,00,206 beneficiaries more than 60 years old have been administered the first and second dose respectively, while 3,02,76,653  and 6,41,482 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 have taken the first and second dose respectively.Eight states account for 60.27 per cent of the total doses given so far in the countryOver 35 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours.As on Day-85 of the vaccination drive (April 10), 35,19,987 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 31,22,109 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 42,553 sessions for first dose and 3,97,878 beneficiaries received the second dose of the vaccine."In terms of the number of daily doses administered globally, India continues to remain at the top with an average of 38,34,574 doses administered per day," the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-states-account-for-over-70-of-india-s-active-covid-19-cases-govt-101618132196995.html
11-04-2021||India||Delhi, Odisha, Assam: States which recently made RT-PCR test must for travellers||Delhi, Odisha, Assam have imposed fresh restrictions on travellers coming from outside as India is witnessing the peak of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Sunday, India recorded 1,52,879 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day surge since the beginning of the pandemic in 2020. As Maharashtra is reporting the highest number of daily infections, most states have made it mandatory for Maharashtra people to carry a negative RT-PCR certificate while travelling. Some states, on the other hand, made RT-PCR test mandatory for all travellers, notwithstanding from which state they are coming from. As many frontline workers have received both their vaccine dose, vaccine certificate is also being considered as a valid pass to travel.DelhiPeople coming from Maharashtra will require a negative RT-PCR test report of not more than 72 hours. If found without report, a mandatory quarantine of 14 days has been ordered by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, Govt of NCT of Delhi.OdishaPeople entering the state by bus, train, aeroplane, waterways or in a private vehicle will have to produce either a negative RT-PCR test report obtained in 72 hours or the final certificate of vaccination, after both the doses. As no specific state is mentioned, it is implied that all those who will be travelling to Odisha will require either of the two certificates. Those who won't have the report or the vaccination completion certificate will have to undergo quarantine mandatorily for seven days. This rule is applicable from April 12.AssamFrom April 9, Assam has made RT-PCR negative test report mandatory for people coming to the state from Mumbai and Bengaluru. In case, passengers do not have a satisfactory test report, they will have to undergo a testing at their own expense and wait at designated location (at own expense) for the result to be available.For passengers coming by trains from Maharashtra or Karnataka or transiting through either of these two states will have to undergo testing at railway stations in Assam. This rule has been made effective from April 3.KashmirTravellers coming to Kashmir by road will have to undergo coronavirus tests in Kulgam district, Srinagar deputy commissioner Mohammed Aijaz Asad has said.Since the rise in Covid-19 cases began in February, many states put these restrictions on travellers coming from other states in February and March.Gujarat, RajasthanA negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours is mandatory to enter both Gujarat and Rajasthan since the beginning of this month.Madhya PradeshIn March, the Madhya Pradesh government made RT-PCR test mandatory for people flying to Indore and Bhopal from Maharashtra.KarnatakaPeople travelling to Bengaluru from Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab and Chandigarh are required to carry a negative RT-PCR report. From April 10 to April 20, people travelling from Bengaluru to Mysuru also require negative RT-PCR report, as cases are rising in Bengaluru.UttarakhandFrom April 1, the Uttarakhand government made RT-PCR test report mandatory for travellers coming from Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi ad Rajasthan.MaharashtraEarlier, Maharashtra made negative RT-PCR report mandatory for travellers from Gujarat, Delhi-NCR, Goa, Rajasthan and Kerala. with the number of Covid-19 cases skyrocketing, now Maharashtra districts are also laying down specific rules.Though the Centre has ordered there should be no restrictions in interstate and intrastate travel, Odisha has sealed its border with Chhattisgarh as Chhattisgarh is contributing the second-highest number of daily Covid-19 infections in the country, after Maharashtra. In March, Madhya Pradesh's Barwani district sealed its border with Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-odisha-assam-states-which-recently-made-rt-pcr-test-must-for-travellers-101618130754676.html
11-04-2021||India||Night curfew in UP districts with more than 500 active Covid-19 cases, announces Yogi Adityanath govt||The Yogi Adityanath government has announced night curfew in Uttar Pradesh districts with more than 500 active Covid-19 cases. Orders have also been given to close all schools, colleges, and coaching from class 1 to 12 in the state till April 30.Adityanath has clarified that the pre-scheduled exam will continue. Staff can be called for necessary work in the office. The state government had earlier asked all schools to keep their classes one to eight closed till April 11.प्रदेश में कक्षा 01 से 12वीं तक के सभी सरकारी/गैर सरकारी विद्यालयों में 30 अप्रैल तक पठन-पाठन स्थगित रखा जाए। कोचिंग सेंटर भी बंद रहें। इस अवधि में पूर्व निर्धारित परीक्षाएं हो सकती हैं और आवश्यकता के अनुरूप शिक्षक व अन्य स्टाफ आ सकते हैं: #UPCM श्री @myogiadityanath जीIn view of rising cases of Covid-19, a night curfew has already been imposed in Uttar Pradesh's capital Lucknow, Kanpur and Varanasi with effect from April 8.Police Commissioner of Lucknow DK Thakur said on Wednesday, "Night curfew to be imposed in Lucknow from tomorrow between 9 pm and 6 am. The curfew will continue till April 30," Thakur said.Earlier on Saturday, Adityanath directed to immediately arrange at least 2,000 ICU beds in the capital Lucknow in view of the increasing threat of Covid-19.Given a large influx of people from Maharashtra, Punjab, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, and Karnataka, Yogi said, "Covid infection rate is quite high in these states. Thus those who come from there must be tested. Activate Nigrani Samitis in each gram panchayat and municipal ward. Even if a single case of Covid is found in any village, sanitize the entire village. Impose corona curfew on any district that has more than 500 active cases and ensure wedding events end before 10 pm."Uttar Pradesh on Saturday reported 12,748 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). With 46 fresh deaths, the Covid fatality count climbed to 9,085, according to a government statement. So far, 608,853 patients have recovered from the disease. The count of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 58,801, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-in-up-districts-with-more-than-500-active-covid-19-cases-announces-yogi-adityanath-govt-101618128374437.html
11-04-2021||India||‘Lockdown is no solution’: Kejriwal urges Delhiites to offer support in fight against Covid-19||Expressing concern over the severe spike in Covid-19 cases in the national capital, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that a lockdown is no solution to the pandemic but the city government will be forced to impose one if the healthcare system collapses. Kejriwal urged people with mild or no symptoms not to rush to hospitals and leave beds vacant for patients with severe symptoms.“In Delhi, we have fought three waves. The fourth wave is dangerous. It is spreading fast. Around mid-March, Delhi was witnessing less than 200 cases a day. On Sunday, it recorded 10,722 cases in 24 hours. It is the highest till date. At the peak of the third wave in November, Delhi recorded 8,593 new cases in a day. On Saturday, Delhi recorded 7,897 new cases and on Friday 8,521 new cases. It shows how fast the disease is spreading now. The situation is concerning and we are closely monitoring it,” said Kejriwal.As he stressed on the government’s strategy of scaling up tests to arrest the spread of the disease, Kejriwal said in a video press briefing that the capital city on Sunday recorded 10,732 new Covid-19 cases – a new record for a single day spike – as against 7,897 new cases on Saturday and 8,521 on Friday.Asserting that the “fourth wave” of the disease in Delhi is so far the most dangerous in terms of spread, Kejriwal cited government data to claim that 65% of the patients who are now getting the infection in Delhi are less than 45 years old. He urged the central government to open the ongoing vaccination drive to people of all ages and relax the protocol for starting new vaccine sites.Kejriwal asked the people to stay indoors and step out of their homes only if it is very necessary. He appealed to all political parties to join hands in controlling the pandemic.Also read: Delhi’s situation worrying, says Kejriwal as 24-hr covid tally crosses 10k-markHe further said, “We are working largely on three fronts. First, we aim to arrest the spread of the disease. This is a front on which the government alone can do much. We need immense cooperation from the people of Delhi. I request people to always wear a mask, maintain social distancing, wash hands, and stay indoors. Step out only if necessary. We do not want to impose a lockdown but some restrictions had to be imposed yesterday in light of the severe spike in cases. Please let us not allow that to get more severe.”“Second, we aim to ensure the best healthcare service – hospital beds, ICU, ventilators… Hospital management is our priority. We urge people to use the mobile app launched by the government to check the availability of beds. Also, please do not hesitate to go to government hospitals. We ensure quality healthcare there. There is no point in rushing to private hospitals in large numbers. It is obvious that they will run out of resources very soon that way,” he said.He further said, “But, the most important thing to remember, go to hospitals only if necessary. If everyone rushes to hospitals, we will run out of beds, ICUs, ventilators, etc. An asymptomatic person going to hospital can deprive a serious patient of bed and lead to that patient’s death. We have an excellent home isolation model. That is more than capable of taking care of patients with mild or no symptoms. Please keep hospital beds vacant for serious patients. I believe that lockdown is no solution to the pandemic. We have seen that once. It is only for times when a state’s health system collapses. If we have your support and the healthcare management system is under control, then there will be no need for a lockdown. But, if it goes out of control, we may be forced to impose a lockdown.”“Third, we are aiming at speeding up the vaccination process. I have written to the central government to remove all restrictions concerning vaccination. Now, 65% of patients are less than 45 years old, our records showed. How do we stop the spread without vaccinating this age group? We need to remove all restrictions and take up vaccination on a war footing.,” he said.The vaccination drive is currently open for people aged over 45 years across the country.“Also, we have come across reports from several states about doctors testing Covid-19 positive despite taking both doses of the vaccine. I consulted doctors and experts and learnt that vaccines do not give protection from potential infection. It protects from severe effects of Covid-19. So, I urge all eligible people to not hesitate from taking the vaccine and add that additional shield of protection. But one has to continue wearing masks and following all regulations,” he said. The chief minister further said, “We have scaled up tests – 120,000 per day. I appeal to all political parties to join hands in the fight against Covid-19. This is not the time for politics. Let us fight Covid-19 together. I have also come across people who say that they are tired of wearing masks. I want to ask them: Are the doctors and paramedics not tired? They work in PPE all day. Letting guards down is not allowed at this stage.”Charoo Hans, former head of microbiology department in Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, said, “Data suggests that in this particular wave, more number of younger people are getting affected. They should not rush to hospitals unless indicated in the form of severe symptoms or breathlessness or decreased oxygen saturation as measured by pulse oximeter. Tele-consultatiton has helped a large number of patients to be treated in home isolation, which needs to be encouraged. Hospital beds should be kept for the vulnerable section of the population -- elderly, people with comorbidities, etc.”“As far as a lockdown is concerned, we have globally seen its economic impact. So, to ensure that things are under control, the government should go for stricter enforcement of regulations that have already been implemented. The government should focus on creating micro containment zones instead of implementing lockdown. Such strategy will enable economic movements as well as take care of the spread of Covid-19 infections,” Hans added. Kejriwal’s comments came a day after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) brought back sweeping restrictions on activities to curb the alarming spread of Covid-19, banning large public gatherings, curtailing crowds in wedding and funerals, and capping maximum capacity for restaurants, cinema halls and public buses among other things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-is-no-solution-kejriwal-urges-delhiites-to-offer-support-in-fight-against-covid19-101618129351460.html
11-04-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi asks for maximum jabs, zero wastage during Tika Utsav||Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealed for the maximum number of Covid-19 vaccine jabs to be given during the 4-day-long ‘Tika Utsav’ or the special vaccination drive, which he described as the “second war” on Covid-19. The drive kick-started from Sunday after it was first announced by PM Modi during a meeting with chief ministers to discuss measures to contain the second wave of coronavirus that has now surpassed the number of infections seen in the first phase of the disease in the country.“The Tika Utsav marks the beginning of the second war against Covid-19,” said the prime minister. He also urged everyone to focus on personal and social hygiene while stressing on the importance of establishing micro-containment zones to combat the spread of the virus in a densely populated country like India.“We should vaccinate as many eligible people through a special campaign and decide on zero wastage. If there is zero wastage in four days during ‘Tika Utsav’, it will also increase our vaccination capacity,” said the PM.Tika Utsav was announced by the Prime Minister to intensify the fight against the second wave of Covid infections. On Sunday, India reported 1,52,879 new Covid cases and 839 deaths in the last 24 hours. India leads the world in the daily average number of new infections reported, accounting for one in every six infections reported globally each day, according to a Reuters tally. Daily cases have set record highs six times this week, according to data from the Union health ministry. Deaths have also surged, with the health ministry reporting 839 fatalities on Sunday - the highest in over five months -The total number of cases in the country now stands at 1,33,58,805 and death has crossed the 1.69 lakh mark. There are 11,08,087 active cases present in the country, while more than 1 crore people have recovered.PM Modi outlined three responsibilities for every citizen in the fight against coronavirus. “Each one, vaccinate one, each one, treat one and each one, save one,” he said.While several states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are aiming to double the inoculations during the four-day programme, the drive drew a lot of criticism from leaders of opposition parties. On Friday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “Vaccine shortage is a grave issue, not an ‘utsav’.”The country has administered more than 100 million doses since the middle of January, the most after the United States and China. But several Indian states have complained of a vaccine shortage, despite immunisation being currently restricted to only about 400 million of India’s 1.35 billion people. The Central government has refuted the allegations of vaccine shortage. India began its vaccination drive earlier this year in a phased manner and currently all above the age of 45 years are eligible to get vaccinated.According to the data released by the Union health ministry, eight states- Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala- account for 60.62% of the total vaccine doses given so far in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-asks-for-maximum-jabs-zero-wastage-during-tika-utsav-101618128331564.html
11-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: CBI questions Anil Deshmukh’s PAs over extortion allegations and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.NIA arrests Mumbai cop in Vaze case; CBI questions Anil Deshmukh’s PAsThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday arrested Mumbai Police’s assistant police inspector Riyaz Kazi for allegedly helping suspended officer Sachin Vaze in the conspiracy related to planting of explosive in an SUV outside the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani on February 25 and subsequent murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran on March 5, people familiar with the development said. Chopper with businessman Yusuff Ali crash lands in Kerala; 'earsplitting sound' says localA helicopter with businessman MA Yusuff Ali - chairman of LuLu Group - and four others on board crash-landed in Kochi city of Kerala on Sunday morning. According to the company, all five passengers including Ali and his four family members are safe and currently under medical observation at Lake Shore Hospital in Kochi. Read moreAbhishek Bachchan on falling in love with Aishwarya Rai during Umrao Jaan: 'Universe conspired to bring us together'Actor Abhishek Bachchan in a recent interview spoke about the beginnings of his romantic relationship with wife Aishwarya Rai. The couple tied the knot in 2007, and they have one daughter, Aaradhya. Police departments use Rahul Dravid’s viral ad clip to share advisory postsIf you’re a regular user of social media, then by now you may have seen the viral advertisement video featuring Rahul Dravid. Read more'He thinks maybe he should bat only for last four-five overs': Gavaskar has a piece of advice for DhoniChennai Super Kings’ Indian Premier League 2021 campaign got off to a disappointing start. Batting first, CSK scored 188 runs in 20 overs with Suresh Raina hitting a fifty. But Prithvi Shaw and Shikhar Dhawan were in great form as they smashed 72 and 85 respectively to take the game away from CSK. DC eventually chased down the target in 18.4 overs with seven wickets to spare. Read moreRoad trip Travelogue: Bengaluru to Goa in 800- km Honda Drive to Discover rideThe significance of a road trip has increased manifold in Covid-19 times. Whether a short trip to the nearest hill station or a well-planned drive escapade to the beach, depending on where one starts from, a car can indeed be a person's best friend as most of us remain bound at home in 'Work From Home' scenarios. Read more‘Don’t compare Kumbh Mela to Markaz event’: Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh RawatFlouting Corona guidelines? Allowing millions to visit the Kumbh? Religion above health? Decrying women? Equating Modi with God? Listen to Tirath Singh Rawat Uttarakhand Chief Minister on HT’s talk show The Interview. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-cbi-questions-anil-deshmukh-s-pas-over-extortion-allegations-and-all-the-latest-news-101618122522119.html
11-04-2021||India||Jailed Odisha gangster flees hospital after feeding spiked biryani to guard||A gangster serving life sentence, escaped from a government medical college cum hospital in Odisha on Saturday afternoon, after drugging the policeman in charge of his security, said police. However, the circumstances of his escape have cast a big shadow on the police department.Sheikh Hyder, who was serving life sentence since 2015 in the case of murder of miner Rashmi Mohapatra, was brought to Srirama Chandra Bhanja (SCB) Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack, from Sambalpur circle jail, 28 days ago for a surgery. On Saturday afternoon, he was found missing from his bed in the surgery department by a nurse, who wanted to give the gangster a jab. She also found the sentry sleeping.“When I arrived at the bed at 5.30 pm, I found the sentry sleeping. He woke him up, but he was disoriented. Hyder was not there on his bed,” said the nurse.Senior police officials said there appeared to be clear laxity in the handling of the gangster’s security.“It was the duty of police officials in Sambalpur (from where he was taken to Cuttack) to ensure his foolproof security. Just one armed police security was given. We did not even know that the gangster was being treated in SCB Medical College and Hospital since the last 28 days. We were informed only after he fled,” said Soumendra Priyadarshi, Bhubaneswar Cuttack police commissioner.Cuttack deputy commissioner of police Prateek Singh said the lone security guard on duty was given a spiked soft drink by Hyder’s associates. However, another official claimed the guard was reportedly fed Hyderabadi biryani, spiked with drugs, before the gangster fled. Police said they were still investigating who helped Hyder inside the hospital.That’s not the only mystery though; another police official said the circumstances of Hyder’s referral to SCB Medical College and Hospital were also not clear. “While there were reports that he was to be operated on his gallbladder, yet there are contradictory reports of him having different health issues. The doctors will have to be questioned,” said an official, who didn’t wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jailed-odisha-gangster-flees-hospital-after-feeding-spiked-biryani-to-guard-101618125630834.html
11-04-2021||India||NIA arrests Mumbai cop in Vaze case; CBI questions Anil Deshmukh’s PAs||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday arrested Mumbai Police’s assistant police inspector Riyaz Kazi for allegedly helping suspended officer Sachin Vaze in the conspiracy related to planting of explosive in an SUV outside the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani on February 25 and subsequent murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran on March 5, people familiar with the development said. Kazi, who was posted in the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) along with Vaze, was aware of Vaze’s plans and “actively” took part in the conspiracy, said an officer who didn’t want to be named. Vaze was arrested on March 13 by the central anti-terror probe agency for allegedly devising the whole plan with the motive to regain his lost glory in the Mumbai police, as first reported by the HT. The agency then also took over the investigation into the murder of Hiran claiming it was a “connected” offence and Vaze had killed Hiran after the businessman refused to take the blame for the explosive-laden vehicle. The NIA earlier questioned Kazi for several days in a row to join the dots in the probe and it was revealed that he may have played a crucial role in procuring the fake number plates for the cars used by Vaze’s team members. He was also reportedly part of the meetings, where allegedly conspiracy to kill Hiran was hatched, but this aspect is being further investigated by the agency, said a second officer. In a related development, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was questioning former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s two personal assistants - Sanjeev Palande and Kundan to investigate if the former minister asked Vaze to collect ₹100 crore from hotels, bars and restaurants, as alleged by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh. Singh and other few senior police officers of Mumbai have already been questioned by the CBI since Friday while the NIA has also shared relevant case documents to assist the agency in the alleged extortion/corruption probe. The anti-corruption probe agency has been asked by the Supreme Court to finish its preliminary enquiry within 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-mumbai-cop-in-vaze-case-cbi-questions-anil-deshmukh-s-pas-101618123650933.html
11-04-2021||India||Remdesivir shortage in Nagpur; Nitin Gadkari dials Sun Pharma chief for 10,000 injections||Union minister Nitin Gadkari has called up Sun Pharma's chief to arrange for 10,000 injections of Remdesivir in Nagpur in view of a shortage of the medicine here in Maharashtra.Remdesivir is considered a key anti-viral drug in the fight against Covid-19, especially in adult patients with severe complications.A press release from Gadkari's office on Saturday said the Lok Sabha member from Nagpur spoke to Sun Pharma's Managing Director Dilip Shanghvi over phone to inform him about the situation here and appealed to him to make available the Remdesivir injections.The pharma company chief assured Gadkari of making available 5,000 injections immediately on Saturday and the remaining 5,000 in next two-three days, the release said.Gadkari also appealed to the people of Nagpur to follow all Covid-19 prevention protocols.With Maharashtra witnessing a spurt in Covid-19 cases, Remdesivir injections are in high demand in the state.Maharashtra Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat on Saturday said there is shortage of Remdesivir injections and the supply of vaccine doses was inadequate.On Thursday, the state government capped the price of Remdesivir between ₹1,100 and ₹1,400 per vial and warned against its hoarding and black marketing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remdesivir-shortage-in-nagpur-nitin-gadkari-dials-sun-pharma-chief-for-10-000-injections-101618121187119.html
11-04-2021||India||Delhi's situation worrying, 4th wave dangerous, says Kejriwal as Capital records over 10k new Covid-19 cases||Terming the present situation of Covid-19 in the Capital worrisome, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged people to stay at home as much as possible, as the ongoing peak has surpassed the intensity of November 2020, with Delhi recording 10,732 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. This is the highest spike in the Delhi's cases since the pandemic began in March 2020, as Delhi's single-day rise never crossed 10,000 before. On November 11, 2020, Delhi recorded 8,593 infections, which was the highest single-day spike in the Capital.A day after the government imposed some fresh restrictions limiting the capacity of cinema halls, bars, restaurants, buses etc., Kejriwal said the government is not in favour of lockdown, but still imposed those restrictions as there was no other option. "I don't believe that lockdown is the solution. Lockdown can only slow down the spread of the infection. Governments should take resort to lockdown only when the health infrastructure is stressed," the CM said adding that Delhi has not yet reached the situation.Delhi imposes new Covid-19 curbs. What allowed, what's not"Do not get hospitalised if your case is not severe, if you can be treated in home isolation too. Delhi has the best home isolation facilities. We will send teams to your home. If you occupy a bed in a hospital which could have been used for a person whose condition is severe, then the health infrastructure comes under stress and none can say, Delhi may need lockdown then," Kejriwal said.Quoting the 24-hour tally of fresh infections in the Capital, before the numbers are officially released, Kejriwal said, "In the last 24 hours, 10,732 cases have been recorded in the Capital. A day before, there were 7,900 cases. And the day before yesterday, the number was 8,521. So the fourth wave of the pandemic is more dangerous than the third wave in November," the Chief Minister said.Kejriwal reiterated his request to the Centre to remove the present age restriction in the vaccination drive and said 65 per cent of patients in Delhi are aged below 45 years. "Then how can the virus be stalled if we vaccinate people above 45 years? Our vaccination drive should have been faster than the rate in which the infection is spreading," Kejriwal said.On 37 doctors of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital being infected, Kejriwal said, "Reinfection may take happen. Another incident has been reported from Uttar Pradesh too. People are asking me whether the vaccine is effective at all. I have asked experts and I would say what they told me that vaccine won't make your condition serious. Even if you are re-infected, you won't die, you may not have to get admitted to the ICU. So, get vaccinated whenever the age restriction is lifted."Delhi government is prepared to visit door-to-door to vaccinate all people of the Capital in three months if the Centre relaxes the restrictions, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-situation-worrisome-says-kejriwal-as-capital-records-10-732-covid-cases-101618120311950.html
11-04-2021||India||India records over 1.5 lakh Covid-19 cases: Here are 10 worst affected states||India recorded 1,52,879 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, hitting another record in the daily tally of cases. The country, which is currently in the throes of a vicious second wave of Covid-19, has been registering a steady increase in the numner of cases on a regular basis.As per the health ministry, 10 states - Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan - are showing a steep rise in daily Covid-19 cases. They accounted for 82.82 per cent of the new infections on Saturday, the ministry said.MaharashtraMaharashtra on Saturday recorded 55,411 new cases, bringing the state-wide tally to 3,343,951. The total number of active cases in the state now stands at 536,682; Pune leads the count of active cases with 102,115, followed by Mumbai with 89,707. The surge has caused Pune and Nagpur to run out of ventilators. Relatives of Covid-19 infected patients sat for a ‘dharna’ demanding Remdesivir injections for the ailing. Reports of Remdesivir being sold in black markets of Pimpri-Chinchwad were also received. The state government has constituted district-wise control rooms to monitor the sale of this life saving injection. Union minister Prakash Javadekar assured the Maharashtra government that 1121 ventilators will be sent to the state in the coming 3-4 days as cases continue to rise.ChhattisgarhThe vaccination drive in Chhattisgarh, which has been witnessing a surge in cases, has hit a major roadblock due to shortage of doses. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Saturday that the state has vaccine stock to last two days only. “We have requested the Central government to provide vaccine doses for seven days so that the vaccination drive continues to run smoothly," said Baghel. Chhattisgarh recorded 11,447 cases of Covid-19 on Saturday.Uttar PradeshUttar Pradesh recorded 12,787 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday - its highest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the state. Night curfew has been imposed in Noida, Allahabad, Meerut, Bareilly, and Ghaziabad. Entry into religious places have also been capped at five individuals at once.DelhiDelhi recorded 7,897 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, reporting a drop below the 8,000-mark as testing rates dipped in the national capital. The city conducted 77,374 tests on Saturday as compared to 89,334 tests conducted daily on average over the last seven days. Delhi’s positivity rate, the proportion of samples that test positive, jumped to 10.2% on Saturday, marking a double digit ratio for the first time in 138 days since November 24 of last year. The Delhi government imposed a fresh set of restrictions on Saturday.KarnatakaKarnataka on Saturday recorded 6,955 fresh Covid-19 cases, registering a dip from the 7,955 cases it had recorded on Friday. Bengaluru Urban alone contributed more than 50 per cent to the state’s tally. An 11-day coronavirus curfew starting from Saturday has been imposed in certain districts of the state including the capital in order to tackle the rising number of cases.Tamil NaduTamil Nadu reported 5,989 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, pushing the infection tally to 9,26,816. At 1,977 new cases, capital city of Chennai recorded the most number of infections. Congress candidate Madhava Rao who had recently contested for the state assembly succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday.KeralaKerala on Saturday recorded 6,194 positive cases of Covid-19, taking the state-wide tally to 11,60,204. Amongst the fresh cases 171 came from outside the state and the rest were infected through contact.Madhya PradeshMadhya Pradesh reported 4,882 new cases on Saturday. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan told reporters on Saturday that the state’s active caseload might reach the 1 lakh mark by the end of this month. The state has also been witnessing a shortage of the life saving drug Remdesivir, Indore’s Mahatma Gandhi Memorial College has been designated as the nodal agency for distributing the drug all over the state. The state government has also decided to purchase one lakh injections to meet the requirements, the chief minister told news agency PTI.GujaratGujarat recorded 5,011 cases on Saturday, taking the state wide tally to 3,42,026. The state’s famous Somnath temple has decided to shut its doors to devotees from April 11 following the sudden spike in cases. The Gujarat State Election Commission has also decided to postpone the Gandhinagar Municipal polls for an indefinite period after chief minister Vijay Rupani urged the poll body to do so. The chief minister said on Saturday that he is not in favour of imposing a state-wide lockdown but local level lockdowns are a welcome step. The state has also been accused of hiding actual Covid-19 data, an allegation the chief minister denied on Saturday.RajasthanRajasthan recorded 4,401 cases of Covid-19 on Saturday. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot took to Twitter to urge people into following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, he warned that the second wave has been touted as being more lethal than the first wave. Gehlot also told reporters that the state has been witnessing a shortage of vaccines and the Central government should take the state governments onboard as stakeholders in the vaccination process and not treat them as adversaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-over-1-5-lakh-covid-19-cases-here-are-10-worst-affected-states-101618120254962.html
11-04-2021||India||Highest single-day Covid-19 spike in J&K, 6 die, 38 girl students test positive||Six deaths were reported and 38 girl hostellers along with five staff members at the University of Jammu were found Covid-19 infected on Saturday, when Jammu Kashmir recorded its highest single-day spike this year amid concerns over the second wave of the disease, said officials.“The infected girls have been isolated in the hospital rooms and the hostel has been converted into a quarantine centre,” said a health official, who didn’t wish to be named. On Friday, 26 faculty members of different departments in the University tested positive. The UT saw its highest single-day spike this year with 1,005 new positive cases taking the tally to 1,37,475. Out of the fresh cases, 299 were from Jammu division and 706 from Kashmir division of the Union territory, officials said. Srinagar district has recorded the most daily cases at 492, followed by 183 in Jammu and 93 in Baramulla district. The number of active cases in UT stands at 6,755, while 1,28,691 patients have recovered, according to official data.A 28-year-old youth from Samba, a 70-year-old man from Bathindi, a 91-year-old man from Nanak Nagar and a 60-year old resident of Gadigarh in Satwari were among the five deceased in Jammu. Jammu University’s girls’ hostel was declared a quarantine centre after 43 out of the 329 samples tested for the infection returned positive.“The fresh positive cases included 38 girl students of the campus and five employees,” said a health official. Officials also said that the vaccination drive in the UT was being sped-up and more doses were requested for from the Centre, however there was no shortage of the vaccine.“On Saturday J&K received 1 lakh vaccines. However, we need more and the matter has been taken up with the Centre. ...We are administering the Covishield vaccine to around 60,000 people daily but we need more stocks,” the official said. The recent spike also led to cancellation of several examinations scheduled by the Jammu University.“It is hereby notified for the information of all concerned that BA, LLB (5 years) 3rd semester, M.Com 3rd semester, BE 7th semester, LLB (3 years) 5th semester and UG 3rd semester, BA LLB (5 years), 3rd/7th semester, BE 7th semester which were scheduled to be held on April 11, 12 and 15, 2021 respectively have been postponed due to unavoidable circumstances and the fresh date shall be communicated,” read a notification issued by the deputy registrar (conduct).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-single-day-covid-19-spike-in-j-k-6-die-38-girl-students-test-positive-101618118370570.html
11-04-2021||India||Chopper with businessman Yusuff Ali crash lands in Kerala; 'earsplitting sound' says local||A helicopter with businessman MA Yusuff Ali - chairman of LuLu Group - and six others on board crash-landed in Kochi city of Kerala on Sunday morning. According to the company, all sevem passengers including Ali, his four family members and two pilots are safe and currently under medical observation at Lake Shore Hospital in Kochi.The incident took place at 9am, according to officials. The chopper was supposed to land at the KUFOS campus ground but had to touch down near the highway due to technical issues.The locals said that they heard an "earsplitting sound" as the chopper crash-landed in a marsh. "It was raining heavily in the morning. We heard the sound of the helicopter and it suddenly came down with an earsplitting sound. In the impact the chopper was submerged almost half in the marsh," said K Rajesh, one of the first to reach the site. His house is just 20 metres away from the crash site.The police believe a technical glitch caused the mishap. Further investigation is underway.Lu Lu group is one of the biggest supermarket chains. It is headquartered in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.On Friday, Ali was honoured with the highest civilian award for his contribution to Abu Dhabi's business, industry and support to various philanthropic initiatives, the LuLu Group said in a statement.He awarded the honour by the Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chopper-with-businessman-yusuff-ali-onboard-crash-lands-in-kerala-s-kochi-101618115767423.html
11-04-2021||India||As 'Tika Utsav' begins, PM Modi posts 4 requests for countrymen||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday posted a message on Twitter to mark Tika Utsav, or vaccination festival, which aims to inoculate maximum number of eligible people against the viral disease. The Prime Minister also posted four requests along with his message."Today, we are starting the Tika Utsav across the country. In this round of fight against corona, I have four requests..." PM Modi said, pasting a link to a release where these requests were listed: Each One- Vaccinate One, Each One- Treat One, Each One- Save One, and creation of micro-containment zones.आज से हम सभी, देशभर में टीका उत्सव की शुरुआत कर रहे हैं। कोरोना के खिलाफ लड़ाई के इस चरण में देशवासियों से मेरे चार आग्रह हैं… https://t.co/8zXZ0bqYglExplaining what each request entails, PM Modi said Each One-Vaccinate One means helping those (such as less educated and old) who cannot get themselves vaccinated; Each One-Treat One is about helping those who do not have the means to, or do not know about the facilities available, for vaccination; under Each One-Save One emphasis is on wearing masks which will help saves lives of the people.About the fourth request, PM Modi said that people must lead in creation of micro-containment zones. Wherever a Covid-19 positive case has been reported, people of that family and locality must create a micro-containment zone."This Tika Utsav is a beginning of second big fight against Covid-19. We have to give special emphasis on personal hygiene as well as social hygiene," PM Modi said in his message.These messages are reiteration of what PM Modi told chief ministers during a meeting on Covid-19 situation in the country on Thursday. He said that the chief ministers should learn to deal with criticism, but continue the work of vaccinating people and increasing testing.The Tika Utsav has been organised on the advice of PM Modi with an aim to inoculate maximum number of eligible people against the coronavirus amid a surge in cases.In his interaction with chief ministers on Thursday, PM Modi urged them to focus on vaccinating all those who are above 45 years in age in high caseload districts."Sometimes, it helps in changing the atmosphere. The birth anniversary of Jyotiba Phule is on April 11 and on April 14, there is the birth anniversary of Baba Saheb. Can we organise a 'Tika Utsav: or vaccine festival and create an atmosphere of Tika Utsav?" he had said.The daily count of Covid-19 positive cases has reached record highs in the last few days in India. On Sunday, the country recorded 152,879 new cases of the viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-tika-utsav-begins-pm-modi-posts-4-requests-for-countrymen-101618115233559.html
11-04-2021||India||Army imparts weapons training to VDC members||The Indian Army has started imparting weapon handling, firing and maintenance training, to village defence committees (VDCs) in phases over the past week in Jammu and Kashmir’s Reasi and Rajouri districts, following a spike in terrorism activities in the past 12-15 months, said officials.“In its continued endeavours towards ensuring peace in border areas and hinterland of South of Pir Panjal in Jammu and Kashmir, Indian Army interacted with village defence committees (VDCs) of Reasi and Rajouri districts,” said defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand on Saturday.Village defence committees (VDCs) are an important part of the anti-militancy grid in Jammu and Kashmir and were first set up in the mid-1990s in Chenab Valley area to arm and train villagers to defend against Pak-sponsored militants. VDCs comprise villagers as well as police officers. There are 4125 VDCs in the UT as per the latest official figures The Indian Army trains them from time to time in weapons handling and intelligence gathering skills.179 youth were recruited by terror organisations in J&K in the year 2020 as compared to 119 in 2019; the rise in numbers indicated increased terror activity and radicalisation of the youth. The number of terrorists killed in 2020 was also higher at 220 compared to 161 in 2019. On March 13 this year, J&K director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said around 200 terrorists were active in the Union Territory and 250 were waiting at various launch pads across the Line of Control (LoC) in Pak Occupied Kashmir (PoK).Lt Col Anand said the committees played a significant role in counter terrorism operations and maintaining vigil over inimical elements with an overall aim of ensuring lasting peace in remote areas. “Meaningful interaction was carried out with local members and modalities of training of VDCs were also discussed,” he said.“The event, organised for VDC members of Kandi, Khawas, Samote, Budhal in Rajouri district and areas of Chasana, Mamankot in Reasi district, was optimally utilised for imparting training on weapon handling, firing and refreshing the individuals on weapon maintenance drills,” said Col Anand.A total of 208 VDC members attended the event, where they were also updated on the latest modus operandi and tactics employed by the militants.“VDC members were also briefed about the prevalent situation with respect to modus operandi of militants in order to execute swift and effective response, tactics being employed by anti-national elements and how important their role is to ensure sustained peace and prosperity in the region,” Col Anand said.Former DGP Dr SP Vaid said: “During peak militancy in 1995, these VDCs were created. When I was SSP Udhampur, there was an attack in a remote village, now in Reasi district, when villagers took on armed terrorists with axes and killed a couple of them. At that time they demanded that VDCs should be created and they be given arms to take them on. This is how the first VDC was raised.”Another security expert Maj Gen (retired) GS Jamwal said, “VDCs in fact saved Jammu from Pak sponsored terrorism. When a major chunk of security forces were sent to election bound Punjab during peak militancy, I coined the idea of VDCs to the then CM Farooq Abdullah. We have around one Lakh ex-servicemen in remote and other areas of J-K. The VDCs played an indispensable role in checking terrorism. Their reactivation is a move in the right direction because of them, terrorism never succeeded in the Jammu region; but at the same time, they should be given a dignified honorarium,” said general Jamwal.Former top cop Vaidya also hailed the move: “They have done an excellent work in checking Pak sponsored terrorism. They are undoubtedly force multiplier and play a crucial role in containing terrorism. If they are being reactivated by army and police then I think they can play a very crucial role because they are the force multipliers and undoubtedly check terrorism in remote and hilly areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-imparts-weapons-training-to-vdc-members-101618115250740.html
11-04-2021||India||India logs 152,879 fresh Covid-19 cases, daily toll surges past 800||India recorded 152,879 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which took the nation’s total infection tally past 13.35 million, according to figures released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday morning.For the past week, India has been reporting a daily spike of more than 100,000 cases in the second wave of the pandemic across the country, which has forced several states and union territories (UTs), including Maharashtra and Delhi, to impose stricter curbs to prevent the virus from spreading.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here As of Sunday, the active Covid-19 caseload in the country stood at 1,108,087, which accounts for 7.93% of the total confirmed cases. Fatalities related to the viral disease are also on the rise with 839 deaths reported in a day.With an aim to vaccinate the maximum number of eligible people against coronavirus, the government has launched a four-day vaccination festival called Tika Utsav, following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for mass inoculation during the meeting with chief ministers of all states and UTs earlier this week.“We should vaccinate as many eligible people through a special campaign and decide on zero wastage. If there is zero wastage in four days during ‘Tika Utsav’, it will also increase our vaccination capacity. We should make optimum utilization of vaccination capacity. And for this, if we have to increase the number of vaccination centres, we should do it. Let’s see how we can mobilize things from April 11 to 14 and there will be the satisfaction of achievement. It will greatly help in changing the situation,” PM Modi said at the meeting.As the youth is not currently covered in the immunisation campaign, the Prime Minister as state authorities to make the younger generation aware of precautions. “Rather than forcing the youth for the vaccination, we should inspire them to follow protocols. If the youth decide to take it as a challenge, he will not only follow the protocols but will make sure that others also follow the same,” he said.Meanwhile, as Maharashtra continues to report the maximum of daily Covid-19 cases (55,411), chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday hinted at putting the state under a lockdown to stop the surge. He will chair a meeting of the Covid-19 task force later in the day to discuss the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-152-879-fresh-covid-19-cases-daily-toll-surges-past-800-101618113114185.html
11-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covid-19 vaccination drive picks up but challenges remain and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.As vaccination drive picks up pace, challenges remainOn April 1, India’s Covid-19 vaccination programme received a much-needed boost with the start of the third phase of the inoculation drive which made all Indians above the age of 45 years eligible for coronavirus vaccines. Read MoreIndia observes 4-day Tika Utsav as PM Modi calls for mass Covid-19 vaccinationIn a bid to intensify the fight against the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, India will observe a four-day 'vaccine festival' (Tika Utsav) in the country. Read MoreTwo-week lockdown in Maharashtra? Uddhav Thackeray to hold crucial meeting todayMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is likely to take a decision on imposing a lockdown in the state after a key meeting of the Covid-19 task force on the Covid-19 situation today. Read More'He has to be my go-to man': Apprentice Rishabh Pant puts over master MS Dhoni after Delhi Capitals' big winThe apprentice Rishabh Pant won the battle against his master MS Dhoni as Delhi Capitals pulled off a superb seven-wicket win against Chennai Super Kings on Saturday. Read MoreJanhvi Kapoor stuns in Rs.4k white bikini top and shorts in Maldives, unseen picsJanhvi Kapoor has returned to Mumbai after her vacation in the serene Maldives. Read MoreAnkita Lokhande shares video of her journey with boyfriend Vicky Jain, fans want them to get married. WatchActor Ankita Lokhande shared a video of her journey with boyfriend Vicky Jain on their third anniversary on Saturday and fans could not get enough of the couple. Read MoreDad and kid recite nursery rhyme in the cutest way possible. Watch viral clipIf you’re looking for a happy video to start your day, then this clip of a baby and a dad may just do the trick. Read MoreIPL 2021 | CSK vs DC: Dhawan, Shaw star in Delhi Capitals' 7-wicket winShikhar Dhawan smashed 85 runs while Prithvi Shaw hammered 72 runs as Delhi Capitals chased down the target of 189 set up by Chennai Super Kings with seven wickets in hand, and eight balls to spare. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covid-19-vaccination-drive-picks-up-but-challenges-remain-101618110787321.html
11-04-2021||India||Ex-student kidnaps teacher in Delhi over ₹20 lakh||Five men were arrested for allegedly kidnapping a 'maulana' of a madrassa in southeast Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh and demanding a ransom of ₹25 lakh for his release, police said on Saturday.The victim, Mohd Muntjir Alam, was later rescued, they said.According to a complaint filed by the victim's brother, he received a call from Alam’s phone and the caller demanded ₹25 lakh for his release.One of the main accused, Sadaqat (23), was a former student of the victim and had been depositing money with him since the last five years to open a shop. He had deposited ₹20 lakh and when he asked Alam for his money, the victim allegedly refused to return the amount, police said.Sadaqat planned to kidnap Alam. So, he roped in his brother Manjzar Alam (18) and friends -- Shamim (26), Nabi Hasan (23), Firdos (22) -- for the crime. According to the plan, he rented a house in Shaheen Bagh with his associates and asked Alam to visit the house to perform certain rituals. On April 5, when the victim came to the house, Sadaqat confined him with iron chains, according to police.“Our team got a tip-off that Sadaqat was hiding at his mother-in-law’s house in Noida. A raid was conducted and the suspect was apprehended. Further, on his instance, a raid was conducted in Delhi’s Abul Fazal area from where Alam was rescued,” said Shibesh Singh, Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exstudent-kidnaps-teacher-in-delhi-over-rs-20-lakh-101618109862844.html
11-04-2021||India||3 terrorists killed in gunbattle in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian: Police||Two terrorists were killed in an overnight encounter by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian town, the police said on Sunday morning. This took the number of terrorists killed in the encounter to three. One terrorist was gunned down on Saturday night.“Police & security forces made sincere efforts to take surrender of newly recruited #terrorist. Parents also made appeals but other terrorists didn’t allow him to #surrender,” the police said in a tweet on Sunday morning.According to police officials quoted by news agency PTI, they launched a search operation in Hadipora area of the south Kashmir district based on specific information about the presence of terrorists. When the forces were conducting the search, terrorists fire upon them, a police official told PTI. The forces retaliated, after which the encounter began, the official said.The identity and group affiliation of the terrorists killed in the gunfight are yet to be ascertained. An AK-47 and a pistol has been recovered, an army spokesperson said, adding that the joint operation is still in progress. Earlier this week, as many as seven terrorists, including terror outfit Ansar Ghazwatul Hind chief Imtiaz Ahmad Shah, were killed in two encounters in the union territory’s Shopian and Pulwama districts, police said on Friday.In the Shopian gunfight that continued for more than 12 hours since Thursday evening, security forces were engaged in a fierce battle with terrorists hiding and firing from inside a mosque.As the tension built up over the hours between Thursday night and Friday afternoon, the loudspeaker rang out intermittently with appeals from the parents of the terrorists holed up inside the Jama Masjid, citizens and Army personnel, PTI reported. Groups of people were also sent inside to negotiate with the men to come out peacefully, officials were quoted as saying by the agency."Our main concern was to preserve the sanctity of the masjid while neutralising the terrorists. This exposed our troops to high degree of risk while engaging with the terrorists, who were heavily armed," Major General Rashim Bali, General officer in Command of Victor Force that looks after militancy in South and central Kashmir told PTI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-terrorists-killed-in-gunbattle-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-shopian-police-101618106735597.html
11-04-2021||India||India observes 4-day 'Tika Utsav' as PM Modi calls for mass Covid-19 vaccination||In a bid to intensify the fight against the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, India will observe a four-day 'vaccine festival' (Tika Utsav) in the country. It will begin on Sunday, and continue till Wednesday (April 14). The Tika Utsav is being observed with an aim to inoculate a maximum number of eligible people against the viral disease.The call for the vaccine festival was made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his interaction with chief ministers of all states and union territories on Thursday where he discussed the Covid-19 situation on the ongoing vaccination drive in the country. "Sometimes, it helps in changing the atmosphere. The birth anniversary of Jyotiba Phule is on April 11 and on April 14, there is the birth anniversary of Baba Saheb. Can we organise a 'Tika Utsav: or vaccine festival and create an atmosphere of 'Tika Utsav'?" PM Modi said in the meeting."We should vaccinate as many eligible people through a special campaign and decide on zero wastage. If there is zero wastage in four days during 'Tika Utsav', it will also increase our vaccination capacity," he also said.While states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar extended their full support to the festival and appealed to all eligible beneficiaries to vaccinate themselves in the four days, it drew criticism from leaders of opposition parties. On Friday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said vaccine shortage in the country is a serious issue and not a festival. "Amid the growing corona crisis, shortage of vaccines is a very serious issue and not an "utsav", he wrote on Twitter in Hindi.Vaccine shortage rowThe festival comes amid claims of vaccine shortage in the country. Several states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand have said they won't be able to continue the inoculation drive due to shortage of vaccine doses. The Centre, however, dismissed the claims and said that sufficient quantities of jabs have been allocated to all the states and more will be supplied over the coming days.Also Read | 10 states face severe Covid-19 vaccine shortage. Here's a listResponding to the requests and concerns by states, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday said the country has enough doses and urged state governments to put an end to “fear-mongering”.Vaccination drive in IndiaIndia is the fastest nation to administer 100 million doses in 85 days, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. As of Saturday evening, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 10,12,84,282.In terms of the number of daily doses administered globally, India continues to remain at the top with an average of 38,93,288 doses administered per day, the ministry also said on Saturday.The US took 89 days to administer 10 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, while China took 102 days to cross the same number, according to the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4day-tika-utsav-from-today-all-you-need-to-know-101618107088357.html
11-04-2021||NA||Highlights: Netherlands lockdown measures to remain in force till April 28||India is currently witnessing the second wave of Covid-19 as several states report their highest-ever single day surges since the onset of the pandemic. Maharashtra continues to be the worst affected state, recording above 63,000 new cases on Sunday. The state government hinted that the imposition of a lockdown in the state due to rising number of cases was likely after April 14. A decision on the lockdown is set to be taken at the next cabinet meeting. As the second wave rages in the country questions about natural immunity against Covid-19 and how long it lasts have started to rise.In Brazil the death toll reached 351,334 after 2,616 new fatalities were recorded on Saturday. Brazil continues to be the second worst hit country right after the United States. In the US cases have started to surge in the midwest. Osaka prefecture in Japan is witnessing a steep surge in cases, the governor of Osaka has warned about the need to impose stricter restrictions as the prefecture is home to a population of 8.1 million people. Globally cases have surpassed 135 million, according to the Bloomberg tracker.Follow all the updates here:Gujarat records highest single-day surge with 5,469 new casesGujarat reported 5,469 new cases of coronavirus on Sunday the states highest single-day rise since the beginning of the pandemic. The total number of cases in the state has reached 347,495. The death toll reached 4,800 with 54 deaths.Maharashtra govt mulls lockdown post April 14The Maharashtra government on Sunday said that it may impose a complete lockdown from April 14. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will discuss on the duration and SOPs at a cabinet meeting scheduled later next week. Read more here.Lockdown measures in Netherlands to remain till April 28Dutch government said that early easing of lockdown will not be feasible as night-time curfew and other restrictions would remain until at least April 28 due to a rise in cases.Punjab records 3,116 cases in last 24 hoursPunjab reports 3,116 new #COVID19 cases, 3,121 recoveries and 59 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases: 2,72,772Total recoveries: 2,37,391Active cases: 27,874Death toll: 7,507 pic.twitter.com/DinFqrViJOThe total number of cases went up to 272,772. The death toll in the state reached 7,507.Union health ministry says 27 lakh vaccinated on Day 1 of vaccine festivalOn Day 1 of Tika Utsav, more than 27 lakh vaccine doses were administered, till 8 pm today: Union Health MinistryThe number of people vaccinated on Day 1 of Tika Utsav the vaccination festival.Italy reports 331 coronavirus deaths on Sunday, 15,746 new casesItaly reported 331 coronavirus-related deaths on Sunday against 344 the day before, the health ministry said, while the daily tally of new infections fell to 15,746 from 17,567 the day before.MP sees highest one-day rise of 5,939 Covid-19 cases, 24 dieMadhya Pradesh on Sunday reported 5,939 fresh coronavirus positive cases, the highest rise in a single day, taking the tally to 3,38,145 while 24 fatalities pushed the toll to 4,184, the state health department said.20,000 Remdesivir injections arrived in Indore today20,000 Remdesivir injections arrived in Indore today. Out of the 20,000 injections, 85% will be sent to medical colleges and 15% to district hospitals: Madhya Pradesh CMO.Goa sees 525 Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths, 170 recoveriesGoa's coronavirus caseload went up by 525 to reach 62,304 on Sunday, while the death toll rose by two to touch 848, an official said.9,989 new Covid-19 cases, 58 deaths reported in Mumbai9,989 new Covid-19 positive cases and 58 deaths reported in Mumbai today.China considering mixing Covid-19 vaccines to boost protection rateChina's top disease control official has said the country is formally considering mixing Covid-19 vaccines, as a way of further boosting vaccine efficacy.Gujarat reports 5,469 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursGujarat reports 5,469 new Covid-19 cases and 54 deaths in the last 24 hours; case tally at 3,47,495 including 27,568 active cases. Total vaccinations in the state: 91,23,719Karnataka reports 10,250 new Covid-19 casesKarnataka reports 10,250 new Covid-19 cases, 2,638 discharges and 40 deathsTotal cases: 10,65,290Total dicharges: 9,83,157Active cases: 69,225Total deaths: 12,8897,201 new Covid-19 cases in Nagpur district, highest so farNagpur district in Maharashtra on Sunday reported 7,201 new coronavirus cases, its highest single-day spike so far, which pushed the infection count to 2,78,556, authorities said.Jammu and Kashmir reported 915 new Covid-19 casesJammu and Kashmir reported 915 new Covid-19 cases (288 from Jammu division and 627 from Kashmir division), 330 recoveries and 5 deaths.Total cases: 1,38,390Total recoveries: 1,29,021Active cases:7,335Deaths: 2,034900 vaccination sites in Odisha shut due to vaccine shortageOn Sunday when 'Tika Utsav', a special inoculation drive against coronavirus was launched across the country, at least 900 session sites in Odisha remained shut owing to shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, triggering a blame game between the ruling BJD and the BJP.Covid-19 casess may peak in Karnataka by May 1st week: Health MinisterAmid a spike in coronavirus cases in the state, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Sunday said that the experts have warned of peak in infections by the first week of May.10,774 new Covid-19 cases and 48 deaths reported in Delhi10,774 new Covid-19 cases and 48 deaths reported in Delhi in the last 24 hours; case tally rises to 7,25,197.Kerala reports 6,986 new Covid-19 casesKerala reports 6,986 new Covid-19 cases, 2,358 recoveries and 16 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 44,389Total recoveries: 11,17,700Death toll: 4,783Offline classes in all govt, private colleges in Gujarat closed till April 30Gujarat government closes offline classes in all government and private colleges in the state of Gujarat till April 30, in view of the current Covid-19 situation.Centre prohibits exports of Remdesivir till Covid-19 situation in the country improvesCentre prohibits exports of Remdesivir till Covid-19 situation in the country improves.Government of India has prohibited the exports of Injection Remdesivir and Remdesivir Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) till the situation improves.Rajesh Bhushan writes to Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh regarding Covid-19 testing etcHealth Secretary Rajesh Bhushan writes to Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh over reports submitted by Central Health teams regarding Covid-19 testing, hospital infrastructure, healthcare workforce and vaccination, asks the states to take suitable corrective measures.Over 200 Delhi jail inmates vaccinated against Covid-19 so farAround 200 eligible inmates of the three jails in the national capital have been vaccinated against the novel coronavirus so far, and none of them has reported any adverse events, officials said on Sunday.Uttar Pradesh reports 15,353 new cases in the last 24 hoursUttar Pradesh reports 15,353 new cases in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 71,241Total recoveries: 6,11,622Total vaccination: 85,15,296Former Bangladesh PM Khaleda Zia tests positive for Covid-19Former Bangladesh Prime Minister Khaleda Zia tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, a year after she was released from jail temporarily amidst the pandemic, according to media reports.Iran reports 258 coronavirus deaths, highest daily toll since DecemberIran reported 258 deaths from Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, the health ministry said on Sunday, the highest daily toll since early December.Amid Mumbai lockdown talk, migrant movement seen on MP routeA severe spike in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and persistent talk of a "complete lockdown" there to tackle it has, like last year, made the national highway number 3 skirting past Madhya Pradesh's commercial hub Indore a prime route for wary migrants returning home to states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.8k Remdesivir vials have arrived: MP official as cases surgeAmid a surge in coronavirus cases and a clamour for Remdesivir, a drug considered useful in the treatment of the infection, a senior Madhya Pradesh official on Sunday said a sizable batch of the drug has arrived and will be distributed to medical facilities as per requirement.Manipur CM N Biren Singh receives his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine todayManipur Chief Minister N Biren Singh receives his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine today at the launch of 'tika (vaccination) utsav' in Imphal's Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences.India has administered over 10 crore Covid-19 vaccines so far#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDriveIndia’s Cumulative Vaccination Coverage achieves a landmark of 10 crore (10,15,95,147) doses.https://t.co/fwcnOoRNot pic.twitter.com/gdSqej2PSaArvind Kejriwal says lockdown might be imposed in Delhi if Covid-19 situation worsensDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday that the government might impose a lockdown if the Covid-19 situation worsens. "Delhi government is not in favour of lockdown, but we will be left with no options if the situation worsens in hospitals," Kejriwal said during his press conference.Nitin Gadkari calls up pharma chief for Remdesivir injectionsUnion minister Nitin Gadkari called up Sun Pharma chief to arrange for 10,000 injections of Remdisivir for Nagpur, a life saving drug used in the treatment for Covid-19. The minister was assured of the supply by the chief within the next few days, reported news agency PTI.South Korea ramps up vaccination drive with AstraZeneca shotSouth Korea has decided to ramp up the country's vaccination drive with the AstraZeneca shot, administering vaccines to all aged 30 years and above, reported Reuters. The country announced on Wednesday that vaccination of people below 60 would be temporarily suspended as the AstraZeneca shot is under review in Europe.India records 152,879 new cases of Covid-19, 839 fatalitiesIndia recorded 152,879 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the total caseload has now surged past 13 million since the pandemic started. The country also recorded 839 deaths in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 169,275.France stretches gap between vaccine shots to six weeksFrance extended the gap between the first and second dose of Covid-19 vaccine from four to six weeks to help the vaccination campaign pick up pace, reported Reuters on Sunday. Chile records 8,124 new cases of Covid-19, 105 fatalities Chile recorded 8,124 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the tally of infections in the country to 1,068,522. 105 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 24,213, reported ANI.UP imposes ceiling on entry into religious placesUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has given directions to ensure that no more than 5 people can enter a religious place at a time, reported news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-april-11-2021-101618104600840.html
11-04-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination at workplaces in India begins today: All you need to know||Covid-19 vaccination for all those eligible in the current phase of the immunisation drive will begin at their workplaces from Sunday, the government announced earlier this week with the aim to rapidly cover eligible beneficiaries amid the second wave of infections across the country.The Union ministry of health and family welfare wrote to the states to make arrangements for the facility at both private and government offices provided there is an availability of at least 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries. The states were advised to initiate due consultations with private and public sector employers and management to prepare for launch of workplace vaccination, the ministry said in a statement on Wednesday.Also Read: Covid-19 vaccination now allowed at offices. Check details about eligibility, priceThe Covid-19 vaccinations at private workplaces will be a paid service, and the price is capped at ₹250 per dose while sessions at government offices organised by district health authorities will be free of cost.The government said that the decision was taken as a substantial proportion of population aged between 45-59 years (in some cases up to 65 years) are in the organised sector of the economy. They are involved in formal occupation in offices (government and private), in manufacturing and services etc., the government said.The move comes at a time when India is reporting a daily surge of nearly 150,000 cases. The country’s total infection tally has soared past 13.2 million while active cases stand at 1,046,631, which is 7.93% of the total cases.While some states have flagged a "shortage" of vaccine doses, the Centre has maintained that a sufficient quantity of the jabs have been allocated to all the states and that many of them have been unable to inoculate all eligible beneficiaries.Here’s everything you need to know about Covid-19 vaccination at offices--All ‘Work Place vaccination centres’ need to be registered in the CoWin portal as government or private Covid Vaccination Centre (CVC) at Work Place.--Only employees of that particular office aged 45 years or more will be eligible for vaccination at the workplace, no outsiders including eligible family members will be allowed for vaccination at ‘CVC at Work Place’.--Every CVC in government workplace will be tagged to an existing and nearest CVC in the government medical facility, and likewise, every CVC in private workplace will be tagged to an existing and nearest CVC in the private medical facility. The designated government and private CVC will be responsible for deployment of vaccination team at ‘Work Place CVCs’.--One fully trained vaccination team will be assigned to vaccinate 100 beneficiaries at Work Place CVC. Additional teams shall be deployed in case work load is more than 100 beneficiaries and if sufficient space for vaccination is available. The management of the office will be responsible for arranging adequate rooms / space for Covid-19 inoculation.--Only one type of vaccine will be provided at these sessions to avoid mixing of vaccine types in the first and second dose of a beneficiary, the health ministry said.--Beneficiaries who have already received one dose of a vaccine different from the one being administered at the Work Place CVC shall not be vaccinated at the session in the Work Place CVC. They must get the second dose of the same vaccine at an appropriate Covid vaccination centre. However, those who have received same vaccine as first dose may be provided second dose at the Work Place CVC.--The full list of beneficiaries, as available in CoWin, will be visible to all verifiers and vaccinators, an option of on-the-spot registration will also be available.--Verification will be done by Verifier (Vaccination Officer-1) preferably using Aadhaar. Apart from Aadhar, other IDs approved by the MoHFW are EPIC, passport, driving license, PAN card, smart card issued by RGI under NPR, and pension document with photograph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-at-workplaces-in-india-begins-today-all-you-need-to-know-101618105107121.html
11-04-2021||India||Two-week lockdown in Maharashtra? Uddhav Thackeray to hold crucial meeting today||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is likely to take a decision on imposing a lockdown in the state after a key meeting of the Covid-19 task force on the Covid-19 situation today. He held an all-party meeting on Saturday where the issue was discussed at length.Uddhav Thackeray said he has been speaking to many people from different sectors and also private hospitals for the last few days. "All are ready to support the government," the chief minister said after the meeting. He is also scheduled to hold a meeting of key ministers to discuss the modalities.Also Watch: Watch how Mumbai looks amid weekend lockdownThough the duration of the lockdown will be formally announced, it is expected to last for two weeks to break the chain of infection.“Though we are not going touch the public transport, the people will not be allowed to travel without valid reasons which include essential and medical services. Similarly, we are not going halt the long distance trains or the flight services... by keeping the trains and buses operating we want to ensure that the people stepping out for the vaccination, exams and urgent travel are not affected,” said an official privy to the matter.Ashok Chavan, the leader of the Congress party which is a part of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), said on Saturday that a lockdown of a few days is necessary and then relaxations can be given."The chief minister will hold a meeting with the state Covid task force on Sunday. There should be a balance when imposing restrictions to prevent coronavirus and necessary factors should also be considered while imposing restrictions," he added. Chavan said the "nature, scope and duration of the lockdown will be finalised soon".In a statement on Saturday, the chief minister's office (CMO) said that the situation is getting worse in Maharashtra. “On the one hand there is a public sentiment but on the other hand, there is an outbreak of coronavirus, in which case if you want to win this battle you have to go through some hardships,” the statement from CMO said quoting Thackeray.Congress leader Aslam Shaikh, who is also a minister, said the stringent measures announced by the state government to control the spread of the infection are not having any impact."Government is trying to avoid lockdown hence stringent measures were enforced including weekend lockdown. But it seems to have no effect on new Covid-19 cases," he said.An official said on the condition of anonymity that experts and the members of the task force are of the opinion that a lockdown needs to be imposed at least for two weeks to break the chain of the transmission of the virus.Maharashtra government has imposed a strict weekend lockdown from Friday night till 7am on Monday. But the proposed lockdown is expected to be stricter with public transport and private vehicles likely to be allowed only for essential reasons.The preparations of the revised standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the lockdown will begin from Sunday. Discussions on providing help and relief packages to the vulnerable groups may take place before SOPs are announced. These packages may include the distribution of foodgrain, cash assistance to construction workers and labourers among others.Maharashtra on Saturday reported 55,411 fresh Covid-19 cases and 309 fatalities, taking the tally to 33,43,951 and the toll to 57,638, the state health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twoweek-lockdown-in-maharashtra-uddhav-thackeray-to-hold-crucial-meeting-today-101618104787101.html
11-04-2021||India||Protesting farmers block KMP Expressway in Haryana||Farmers protesting the Centre’s farm laws began their 24-hour blockade of the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway on Saturday in Haryana.The blockade was in response to a call from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella group of farmer unions, to intensify their protest. Traffic between Ganaur and Murthal towns in Sonepat were particularly hit.Inderjit Singh, a leader of the Morcha, said only emergency vehicles were allowed to ply. Farmers from Sonepat brought their tractor-trollies and parked them in the middle of the six-lane highway, also known as the Western Peripheral Expressway. Lakha Sidhana, wanted by Delhi Police in connection with the Red Fort violence on Republic Day during the farmers’ tractor parade, was seen at Kundli.Traffic diversionsThe protest stranded scores of commuters at Ganaur and Murthal. Heavy police force was deployed in Rohtak, Sonepat and Jhajjar districts on Saturday and made diversions.On Friday, Sonepat superintendent of police Jashandeep Randhawa said people should try and avoid travelling on the expressway.“Heavy vehicles coming from Ambala and Chandigarh on NH-44 may go towards North/East Delhi, Ghaziabad and Noida via Karnal-Shamli-Baghpat-Khekra or from Panipat-Sanauli-Baghpat-Khekra to Ghaziabad and Noida. Similarly, vehicles going towards Gurugram can take NH-71A via Gohana, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Rewari,” the SP said.Light vehicles coming from Ambala and Chandigarh can travel to North/East Delhi and Noida/Ghaziabad via Baghpat, Khekra, Loni border from Bahalgarh, using NH-44.“It is advised that commuters in light vehicles from Ambala to South/West Delhi and Gurugram take a diversion from Bahalgarh to Sonepat-Barota-Narela or Bahalgarh-Sonepat City-Barota-Lampur-Bawana,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-block-kmp-expressway-in-haryana-101618097631482.html
11-04-2021||India||100 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered to Indians||India on Saturday became the third country in the world after the United States and China to have administered 100 million doses of the coronavirus vaccine, even as the country’s inoculation drive races to keep pace with an unprecedented nationwide second wave of Covid-19 infections.Until Saturday night, 101.3 million shots had been administered across the country to 88.6 million people, according to data released by the Union health ministry. A total of 76 million people have received one shot, while 12.6 million have been administered both shots of the vaccine.India is the fastest to 100 million vaccinations – it took the country 85 days to reach the milestone (vaccinations started on January 16). The US took 89 days to complete this feat, while China did so in 103 days, according to data maintained by Our World in Data.On Saturday, India added 152,449 new Covid-19 cases to its tally, taking its overall caseload to 13.35 million. This was the fifth day in row and the sixth time in the last week that India has broken all previous records for new Covid-19 infections.“The achievement [of administering 100 million doses] is … a testimony of the ‘whole of society’ approach where individuals turned a deaf ear to rumours and propaganda of vested interests, shunned their vaccine hesitancy and strengthened the hand of the administration in curbing Covid-19,” the Union health ministry said in a statement on Saturday night.“The extension of vaccine coverage to those above 45 years along with the recent provisions for them to get vaccinated at their workplaces (government and private) form a series of proactive, collaborative and coordinated steps taken by the Centre and the state governments for safety and prevention of precious lives from the infectious Covid disease,” it added.Despite this achievement, India’s path to vaccinating a majority of its population – the second largest in the world – is arduous and has not been without complications and hiccups.State governments and experts across the country have urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to open up the inoculation programme for all age groups in order to increase the pace of the drive, while several administrations have complained about shortage of vaccines over the past week, though this seems to be also a function of last mile issues within states. On Saturday, government data accessed by HT showed that a little under 40 million doses of the vaccine are either in stock with states or in the pipeline.Vaccination numbers gain even more significance right now because India is in the grip of a mammoth surge of infections under a second Covid-19 wave that is breaking all previous records.In a meeting of the PM with all chief ministers earlier this week, some the state leaders raised the issue of shortage of vaccines, but the Union health ministry pointed out that vaccines are not given for an extended period such as a month but for a maximum of 7-8 days. The states were also told that there is no shortage and replenishments will arrive every three or four days.Cases in the second wave have long surpassed the first wave peak both nationally, as well as in at least seven regions – Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh – with several others such as Delhi, Jharkhand and Goa appear set to surpass their previous peaks as well, according to HT’s dashboard.Experts, however, said there was still a long way to go.Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, said, “We have been able to vaccinate less than 10% of the population in two-and-a-half months; so clearly we are not vaccinating enough. The need of the hour is for the government to assure people that the vaccine is safe because there is a lot of hesitancy.” He added that no matter how many people we immunise at the moment, it will not help in controlling the surge. “Controlling the spread of the infection was never our goal. Vaccinating those above the age of 60 and those with comorbidity, followed by people who are 45 years or older is aimed at reducing the number of deaths. If we had to control the spread of the infection, we would have to look at the people involved in the chain of transmission and vaccinate them. If we start doing that even today, it will be at least five weeks before there is any impact,” he said.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, said, “It is good that the vaccination drive is picking up pace, however, now there are places where the vaccines are not available. We don’t know how long the supply shortage will last. If we scale up the number of centres and timings without the doses we will be wasting our manpower that is already strained. We have undertaken a gigantic task, but if the government can’t deliver, it is better to open up to the private sector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-to-indians-101618096090983.html
11-04-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi meets CM s of Congress-led states on Covid, hits out at govt||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday accused the central government of “mismanaging” the Covid-19 situation in the country as she reviewed the efforts of the states led by her party amid a surge in the number of infections.Addressing a virtual meeting with the chief ministers of the Congress-ruled states and ministers of the party in states where it is in power in alliance with others, she said the priority should be to “test, track and vaccinate”.“The (Narendra) Modi government has mismanaged the Covid situation. It has exported the vaccines and allowed a shortage to be created in India,” the Congress chief said at the meeting.On Saturday, the country saw a record 152,449 new Covid-19 cases and 837 deaths.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh and Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel were among those who participated in the meeting, people familiar with the details of the meeting said.Sonia Gandhi stressed that the priority should be the country’s vaccination drive. “We must focus on India’s vaccination drive first and foremost, then only export vaccines and gift them to other countries.”Her comments have come days after the PM, during a meeting with chief ministers, said vaccines will have to be prioritised and lamented that some people were playing politics on the issue. “Those who have the habit of doing politics, let them do so. I have faced much criticism, but we remain committed to serving the people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-meets-cm-s-of-congress-led-states-on-covid-hits-out-at-govt-101618093086505.html
11-04-2021||India||Allahabad high court Chief Justice tests positive for Covid-19||The Chief Justice of the Allahabad high court, Justice Govind Mathur, has tested positive for Covid-19, health officials familiar with the matter said late on Saturday.District Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rishi Sahai said the Chief Justice is in home isolation after testing positive.He said officials were keeping a close watch on Justice Mathur’s health and added that he was doing well.The health official said that the district registered its biggest single-day spike since the outbreak began with 1,682 new cases on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-high-court-chief-justice-tests-positive-for-covid19-101618091733118.html
11-04-2021||India||‘Non-conventional energy, tourism to boost economy’: Ladakh L-G||Leh For much of 20 months since it was carved out as a Union Territory from Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh has been in the news for a tense military standoff between India and China. In his first sit-down interview at a makeshift Raj Bhawan in Leh, Ladakh’s first lieutenant governor, Radha Krishna Mathur, speaks to Ramesh Vinayak about his road map and priorities, and the challenges he faces in helming the region. Edited excerpts:What has changed in Ladakh since its inception as a UT on August 5, 2019?The foremost challenge was to set up an effective administration and ensure it works 12 months, and not for a limited period. Initiating administrative functioning with just two secretaries holding eight departments each has been a daunting task. However, with additional secretaries and other officers joining along the way, we now have a full-fledged administrative structure. That is the first basic change.The second part is that you need things to work in winter. Ladakh was run primarily on diesel sets. The power supply was not even for 12 hours. Luckily, connectivity with the national grid came around the same time when the UT was formed. So, this was perhaps the first winter where people got almost 24x7 supply, but only in 60% of the areas covered by the network. This is a big change. During winter, even simple things such as fresh vegetables and drinking water are a luxury. We managed to give these things, not in full measure but in good measure, so that the winter becomes liveable. The fundamental question for the new UT was whether we continue with the old Jammu and Kashmir-centric vision or develop a new Ladakh-centric vision. We opted for the latter and had to start de novo.What are the areas in which Ladakh is yet to sever its umbilical cord with its erstwhile parent state?There’s a still an overlap. The process of separation is not complete, particularly the staff and asset distribution. That will take its own timeBut Ladakh still doesn’t have its own administrative service?A call on the inclusion of the UT in the AGMUT cadre has been taken. A feeder service can come up now. We have submitted a proposal to the Union home ministry for the constitution of the Ladakh Administrative Service. They might have to take a view whether it should be a service centred on Ladakh or does it become part of the service such as DANICS (Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands Civil Service). It is a work in progress.What are your big-ticket plans for Ladakh?Non-conventional energy is a major sector here. There is a possibility of 33 gigawatts of production of power of which 26 gigawatts can be solar. The rest of it is distributed over wind, hydel and geo-thermal. We have signed an agreement with Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited for the country’s first geo-thermal project. For now, it is for only one megawatt because it is exploratory. We have signed an agreement for a 50-MW project with Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI), which is working on a 10,000-MW plant announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Independence Day.Tapping non-conventional energy in a big way is a priority, derived from the Prime Minister’s vision to make Ladakh carbon neutral. This can change the face of Ladakh both in terms of employment and energy.Has the prolonged military stand-off with China on its eastern border impacted Ladakh?Positively. It’s a quirk of the situation. It’s not as if anybody wants a dispute but because the army had to be deployed in large numbers, they had to make arrangements for civil works and logistics. During Covid times, people of Ladakh got jobs. The odd situation is it has benefited in terms of income of the people.How do you allay fears among locals about the influx of outsiders to Ladakh?The Government of India has not made a UT to hurt the people of Ladakh; it is to benefit them. So, nothing will be decided against the wishes of the people.Ladakh has a rich potential in tourism. What is your road map?Tourism forms 50% of Ladakh’s GDP. We get three lakh tourists every year. So far, it been centred on specific routes. That brings pressure on Leh and Kargil towns. We have three-fold plans for tourism. One, making it a year-round activity despite the harsh winter. This year, we organised a month-long festival at Zanskar at -35 degrees Celsius. The second piece involves harnessing tourism. That will promote homestays. The third area entails developing new tourism products. For example, a pilot project on astro-tourism is underway by developing the Dark Sky Park at Changthang, which would enable an astronomy enthusiast to experience the starry night skies of Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nonconventional-energy-tourism-to-boost-economy-ladakh-lg-101618091643952.html
11-04-2021||India||Man accused of raping British woman in Goa held in Karnataka||A man accused of raping a British woman in Goa was held in Hoskote in neighbouring Karnataka, seven months after he escaped for the second time from a jail in Colvale, police said on Saturday.According to the police, the accused, Yellappa, was arrested from Hoskote in Karnataka on April 9. “A joint team of the Goa Police apprehended from Hoskote and placed under arrest,” SP crime branch Shobit Saksena said. Yellappa is accused of raping a British woman tourist in Canacona village in 2018, and he had managed to escape from jail in September last year, as well as earlier in June, 2019, being held from Bengaluru on that occasion, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-accused-of-raping-british-woman-in-goa-held-in-karnataka-101618090643379.html
11-04-2021||India||Dollar smuggling case: Customs dept questions Kerala assembly Speaker||The Customs department questioned Kerala legislative assembly speaker P Sreeramakrishnan for nearly five hours at his official residence on Saturday in connection with the dollar smuggling case. Later, his private flat in the state capital was also searched.“They sought explanation on certain matters with regard to the Dollar scam and spent less than two hours and were satisfied,” the Speaker’s office told news agency PTI.The central board’s action comes following the Speaker’s failure to appear before the probe team in Kochi despite multiple summons.The dollar smuggling case pertains to the alleged smuggling of ₹1.30 crore by a former head of the finance department of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate at the state capital to Muscat in Oman.The speaker was questioned on the basis of statements given by two main accused in the gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair. They reportedly told officials that the speaker was close to many officials of the consulate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dollar-smuggling-case-customs-dept-questions-kerala-assembly-speaker-101618090304467.html
11-04-2021||India||48-year-old man held from Kolkata for job fraud||A 48-year-old man was arrested from Kolkata for allegedly duping over two dozen people across the country on the pretext of high-paying jobs in countries such as Canada and the US, police said on Saturday.The suspect, Samir Arvind Parekh, who is a labour contractor, allegedly used to post fake international job offers online and collected money from aspirants in the name of registration fee, medical examination and interviews.His arrest was made following a case filed by a woman from south Delhi’s Chhattarpur. She and her partner were duped of ₹72,000 after being offered jobs as a chef in the US, said DCP (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.In March, the woman came across an advertisement and contacted Parekh. The person offered her $2,000 per month as salary. When she expressed interest, Parekh asked her to pay him money as registration, said DCP Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/48yearold-man-held-from-kolkata-for-job-fraud-101618084041993.html
11-04-2021||India||Karnataka logs nearly 7k new cases as 10-day night curfew begins||Bengaluru: Karnataka on Friday logged 6,955 new Covid-19 cases and 36 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 1.5 million and the toll to 12,849, the health department said on Saturday. Bengaluru, which recorded its highest ever single day spike in Covid- 19 infections on Thursday, witnessed a marginal dip with 4,384 new cases and 29 deaths. On Thursday, the city had reported 5,576 cases and 29 fatalities. In a bid to stop this Covid-19 surge in the state, a 10-day night curfew or Corona curfew’ has been imposed in Bengaluru and 6 districts —Mysuru, Mangaluru, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Tumakuru and Udupi-Manipal cities. The night curfew will be enforced from 10 pm till 5am everyday till April 20. Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant in an order issued ??? said that operation of medical emergency services will be allowed during the curfew. “Operation of factories/companies and establishments working in night shift (will be allowed to travel). However, employees shall reach their work before 10 pm and shall leave only by 5 am,” read the order. It further allowed movements of vehicles used for essential services, transportation of goods will be allowed. “People arriving or leaving Bengaluru city by bus/train/air may travel to their place of stay or bus stand/railway station/airport through any mode of transport subject to production of travel document,” read the order.The state government has directed officials concerned to strictly implement the order. It said action will be taken under the Disaster Management Act 2005, IPC and other acts against those found violating it.The first time Bengaluru breached the four-figure mark in 2021 was on March 19 when the city reported 1037 cases. It took just nine days to touch 2,000 cases, 14 days to breach the 3,000 mark and 18 days to cross 4,000. Bengaluru reported almost 5,000 cases in the last 24 hours on Wednesday. The total number of active cases in Bengaluru jumped to 44,863 while it went up to 61,653 across Karnataka. While the positivity rate remained around 7.04% across the state, Bengaluru accounted for 63% of all cases reported on Saturday (24 hours of Friday). Bidar, which shares its borders with Maharashtra, reported 215 new infections that take its active case count to 1,626, while Kalaburagi, next to Bidar, recorded 276 new infections, according to government data. 74 new infections were reported from Chikkaballapur, 137 in Dakshina Kannada, 100 in Hassan, 119 in Mandya, 266 in Mysuru, 206 in Tumakuru and 71 in Vijayapura. Meanwhile, Karnataka government on Saturday made it clear that it would not hold back any examination or stop academic activities due to Covid-19. “The examinations at university-level, including degree, post-graduation, engineering, diploma and all other courses, will be conducted as per schedule. Karnataka deputy chief minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan told reporters in Bengaluru.Narayan, who holds the higher education portfolio, said the academic activities for the year 2021-22 have already been delayed and there should not be further delay. If delayed, the cycle of course period, test, results, employment, further studies would get cut, he said.Measures have been taken to ensure the academic activities for the year 2021-22 are not affected, he said. “After the completion of the examinations that are being conducted now, there will be no summer holidays. Functioning of the classes will begin immediately and there will be both offline and online classes,” he said.Online classes would be started quite early, Narayan said adding: It would be mandatory for students either to attend online or offline classes.He, however, said the universities and colleges have to follow the standard operating procedure to check the spread of the disease.According to him, the Integrated Learning Management System (LMS) has already been implemented in view of COVID-19.“Students are facilitated to learn from the locations wherever they are and 2.70 lakh tablet PCs have been distributed,” Narayan pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-logs-nearly-7k-new-cases-as-10-day-night-curfew-begins-101618081346286.html
11-04-2021||India||Beneficiaries get messages about completion of Covid-19 vaccination without getting second doses||Redwan Uddin Laskar, a journalist from Assam’s Cachar, received his first Covid-19 vaccine dose on April 8 and looked forward to his second jab. But hours after he received his first dose, he got a message on his mobile phone that his vaccination has been completed. “Now I have the final vaccination certificate without getting the vaccine,” said Laskar. A health worker, who did not want to be named, echoed Laskar. “I was planning to visit the [local] health centre [for the second dose] on 45th day but… I got a message [about completion of the vaccination]. Now I am confused whether they will give me the second dose at all.” Many vaccine beneficiaries in the region have said that from April 7, they started getting messages that they have completed the course by receiving second doses without actually getting them. The messages contain a link through which they can get the final vaccination certificate. Some of them have downloaded the certificates which have doctors, who injected them the first dose, confirming that the second has also been given. District immunisation officer Sumona Naiding said the messages have been sent in a handful of cases. “We are trying to determine the source of the error. It is not happening in the Cachar district only. We have heard that people in other districts also have received the same message without getting the second dose,” she said. “I would suggest the person who received the SMS to visit the vaccination centre immediately and furnish the certificate and get the second dose,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beneficiaries-get-messages-about-completion-of-covid-19-vaccination-without-getting-second-doses-101618081287662.html
11-04-2021||India||Ruling CPI (M) rallies behind indicted Kerala minister KT Jaleel||The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Saturday rallied behind beleaguered state higher education minister KT Jaleel who was found guilty by the Lokayukta for appointing his cousin in an important post flouting all norms. Talking to the media, Law Minister A K Balan said there was no need for the minister to resign now. “No law states that a relative can’t be appointed. He did not even complete one month after his appointment. There is no need of resignation based on the observations of a lower court,” said the minister. Later Jaleel also took to social media saying he will approach the High Court on Monday against the verdict. The Lokayukta on Friday found him guilty of nepotism and abuse of power in the appointment of his second cousin KT Adeeb as the general manager of the Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation Limited. It also observed that he can’t continue in the post and recommended the Chief Minister to take appropriate action against him. But Balan said the CM will get three months to take a decision on this and there was no need for the minister to rush with his resignation. As the government defended the minister the opposition stepped up pressure for his resignation. “If an iota of morality is left in the CM he should sack the minister immediately,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan, also hailing from the state, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan should expel him for violating his oath of office. There was a big uproar when Adeeb was appointed allegedly flouting all norms and later he was forced to resign in 2018. Later a lawyer V K Mohammad Shafi had filed a complaint with the Lokayukta which on Friday agreed with the contention of the petitioner that he was appointed flouting all norms. A controversial minister, his name also figured in the gold smuggling case. After the gold smuggling case involving the UAE consulate came to light in 2020, Jaleel was questioned by the Customs and Enforcement Directorate on several occasions. Trouble began for him after phone call records of Swapna Suresh, main accused in the case, were leaked to the media. The minister’s phone number figured prominently in her list. Soon after the list came out, the minister said he called Suresh as a consular employee in connection with Ramadan kits offered by the UAE consulate in the state capital. Hailing from the Muslim-majority Malappuram district, he had earlier created enough headaches for the government in an alleged mark donation move to a failed student and other cases but his proximity to the CM saved him from major trouble. A former member of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) he later joined the Muslim League. But later he left the League and joined the LDF camp and he was instrumental in CPI(M) getting inroads in the Muslim heartland of Malappuram....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ruling-cpi-m-rallies-behind-indicted-kerala-minister-kt-jaleel-101618080866868.html
11-04-2021||India||30-year-old Covid positive man dies on train||A 30-year-old man died allegedly of Covid-19 complications on board the Ahmedabad-Barauni super-fast express on Friday, even as railway officials said that they were “not aware of his Covid status”.Muzaffarpur station house officer of the Government Railway Police, Dinesh Kumar Sahu, said that the deceased, Rajesh Kumar Chowdhary, boarded the train from Ahmedabad with his wife, Chhaya Devi, and two children.“He boarded the train at Ahmedabad along with his wife and two kids. He was treated at Danapur railway station after his condition deteriorated,” Sahu said. His wife was carrying his Covid-19 test report, he said.He tested positive for Covid-19 in Surat on April 5, Kumar’s wife said. “The doctors from Surat advised him to get admitted in the hospital. But he decided to return home,” Devi said. Kumar hailed from Narvara in Bihar’s Sheohar and was living in Surat where he worked for a private company.Railway officials, however, said they were not aware that Kumar tested positive. “Rajesh Kumar Chowdhary was travelling from Surat to Muzaffarpur, and passed away in train near Patna. He was treated at Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya station. We are not aware about his Covid status,” said chief public relation officer, East central railway, Rajesh Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30yrold-covid-positive-man-dies-on-train-101618080686045.html
11-04-2021||India||Disengage from friction points, Army tells China||During the latest 11th round of military talks with China in eastern Ladakh to reduce tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the Indian Army told the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) that completion of disengagement at all friction points on the disputed border would set the stage for the two sides to “consider de-escalation of forces, ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity, and enable progress in bilateral relations”, the Indian army said a day after the talks.The two armies had a detailed exchange of views for the resolution of the remaining issues related to disengagement along the LAC, army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said on Saturday.India and China have been locked in standoff in the Ladakh sector for over 11 months and are currently negotiating a withdrawal of troops and weapons from friction points on the disputed border. The 11th round of talks took place on the Indian side of the Chushul-Moldo meeting point on Friday and went on for 13 hours.The focus of current military talks is on negotiating the next steps of a complex disengagement process that was completed in Pangong Tso in mid-February with the pull back of front-line troops and weapons. The Indian Army is focussing on resolving outstanding problems with the PLA at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang.Also Read| China capable of launching cyber attacks, disrupting systems: CDS Rawat“The two sides agreed on the need to resolve the outstanding issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols…The two sides agreed that it was important to take guidance from the consensus of their leaders, continue their communication and dialogue and work towards a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues at the earliest,” Anand said. He added that the two armies also agreed to jointly maintain stability on the ground and avoid any new incidents.It is good that both sides continue to engage each other, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).“The Indian side has clearly linked the de-escalation of forces and full restoration of peace with disengagement in remaining areas. We will have to now see what the Chinese response is. That will give some indication of how things go forward,” Hooda added. There was no official statement from the Chinese side when this report was filed.While disengagement began and ended in the Pangong Lake sector in less than 10 days, it appears to have lost its initial momentum going by the lack of progress at other friction points on the LAC.The PLA’s deployments in Depsang have hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to Patrolling Points (PP) 10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13.The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has also been affected in Gogra and Hot Springs, where rival troops are forward deployed and where skeletal disengagement took place last year, but the gains could not be consolidated.Also Read| Bhutan, China hold expert group meeting on boundary disputeThe 10th round of talks between corps commander-rank officers of the two armies took place on February 20 after the completion of disengagement on strategic heights on both banks of Pangong Tso. Both sides pulled back their front-line troops, tanks, infantry combat vehicles and artillery guns under the disengagement agreement.At a marathon 16-hour meeting between senior commanders on February 20, the Indian and Chinese armies agreed to resolve outstanding issues at friction points on the LAC in a “steady and orderly” manner and were unanimous that the Pangong Tso disengagement provided “a good basis” for resolving pending problems.Many more rounds of talks will be required to break the current deadlock, people familiar with the military dialogue said.“There has been no progress on hammering out a disengagement plan for the other friction points. It will take more time for the two sides to build a consensus on that,” said a senior army officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disengage-from-friction-points-army-tells-china-101618080572909.html
11-04-2021||India||Acting Maharashtra DGP begins probe against ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh||The Maharashtra government appointed Sanjay Pandey, director general of the state security corporation, as the acting police chief through an order issued late Friday night and assigned him the probe against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh to contain the fallout of extortion allegations that have roiled the ruling coalition.Based on a report by Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, the home department initiated a departmental enquiry (DE) against Singh. Acting DGP Pandey is expected to submit a report in a few weeks after examining if Singh kept the government in the dark about the outcome of the initial investigation along with whether the allegations levelled by him against former home minister Anil Deshmukh have substance, people familiar with the matter said on Saturday. Under the direction of the Bombay high court, the Central Bureau of Investigation is also conducting a preliminary enquiry into the latter.“Pandey is an upright officer with high integrity. Though he was sidelined by subsequent governments for various reasons, the decision to appoint him as acting DGP is a strategic move. He is expected to play a key role in repairing the mess in the police force and take action against ‘errant’ officials,” said a home department official who did not wish to be named.The probe was ordered through a letter issued by the home department on April 1 stating that the DE was being ordered under provisions of the All India Services (Conduct) Rules. Singh, soon after he was shunted out of the top post, wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20 and alleged that the then home minister Deshmukh forced crime branch officers to extort ₹100 crore a month from bars, restaurants and hookah parlours.Also Read| Probe against Anil Deshmukh: Experts say Maharashtra govt panel’s findings to be redundantThe report by Nagrale said suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, prime accused in the Antilia explosives scare, was reporting directly to Singh. The report said Vaze’s appointment in the crime intelligence unit was on the insistence of Singh despite being strongly opposed by the then joint police commissioner (crime).“The probe will throw light on whether Singh failed in his duty to control Vaze and whether he had any role in Vaze’s actions. It will also be conducted to find out if Singh failed to apprise the government of the facts related to the Antilia case, on which leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis seemed to have more information than the home department,” said an official from Mantralaya, the seat of administration in the state.The probe will examine if the letter written by Singh was leaked to the media by him.“It was his responsibility to ensure that the issue was raised through the right channel and it should not have leaked out. He has also moved courts against the state government demanding a probe by central agencies. This has led to denting the image of the state government and the probe will also look into it,” said the officer cited above.The government appointed 1986-batch IPS officer Pandey as he was the most senior among the director generals, altering an earlier decision to name Rajnish Seth (1988 batch) as acting DGP after the then incumbent Hemant Nagrale was picked as Mumbai police commissioner on March 17.Pandey wrote a four-page letter to Thackeray last month after he was denied the appointment, complaining of injustice.Also Read| Antilia bomb scare case: Sachin Vaze in judicial custody till April 23“You overlooked me for the post of DG Anti Corruption Bureau which was given to a junior officer, despite the tradition of giving it to the senior-most officer. I was sidelined even when it came to the appointment to the post of Mumbai police commissioner. When Subodh Jaiswal chose to go on central deputation, the additional charge was not given to me, but again to a junior officer and it was illegal as per the SC ruling in the Prakash Singh case. A career built over several years is thus demolished just due to some personal prejudices,” that letter said.He was ultimately picked as the government did not wish to muddy the waters further in the state’s premier law-enforcement agency, said officials in the know.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/acting-maha-dgp-begins-probe-against-param-bir-101618080572324.html
11-04-2021||India||Gyanvapi case litigant gets threat to life: Cops||Harihar Pandey, one of three litigants who filed a case in a civil court in 1991 seeking permission to offer Hindu prayers at the Gyanvapi mosque compound in Varanasi received a threat to life on Thursday evening after which he was provided security, police said on Saturday.The call came days after a Varanasi court on Thursday ordered an archaeological survey of the centuries-old mosque complex abutting the Kashi Vishwanath temple, saying the exercise was required to decide on pleas that allege the Muslim place of worship was built by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb after partially demolishing a Hindu shrine.“This court finds that a survey by ASI (Archaeological Survey of India) alone can bring out the truth before this court. Irrespective of what surfaces, the survey by the ASI may go on to help not only the plaintiffs, but also to the defendants, if their version is indeed true,” the order read.Muslim parties opposed the decision and said they will approach the Allahabad high court.Pandey along with Sonmantha Vyas and Rangnath Sharma is a petitioner in the case. The three had filed the case on behalf of Swayambhu Lord Vishweshwar.Pandey said on Thursday that he received a call from an unknown number wherein a person threatened him saying that even though he had won the case he would not be able to get a survey done by the ASI and would face serious consequences.Pandey said he filed a police complaint on Friday. Assistant commissioner of police, Dashshwamedh, Awadhesh Pandey said a probe was being conducted and two policemen were deployed for the complainant’s personal security. The mobile number from which the call was made was being traced, he said.Civil judge (senior division) Ashutosh Tiwari ordered a five-member committee -- comprising two members each from the Hindu and the Muslim side and an archaeological expert -- to oversee a “comprehensive physical survey”.A court-appointed observer will chair the panel. The ASI will conduct the exercise at its expense without any media briefings, the judge ordered. The court fixed May 31 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gyanvapi-case-litigant-gets-threat-to-life-cops-101618080566167.html
11-04-2021||India||Bihar senior cop lynched during Bengal raid, 3 arrested: police||A senior Bihar police official was allegedly lynched by a mob in Islampur police district West Bengal’s North Dinajpur district on Saturday when he was in the area to conduct a raid in connection with a motorcycle theft, officials said.Three people have been arrested in connection with the lynching, the officials added.According to officials, station house officer of the Kishanganj police station Ashwani Kumar led a police team to Pantapara village near Panjipara under Goalpokhar police station area Islampur district of West Bengal early on Saturday morning when a mob attacked them. Kumar, 50, died on the spot, the officials said.Purnia range inspector general Suresh Choudhary said, “The police forces led by SHO had gone to conduct a raid in connection with a theft in Pantapara village of West Bengal adjacent to Kishanganj district of Bihar when a mob attacked the police team killing the SHO on the spot.” Kumar was a resident of Bihar’s Purnia district.The other officers who accompanied the deceased officer managed to escape, he said.“We along with Islampur (West Bengal) police have started carrying out raids to nab the [other] accused,” the IG said. A post mortem examination of the SHO was conducted at the Islampur hospital, he added.Officials familiar with the matter said that liquor smugglers active in West Bengal might have led the attack on the SHO.ADG (Headquarters) (Bihar) Jitendra Kumar said that the Purnia range IG Suresh Choudhary and Kishanganj SP Kumar Ashish have reached the crime scene in North Dinajpur district.Ashish said that three main accused have been arrested from Pantpara village.“Two men and their mother have been arrested and raids are on to nab the others,” a police officer, who was part of the SHO’s team, said. The arrested accused have been identified as Firoz Alam and Abuzar Alam and their mother, Sayeeda Begum, said Ashish.“Two men and their mother have been arrested and raids are on to nab the others,” a police officer, who was part of the SHO’s team, said. The arrested accused have been identified as Firoz Alam, his brother Abuzar Alam and their mother Shahinoor Khatun.Ashish said that the service revolver and mobile phones of the SHO have been recovered. “The [murder] case has been registered at Goalpokhar police station of WB,” he added.Following the incident, the Bihar police accused officials in the neighbouring state of non-cooperation.“We continued to call local police, but they didn’t respond to our calls…The SHO (Kumar) talked to the local police station of WB before conducting the raid but they didn’t come forward to assist us,” an official who was part of Kumar’s team said requesting anonymity.“The West Bengal police didn’t help us for political reasons,” he said.“Due to elections in West Bengal the ruling government there does not want to disturb their vote banks,” said the officer.He also said that the Bengal police were initially registering a case of unnatural death, but a case of murder later.A case has been registered under sections of 302, 326, 147, 148 and 149 of IPC. The Kishanganj SP suspended all the eight cops including a circle inspector who escaped from the spot when the mob caught and mercilessly thrashed the town SHO.The Purnia range IG, however, said, “Islampur SP is with us and we’ll soon arrest all those involved in the incident.”“The team had come to us around 2:30 am on Saturday . As elections were going on in the state and our men were already deployed, we requested them to reschedule the raid. We never knew that they went ahead with the raid. We have already arrested three persons. It is a very unfortunate and tragic incident,” said Sachin Makkar, superintendent of Islampur police district.Bihar director general of police SK Singhal said that his Bengal counterpart, P Niraj Nayan has assured him full cooperation in the case. “All those involved with the incident must be identified for action,” Singhal said.Condemning the incident, Bihar police association president Mrityunjay Singh said, “There is nothing called law and order or any governance in West Bengal. The inspector had followed all procedures and informed the concerned police station before reaching there for carrying out raid. However, he got no support from the local police station, while criminals managed counter-attack.”The association has written to the Bihar home department for an ex gratia of ₹1 crore for the family of the deceased officer, Singh said. “The union home ministry should take cognizance of the incident for proper action in the incident and ensure payment of compensation to the family members of the slain police officer,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-senior-cop-lynched-during-bengal-raid-3-arrested-police-101618080447242.html
11-04-2021||India||Capital’s positivity rate jumps to 10.2%, 7,897 new Covid cases recorded||Delhi’s positivity rate – proportion of samples that test positive – jumped to 10.2% on Saturday, registering a double digit ratio for the first time in 138 days since November 24. There were 7,897 new cases of coronavirus disease and 39 deaths due to the infection reported on Saturday, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Experts had expected the number of cases to cross the previous peak of the city of 8,593 cases reported on November 11 when the city saw its third surge in cases. However, the drop in the cases as well as the sudden increase in positivity rate, which is representative of the ongoing transmission of the infection, could be because of fewer Covid-19 test conducted. The city recorded 77,374 tests on Saturday as compared to 89,334 tests conducted daily on average over the last seven days. The daily number of tests crossed the 100,000 mark twice within the week. “Based on the known natural history of the infection, the cases are likely to continue the increasing trend till April end; the infection usually follows a 12-week course, with the decline starting at around six week. If the numbers stabilise and remain almost same for five to seven days, we will know that we have reached the peak and the decline will start,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. He headed Delhi government’s initial committee on control and management of Covid-19. He expressed concern over the increasing number of deaths. The average number of deaths recorded each day almost tripled over the last one week. Delhi reported 25 Covid-19 deaths on average daily during the last seven days as compared nine the week before and six the week before that. With a high number of cases, the case fatality ratio – proportion of deaths among positive cases – continues to be low at 0.41% average over the last seven days. “There is no evidence to suggest that the infection this time is milder. However, there is less fatality as compared to last year because now people are better aware about the infection and come to the hospital on time; most of them have pulse oximeter and monitor their oxygen saturation continuously. In addition, the hospitals have also finalised their treatment protocols, they know what works when. However, the deaths will continue to increase at the moment. The peak for the number of death usually comes seven to ten days after the number of cases peaks,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. The number of hospitalisations have also doubled over the last seven days from 2,727 recorded on April 4 to 5,398 on April 10. The Delhi government has repeatedly increased the number of beds earmarked for Covid-19 in government and private hospitals over the week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/capitals-positivity-rate-jumps-to-10-2-7-897-new-covid-cases-recorded-101618080386181.html
11-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Frontline workers urge others to take the shot, advise caution||At 11.10am on January 16, sanitation worker Manish Kumar became the first person in India to get the Covid-19 vaccine, marking a personal triumph for the 34-year-old employee of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences who overcame the fear and disapproval of friends and family to get the jab.Almost three months down the line, Kumar has received both shots of Covaxin, manufactured by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, but continues to adhere to Covid-19 protocol – wearing a mask wherever he goes, washing hands constantly, and maintaining distancing when he is out.“The vaccine is not Shaktimaan. You cannot stop wearing mask and roam around just because you have got a shot,” said Kumar. “But if you are vaccinated, then Covid-19 will graze past you.”A resident of Najafgarh in outer Delhi, Kumar was a sanitation machine operator for eight years and received the shot flanked by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and AIIMS director Randeep Guleria. He was among the first people in the hospital to volunteer for the vaccine but was forced to keep his wife, mother and best friend in the dark because of their strong apprehension of side effects.Also Read| As vaccination drive picks up pace, challenges remainHis mother Laxmi Rani, who is also a sanitation worker at the hospital, has been vaccinated and he is trying to convince his brother Brijesh, who works with airline carrier Indigo, for the same. This is a matter of deep personal satisfaction for Kumar because Rani was deeply opposed to the shot earlier, and even tried to convince her son to opt out of the drive.Vaccination has become even more critical in Delhi with a mammoth second wave of infections driving up caseloads in the Capital. Kumar says he knows of people who were infected during the current wave even after getting both shots – after all, no vaccine has 100% efficiency – and urged all his colleagues and neighbours to get it to be as safe as possible.When Kumar received the shot, the drive was open only to healthcare and frontline workers. It has since then been opened up to anyone above 45, but vaccine hesitancy and misinformation continue to hobble the drive. The sanitation worker had to convince his childhood friend Shaukat Ali for days to get the shot because of fears of adverse effects.“When the vaccination drive was being rolled out, no one wanted to come forward. I volunteered. When they saw nothing happened to me, around 40 of my peers came forward to get vaccinated the same day. But, when some among them did get some adverse effects, 40 or 50 people they knew did not get the shot. There are many who did not take their second shot because they got a fever or rash after the first one,” said Kumar.He believed this decision was without logic. “Even children also get fever when they get their shots.”Biji Tomy agreed. A 49-year-old staff nurse from Delhi’s Lok Nayak hospital, Tomy received her first shot of Covishield vaccine on January 16 but continued to take all precautions.“I do not step out without a mask and when I go home from work I wash all my clothes. I may be immunised, but I can pass on the infection to my family,” she said.“My husband will get his shot in a couple of days. I tell whomever I meet to get the shot. When the government is offering the facility of getting a vaccine for free, why shouldn’t we get it?” she said.Also Read| 20-30% people lose natural immunity against Covid in 6 months, new study findsShe is hopeful that the vaccine will protect her from severe disease, and that its benefits will be visible as cases steadily rise in the city. “The hospital is again increasing the number of Covid-19 beds, so sooner or later I will have to work in the Covid-19 wards again. Although I know people who got the infection even after being vaccinated, the disease was not severe. I hope none of us get a severe disease now that we are vaccinated,” she said.Other than getting immunised, Tomy hopes people will stop going out unnecessarily, avoid big weddings and events, and wear masks. “We do not want to spend another summer in personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. Staying in the suit is very difficult in peak summer months without drinking water. All the healthcare workers did it last year. We do not want to do it again,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/frontline-workers-urge-others-to-take-the-shot-advise-caution-101618080206219.html
11-04-2021||India||Covid-19 in India: 100 million vaccine doses administered in 85 days||On April 10, India administered its 100th million doses of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, a feat that was achieved in 85 days, the fastest in the world. The US did this in 89 days and China in 102 days. The journey, however, has seen its fair share of ups and downs.Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the nationwide Covid-19 immunisation drive on January 16. From 200,000 vaccine doses that were administered on day 1, the country has seen as high as 4.3 million doses also administered in a single day last week.The aim is to target at least 5 million.Since the day of the launch, experts in the government have been working hard on scaling up vaccinations to ensure the maximum number of vulnerable beneficiaries are covered as fast as possible.Also Read| Covid-19: Frontline workers urge others to take the shot, advise caution“The government managed to scale up significantly in a short span of time, and there will be a further increase in weeks to come as we are looking at vaccinating at least 5 million beneficiaries per day. India has the requisite capacity, as under the Polio immunisation programme, the government has managed to vaccinate 170 million children in a week,” said Dr NK Arora, national task force member on Covid-19 vaccine related matters.“The safety and efficacy of both the vaccines currently in use in the country has been well-established,” he added.On day one, the facility was opened for all health care workers, later, on February 2, frontline workers were also eligible for the shot, and on March 1, the government opened up vaccinations for those over the age of 60 years or those above 45 with specified co-morbidities. On April 1, it opened up Covid-19 vaccination to everyone over the age of 45.The beginning By January 3, India had approved two indigenous Covid-19 vaccines . Close to 85 countries received made-in-India vaccines in the form of grants, commercial contracts, or as part of the COVAX mechanism of WHO.The two vaccines in use under the national Covid-19 vaccination programme are: Covaxin and Covishield.Covaxin, an inactivated whole virion vaccine, is co-developed by Bharat Biotech International Ltd., and the Indian Council of Medical Research. The Serum Institute of India manufactures Oxford-AstraZeneca’s recombinant chimpanzee adenovirus vector vaccine under the brand name Covishield.“It is one of the great achievements indeed, as it has become one of the qualifiers to be called a developed nation these days, after the race to go to space, and the race to become a nuclear power. India had managed space and nuclear programme both, and now the country has also become a vaccine superpower,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and secretary, department of health research.“Covaxin has been literally developed from scratch in India.”It’s base, Dr Bhargava pointed out was “the virus strain that came from China through a medical student, and was isolated at ICMR-National Institute of Virology in Pune on March 9.”ICMR-National Institute of Virology transferred the virus isolate to Bharat Biotech around the end of April.Courting Controversies Both the vaccines have been surrounded by their share of controversies. The drugs controller general of India (DCGI), Dr VG Somani, approved Covaxin for restricted use in emergency situation under the ‘clinical trial mode’ without the firm having submitted the phase 3 efficacy data, a move for which the government was criticised. Many experts, including country’s one of the top vaccinologists, Dr Gagandeep Kang, said at the time that they had never heard of this kind of approval previously.Clinical trial mode required Bharat Biotech to administer the vaccine after taking an informed consent of the recipients, and actively follow-up all individuals who were given their jab.“In a non-emergency situation, safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data is required. Existing pandemic situation with high mortality, available science, and a lack of definitive treatment are considered by subject expert committee for accelerated approval that is in our legal provision. In a pandemic situation restricted use is considered based on safety, and immunogenicity data while phase 3 trial is still ongoing,” explained Bhargava. Also Read| As vaccination drive picks up pace, challenges remain“Immunogenicity data generated through phase 2 clinical trial serves as a surrogate for efficacy, and the clinical trials rule 2019, provides for considering phase 2 results to guide approval. The subject expert committee guides the DCGI in the process of decision-making for restricted use under emergency situation,” he said.Vaccine Hesitancy versus eagerness For a few weeks, the government had to deal with vaccine hesitancy among public, especially against Covaxin because of lack of adequate data.“Vaccine hesitancy was something that has been there in all countries; it has got nothing to do with Covid-19. Probably the degree was slightly more in Covid-19 across countries. The only way to address it was by engaging repeatedly with the beneficiary group; by trying to address all their concerns and confusions. That was our advice to all state governments,” said a senior government official who asked not to be named.Another important step that the government took to encourage more beneficiaries to come forward was to allow walk-in vaccine registrations, and open the facility up for all individuals above 45 years of age.“The daily vaccinations saw a sharp rise after April 1,” said one of the officials in Delhi government involved in the vaccination process.Opening up vaccinations for general public, however, led to another problem that of vaccine eagerness, especially among the younger people.Dealing with vaccine Shortages As more people started coming forward to take the jab states started complaining of vaccine shortages, although at least some of this had to do with last mile issues.“There is no shortage of vaccines; we have made data available publicly. It’s just some states making noise that has no substance. The entire process of procurement, distribution and consumption is being closely monitored at the highest level. The government has taken several pro-active steps to ensure people of India have access to high quality vaccines, and if you look at the number of people vaccinated at such a short span of time, it is a remarkable achievement on India’s part. Our PM has ably guided us in this entire process,” said Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan.Government data reviewed by HT shows that there are, as of Saturday evening, close to 40 million doses with the states or in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100mn-doses-administered-in-85-days-101618080146140.html
11-04-2021||NA||Highlights: Jharkhand records 2,373 new Covid-19 cases, 17 more deaths||The number of coronavirus infections worldwide surged past 134.3 million, according to figures provided by Bloomberg. The death toll reached 2.9 million after thousands of people continued to succumb to the viral disease. On the vaccination front, more than 748 million shots have been given to beneficiaries around the world, Bloomberg also reported.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageIn the United States, Michigan governor Gretchen Whitmer called for residents to voluntarily suspend social activities for two weeks to help slow the spread in the hottest Covid-19 spot in the US.In India, daily cases broke earlier records as the number hovered over a lakh. While in Brazil, the Covid-19 caseload reached over 13.3 million as hospital remained under the weight of rising infections.Meanwhile, Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE said they would ask regulators in the US and elsewhere to allow the use of their vaccine in adolescents ages 12 to 15.The pandemic is on the wrong trajectory after six straight weeks of increased cases, according to a World Health Organization officer, who said, “vaccines will not end the pandemic.”Follow all the updates here:45 students of Jamshedpur college test positive for Covid-19Forty-five students of XLRI-School of Management in Jamshedpur tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday, an official told news agency PTI adding that 280 students of the college had been tested for Covid-19. Jharkhand records 2,373 new Covid-19 cases, 17 more deathsJharkhand records 2,373 new #COVID19 cases, 667 recoveries and 17 deathsTotal cases: 1,37,088Active cases: 12,293Death toll: 1,192Total recoveries: 1,23,603 pic.twitter.com/B0R7UOM6w2Jharkhand on Saturday added 2,373 new Covid-19 disease cases, 17 more deaths and 667 more recoveries, according to the health department's bulletin. The caseload has now climbed to 137,088 including 1,192 deaths, 12,293 active cases and 123,603 recoveries. Maharashtra reports 55,411 new Covid-19 cases, 309 deathsWith 55,411 new Covid-19 cases and 309 related deaths, Maharashtra's cases tally reached 3,343,951 and the death toll climbed to 57,638.Also, 53,005 patients have recovered taking the total recoveries to 2,748,153.Punjab reports 3,294 new Covid-19 cases, 58 deathsPunjab reports 3,294 new #COVID19 cases, 2,385 recoveries and 58 deathsActive cases: 28,015Total cases: 2,69,733Total recoveries: 2,34,270Death toll: 7,448 pic.twitter.com/zNO3HMJx9PPunjab reported 3,294 new Covid-19 cases and 58 deaths, taking the state's tally to 269,733 and the death toll to 7,448, reports ANI.Tamil nadu logs close to 6,000 new Covid-19 cases, 23 deathsTamil Nadu reports 5,989 new #COVID19 cases, 1,952 dishcarges and 23 deaths.Total cases: 9,26,816Total discharges: 8,76,257Death Toll: 12,886Active cases: 37,673 pic.twitter.com/l1oZ6wvzJXWith 5,989 new Covid-19 cases and 23 related deaths, Tamil Nadu's cases tally reached 926,816 and death toll climbed to 12,886, reports ANI.Gujarat reports 5,011 new Covid-19 cases, 49 deaths in last 24 hoursGujarat reports 5011 new #COVID19 cases, 2525 discharges and 49 deaths, in the last 24 hours.Total cases: 3,42,026Total discharges: 3,12,151Active cases: 25,129With 5,011 new Covid-19 cases and 49 deaths in last 24 hours, Gujarat's Covid-19 tally reached 342,026 cases. Active cases currently stands at 25,129, reports ANI.Himachal Pradesh reports 941 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths in last 24 hoursHimachal Pradesh reports 941 new #COVID19 positive cases, 358 cured cases and 12 deaths, in the last 24 hours.Total number of cases now stands at 69,114 pic.twitter.com/7dhRTxzCVvHimachal Pradesh reported 941 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths in the last 24 hours as cases tally reached 69,114, reports ANI.Mumbai reports 9,327 new Covid-19 cases, 50 deaths in last 24 hoursMaharashtra: Mumbai reports 9327 new #COVID19 positive case and 50 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 5,10,225 pic.twitter.com/eAh2AXokXvMumbai reported 9,327 new Covid-19 cases and 50 related fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the city's tally to 510,225, reports ANI.Karnataka reports 6,955 new Covid-19 cases, 36 deaths; 63% new cases in Bengaluru UrbanKarnataka reports 6,955 new #COVID19 cases including 4,384 cases in Bengaluru Urban, 3,350 discharges and 36 deaths.Total cases: 10,55,040Total dicharges: 9,80,519Active cases: 61,653Total deaths: 12,849 pic.twitter.com/hVLvzFbvSWKarnataka's Covid-19 tally reached 1,055,040 cases and death toll climbed to 12,849 after the state reported 6,955 new cases and 36 deaths, reports ANI.Maharashtra CM meets with Devendra Fadnavis, cabinet colleagues to discuss Covid-19 situationChief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is holding a meeting with Devendra Fadnavis, Leader of the Opposition and his cabinet colleagues via video conferencing, over COVID situation the state: Maharashtra Chief Minister's Office pic.twitter.com/eNW6ou85QYMaharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray met with Leader of Oppositon Devendra Fadnavis over video conferencing to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state, reports ANI.'India took 85 days to administer 100 million doses': Government#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDrive #amrutmahotsavIndia took 85 days to administer 100 million #CovidVaccine doses. In 85 days, USA administered 92.09 million doses and China's vaccination coverage was 61.42 million. pic.twitter.com/KROFFpjdjmThe Union health ministry said that the vaccination drive took 85 days to administer 100 million doses while other countries like USA and China have inoculated lesser beneficiaries in the same time period.Rajasthan records 4,401 new Covid-19 cases, 18 deathsRajasthan records 4,401 new #COVID19 cases, 18 deaths and 562 recoveries Total cases: 35,86,88Death toll: 2,916Total recoveries: 3,27,866Active cases: 27,906 pic.twitter.com/NOpoPngN5xWith 4,401 new Covid-19 cases and 18 deaths, Rajasthan's cases tally reached 358,688 and death toll climbed to 2,916, reports ANI.India's Covid-19 vaccination drive completes 100 million inoculations so far: Health ministry#LargestVaccineDrive #amrutmahotsav #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/yuV7FCE4kJMore than 100 million vaccine doses have been administered in India so far, the Union health ministry tweeted.Uttarakhand records 1,233 new cases, 3 deaths in last 24 hoursUttarakhand reports 1,233 new #COVID19 cases, 317 recoveries and three deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 1,07,479Active cases: 6,241Death toll: 1,752Total recoveries: 97,644 pic.twitter.com/ZMG9vwQeX7Uttarakhand reported 1,233 new Covid-19 cases and three related fatalities in the last 24 hours. This took the state's tally to 107,479 cases and 1,752 deaths, reports ANI.Delhi reports 7,897 new Covid-19 cases, 39 deaths in last 24 hours🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 10th April 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/zvOvcAoE38With 7,897 new Covid-19 cases and 39 deaths in the last 24 hours, Delhi's tally reached 714,423 and death toll climbed to 11,235, according to a bulletin from the health department.Chandigarh reports 398 new Covid-19 cases, tally goes past 30,000Chandigarh reports 398 new #COVID19 cases, taking the total number of cases to 30,341 pic.twitter.com/TIiKlcbkAZChandigarh reported 398 new Covid-19 cases which took the city's tally to 30,341, reports ANI.Kerala reports 6,194 new Covid-19 cases, 17 deaths in last 24 hoursKerala reports 6,194 new #COVID19 cases, 2,584 recoveries and 17 deaths in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 39,778Death toll: 4,767 Total recoveries: 11,15,342Kerala's reported 6,194 new Covid-19 cases, 2,584 recoveries and 17 deaths in the last 24 hours. Death toll climbed to 4,767 so far, reports ANI.Goa reports 540 new Covid-19 cases, 1 death; tally reaches 61,779540 new COVID19 cases, 1 death and 167 recoveries reported in Goa today; case tally at 61,779 pic.twitter.com/cdyDNDlyprWith 540 new Covid-19 cases and one related fatality, Goa's tally reached 61,779 cases, reports ANI.Madurai police collects over ₹3 lakhs from people without masks in last 2 daysA fine amount of ₹3.04 lakhs has been received from 1,521 people for not wearing mask in Madurai, in last 2 days. In addition, 19 cases were registered for flouting social distancing in public places: Police Commissioner, Madurai #TamilNaduMadurai Police Commissioner said that the police has collected ₹3.04 lakhs in the last two days from 1,521 people for not wearing face masks. Also, 19 cases have been registered for violation of social distancing rules in public places, reports ANI.With 12,787 new Covid-19 cases, Uttar Pradesh reports highest single-day spikeWith 12,787 new Covid-19 cases, Uttar Pradesh reported its highest single-day spike. The state's tally reached 676,739 cases. Also, 48 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 9,085.Active caseload currently stands at 58,801.Lucknow reported 4,059 new cases and 23 fatalities, taking the tally to 102,963 cases.AMU cancels entrance exams for 2021-22 amid rising Covid-19 casesWith rising COVID cases, Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has canceled entrance examinations for session 2021-2022. A fresh entrance schedule will be uploaded soon by the university authorities on AMU’s official website: Omar Saleem Peerzada, Public Relation Officer, AMU pic.twitter.com/A5XJxEjgN0The Aligarh Muslim University cancelled its entrance examinations for the year 2021-22 and said that a new entrance schedule will soon be uploaded in the official website, reports ANI.'We are working on increasing number of normal & ICU beds in hospitals': Indore MPA 24X7 covid control room will provide virus-related information to public. We are working on increasing number of normal & ICU beds in hospitals. Today, a team of doctors will release a protocol on hospital admissions: Shankar Lalwani, Indore MPIndore MP Shankar Lalwani said that the administration is working to increase the number of normal and ICU beds in hospitals. He also said that a 24x7 control room would be set up to provide Covid-19 related information to public, reports ANI.Arvind Kejriwal visits LNJP hospital in Delhi amid rising Covid-19 casesCM Kejriwal visits LNJP Hospital amid rising COVID-19 cases in Delhi, says administration, hospitals working to contain fourth wave of pandemic in cityDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the LNJP hospital in Delhi amid rising Covid-19 cases in the capital city, reports PTI.Punjab CM attends meeting organised by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi to review Covid-19 situationPunjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh attended a meeting with Congress Party President Sonia Gandhi to review the #COVID19 situation along with Chief Ministers of Congress-ruled States. pic.twitter.com/Qdn0AV0wHUPunjab chief minister Amarinder Singh attended a meeting organised by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to review the Covid-19 situation in Congress ruled states, reports ANI.Jharkhand reports 1,925 new Covid-19 cases, tally climbs to 134,715With 1,925 new Covid-19 infections and 17 fatalities, Jharkhand's cases tally reached 134,715 and death toll climbed to 1,175, reports PTI.Russia records 8,704 new Covid-19 cases, 402 fatalitiesRussia recorded 8,704 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the nation-wide tally to 4,632,688. 402 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 102,64, reported Reuters.India's cumulative vaccination coverage exceeds 9.80 Crores#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDriveIndia's Cumulative Vaccination Coverage exceeds 9.80 Crores (9,80,75,160).https://t.co/RO5nPqhvEx pic.twitter.com/Ls1D6PytXRUddhav Thackeray to hold meeting to review Covid-19 situation in MaharashtraMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has called for a meeting today of all political party leaders to review the ongoing Covid-19 situation in the state, reported news agency ANI.Are liquor shops, dhabas open? Govt answersThe Maharashtra government on Friday issued a set of frequently asked questions in an attempt to clarify in confusion regarding the partial lockdown imposed in the state to check the Covid-19 spread. Read moreIndia's Covid-19 caseload rises by 145,384 fresh casesIndia reports 145,384 new Covid-19 cases, 77,567 discharges, and 794 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the Union Health MinistryMumbai private Covid-19 vaccine centres shut till April 12All private Covid-19 vaccination centres in the jurisdiction of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation will remain shut till April 12, the civic body notified on Friday, amid the ongoing debate over vaccine shortage in Maharashtra and several other states. Read moreBengaluru night curfew from today: What's allowed, what's notStarting from Saturday night, seven district centres of Karnataka, including Bengaluru, will be placed under a night curfew between 10pm and 5am till April 20. Read moreBrazil reports another sharp spike in daily Covid-19 infectionsBrazil reported another 93,317 infections and 3,693 deaths from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, raising the national tallies to 348,718 and 13,373,174, respectively, the Ministry of Health said Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-april-10-2021-101618020501076.html
11-04-2021||NA||Highlights: No political leaders to enter Cooch Behar in next 72 hrs, says EC||Voting for the fourth phase of the eight-phase assembly election in West Bengal has ended. The assembly seats on the battleground on Saturday are spread across Alipurduar and Cooch Behar in North Bengal and Howrah, Hooghly, South 24 Parganas and parts of Kolkata in south Bengal.In 2016, the TMC won 39 of the 44 constituencies, while it emerged victorious in only 25 of them in 2019 if the results for the Lok Sabha elections are distributed at the assembly seat level, data presented by the Hindustan Times showed.The temperature is already high in the state as the election commission has served two notices to the Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for violation of the Model Code of Conduct (MCC).West Bengal will vote again a week later on April 17 for the fifth phase. The counting of votes will take place on May 2.Follow all the updates here:EC says firing by CISF personnel was necessary to save livesRecourse to open fire by bCISF personnel became absolutely necessary in order to save lives of voters lined up at the polling booth, those of other polling personnel & their own lives as mob had attempted snatching their weapons: Election Commission on Sitalkuchi firing incident pic.twitter.com/Pc1XiPOtnUEC says the move was necessary to save lives of voters at the polling booth as the mob attempted to snatch weapons from the security personnel. Election commission bans political leaders from entering Cooch BeharPolitical leaders banned from entering Cooch Behar district for the next 72 hours after poll violence, says Election CommissionVoting ends for fourth phase of West Bengal Assembly electionsThe voting for the fourth phase of West Bengal assembly elections has come to an end. The total voter turnout recorded till 6:30 pm was 76.16%. 76.16% voter turnout recorded till 6:30pm76.16% voter turnout recorded till 6:30pm in fourth phase of West Bengal assembly election.One daughter of Bengal is attacking the other: Locket ChatterjeeOne daughter of Bengal is attacking the other. If I broke the glass of my car myself then who broke the other two press vehicles? You all (media) were present there. Did press themselves break their own vehicles?: BJP candidate from Chunchura, Locket Chatterjee75.93% voter turnout recorded till 5:24pm75.93% voter turnout recorded till 5:24pm.Voting for the fourth phase of the State's Assembly elections is underway today.Cooch Behar firing happened because of Mamata's 'gherao' statement: BJP MPWest Bengal: A BJP delegation met EC over the death of 5 people in 2 separate incidents in Sitalkuchi."In my opinion, these incidents happened because of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's old statement calling for gherao of Central forces," says BJP MP Jyotirmay Singh Mahato.TMC seeks Union home minister Amit Shah's resignationWe have sought Home Minister Amit Shah's resignation: West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Siliguri.71.83% voter turnout recorded till 5pm71.83% voter turnout recorded till 5pm in fourth phase of West Bengal assembly election.Amit Shah responsible for Cooch Behar firing: MamataHome Minister Amit Shah is completely responsible for today's incident and he himself is the conspirator. I don't blame central forces because they work under Home Minister's order: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee in SiliguriDidi's TMC is an expert in 'tolabaazi': PM ModiHandicraft, business, marketing, investment aren't among TMC's priorities. Didi's TMC is an expert in 'tolabaazi'. Didi's TMC is an expert in cut-money. Didi's TMC is an expert in killing BJP workers. Didi's TMC is an expert in rigging: PM Narendra Modi.People of Bengal are also fighting this election: PM ModiThis election of Bengal is not only being fought by BJP, people of Bengal are also fighting this election: PM Narendra Modi in Krishnanagar.Mamata Banerjee defaming Bengal's voters: PM ModiDidi abuses EC, CAPF, EVM.. to the extent, that Didi is abusing her own party's polling agents now. She is so desperate that she is defaming Bengal's voters. Didi, o Didi! People of Bengal don't expect you to have sensitivity any more: PM Modi in Krishnanagar.66.76% voter turnout recoded till 4pm66.76% voter turnout recorded till 4pm in fourth phase of West Bengal assembly election.58.87% voting recorded till 2pm58.87% voting recorded till 2pm in the fourth phase of West Bengal assembly elections.TMC moves ECI over Cooch Behar incidentTMC to observe Kala Divas tomorrow wearing black badges. TMC moves ECI over Cooch Behar incident. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will visit victims' houses on Sunday.Polling is stopped at polling station number 126: DIG, Jalpaiguri RangePolling has been stopped at polling station number 126 of Sitalkuchi Assembly Constituency, Cooch Behar; further investigation is underway: DIG, Jalpaiguri Range.Why did the Central Armed Police Forces fire?: Saugata RoyWhy did the Central Armed Police Forces fire? Where do they get this audacity of firing on common voters? That is the main question. This is a part of a conspiracy and we do not think that the PM is out of this conspiracy. This is an effort to intimidate voters: Saugata Roy, TMC MPSaugata Roy demands Shah's resignationThe firing took place because common people were resisting the effort by BJP hooligans to disrupt the voting. They are being encouraged by Central Armed Police Force & we feel this is a conspiracy headed by Home Minister, we are demanding his resignation: Saugata Roy, TMC MPThe TMC Lok Sabha MP alleged that the CAPF personnel encouraged miscreants in order to disrupt voting, news agency ANI reported.Former Indian team cricket captain Sourav Ganguly casts his voteWest Bengal: Sourav Ganguly today cast his vote at a polling booth in Barisha Shashibhusan Janakalyan Vidyapith, Behala, South 24 Paraganas pic.twitter.com/YKetlQp7jOFormer India cricket captain Sourav Ganguly was pictured in Behala while casting his vote during the fourth phase of assembly elections in West Bengal.TMC MP says Cooch Behar firing was a controversy, takes jibe at PMOur leader Mamata Banerjee will visit the houses of all those who were killed today: Saugata Roy, TMC MPThe TMC Lok Sabha MP also said that Bengal CM will visit the homes of those killed in Cooch Behar, news agency ANI reported.CM Mamata Banerjee to protest against Cooch Behar incidentWest Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to hold a protest rally in Cooch Behar tomorrow against today's firing incident in which four people died.Phase 4 records 52.89% voter turnout till 1.37pm52.89 per cent voter turnout recorded as of 1.37pm on Saturday during phase 4 of Bengal elections, according to EC data.Mamata Banerjee to visit spot in Cooch Behar where 4 voters died in violenceWest Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to visit the spot in Cooch Behar tomorrow, where four people died today.Polling adjourned at Cooch Behar's Sitalkuchi station after voters killed in violence, EC seeks report by 5pmCommission orders adjourning the poll in Polling Station 126 of Sitalkuchi Assembly Constituency, Cooch Behar based on an interim report from Special Observers. Detailed reports sought from them and Chief Electoral Officer by 5 pm today: Election CommissionPhase 4 records 34.43% voter turnout in till 12.55pmPM Modi condoles deaths in Cooch Behar, says Didi can see her chair slipping awayWhat happened in Cooch Behar is very saddening. My sympathies are with the families of those who died, I condole their demise. Didi & her goons are perturbed, seeing the people's support for BJP. She has stooped to this level as she can see her chair slipping away, ANI quoted PM Modi as saying in Siliguri.No effort to influence electorate against Central forces, not violated CoC: Mamata to EC"There has been no effort to incite/influence the electorate against CAPFs. It is clear I haven't violated Model Code of Conduct," CM Mamata Banerjee's response to EC's notice on her remarks.Phase 4 records 33.98% voter turnout till 11.30amEC seeks report as violence erupts in Bengal's Cooch Behar, 2 dead in separate incidentsViolence erupts in Cooch Behar, 4 shot at, 1 deadFour people shot at in Cooch Behar during open fire in retaliation. One of them died during the incident.Phase 4 records 16.65% voter turnout till 11.05am16.65 per cent voter turnout recorded as of 11.05am on Saturday during phase 4 of Bengal elections, according to EC data.Media vehicles covering polls attacked in HooglyMedia vehicles covering West Bengal Assembly elections attacked in Hoogly, reported ANI.BJP candidate Locket Chatterjee's car attacked in HooglyBJP leader Locket Chatterjee's car attacked by locals in Hoogly during the fourth phase of West Bengal assembly elections.First-time voter shot dead at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar, 2 arrestedTMC finished here, only Modi's strategy will work in Bengal: BJP's Rajib BanerjeePrashant Kishor's strategy will not work in Bengal, his strategy has failed. TMC has finished here. In Bengal, only Narendra Modi's strategy will work, ANI quoted BJP leader Rajib Banerjee, in Domjur as saying. Phase 4 records 15.85% voter turnout at 9:30am15.85 per cent voter turnout recorded as of 9.10am on Saturday during phase 4 of Bengal elections, according to EC dataUrge them to release full conversation: Prashant Kishor on selective use of part of leaked audioGlad BJP's taking my clubhouse chat more seriously than words of its leaders. On selective use of part of conversation, urge them to release full conversation: Prashant Kishor to ANI on leaked audio where he's saying "Modi, Mamata equally popular" among Bengal poll-related thingsPhase 4 records 2.36% voter turnout so far2.36 per cent voter turnout recorded as of 9.10am on Saturday during phase 4 of Bengal elections, according to EC dataIn Photos: Lone queue of voters at polling booth in Bhangar of South 24 ParganasWest Bengal: Long queue of voters at a polling station inKulberia Dharmatala F.P. School, Bhangar, South 24 Parganas pic.twitter.com/2h3a5bdP7ITMC candidate from Natabari wears helmet amid fears of poll violenceTMC candidate from Natabari constituency in Cooch Behar, Rabindra Nath Ghosh seen wearing a helmet this morning. He says, "I am wearing this to avoid any untoward incident."#WestBengalElections2021 pic.twitter.com/rxNWOLvMD8Biggest challenge to remove Mamata Didi, TMC from Bengal: SupriyoThe biggest challenge is to remove Mamata Didi and TMC from West Bengal. Aroop Biswas (TMC candidate from the constituency) has been the right hand of all her works. So is a challenge to change the atmosphere of terror here: BJP candidate from Tollygunge, Kolkata Babul Supriyo pic.twitter.com/DiAiuzUfYjBJP's Babul Supriyo arrives at Gandhi colony to help party's polling agent get entryBJP candidate from Kolkata's Tollygunge, Babul Supriyo arrives at Gandhi Colony Bharati Balika Vidyalaya, where party's polling agent wasn't being given entry. He says, "He has ID but wasn't being allowed by Presiding Officer. We showed his details from website. He's allowed now" pic.twitter.com/iKfTmYTQuSIn Photos: People queue up to vote at polling booth in Bhangar of South 24 ParganasPeople stand in a queue outside Hatgacha Haridas Vidyapith (H.S), designated as a polling booth, in Bhangar of South 24 Parganas district to cast their votes.#WestBengalElections2021 pic.twitter.com/fEu5La2n58TMC writes to EC, alleges BJP goons creating ruckus across several boothsTMC writes to Election Commission alleging that "across several booths in Sitalkuchi, Natalbari, Tufanganj & Dinhata, BJP goons are creating a ruckus outside the booth and preventing TMC agents from entering the booth." TMC demands necessary actions from EC, reported ANI.West Bengal CM urges people to vote in large numbers, exercise democratic rightআমি বাংলার সকল মা, ভাই ও বোনেদের আবেদন করব, সকলে আজ বিপুল সংখ্যায় নিজের গণতান্ত্রিক অধিকার প্রয়োগ করুন। I urge my brothers and sisters in Bengal to come out in large numbers and exercise their democratic right today.PM Modi urges people, especially youth, women to vote in large numbersAs the 4th phase of the West Bengal elections begin, urging the people voting today to do so in record numbers. I would especially request the youth and women to vote in large numbers.In Photos: Polling underway in Alipurduar constituencyVoting process is underway for the fourth phase of #WestBengalElections2021. Visuals from a polling station in Alipurduar. pic.twitter.com/7FW4TPR65ZVoting for phase 4 of state assembly election beginsVoting for the fourth phase of West Bengal assembly elections begins, 44 seats across 5 districts in fray.BJP candidate Locket Chatterjee offers prayersWest Bengal elections: BJP candidate from Chunchura, Locket Chatterjee offers prayers at a temple ahead of start of voting for the fourth phase of polls. pic.twitter.com/StEtzf3iXPIn Photos: People queue up at poll booth in Domjur constituency#WestBengalPolls: People queue up at a polling station in Domjur Assembly constituency in Howrah to exercise their franchise in the fourth phase of elections. The voting will begin at 7 am. pic.twitter.com/JRXWpuPM9BMock poll underway in polling booth at Alipurduar Assembly constituency#WestBengalPolls: Election officials conduct a mock poll at a polling station in Alipurduar Assembly constituency. Voting for the fourth phase of Assembly elections will commence at 7 am. pic.twitter.com/YAauJ0HzCB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-assembly-election-2021-live-updates-101618016481646.html
