12-04-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine appointments through WhatsApp? PIB says it’s fake||Covid-19 vaccine-related misinformation that registration for getting the shots can be done through messaging platform WhatsApp has been circulating on social media. This was fact-checked by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) and was called out as fake. “An image claiming that Covid-19 Vaccination appointment can be booked through WhatsApp is circulating on social media. PIBFactCheck: This claim is Fake,” tweeted PIB. “Registration for Covid-19 vaccination can be done only through the COWIN portal and Arogya Setu app,” it added.An image claiming that COVID-19 #Vaccination appointment can be booked through #WhatsApp is circulating on social media. #PIBFactCheck: This claim is #Fake. Registration for #COVID19 vaccination can be done only through the COWIN portal and Arogya Setu app. pic.twitter.com/HmqvpraDloThe fake WhatsApp forward claimed that booking vaccination appointments through the messaging app is “simple and easy to use like chatting”, urging those above 45 years of age to text ‘Hi’ on the given number and book their appointments for the first and second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Citizens are then asked to give their name, age and Aadhaar details, adding that if the 12-digit identification number is not available any government document will do the job. It also states that the service is integrated with the government's Co-Win vaccine management system and can be used to book vaccination appointments for up to four people at once.The country-wide vaccination drive which was first rolled out on January 16 is currently in its third phase where those above 45 years of age are being inoculated with one of the two made in India Covid-19 vaccines. All eligible citizens can get themselves registered for vaccination through the Co-Win portal or the Arogya Setu app. The vaccination process is digitally managed, starting from the registration for vaccination till the inoculation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-appointments-through-whatsapp-pib-says-it-s-fake-101618247870332.html
12-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Negative RT-PCR report or vaccination certificate needed for entry into Odisha||The Odisha government on Monday started strictly implementing its decision of not allowing any people to enter the state without a Covid-19 negative report or the final vaccination certificate.Those travelling without RT-PCR negative report will now have to furnish their details and undergo seven-day mandatory quarantine," said Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation Commissioner PC Chaudhary.On-the-spot testing is being done on the persons having symptoms of the flu at the airport, he added.The state government strictly checked the negative RT-PCR report of people entering the state at airports, bus stands. Even Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan was seen standing in a queue at the Biju Patnaik International Airport to have his RT-PCR negative report verified at the counter.The state has also sealed its border with Chhattisgarh and set up checking points in the borders of West Bengal, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh.Meanwhile, keeping in view the resurgence in Covid-19 cases across the state, the Odisha government Monday imposed restrictions on the visit to hospitals and health facilities in a bid to check the spread of infection.The Director of Medical Education and Training (DMET) Monday in a letter to the authorities of all medical colleges, director of Capital Hospital in Bhubaneswar, Rourkela Government Hospital, chief district medical officers and public health officers, told them to strictly enforce Covid-19 protocols in health care facilities.The DMET also issued guidelines and infection control measures. It said the central registration will be suspended for the time being and manual registration will be taken up with due social distancing measures in each OPD to avoid large gatherings at the Central Registration Counter.Non-essential admission will be avoided in the hospital, the letter mentioned adding that only emergency surgeries to be conducted and all elective surgeries to be stopped.This apart, only one attendant will be allowed for serious indoor patients. No attendant will be allowed inside the ward for an ambulatory patient, it said adding that the doctors in the OPD have been advised against calling patients for frequent re-visits unless required.The guideline also prohibited visit of media inside the OPD and IPD, the guideline said, adding that the number of counters should be increased and social distancing enforced.Dedicated fever clinic, isolation ward, and testing facilities to be established as per previous guidelines and all hospitals must have facilities to deal with all types of emergency procedures including maternity and child care with Covid prevention protocol, mentioned in the letterIt said the people are to be encouraged to utilize existing telemedicine service for their alignments.It also said: To ensure that no emergency case is denied timely medical care in the name of Covid.Meanwhile, a communication from the State Police Headquarters said that on the fifth day of the special Covid enforcement drive, action was taken against 1,1410 violators of mask usage and social distancing rules and ₹33,41,200 fine was collected n the last 24 hours.Cumulatively, in five days, action has been taken against 56,256 violators of Covid protocols in the state and fines amounting to ₹1, 58, 73, 200 have been collected.We urge all to observe Covid appropriate behaviour. The enforcement measures will be further intensified in the coming days, said DGP Abhay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-negative-rt-pcr-report-or-vaccination-certificate-needed-for-entry-into-odisha-101618247447009.html
12-04-2021||India||Who is Sushil Chandra? Know your new chief election commissioner||The Election Commission of India (ECI) will get a new chief on Tuesday as Sushil Chandra will take over as the new chief election commissioner (CEC) from Sunil Arora, who demitted office on Monday.Here’s all you need to know about India’s new chief election commissioner:1. Chandra will be the 24th head of the country’s poll commission, having been appointed as an election commissioner on February 14, 2019. Along with Arora and Ashok Lavasa, he oversaw the successful organisation of that year’s Lok Sabha elections.Also Read | Sushil Chandra is new chief election commissioner, to take charge tomorrow2. He is the senior-most election commissioner, ahead of Rajiv Kumar, in the three-member poll panel. President Ram Nath Kovind appointed Chandra as the new CEC in line with the convention to appoint the senior-most election commissioner as the CEC.3. As the new CEC, Chandra will oversee the completion of the ongoing assembly elections in West Bengal, where four out of eight rounds of voting has been completed. The final phase will take place on April 29, followed by the counting of votes and declaration of results on May 2.4. As a member of the Arora-headed panel, Chandra was also involved in the organisation of the recently-concluded assembly elections in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu. The counting of votes is scheduled for May 2 in these areas as well.5. Other assembly elections conducted during his tenure as an election commissioner include those in Maharashtra and Haryana (October 2019), Jharkhand (December 2019), Delhi (February 2020) and Bihar (October-November 2020). The Bihar polls were the first to take place during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.6. Chandra’s term will end on May 14, 2022. Before that, however, assembly elections are likely to take place in the states of Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Uttarakhand and Manipur.7. Chandra has also served as the chairperson of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT). Under his leadership, CBDT launched “Operation Clean Money” in 2017 in a bid to curb illegal wealth and black money.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-sushil-chandra-know-your-new-chief-election-commissioner-101618247049192.html
12-04-2021||India||Covid-19: 10 worst-affected cities in India||As India is witnessing a virulent second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, several cities are bearing the brunt of it and recording a soaring number of Covid-19 cases every day. Many cities have started to run out of essential drugs like Remdesivir while governments try to bring the surge under control by imposing stricter restrictions.India set another record on Monday by reporting more than 168,000 new cases of Covid-19, taking the nation-wide tally to 13,527,717.Here are the 10 worst-affected cities currently reeling under the second wave:Mumbai: India's financial capital has been recording a continuous spike in its daily tally of Covid-19 cases. Mumbai reported 6905 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, a slight dip from the 9986 recorded on Sunday, due to a reduction in the number of tests conducted, taking the city-wide tally to 520,498. To tackle the rising number of cases the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Monday nodal officers will be appointed to oversee the functioning of 24 ward war rooms and jumbo field hospitals, which will come up soon. The Maharashtra government has imposed a weekend lockdown and other strict restrictions throughout the week to help bring the surge under control. It is also mulling a lockdown.Delhi: Delhi on Monday recorded 11,491 new cases of Covid-19 and 72 fatalities. There are currently 6175 containment zones in the national capital. A total of 17,093 people are currently under home isolation in Delhi. The Delhi government is scheduled to start a blood collection drive from Monday for a fresh seropositivity survey. The last one, which was conducted between January 11 and 21, found just over 56% of Delhi residents had been exposed to the virus.Bengaluru: The capital city of Karnataka has been recording upwards of 5000 cases every day. On Monday, Bengaluru recorded 6387 new cases, contributing the most number of positive cases to the state's tally of 9579. The city which is credited with possessing the best health infrastructure in the state has started to witness a shortage of beds for Covid-19 patients, and 1 individual allegedly perished after not being able to secure a bed in an Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Chief minister BS Yediyurappa enforced a state-wide night curfew in some districts, including Bengaluru Urban, to help bring the surge under control.Pune: The city in Maharashtra has been witnessing a surge of Covid-19 cases. Pune district recorded 12,377 cases on Sunday of which 6679 were reported from the limits of Pune Municipal Corporation, and 2409 fresh cases were reported from the Pimpri Chinchwad area, reported PTI. The district has also started to run out of Remdesivir, a life-saving drug used in the treatment of Covid-19. Hospitals and nursing homes have started to ask helpless kins of patients to procure Remdesivir injections due to the shortage, ANI reported on Monday.Lucknow: The capital city of Uttar Pradesh reported 3892 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday. A night curfew has been imposed in the area under the Lucknow Municipal Corporation amongst other districts by the Yogi Adityanath government. Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav urged the UP government to make the Lucknow Cancer Institute available for treating Covid-19 patients to tackle the rising number of cases in the state.Ahmedabad: Ahmedabad city registered 1504 new Covid-19 cases and 20 fatalities on Sunday. Gujarat High Court rapped the state government for not ramping up testing facilities, stating that an RT-PCR test result takes three days time. "You did not upscale the testing facilities when you had time," the court said while taking suo-motu cognisance of the Covid-19 situation in the state.Kolkata: Kolkata reported 1109 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, adding the most number of cases to West Bengal's tally of 4398 cases. The vaccination drive in the city has encountered a major roadblock as the state has begun to run out of vaccines, reported news agency PTI on April 11.Surat: Surat recorded 1087 cases on Sunday, lagging behind Ahmedabad. Night curfew has been imposed in the city and in the rural parts of Surat district from 8pm to 6am every day. The Vijay Rupani-led government told reporters on Sunday that 25,000 vials of Remdesivir have been purchased for Surat as the city has been witnessing a shortage of the anti-viral drug.Jaipur: The capital city reported the highest number of new cases of Covid-19 in Rajasthan by recording 961 cases on Monday. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot urged people to follow Covid-19 preventative appropriate behaviour as cases reach an all-time high in the state.Indore: The Madhya Pradesh city reported 923 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday. The city was witnessing a shortage of Remdesivir injections with relatives of Covid-19 positive patients forming long queues outside medical shops in the city. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan assured citizens that the government has started procuring the injections and the shortage is expected to smooth over in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-10-worst-affected-cities-in-india-101618245245939.html
12-04-2021||India||NCB summons Dawood Ibrahim's aide Raziq Chikna||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday summoned Dawood Ibrahim aide Raziq Chikna.Earlier on April 2, Raziq's brother Danish Chikna was arrested in Rajasthan.In a joint statement, NCB and police said that Danish Chikna managed the drugs factory of gangster Dawood Ibrahim in Maharashtra's Dongri."Drugs were seized from his vehicle. A total of six cases, including that of murder, are registered against him. Warrants were also issued against him in two cases," said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-summons-dawood-ibrahim-s-aide-raziq-chikna-101618245073926.html
12-04-2021||India||Kerala announces fresh curbs as Covid-19 cases soar||In the wake of a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases, Kerala has imposed new restrictions in the state to contain the surge. State chief secretary VP Joy convened a meeting of the core committee on the pandemic on Monday and decided to introduce strict measures.State health minister KK Shailaja admitted that the next two weeks will be crucial for the state. “It is a fact that during the elections, most of the restrictions were thrown to winds. Cases are likely to up considerably in the next two weeks. There is no need for panic but people should be extra cautious,” she said.“Restaurants and hotels will be closed at 9 pm and any public event can’t go on for more than two hours. Mega shopping festivals and other big events will not be allowed till further notice. Public feasts will not be allowed and in hotels, the capacity will be restricted to 50% only. Social distancing and masking will be implemented with full force and cops have been instructed accordingly,” a state government spokesman said. On Monday, Kerala reported 5,692 new cases with a test positivity rate of (TPR) of 12.53%. North Kerala’s district Kozhikode reported maximum cases, 1,010. The active caseload of Covid-19 stands at 47.596 in the state as it reported 11 more deaths taking the toll to 4,794.Health ministry statistics show there is a steady rise in new cases and the TPR in the last ten days. On April 1, new Covid-19 cases were 2,798 but on April 12 they shot up to 5,692. Similarly, the TPR was below five% in the first week of April while it went up to 12.53% on Monday. During the year-end, cases had peaked in the state. On October 10, the TPR had touched a record high of 17.46. It went up again after the local body elections, clocking 14 to 15% in December but came down after two months in March.During the recently-concluded assembly election, Covid-19 safety norms were flouted by almost all political parties and health officials fear another high in the coming days. Hospital admissions have also been high in the past week. Health ministry officials warn of a shortage of ICU beds if the situation continues.Last week, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and former CM Oommen Chandy tested positive for the virus and both are recuperating. The state has also sent samples to the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology to find if any variation has occurred in the strain of SARS-CoV 2 in the state. Health officials said results will be expected by this weekend. Records show the state has a long way to make the vaccination drive effective. As of now, only 10.13% of the population has been vaccinated against Covid-19. The state’s biggest achievement is its low mortality rate - 0.14 against the national average of 1.52%, statistics show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-announces-fresh-curbs-as-covid-19-cases-soar-101618245218000.html
12-04-2021||India||Sushil Chandra is new chief election commissioner, to take charge tomorrow||Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra was on Monday appointed as the new Chief Election Commissioner. He replaces Sunil Arora who has retired.Chandra, the senior-most Election Commissioner, will assume charge as CEC on Tuesday.President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday appointed Chandra as 24th CEC on Monday.Chandra was appointed as an Election Commissioner on February 14, 2019, ahead of the Lok Sabha elections and worked for the successful conduct of the general elections.He is set to demit office on May 14, 2022, and will oversee the conduct of assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, and Manipur as the CEC.While the terms of assemblies in Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, and Manipur are set to end March 2022, the term of Uttar Pradesh Assembly will end in May 2022.During his over two year tenure as an Election Commissioner, Chandra supervised assembly elections of more than 10 states and worked towards making the entire nomination process online.The online process allowed candidates to file e-nomination directly, making the system faster. It also allowed the error-free feeding of the candidate's information and uploading of affidavits in the system. The candidate-related information is also made available in the public domain through the Affidavit Portal and Voter Helpline App on the same day when the nomination is filed.Before his appointment in the Election Commission, Chandra was the chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT).Under his leadership, CBDT in 2017 started 'Operation Clean Money' in a bid to curb illegal wealth and black money.Chandra has worked towards curbing the menace of black money during the election. He has emphasized the need for inducement-free elections and steps have been taken in this direction by the poll panel including the appointment of special expenditure observers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushil-chandra-is-new-chief-election-commissioner-to-take-charge-tomorrow-101618244613302.html
12-04-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi writes to PM Modi on Covid-19 crisis, flags 3 issues||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi with a slew of requests to bring the coronavirus pandemic under control in the country, which has been witnessing a second wave. Gandhi urged Prime Minister Modi to allow the emergency use of those Covid-19 vaccine candidates, which have the required clearance. She also underscored the need for a vaccine prioritisation strategy for effective results in the fight against the virus."While it will be necessary on one hand to substantially ramp up our domestic production capacity, it will also be prudent to allow emergency use authorization of all the vaccine candidates that have the required clearances, without any further delay,” Gandhi said and added that vaccines are our foremost hope as she also pointed that most of the states are left with stock for just three to five days.Gandhi's letter comes two days after she held a meeting with heads of Congress-ruled states and leaders from alliance states to review the efforts to fight Covid-19 including the availability of vaccines, access to medicines and ventilators. In that meeting last Saturday, Congress-ruled Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh said that they had a limited supply of Covid-19 vaccines and urged the Centre to ramp up the supply.Shortly after that meeting, Gandhi slammed the Centre for "mismanaging" the Covid-19 situation and creating a vaccine shortage in the country by exporting it, as she called for cancelling all public gatherings and poll rallies in view of the rising number of coronavirus cases.Gandhi also urged PM Modi to allow the vaccination of people based on need instead of age as is being done right now. "Accordingly, with enhanced availability, categories eligible for vaccination should be expanded on the basis of need and exposure rather than just age. In the same vein, the numbers allocated to a state has to be based on the prevalence and projection of infection in that particular state,” she said in her letter on Monday.The Congress leader pointed out that the medical infrastructure required to combat the viral contagion needs to be exempted from Goods and Services Tax (GST), in order to make them less expensive. "All equipment, instruments, medicines and support infrastructure required to deal with the Covid-19 crisis should be made completely exempt from GST. Even ventilators, oxymeters and oxygen cylinders presently attract GST as do key life-saving drugs like Remdesivir and Dexamethazone," Gandhi wrote in her letter.Urging the PM to put in place a minimum monthly guaranteed income scheme, Gandhi sought an economic relief plan in which the government can transfer ₹6000 into every eligible citizen's account. She highlighted that restricting economic activity will have a drastic impact on migrant labourers and poor people. "As we move ahead to control the situation by resorting to curfews, travel restrictions, closures and lockdowns, we will again be restricting economic activity that will hit the already beleaguered people - especially the poor and the daily wagers very, very hard," the letter read.In her previous rebuke of the Centre, Gandhi alleged that the Modi government has mismanaged the Covid situation. "It has exported the vaccines and allowed a shortage to be created in India," the Congress chief had said at the meeting. "Mass gatherings for elections and religious events have accelerated Covid-19 for which all of us are responsible to some extent. We need to accept this responsibility and keep the interest of the nation above our own," Sonia Gandhi said.India on Monday registered 168,912 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise so far, taking the tally to 13,527,717, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The national recovery rate has fallen below 90 per cent, data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-writes-to-pm-modi-on-covid-19-crisis-flags-3-issues-101618234067946.html
12-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: AIIMS chief explains Covid-19 second wave in India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Why is India seeing Covid-19 second wave? AIIMS chief Randeep Guleria explainsIndia's second wave of the coronavirus disease has been aggravated by lack of adherence to Covid-appropriate protocols and circulation of highly infectious strains of SARS-CoV-2, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said. Read moreCovid-19 a reminder human, animal health interconnected: Harsh VardhanUnion minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday the increased interaction between humans and animals has made it impossible to view issues of human health in isolation, adding that the Covid-19 pandemic shows that they are closely connected. Read moreCovid-19: Rajasthan promotes students of Classes 6 and 7 without examsRajasthan on Monday decided to promote students of Classes 6 and 7 without conducting any examinations due to the current spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. Read more'He looked like a school kid,' Sunil Gavaskar recalls hilarious encounter with Jhye Richardson on Dubai-Mumbai flightPunjab Kings handed debut to fast bowler Jhye Richardson in their opening game of the Indian Premier League 2021 season against Rajasthan Royals. Read more'Ajeeb lagta hai': Janhvi Kapoor embarrassed as paparazzi ask her to pose at the Mumbai airport, watchJanhvi Kapoor is on the move again. The actor was spotted at the Mumbai airport on Monday evening, hurrying to catch a flight. Read moreOwner offers job to man who broke into restaurant, wins praise from netizensA post about a break in at a restaurant in the US has gone all kinds of viral on social media. The post, shared on Facebook, details how someone broke into the eatery at 4 am. Read more'Will I ask Pakistan?': Mehbooba Mufti's appeal to govt, & advice to terroristsFormer Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti reiterated her demand to the Central government to restore the province's special status. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-aiims-chief-explains-covid-19-second-wave-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101618239659973.html
12-04-2021||India||Delhi hits new record high of over 11,000 Covid-19 cases||Delhi reported an all-time high of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in a day after more than 11,000 infections and 72 deaths were recorded on Monday, according to the health bulletin issued on Monday.There were 11,491 new cases recorded in the last 24 hours, which have pushed the cumulative tally to 736,688. The fatalities also rose sharply on Monday by 72, taking the death toll in Delhi to 11,355.The positivity rate—the proportion of samples that test positive—in the national capital also spiked and was logged at 12.44%, a sharp rise from 9.43% a day earlier.Authorities also ramped up the testing and conducted 92,397 tests in the last 24 hours. Out of the tests conducted, 65,564 were RT-PCR tests and 26,833 were Rapid antigen.Recording a steep rise, active cases in Delhi inched closer to 40,000-mark as 38,095 cases were registered in the same period, health bulletin said. The national capital has 6175 containment zones, it added.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday termed the Covid-19 situation in Delhi is "worrisome" and issued a stark warning asking people to step out of their homes only if it is urgent.Last month, the CM confirmed that the city-state is witnessing the fourth wave of infections, even as the rest of the country is reeling from the second wave. Kejriwal also said that a lockdown to curb the spread of the disease was not an option but warned of stricter restrictions.In order to ramp up the city’s medical infrastructure, the Delhi government on Monday declared 14 private hospitals in the city as "full Covid-19" hospitals and directed them not to admit any non-COVID patients till further orders.Nineteen private hospitals have been directed to reserve at least 80 per cent of their ICU beds for coronavirus disease-related treatment. Eighty-two private hospitals have been asked to set aside at least 60 per cent of their ICU beds for COVID-19 patients, according to the order issued by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hits-new-record-high-of-over-11-000-covid-19-cases-101618237548586.html
12-04-2021||India||Covid-19 a reminder human, animal health interconnected: Harsh Vardhan||Union minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday the increased interaction between humans and animals has made it impossible to view issues of human health in isolation, adding that the Covid-19 pandemic shows that they are closely connected. “With increased interaction between humans and animals, human health can't be seen in isolation and Covid-19 is more than a reminder,” Harsha Vardhan said.Vardhan was speaking at the ‘One Health in India: Research Informing Biosafety, Preparedness and Response’ symposium organised by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The One Health—an interdisciplinary approach that views human and animal health to be interconnected—gained traction at the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic last year.“The ‘One Health’ approach recognises that people's health is closely connected with animals' health,” he said at the symposium. “Covid19 demonstrates the rapid spread of novel pathogens which can have a significant impact on the global economy. Preparedness for and mitigation of such events require a 'One Health' approach,” he added.While talking about zoonotic viruses, Vardhan said India is one of the four global hotspots for the emergence of zoonotic diseases and added that the coronavirus has caused much damage around the world and “we are struggling even after 15 months".Vardhan also stressed the changes in climate and land use pattern causing disruptions in natural habitats of animals opening up new ways for diseases to spread. “The earth has experienced changes in climate and land use with practices like deforestation and intensive farming. Disruptions in environmental habitats can provide new opportunities for diseases to pass to animals,” he said.During the budget session, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman launched the Prime Minister Aatmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana, with an outlay of about ₹64,180 crore over a period of six years, which included the setting up of a national institution for the ‘One Health’ approach."Health and well being have formed the topmost priority of the Union Government during the ongoing Covid-19 health crisis. It is the foremost of the six crucial pillars that form the foundation of the Union Budget," the minister had said in Parliament.Vardhan also announced the creation of an Eco-Health initiative for India, which will be supported by the National Institute of One Health. He also launched the Indian Journal of Medical Research’s special issue on ‘One Health’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-a-reminder-human-animal-health-interconnected-harsh-vardhan-101618235994669.html
12-04-2021||India||Haryana imposes night curfew between 9pm-5am; essential services, inter-state, intra-state movement exempted||Haryana on Monday announced a state-wide night curfew between 9pm and 5am effective immediately, citing the recent surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state. All non-essential movement during the curfew hours has been banned by the government and the curfew would remain in place until further orders.“Any person violating these measures will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC, and other legal provisions as applicable,” the government order said.The announcement comes a day after the state reported 3440 Covid-19 cases on Sunday and 16 related fatalities taking its disease tally to 316,881 and death toll to 3268, according to a bulletin.Also read | Sputnik V gets experts' nod in India. All you need to know about the vaccineHowever, exemptions have been provided by the government for essential services.“Those tasked with law and order /emergencies and municipal services/duties including executive magistrates, police personnel, Military/C.A.P.F. personnel in uniform, health, electricity, fire, media persons with accreditation and Government machinery tasked with Covid-19 related duties (All on production of identity card),” are some among the exemptions, the government order read.Among other allowed activities, vehicles and people in transit would be allowed after verification of point of origin and destination. Also, hospitals, medical shops and ATMs are allowed to operate all throughout the day and pregnant women and patients going for medical or health-related emergencies would also be exempted, according to the order. “Passengers going to or returning from airport or railway station of I.S.B.T. shall be exempted,” the order noted.The night curfew is being implemented on top of the existing Covid-19 restrictions in the state. “Keeping in view growing cases of Corona Haryana Govt. has imposed restrictions on gatherings. In indoor maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed with a ceiling of 200 persons. In open gatherings will be allowed of 500 persons. For Funerals upto 50 persons only,” health minister Anil Vij tweeted on April 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-imposes-9pm-5am-daily-night-curfew-across-state-with-immediate-effect-101618233949320.html
12-04-2021||India||‘No meals for passengers on flights below 2-hour duration’: Aviation ministry||No meals will be provided to passengers on flights with a flying time of less than two hours, the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) said in an order on Monday. The move comes in a bid to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The ministry, however, has allowed meals for other flights with a flying time of more than 120 minutes. Such airlines will have to provide disposable cutlery and serve only pre-packed food. This order will come into effect from April 15.Tea, coffee, alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages have been allowed to be served only in disposable cans or bottles or glasses. “There will be no pouring services and beverages will be served in single-use disposable units and all the disposables will be disposed of in trash bags or carts by the crew at the end of the meal service,” the order read.The order dated April 12 stated that the airlines can serve pre-packed snacks, pre meals, packaged beverages as per their policies only for flights with a duration of two hours or more. However, the MoCA laid down the conditions for serving meals. It said that the tray set up, plates and cutlery in all classes should be completely disposable. It also said that none of the disposables should be re-used and used rotables should be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected before reusing them. Components in an aircraft that need to be roated or reused at frequent intervals are defined as rotables. The MoCA has asked all the operating crew to wear a fresh set of gloves for every meal or beverage service. It also asked the airlines to inform passengers about these amended norms by making announcements. “The service of inflight meals to be staggered among the adjacent seats as far as possible,” the order concluded.The Central government had restricted serving onboard meals after it resumed flying for the domestic sector in a phased manner. This was being done as a precautionary measure to avoid the spread of the Sars-CoV2 virus. However, on August 29, it allowed selling onboard meals which is a significant source of ancillary revenue for low-cost airlines. While for domestic flights, only pre-packed snacks and beverages were allowed, airlines operating international flights were allowed to serve hot meals and alcohol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-meals-for-passengers-on-flights-below-2-hour-duration-aviation-ministry-101618232857488.html
12-04-2021||India||'Glad to be back home': President Kovind returns to Rashtrapati Bhavan post surgery||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday thanked doctors and other medical staff at the two hospitals, where he was treated, as he returned to Rashtrapati Bhavan, almost two weeks after successful heart surgery. The President underwent a planned bypass procedure on March 30 at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi."I have returned to Rashtrapati Bhavan after my surgery. My speedy recovery is thanks to wishes and prayers of all of you and exceptional care given by doctors and nursing staff at AIIMS and Army’s RR hospital. I am thankful to everyone! I am glad to be back home," President Kovind tweeted.President Kovind was shifted to AIIMS a week before the procedure, a statement issued by Rashtrapati Bhavan said on March 27. Before that, Kovind, 75, underwent a health check-up at the Army Hospital (R&R) after he complained of chest discomfort.“The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind has been shifted to the AIIMS, Delhi, in the afternoon today (March 27, 2021). Post investigations, doctors have advised him to undergo a planned bypass procedure which is expected to be performed on the morning of March 30, Tuesday," a statement from the Rashtrapati Bhavan read. "The President’s health is stable and he is under the care of the experts at the AIIMS,” the statement said.President Kovind continued to perform his duties a day after hospitalisation as he gave his assent to a bill that accords primacy to Delhi's Lieutenant Governor (L-G) over the elected government.Several leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, inquired about the President's health after he was taken to the hospital. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said PM Modi talked to the President's son. "PM Narendra Modi spoke to Rashtrapati Ji's son. He inquired about the President's health and prayed for his well-being," PMO tweeted. Defence minister Rajnath Singh visited the R&R Hospital after Kovind was taken there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glad-to-be-back-home-president-kovind-returns-to-rashtrapati-bhavan-post-surgery-101618227946530.html
12-04-2021||India||3 drown in Godavari waters in Andhra Pradesh||Three persons drowned in Godavari river in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district on Sunday evening while taking a bath, the police said on Monday.The bodies of Perishetty Satyanarayana (22), Pattapu Hemanth (25) and Perugu Somaraju (25) – all from Chagallu village – were retrieved several hours later from the water at Goshpada Teertham, a pilgrim centre on the banks of the river at Kovvur town on Monday afternoon.According to Kovvur (urban) inspector of police M Satyanarayana Murthy, six people came to Kovvur to watch the afternoon show of a newly-released Telugu film. While returning to their village, they stopped at Goshpada Teertham to bathe in the river.“When three of them went back to the town to get some snacks after the bath, the other three entered the water again. Apparently, one person, who did not realise the depth of the water at one of the spots in the river, drowned and the other two drowned while trying to rescue him,” the inspector said. Their friends returned later in the evening when the search to find their friends had begun. They told the police that their group had stopped there to take bath after watching a movie.Generally, water level in the river is not much in summer, but there are some spots in it where the depth is up to 20 feet, Murthy added.Locals alerted the police when they saw the men drown. Police reached the spot along with expert swimmers; however, they could not locate the victims as it was getting dark.“We retrieved the bodies this afternoon and sent them to the local government hospital for post-mortem. We have booked a case of accidental death and are investigating,” the inspector added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-drown-in-godavari-waters-in-andhra-pradesh-101618231477440.html
12-04-2021||India||Sputnik V, ‘world's first' Covid-19 vaccine, gets experts' nod in India. All you need to know||Russia's Sputnik V, the first Covid-19 vaccine to receive regulatory approval from any country in the world, has now received a recommendation for emergency use in India against the deadly coronavirus disease. The vaccine, first approved in Russia on August 11 last year, was on Monday recommended for emergency use in India by the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the country's drug authority Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) will take the final call on the recommendation, and if approved, the Russian vaccine will become the third Covid-19 vaccine to be available in India.Here's all you need to know about the 'Sputnik V' vaccine:Why is the vaccine named Sputnik V?The Sputnik V vaccine was named after Sputnik 1, the world's first artificial Earth satellite, launched by the erstwhile Soviet Union on October 4, 1957. The word "sputnik" is Russian for satellite when interpreted in an astronomical context and its other meanings are a spouse or traveling companion. The "V" in the name is the letter V and stands for "vaccine", and is not the Roman numeral for five.Who developed the Sputnik V vaccine?The vaccine is developed by the Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, a medical research institute headquartered in Moscow. The development of the vaccine is backed by the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RIDF) and it was registered by the Russian health ministry as Gam-COVID-Vac. In India, the vaccine is being marketed by Dr Reddy's Laboratories, which has helped run a small trial for the drug in the country to test its safety and ability to generate an immune response, according to Reuters.How does the Sputnik V vaccine work?Sputnik V is an adenovirus viral vector vaccine. It uses a modified virus which cannot replicate and has instead been inserted with the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2, to elicit an immune response in the body. According to the Russian health ministry, what makes this vaccine unique is that, unlike other similar vector-based vaccines, Sputnik V is a 'two-vector vaccine', meaning it uses two different types of adenovirus vectors -- rAd26 for the first shot, and rAd5 for the second -- for enhanced efficiency. The two vaccine shots are given to the Covid-19 patient three weeks apart.Why did Sputnik V initially face criticism?Sputnik V briefly courted controversies when Russia became the first country to grant it regulatory approval last year, a time when none of the pharmaceutical companies working on a potential Covid-19 vaccine in the United States and Europe had completed all the stages of their clinical trials. The 'vaccine race', not unlike the Cold War space race, was being closely observed by global watchdogs with much interest, and the competition to have the first vaccine was very much about international rivalries as much as it was about science.Russia, as it turned out, did not get to enjoy a "Sputnik moment" after all, unlike the awe and wonder of the Soviet Union's launch of the first satellite, of the same name, in 1957. Instead, it was met by doubts about science and safety. Leading science journals precipitated discussions in the community on how, if at all, the decision for approval was justified, as the Phase-I clinical trials for the vaccine were known to have started on June 17 and the final stages were reportedly completed in less than two months, by August 2.The process usually takes several more months to go through, reports noted.US infectious disease specialist Dr Anthony Fauci went on record to say, "I do hope the Chinese and the Russians are actually testing the vaccines before they are administering the vaccine to anyone. Because claims of having a vaccine ready to distribute before you do testing is problematic, at the very least."However, the speculations were put to rest on February 2, 2021, when an interim analysis from the trial was published in The Lancet medical journal, indicating 91.6% efficacy without unusual side effects.What's next for Sputnik V?The 'Sputnik V' vaccine has already been approved for use and mass distribution in more than 50 countries including Argentina, Belarus, Hungary, the United Arab Emirates and Serbia, in addition to Russia, according to a PTI report. The Russian Direct Investment Fund has signed deals to produce more than 750 million doses of Sputnik V with six domestic firms in India, where a massive second wave of the coronavirus is running high amid surging demands for vaccines. Most panel recommendations are generally accepted by the regulator's chief, Reuters said, and once approved, the vaccine will join other shots from the AstraZeneca-Oxford University and Bharat Biotech in the country's nationwide inoculation drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-gets-experts-nod-in-india-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-vaccine-101618222753455.html
12-04-2021||India||Kerala HC directs EC to hold poll for Rajya Sabha seats before May 2||The Kerala High Court on Monday directed the Election Commission of India to conduct elections to three Rajya Sabha seats that are falling vacant on April 21 before the announcement of assembly elections results on May 2. The EC is yet to react to the HC’s directive.The petitioners have welcomed the HC verdict. “We are happy the court upheld our rights,” said one of the petitioners and CPI(M) legislator S Sharma. The single bench headed by Justice PV Asha delivered the verdict on two petitions filed by CPI(M) legislator S Sharma and the secretary of the legislative assembly SV Unnikrishnan Nair. The court, in its verdict, observed that the sitting legislative assembly has the right to elect members of the seats falling vacant in the upper house. It is not immediately known whether the EC will approach the Supreme Court to challenge the HC verdict. The court has rejected EC’s contention that voting can be done after the constitution of the new assembly and observed that current members of the legislative assembly will have the right to vote. Earlier, the CPI(M) legislator and the secretary of the assembly had moved the court challenging the EC’s decision to keep in abeyance election to three Rajya Sabha seats.Three RS members - Abdul Wahab (Muslim League), KK Ragesh (CPI(M) and Vayalar Ravi (Cong) - will retire this month. Going by the present strength of the house, the ruling Left Democratic Front will get two and Congress-led UDF one seat.Also read: Kerala Police’s vaccination advisory with Boney M’s Rasputin twist goes viralThe EC maintained that since elections were over, three seats can be filled by the new assembly which was challenged by the CPI(M). Earlier, the ED had proposed elections on April 12 but it was later deferred citing the assembly elections. It maintained that there was no obligation to hold elections during the term of the present assembly but petitioners challenged it saying it was an encroachment on their rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-directs-ec-to-hold-poll-for-rajya-sabha-seats-before-may-2-101618229137541.html
12-04-2021||India||Why is India seeing Covid-19 second wave? AIIMS chief Randeep Guleria explains||India's second wave of the coronavirus disease has been aggravated by lack of adherence to Covid-appropriate safety protocols and the circulation of highly infectious strains of SARS-CoV-2, All India Institute of Medical Sciences’ (AIIMS’) director Dr Randeep Guleria said on Monday.The coronavirus crisis, torpedoing economies and burdening medical infrastructure, worsened at the end of February in India and the country has since been reporting record Covid-19 cases every day. India on Monday shattered its previous daily spikes in Covid-19 cases recorded since the pandemic hit the country. On Monday, India saw the biggest single-day jump of 1,68,912 fresh Covid-19 infections, pushing the cumulative tally to 1,35,27,717, according to Union health ministry data.Also read: HT Editorial | Stop public rallies, nowIndia's Covid-19 crisis is unfolding in primarily 10 states, which account for 83.02% of the cases reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. These states—Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan—have imposed several curbs and restrictions to break the chain of transmission of the cases.Guleria pointed out that the infection rate has surged and the disease outbreak is compounded by the presence of highly infectious strains. "Earlier, if one sick person was able to infect around 30 per cent of their contacts, this time those getting the disease are infecting a larger number of people,” Guleria told PTI.People are taking the disease lightly now, the chief of India's premier hospital said. "If you go out, you see that marketplaces, restaurants and shopping malls are crowded and full of people and these all are super-spreader events," Guleria said. "Around February, when cases started to decrease, people became lax towards following Covid-appropriate behaviour as they thought the virus had become ineffective… So, the rate of spread of the infection is fast possibly due to the highly infectious and transmissible strains circulating,” he said.Guleria called everyone to stay home saying, "unless it is important, people should not venture out.Also read: Sputnik V, ‘world's first' Covid-19 vaccine, gets experts' nod in India. All you need to knowHe also said stricter enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour has to be ensured to ensure the progress made by India in the last year does not go to waste."We may lose the gains we have made so far if we do not pay heed now and the situation may completely get out of control. If the situation is not reversed, then the galloping infection rate will eventually cause a huge strain on the healthcare system also," he told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-is-india-seeing-covid-19-second-wave-aiims-chief-randeep-guleria-explains-101618224239329.html
12-04-2021||India||Sanjay Raut blames Centre for rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Punjab||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Monday blamed the Centre for the rise in coronavirus positive cases in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab.Speaking to reporters, Raut said Maharashtra had followed every instruction issued by the Centre, and the latter must act sensitively and cautiously and stop blaming states.Ten states- Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan- have shown a steep rise in daily Covid-19 cases, accounting for83.02 per centof the new infections, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday."If Maharashtra and the other two states (Punjab and Chhattisgarh) has failed, the first failure is that of the Centre since the country is fighting the war against the virus under prime minister Narendra Modi's leadership," he said, questioning why only non-BJP ruled states were being singled out as failures."Has the coronavirus disappeared in states which have a BJP chief minister? The Centre should provide vaccines and Remdesivir to Maharashtra. Everyone has seen how Remdesivir is available in BJP offices in Gujarat but it is not (made) available to Maharashtra," Raut claimed.He said Maharashtra BJP leaders must condemn these attempts to "malign the image of the state", or else they have "no business to do politics in the state".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanjay-raut-blames-centre-for-rising-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-chhattisgarh-punjab-101618227499031.html
12-04-2021||India||Covid: From April 15, meals only on flights with journey time of 2 hours or more||The ministry of civil aviation on Monday amended guidelines for in-flight meal services, ruling such services will be available only on those with a journey time of two hours or more from April 15 amid the rising threat of Covid-19 and three variants of coronavirus. “The airlines, operating on domestic sectors, may provide meals services onboard, wherein the flight duration is two hours or more,” the ministry said in a statement.Also Read | India’s ‘double mutant’ Covid strain found in USThe ministry noted that currently three strains of the SARS-CoV-2, which causes the coronavirus disease, currently in circulation in India have been detected in various countries. “All three variants have demonstrated increased transmissibility, as reported by the World Health Organization. Meanwhile in India, the number of Covid-19 cases are increasing,” it said.The three variants of the SARS-CoV-2 are the UK, Brazil and South Africa variants.Also Read | 3 new Covid-19 variants reported in India: Government“The MoCA, considering the increasing threat of Covid-19 and its variants, has decided to review onboard meal services in domestic flight of operations,” the memorandum further stated.The services on these flights, however, will be subject to certain conditions. These include using disposable tray set-up, plates and cutlery with no re-use; serving tea, coffee, alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverage services in disposable cans, containers, bottles or glasses and disposing of all the used plates, cutleries, beverage bottles and glasses in trash bags and carts etc. The crew will have to wear a fresh set of gloves for every meal and beverage service and passengers would be informed about the rules for strict compliance.The servicing, the statement added, shall be staggered among the adjacent seats “as far as possible.” The rules would be reviewed on a regular basis and necessary amendments made, if needed, on the basis of inputs from the experts, it said.The civil aviation ministry suspended all flight operations in the country in March 2020 as the first nationwide Covid-19 induced lockdown came into effect. However, in May, domestic carriers were allowed to resume services while suspension of international flights continues. In August, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (MoCA) allowed airlines to serve meals on board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-from-april-15-meals-only-on-flights-with-journey-time-of-2-hours-or-more-101618226607967.html
12-04-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti says her daughter Iltija tested Covid-19 positive||Iltija Mufti, the 33-year-old daughter of Peoples’ Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, her mother said.“Want to confirm media reports that my younger daughter Iltija tested positive for Covid today. As advised by doctors she is now self isolating & taking all the necessary precautions,” Mehbooba Mufti said on twitter. Mufti’s other daughter’s name is Irtiqa. The family’s residence is on Srinagar’s Gupkar road.Iltija Mufti, who was the most vocal during her mother’s detention after the revocation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019, was the fifth high-profile personality in Kashmir to have contracted the viral infection in the past two weeks, following the surge in Covid-19 cases since mid-March.On March 30, Member of Parliament from Srinagar and National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah tested positive for the viral infection. His son and NC vice-president Omar Abdullah confirmed on April 9 that he too was infected.While Farooq was symptomatic and had to be hospitalised for a few days, Omar Abdullah said he was asymptomatic. Both have been recuperating at home.Former PDP leaders Muzaffar Hussain Baig and his wife Safina Baig, who is district development council (DDC) chairperson of Baramulla, also tested positive for Covid-19 last week.Jammu and Kashmir recorded 915 infections and five deaths on Sunday, taking the Union Territory’s case tally to 1, 38,390 and the death toll to 2,034. Over the last five days, J&K has been recording over 800 cases daily, the highest in more than six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-says-her-daughter-iltija-tested-covid-19-positive-101618227277187.html
12-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: RTGS service will be unavailable for 14 hrs on April 18 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.RTGS services won’t be available for 14 hours on April 18 due to technical upgrade: RBIThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced on Monday that the Real-Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) service will not be available for 14 hours on April 18 (Sunday) due to a technical upgrade. Read MorePanel grants emergency-use approval to Russia-made Covid vaccine Sputnik VA committee under India’s drug regulator reviewed and approved the emergency-use application of Russia-made coronavirus vaccine Sputnik V on Monday based on its strong immunogenicity data. Read MoreSomething wrong if lawyers don’t want to be HC judges due to retirement age: SCThere is something wrong in their thinking if lawyers do not want to become judges because of the retirement age, observed the Supreme Court on Monday while rejecting a plea on increasing retirement age of high court judges from 62 to 65. Read MoreRR vs PBKS, IPL 2021: How can the Royals contain skipper magnificent KL Rahul?Punjab Kings have a new name and they would hope this brings a change in their fortunes as well. Read MoreBeware of third party stores! Security firm finds app store infected with malwareUnlike Apple, which only allows users to download and install apps that it curates via its App Store, Android users can not only ‘sideload’ any compatible application, but also install third-party stores. Read MoreAbu Dhabi police arranges ‘Happiness Patrol’ for four-year-old, wins praisesA toddler received a sweet surprise from the Abu Dhabi police on Sunday and the video of the surprise has now won many hearts online. Read More'Playful, not funky': VW reveals Taigun cabin, underlines focus on qualityVolkswagen Taigun is gearing up for an India debut and it is being touted as one of the strongest offerings from the German auto giant in a space that is hotly contested as well as massively lucrative. Read MoreShilpa Shetty nails Naukasana again, shares benefits of 'cakewalk' Yoga exerciseGoing back to polish previously performed exercise moves, Shilpa Shetty Kundra inspired fans to improve upon Yoga’s Naukasana. Read MoreNeelima Azeem on her failed marriages with Pankaj Kapur and Rajesh Khattar: 'Experienced grief, rejection, anxiety'Neelima Azeem has opened up about her failed marriages. The actor was first married to Pankaj Kapur, with whom she had Shahid Kapoor, and then married to Rajesh Khattar, with whom she had Ishaan Khatter. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rtgs-service-will-be-unavailable-for-14-hrs-on-april-18-and-all-the-latest-news-101618224710353.html
12-04-2021||India||Rainfall likely in several parts in next 4-5 days: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday several parts of the country are likely to receive rainfall in the next five days due to different cyclonic circulations. "Due to thunderstorm activities over most parts of the country, no significant change in maximum temperatures are likely over most parts of the country during next 4-5 days,” the met department said.Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds of 30-40 kilometres per hour are very likely over southwest peninsular India in the next five days under the influence of trough and cyclonic circulations over the south peninsula, IMD said. It also said that isolated heavy rainfall is likely over southern and ghat areas of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Mahe, coastal and south interior Karnataka during April 14-16.It also said that another cyclonic circulation lies over southwest Madhya Pradesh and neighbouring areas. Isolated rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) is very likely over Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Gangetic West Bengal and Odisha during next four to five days and over Jharkhand during the next 24 hours.The IMD said a fresh active western disturbance is very likely to affect the western Himalayan region and adjoining plains during April 15-17. It is very likely to cause scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) during April 14-17 over western Himalayan region, and light, isolated to scattered rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds over adjoining plains during April 15-17. Isolated hailstorms are also likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh on April 14-16.Thunderstorm or dust storms are also likely at isolated places over west Rajasthan on April 14 and 15, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rainfall-in-several-parts-in-next-4-5-days-imd-101618225696758.html
12-04-2021||India||‘Enough with festival, claps, and plates’…: Rahul Gandhi urges vaccination for all||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Monday public display of gratitude for healthcare and frontline workers have had their moment and it is time now for the government to provide vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to every citizen of the country. “Even after 385 days, the fight against Corona has not been won. Enough with the festival, claps, and plates now provide vaccines to the country,” Gandhi tweeted along with a video making the appeal.Rahul Gandhi was referring to last year’s Janata curfew on March 22 when people clapped and banged utensils to thank healthcare and frontline workers on the day. The Congress leader also mentioned the ongoing Tika Utsav or the vaccine festival, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggested to states to ensure optimum utilisation of their Covid-19 vaccination capability.“Modiji, you said the fight against Corona will be won in 18 days. You made people ring bells, bang plates, turn on their mobile’s flashlight but Corona kept advancing. A second wave is here now and lakhs of people have fallen prey to it. Stop with the ‘Eventbaazi’ and provide vaccines to everyone who needs it and stop the export of vaccines,” he added.Gandhi also asked for financial assistance for those who have been hit by the second wave of the pandemic. “Our poor brothers and sisters should be given income support,” he said. On April 9, he wrote a letter to the Prime Minister on the state of vaccination in the country and urged the Centre to put an immediate halt to vaccine exports and involve the states as a stakeholder in the vaccination drive.Earlier in the day, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra urged people to “speak up for vaccines for all” and criticised the government for exporting vaccines instead of vaccinating its citizens. “Because the vaccine is for everyone. Because the government should pay more attention to the public than organising the events. Because everyone has the right to know where the PM Care funds are being spent. Because instead of exporting the vaccine, the government should focus on vaccinating every citizen," Priyanka Gandhi tweeted.The Congress party on Monday launched its online campaign, urging Indians to demand vaccination for everyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enough-with-festival-claps-and-plates-rahul-gandhi-urges-vaccination-for-all-101618225004023.html
12-04-2021||India||Something wrong if lawyers don’t want to be HC judges due to retirement age: SC||There is something wrong in their thinking if lawyers do not want to become judges because of the retirement age, observed the Supreme Court on Monday while rejecting a plea on increasing retirement age of high court judges from 62 to 65. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, was amused when petitioner in the case, Ashwini Upadhyay, submitted that he knew “some very fine lawyers” who did not want to become judges in the high courts because the retirement age was 62. “What are you saying? There is something wrong in their thinking of they don’t want to become judges... And you call them the finest lawyers!” commented the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. Bharatiya Janata Party leader and lawyer Upadhyay had filed a public interest litigation (PIL), seeking appropriate direction to the Union government for increasing the retirement age of high court judges from 62 to 65. The judges in the Supreme Court retire at 65. Also Read | Plea in SC seeks direction to Centre to open vaccinations for all citizensUpadhyay, during the hearing on Monday, said that since a high court is also a constitutional court like the Supreme Court, there should be uniformity in their retirement age. “Both are constitutional courts and are also the courts of record. The Supreme Court as well as the high courts are the protector of the fundamental rights. The judges of both courts also take similar oath of office. Why should high courts judges retire early? Let there be uniformity,” he said. The bench asked Upadhyay if he had consulted the judges in the high courts whether they wanted to be retired at 65 instead of 62. “Have you asked them? How are you concerned? Why do you want the retirement age to go up?” it asked Upadhyay. The lawyer replied that having the difference in the retirement age appeared to be irrational but the court disagreed. “How is this irrational? There is a provision in the Constitution which has fixed the age of retirement. There has to be some reason for it. You cannot simply say it is irrational,” remarked the bench. Upadhyay then sought to withdraw the petition with the liberty to move his plea as a representation with the Law Commission of India. The court, however, declined to accede to this plea either. “You have also filed a petition in this court to fill up the vacancy in the Law Commission and make it functional. Once you succeed in that petition, you can go to the Law Commission,” it said. Upadhyay’s PIL had stated that uniformity in the retirement age was not only necessary to reduce pendency of cases but also essential to attract and retain the best legal talent in the bench. “If there was uniformity in retirement age, the judges of the high court will discharge judicial work more independently and without any expectation to move to the Supreme Court,” it submitted.The PIL added that to minimise the apprehension of subordination between the Supreme Court and high courts also, it was appropriate to equate the retirement age of high court judges with that of the Supreme Court judges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/something-wrong-if-lawyers-don-t-want-to-be-hc-judges-due-to-retirement-age-sc-101618223977966.html
12-04-2021||India||Panel grants emergency-use approval to Russia-made Covid vaccine Sputnik V||A committee under India’s drug regulator reviewed and approved the emergency-use application of Russia-made coronavirus vaccine Sputnik V on Monday based on its strong immunogenicity data.The Drugs Controller General of India will be formally approving the vaccine under emergency-use based on the expert panel recommendation. In an earlier meeting, the subject expert committee (SEC) of the central drugs standard organisation (CDSCO) sought more data from Dr Reddy’s labs, which is conducting bridging clinical trials for the Russia-made Covid-19 vaccine locally. The vaccine’s efficacy is pegged at91.6% based on the final control point of clinical trials in Russia.Sputnik V was the next front-runner for approval in India, after Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin that is co-developed by Indian Council of Medical Research, and Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine that is locally manufactured by Serum Institute of India under the brand name Covishield.Also Read | Sputnik maker ties up with Indian firm to produce 100 mn dosesBoth the vaccines are currently approved for use in India for the national Covid-19 immunisation programme. India launched its nationwide Covid-16 immunisation drive on January 16, 2021, and since then has administered at least 100 million Covid-19 vaccine doses.In September 2020, Dr Reddy’s and Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) entered into a partnership to conduct the clinical trials of the Sputnik V vaccine and the rights for distribution in India.Sputnik V developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology was registered by the ministry of health of Russia and became the world’s first registered vaccine against Covid-19 based on the established human adenoviral vector platform.In its 144th meeting—held on February 24—to examine Covid-19 related proposal under accelerated approval process, the CDSCO SEC asked the company that presented its case for grant of emergency-use authorisation, to come back with more India-specific immunogenicity data.“The firm presented its proposal for grant of permission to import (marketing authorisation) for emergency-use of Gam COVID Vac Combined Vector vaccine (Component one and component two) along with the safety & immunogenicity data of Phase II part of Phase II/III clinical trial in India and interim safety, efficacy & immunogenicity data from overseas Phase III clinical trial,” said the SEC in its previous meeting to consider Sputnik’s application, according to the minutes of the meeting made public.“After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that firm should submit immunogenicity and safety data of Phase II and III trial as per approved protocol for further consideration of the Committee. Further the firm is requested to present its data with more clarity,” the committee recommended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-grants-emergency-use-approval-to-russia-made-covid-vaccine-sputnik-v-101618223917020.html
12-04-2021||India||RTGS services won’t be available for 14 hours on April 18 due to technical upgrade: RBI||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced on Monday that the Real-Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) service will not be available for 14 hours on April 18 (Sunday) due to a technical upgrade. The central bank also noted that the National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT) services will continue to remain operational during this period.“A technical upgrade of RTGS, targeted to enhance the resilience and to further improve the Disaster Recovery Time of the RTGS system, is scheduled after the close of business of April 17, 2021. Accordingly, RTGS service will not be available from 00:00 hrs to 14.00 hrs on Sunday, April 18, 2021. The NEFT system will continue to be operational as usual during this period,” a statement from RBI said.RBI also asked the member banks to notify the customers, asking them to plan their transactions accordingly. “Member banks may inform their customers to plan their payment operations accordingly. RTGS Members will continue to receive event update(s) through system broadcasts,” it said in the statement.On April 7, the central bank allowed for the direct membership of non-bank payment system operators in the Centralised Payment Systems (CPS). Until then, RTGS and NEFT were allowed only for banks and specialised entities like clearing corporations and select development financial institutions. However, after the announcement, non-bank entities like Prepaid Payment Instrument (PPI) issuers, Card Networks, White Label ATM (WLA) operators, Trade Receivables Discounting System (TReDS) platforms would also be enabled to take direct membership in CPS.The move is intended to “encourage the participation of non-banks across payment systems,” a statement from RBI announcing the decision said.“This facility is expected to minimise settlement risk in the financial system and enhance the reach of digital financial services to all user segments. These entities will, however, not be eligible for any liquidity facility from the Reserve Bank to facilitate settlement of their transactions in these CPSs. Necessary instructions will be issued separately,” t statement also noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rtgs-services-won-t-be-available-for-14-hours-on-april-18-due-to-technical-upgrade-rbi-101618223599619.html
12-04-2021||India||Supreme Court dismisses plea against dismantling of INS Viraat aircraft carrier||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea against the further dismantling of aircraft carrier INS Viraat following its decommissioning by the Navy in 2017 and to convert it into a museum.The apex court has revoked its stay on the further dismantling of decommissioned warship INS Viraat.A Bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde observed that 40 per cent of INS Viraat has already been dismantled and the Military of Defence had rejected this plea earlier.Earlier, the top court had ordered status quo in the matter on a petition by Envitech Marine Consultants Private Ltd against the dismantling of INS Viraat and convert it into a museum.The top court said the petitioner had come late to the court and 40 per cent of the ship had already been dismantled.Dismissing the plea, the Bench said, "We are with you as far as the spirit of nationalism is concerned, but you are too late in this case. We cannot interfere now. The government has already made the decision."The plea filed by the Envitech Marine Consultants Private Ltd stated that the company wanted to preserve the ship as a maritime museum.It said INS Viraat was sold to Shree Ram shipbreakers for ₹38 crore after it was decommissioned and added that the company offered upto ₹100 crores to buy the warship from the Shree Ram ship breakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-dismisses-plea-against-dismantling-of-ins-viraat-aircraft-carrier-101618220913084.html
12-04-2021||India||Experts clear Russia’s Sputnik Covid-19 vaccine for use in India||A committee of experts has granted emergency use approval to Sputnik-V, the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) developed by Russia, in India, which is in the middle of the second wave of the pandemic. After Covishield and Covaxin, this will become the third Covid-19 vaccine to be used in the country if it is given a go-ahead by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI).Dr Reddy's Laboratories, the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company, last week sought the government's approval for the vaccine to be used in India. The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) partnered with Dr Reddy's in September 2020 to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V in India. The Russian vaccine has an efficacy of 91.6% based on the interim analysis of phase III clinical trials, which included data from 19,866 volunteers in Russia. and is conducting its Phase III clinical trials in the UAE, India, Venezuela and Belarus, according to the Sputnik-V's website.Along with Dr Reddy’s, RDIF partnered with Hyderabad-based Virchow Biotech Private Limited in March to produce up to 200 million doses per year of Sputnik V in India, according to news agency PTI. It has also partnered with Stelis Biopharma Pvt Ltd and Panacea Biotec earlier in April as well to produce 200 million and 100 million doses per year of Sputnik V in the country.The makers of the vaccine claim Sputnik-V is an affordable vaccine and can be "stored at a temperature of +2 to +8°C ". They say that these aspects of Sputnik-V allow for fast distribution of the vaccine in hard-to-reach regions across the globe.The move to approve Sputnik-V by the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) comes as India faces a surge in Covid-19 cases across the nation with Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Kerala witnessing a surge in their daily caseload. India launched its vaccination drive on January 16 with Covaxin of Bharat Biotech and the vaccine developed by Oxford University-AstraZeneca, which is being manufactured as Covishield by the Serum Institute of India, after they were granted emergency use approval on January 1 and January 3 respectively.India has vaccinated 10.45 crore people according to data published by the Union health ministry on Monday. The government has declared a vaccine festival from April 11 to April 14. On Day 1 of Tika Utsav, the government said 30 lakh doses were administered.(with inputs from Rhythma Kaul)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-approves-russia-s-covid-19-vaccine-sputnik-v-101618220595374.html
12-04-2021||India||Reality different from state government's claims: Gujarat HC on Covid-19 situation||The Gujarat High Court pulled up the state government on Monday over the Covid-19 situation in the state and problems being faced by citizens, saying the reality is contrary to what the government claims."People now think that they are at God's mercy," a division bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice Bhargav Karia said while hearing a PIL, taken up suo motu (on its own), on the coronavirus situation in the state.After Advocate General Kamal Trivedi informed the HC about steps taken by the Gujarat government to tackle the Covid-19 situation, the court said the reality is quite different from what the government claims."The situation is quite different than what you are claiming. You are saying that everything is alright. But, the reality is contrary to that," the high court said during the hearing held via video-conferencing.There is a "trust deficit" among people, it observed."There is no shortage of Remdesivir (key anti-viral drug). Everything is available with you. We want results, not reasons," the HC said, on complaints of shortage of Remdesivir injections for Covid-19 patients.It now takes "almost five days" for a person to get the RT-PCR test result, the court noted."You did not upscale the testing facilities when you had time," the HC said.Gujarat reported 5,469 new cases of coronavirus on Sunday, its biggest single-day rise since the beginning of the pandemic, which took its caseload to 3,47,495.The death toll due to the virus went up to 4,800 as 54 patients succumbed to the infection on Sunday, as per the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reality-different-from-state-government-s-claims-gujarat-hc-on-covid-19-situation-101618218831470.html
12-04-2021||India||Insurgencies are distinct from wars. India needs new strategy to battle Maoists||Colonel Harry Summers, a Vietnam veteran and author, once recounted a conversation he had with his North Vietnamese Army counterpart a week before the fall of Saigon. He said, “You know, you never beat us Americans on the battlefield.” “That may be so”, the NVA colonel replied. “but it is also irrelevant”.Conventional wars pivot around geographical resources. Be it capture of a ground of tactical importance, or victory at a theatre level, conventional war aims to destroy the enemy’s troops & resources and dominate areas previously controlled by the enemy. That is the pattern of conventional wars.An insurgency, on the other hand, is a competition between the insurgent and the government or support of the local population. Superior kinetic energy and operational intelligence enabled Americans to win almost every battle in Vietnam but that very force and ruthlessness alienated the population, losing their support. That is why the NVA won the war, even though it lost most battles in purely military terms.What makes an insurgency differentThe centre of gravity in an insurgency is always the local population because an insurgency is essentially a political movement. It is a violent process by which at least a section of the population seeks to achieve “just cause”, which they feel the State denies them through the normal political process. As the proportion of dissatisfied section increases, they indoctrinate or coerce the remainder to their cause. A “just cause” therefore is the principal requirement of any insurgency. The second is inherent weaknesses of the State. Its inability to address the cause of the population, ignoring the ramifications, not only failing to nip the insurgency at the nascent stage, but also aggravating it by using only force are necessary conditions for an insurgency to mature to a level where the latter seeks pitched battles with State forces.Also Read | Maoist challenge: Why large armies lose small warsParadoxically, an insurgency environment is the opposite of a conventional war which most security forces are trained for. Conventional conflicts are shorter, more intense and have decisive instances where one side can bring overwhelming force to deliver the knockout blow. Insurgencies foment for decades, waxing and waning but never entirely disappearing until the last stage is successfully achieved by either the insurgent, when they attain their objectives, as in the case of Nepal, to a partial extent or the movement is exterminated by the State, as in the case of some insurgencies in the Northeast.Conventional war is relatively unidimensional, where armed forces seek to destroy the enemy, political leaders facilitate the environment during the war and negotiate terms at the end of it. Counter-insurgency, however, is smorgasbord of kinetic operations, developmental programmes, propaganda, political jousting and even some stakeholders who benefit from status quo and thus work at counter purposes, all acting out simultaneously.The battle between order and disorder But the most important difference is that an insurgency unlike conventional war, is a battle between order and disorder.The rules of conventional war are equally applicable to both sides. However, in an insurgency, the contestants fight by rules that are not applicable to the other. As David Galula, the French scholar warrior puts it, in a fight between a fly and a lion, the fly cannot deliver a knockout blow and the lion cannot fly. It’s the same war in terms of time and space, but different warfares for the two contestants. While at the tactical level, the State can copy the insurgents as the Russians did in Afghanistan by inducting the Spetznaz (Special Forces who moved in small teams living off the land, much like the Taliban) or the employment of greyhounds in Andhra, at the strategic level, the State, by definition, cannot use instruments of intimidation or disorder.The insurgent’s objective is to create disorder and challenge the State’s writ. He can do so easily using intimidation, bombing, assassinations or public executions. It’s much easier to create disorder than order. This handicaps the State, because its mandate is to maintain order which is more laborious and time consuming. If insurgents calls for a bandh, all they have to do is carry out a few exemplar executions. If the State wants the population to defy the bandh, it has to provision far more resources, political clout, assurances of safety and incentives. Also Read | Days after Bijapur ambush, Maoists set CRPF commando freeThat is the Achilles’ heel of the State because unlike the insurgents who can make good on their threat in a matter of hours, the State has to rely on promises of a better future. When faced with the choice of life and State propaganda, the constituent population will choose the former.The challenges of counter-insurgency The doctrine of counter-insurgency warfare is mature. Building on the work of thinkers like David Galula, Sir Robert Thompson and of course own experiences, Indian security forces know what to do. The devil, of course, lies in the fact that this is not a war that can be won using only force, or within a short time or without collateral damage.The classical counter-insurgency model — some variant of which is followed by all countries — has eight broad phases. It begins with destruction or expulsion of the insurgent’s armed forces, deployment of static security units in sanitised areas to prevent the re-entry of insurgents, control of the local population to identify sympathisers and ideological leaders, destruction of the insurgent’s political organisation, holding local elections, testing and empowering the local leaders, organising a formal political party and finally winning over or suppressing the remnants of the guerrilla.In these eight steps, only the first two (and to some extent the last) are addressable by security forces. The remaining six require intense administrative and political participation. The first two steps are the hammer and the remaining phases act as an anvil. Increasing the size of the hammer achieves little if the anvil is weak. The advocates of giving security a “free hand” miss this point. No matter how many more boots are placed on ground, winning the territory from the insurgents and winning the population within the territory, are two different strategies which require completely different skill sets.The first phase requires lightly armed infantry-based troops who will attack insurgent strongholds and wrest back control of territory. Phase two requires paramilitary which will set up pickets in the freed territory to prevent them from returning. They also provide the vanguard of intelligence gathering, control of the population and other rehabilitation efforts. However, the tipping point can only be achieved when the constituent population is convinced about enduring victory of the State over the insurgents and making good on the promises made by the former. This requires politicians, administrators, policymakers, activists and the security forces to work in congruence, which is a challenge for many reasons.Also Read | HT Editorial: Maoists cross a red line, againTake the Maoist problem, for instance. A myriad of state and central forces are deployed in a swathe of area that falls under several different administrative borders. Unless there is synchronicity of command, operations in one theatre will merely push the insurgents into another theatre, an example being security forces’ action in Andhra which drove Maoist cadres to less dangerous states or underground, but did not exterminate them. Secondly, the constituent population is unsurprisingly suspicious of government assurances and more scared of the insurgents. This is exacerbated by frequent changes in the last mile connectors of the government machinery. Building intelligence networks, identifying potential leaders, inspiring confidence to participate in a political process, rebuilding of infrastructure and communication etc., all require continuity of policy, command and implementors. That is rarely the case. Policies are switched, priorities and leaders changed and resources diverted from one operation to the other, frequently. The third challenge is that many constituents of the counter-insurgency operations work at seeming cross purposes. The security forces may arrest an insurgent sympathiser at great risk only to find the politicians intervene on his behalf or judiciary release him within hours. But that is necessary if the government is seen to be lenient and fair. An iron treatment only plays into the hands of the insurgent’s narrative. Similarly, any excess of force by security personnel has to be punished exemplarily to instil confidence in the State’s jurisprudence without which there is no possibility of population’s support. However, security forces will see this as a curb on their efficiency and fight it tooth and nail.Focus on winning tactical battles obfuscates the desired end of war. Revenge reprisals, heavy militarisation, population control measures such as identity cards and curfews can never pummel the population into supporting the government. At best, the people will go through the motions, and at worst, opportunity seekers who wish to ingratiate themselves with the State, will get power, thus further maligning the State’s reputation of unfair play.Getting to the core cause The only possible and desirable end to an insurgency is to negotiate the elements of its core cause. A best-case scenario is to reduce the military power of the insurgents while simultaneously elevating the political moderates, thus assuring the population that their representation is better done by the latter than the former. To achieve this, the State has to execute a delicate, well timed and synchronised strategy.First, it has to limit the security forces’ operations to the minimum and focused on the hardcore elements of the insurgents. Unfortunately, getting to the core requires pressure on a scared or participative population which in turn further alienates them. Once an area is freed of insurgents, the situation should transfer to civilian administration at the earliest. However, in most cases, the civilian rebuilding tasks are handed over to the security forces, thus increasing their engagement and dichotomy. A villager doesn’t forgive a soldier who interrogated his son, just because he helped build a school in the village.Also Read | ‘Jawans are not cannon fodder’: Rahul Gandhi days after Chhattisgarh attackSecondly, transition from the security phase to the building phase requires very different skill sets. In a war-like situation, a soldier is trained to retaliate with all his firepower if he is fired upon. In an insurgency, the very opposite is needed. To paraphrase Galula, an internet connection may be more useful than a machine gun, a soldier trained as a paediatrician more important than a weapons expert, cement more wanted than barbed wire and a soft-spoken multi-lingual empathetic officer far more effective than a badass one from the Special Forces.Thirdly, this transition necessitates immaculate timing. Played too soon, the insurgency comes back with a vigour and playing too late, alienates the population and prolongs their trauma. Also, the build phase must be implemented with a sense of urgency, because the credibility of the state depends on it. This is where three major flaws of the state machinery — credibility, inefficiency and corruption —create massive faultlines.Politicians and administration have a poor reputation of keeping promises even among their own voters. For their own reasons, political leaders often make promises which they are not able to keep, at least in totality or within the timeline promised. When coupled with the inefficiency and corruption quotient of any administrative organisation, the government invariably comes short on its promises, thus reiterating the insurgent’s narrative. The gap between propaganda and reality is the operating ground of the insurgent.Unlike terrorism, insurgency is an easier beast to contain, even if it might be more difficult to defeat. Terror can be carried out by a small group of people like 9/11 or 26/11 who might be rogue elements within their own organisations. Insurgency on the other hand, has an ideological and military centre of gravity, an area under contest which the insurgent eventually intends to hold as a bargaining chip, safe haven or a launchpad for expansion.A five-pronged strategy Which is where the State can create some advantages using this five-pronged strategy.Firstly, the State needs to accept and educate the citizenry that the Maoist insurgency cannot be solved with swift military options. It has taken decades to mature and will take time to be resolved completely. This timeline enables the state to design long-term reforms rather than short term scorecards.Secondly, there is no skirting the “just cause”, which is the pivot of the insurgent movement. Thrusting down fiats will never eradicate the cause. Agreeing to the acceptable elements of the just cause is the only way to remove the locus standi of the insurgent. Unless that is done, the seeds of dissent will continue to foment and the State will pay a price in perpetuity. That is usually the most insurmountable challenge especially in an environment of extreme inequity in developing countries like India. Inequity is the root of all revolutionary movements. There has to be genuine dissent to compel people including women to take up arms, live a life of extreme discomfort, and risk to life. Denying that is delusional, self-serving and in the end, self-defeating.Thirdly, while the security forces have to be subjugated to the political administration (after all, insurgency is a political problem, not a military one), the political leader must be astute and educated about counter-insurgency at a strategic, not just at the operational military level. If the briefings are dominated by security operations without the accompanying social, political and infrastructure progress, then the first two phases are being prolonged – which is a victory for the insurgent.Also Read | Maoist attack: How Sikh jawan took off turban to help wounded colleagueThen, there is the problem of focus and continuity. While states have set up Maoist focussed security structures and commands, the political and administrative attention remains defused. While major instances like the recent one, seize the chief minister and prime minister’s mindshare and apparatuses, they are temporal in nature. A political crisis in state or Centre will push back this mindshare in an instant. There is need for a credible, strategically educated and empowered political leader who focusses on this issue relentlessly, on a long-term basis. Without this unified and broad-spectrum, long term command, tactical military successes will masquerade for victory.Fourthly, while there is no organisation without its share of inefficiency and corruption, in an insurgency, its implications are fatal for the state. The state’s forces and its administrative elements are fighting a moral battle against the insurgents. The insurgent’s high command ruthlessly enforces austerity and rules such as tobacco and alcohol abstinence, to reinforce this moral high ground as much as for disciplining the cadres. Every act of corruption on the part of the state’s representatives erodes the state’s moral ground and strengthens the insurgent’s cause. Corruption can range from excessive use of force, diversion of funds, partisan decisions or misreporting ground reality. Each of these and several more examples must be equated to high treason, because they undermine the state and derail its strategic intent. This is why the participation of neutral observers is essential. Without it, the political high command has no visibility of the reality which will be invariably camouflaged by the functionaries for extended periods. Similarly, operational inefficiency must be removed ruthlessly. Unless the State implements a zero-tolerance attitude to material, moral and ethical corruption and punishes professional inefficiency – the constituent population will not support it. The last step will undoubtedly ruffle feathers among the State’s elements -- but it is a mandatory requirement and in the long run, boosts the morale of counter-insurgents as well.Also Read | Drone shows tractor trolleys used to carry up to 20 dead Maoists: OfficialsLastly, but most importantly, is the issue of reframing the mindset of the elements fighting insurgency. It is ironic that a battalion deputed for a United Nations mission in Congo will scurry around learning French and the social and cultural history of that country, but officers and men who are destined to spend at least half their career is Kashmir or Maoist areas will not bother to do the same for those regions. Military academies teach foreign languages to the cadets to prepare them for the one odd opportunity that some officers might get to serve abroad but don’t train them in the languages of the state that they will be baptized in professionally.There is no formal training for critical counter-insurgency skills such as deep knowledge of the local culture, languages, ethnic histories, social dynamics, negotiation skills and appreciating compulsions of the constituent population. As a result, the state’s elements deployed in insurgency areas view it as a “tour of duty” that must be endured, not a process they need to carry to a planned end. They view the constituent population in black and white. Those supporting them and everyone else. The latter unfortunately happens to be the majority, so the state’s forces begin the war by losing the most crucial battle, that of the population’s tacit support or neutrality. Galula prescribes an ideal counter-insurgency force as lightly armoured equipped with a surplus of interpreters, civil affair specialists, and engineers. I would add, psychologists, social scientists, NGO’s and corporate CSR efforts to that composite force.Our training establishments, ranging from the military to bureaucracy need to accord importance to the kind of warfare that our next generation of soldiers and administrators will encounter. Despite having two nuclear powered and heavily armed nations as our adversaries, we have been engaged in small wars for the last four decades. Yet our instructional syllabuses bask in the yesteryears narratives of theatre level battles and wargames. Not a single institution conducts training wargames of counter-insurgency in totality. Sure, the military and paramilitary establishments have training capsules on counter insurgency operations (COINS) but they are limited to tactical exercises like cordon and search and roadblock drills. Where is the training of winning over the population, of negotiation, of joint-manship between the security forces and the bureaucracy? Who indeed can even act as Red Land or genuinely represent the population in that notional wargame?It is an irony that respective premier institutes which train the military and administrative officers of our country are located 25 kms to each other as the crow flies and yet they meet for meaningful collaborative training after 25 years of service in the National Defence College. The biggest hurdle to the battle against counter-insurgency is the lack of imaginative strategic thinking. And that is why a few hundred flies can run circles around the lion for decades.In 1917, Thomas Edward, a young maverick British officer was tasked to conduct an irregular campaign against the Turks in Arabia. Thomas went on to create a guerrilla operation that became the stuff of legends, and was so lethal that he felt sorry for his victims recording their plight in his memoirs titled the Seven Pillars of Wisdom. He wrote, that the guerrillas were like vapour, appearing at will, and congealing in front of the enemy, striking them and disappearing like a ghost. He sympathised with the Turks, remarking that “war on rebellion is messy business, like eating soup with a knife”. Thomas Edward Lawrence, better known as Lawrence of Arabia, couldn’t have described the war on Maoists any better.Raghu Raman was the founding CEO of NatgridThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/insurgencies-are-distinct-from-wars-india-needs-new-strategy-to-battle-maoists-101618219176902.html
12-04-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra urges people to 'Speak up for vaccine for all' initiative||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday urged people to raise their voices for the "Speak up for vaccine for all" initiative as the country is witnessing a continuous surge in Covid-19 cases.Sharing a video, the Congress leader tweeted, "Because the vaccine is for everyone. Because the government should pay more attention to the public than organising the events. Because everyone has the right to know where the PM Care funds are being spent. Because instead of exporting the vaccine, the government should focus on vaccinating every citizen."Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has also tweeted: "The country needs vaccines against coronavirus. You also raise your voice for this - everyone has the right to have a safe life. Speak up for vaccination for all."A video was shared by both the leaders on social media, asking the government to ensure the Covid vaccination for all Indians within a limited timeframe. It also demands a ban on the export of Covid-19 vaccines.This comes in the backdrop against India's Covid vaccine export to several countries in recent times. It is to mention that several political parties including the Aam Admi Party (AAP) have urged for universal vaccination instead of the specific age criteria keeping the spike in Covid-19 cases in mind.Meanwhile, India reported 1,68,912 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. With these new cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the country has gone up to 1,35,27,717.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-urges-people-to-speak-up-for-vaccine-for-all-initiative-101618218550629.html
12-04-2021||India||Expert panel to meet today to decide on Sputnik V vaccine emergency approval||The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) is likely to meet today to take up Sputnik V application for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) in India, said sources.Russia's Sputnik V vaccine did not get the EUA on Thursday as the SEC, following the meeting, asked for more information.According to the sources, 'The SEC has asked for more information in context with the approval of the Russian vaccine."The committee, set up by the government, looked into Dr Reddy's application seeking approval for the vaccine to be used in India. The Russian vaccine has an effectiveness of 91.6 per cent. Dr Reddy's Lab has partnered with the Russia Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to bring the Sputnik V vaccine to India and other countries.Russia registered Sputnik V for public use in August, the first country to do so, though the approval came before the start of the large-scale trial in September.Top government sources told ANI that by end of the third quarter of this year, India will be getting vaccines from five additional manufacturers. India currently manufactures Covishield and Covaxin.When a top-level source was asked when the vaccines will be available for use, he said, "Sputnik is expected to be available latest by June, if all goes well Johnson and Johnson ( Bio E) will be available by August, Cadilla Zydus will also be available by August, Novavex (Serum) by September and Nasal Vaccine (Bharat) by October."The Government is making all efforts to accelerate the progress without cutting any corners in research, development, and clinical trial stages, the source added.India is currently facing the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic with the number of new cases increasing each day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-panel-to-meet-today-to-decide-on-sputnik-v-vaccine-emergency-approval-101618218549297.html
12-04-2021||India||Kumbh Mela: Thousands take dip in Ganga on Shahi Snan on day India reports 1.6 lakh Covid-19 cases||Amid rising coronavirus cases in the country, thousands of saffron-clad seers and ash-smeared Nagas flouted Covid-19 norms and converged at Har Ki Pauri here for a holy dip in the Ganga during the second royal bath of the Kumbh Mela on Monday. The seers of different akhadas, led by their Mahamandaleshwaras, by turns took out grand Shobha Yatras through the main thoroughfare of the pilgrimage city to gather at Brahma Kund, Hari ki Pauri for the holy bath on the occasion of Somvati Amavasya. Marching barefoot to their destination with many of them not wearing masks or observing social distancing, the seers took a dip in the river as they were showered with flower petals from helicopters flying above on behalf of the Uttarakhand government.  While Har ki Pairi, considered the holiest of the Ghats was reserved exclusively for the akhadas from 7 am onwards, common people also took the holy dip on the other ghats of the Ganga, revered by millions as a goddess.The mela administration claimed that approximately 17.31 lakh devotees had taken the holy dip in the Ganga till 10 am. Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said the Shahi Snan was being conducted smoothly throughout the Mela Kshetra from Haridwar to Devprayag.So far, seers of three out of a total of 13 akhadas have bathed in the river at Har ki Pairi while bathing by devotees is underway at the other ghats, the DGP said.  Seers of Niranjani Akhada led by their Mahamandaleshwar Acharya Kailashanand Giri were the first to take a dip in the river on the occasion. Seers of Ananda Akhada also took bath along with them. They were followed by the Joona Akhada saints led by Acharya Kailashanand. Former King of Nepal Gyanendra Bir Bikram Shah was also among those who took a dip in the Ganga on the occasion. It was his maiden visit to Haridwar.It was the second Shahi Snan during the ongoing Kumbh Mela which has been limited to just one month due to the rising cases of coronavirus. The last Shahi Snan or royal bath was conducted on the occasion of Mahashivratri on March 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kumbh-mela-thousands-take-dip-in-ganga-on-shahi-snan-on-day-india-reports-1-6-lakh-covid-19-cases-101618216810747.html
12-04-2021||India||Plea in Supreme Court seeks direction to Centre to open vaccinations for all citizens||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court requesting it to ask the Centre to open up vaccinations for all including citizens under the age of 45 in the wake of increasing Covid-19 cases in the country.Tehseen Poonawalla filing the PIL urged the top court to direct the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India to make effective changes in its policy to ensure vaccination for Covid-19 to all citizens of the country."It is surprising why the central government did not allow more people to be vaccinated despite India being the "vaccine manufacturer" of the world," the plea said.It said this arbitrary bar on the age groups coupled with the sudden rise in the number of infections due to Covid-19 disease, necessitates immediate steps to be taken to ensure that vaccination is not only available to persons aged above 45 years but to all persons below the age of 45-years, who are employed in work that requires them to go outside every day as well as all persons with any of the co-morbid conditions as vulnerable groups.The bar on availability of approved vaccines to persons below the age of 45 years, despite having co-morbid conditions, is arbitrary, unreasonable and ultra vires Article 21, the plea added."The petition has been preferred in the public interest, challenging the arbitrary bar on vaccination for the novel coronavirus disease or Covid-19 disease only to "prioritized age groups" above 45 years of age, while there has been an evidently steep increase in the cases of Covid-19 disease in the country, with the daily rise in cases being that of approximately 1.31 lakh new cases on 09.04.2021 itself, presenting the country with an evident and ever-increasing need to allow vaccination for Covid-19 to all age groups and especially to all persons with co-morbidities such as respiratory illnesses and terminal illness, who, despite being vulnerable to Covid-19, have not been given the option to be protected by the vaccine," the plea added.The Drugs Controller General of India on January 3, 2021, had approved the use of 2 vaccines for immunization against the Covid-19 disease i.e., COVAXIN (produced by Bharat Biotech Intl. Ltd.) and COVISHIELD (produced by Serum Institute of India Ltd.), while other vaccines are also pending authorization for immunization, it added.The plea further stated, both the vaccines have been found to be effective against Covid-19 disease and may provide adequate protection from the disease on successful administration of two doses of the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-supreme-court-seeks-direction-to-centre-to-open-vaccinations-for-all-citizens-101618216823786.html
12-04-2021||India||'Absolutely frivolous': Supreme Court on plea for removing 26 verses of Quran||The Supreme Court Monday termed as "absolutely frivolous" a petition filed by former UP Shia Waqf Board chairman Waseem Rizvi seeking removal of 26 verses from holy Quran and dismissed it with a cost of ₹50,000.A bench of Justices RF Nariman, BR Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy rejected the petition in which Rizvi alleged that these 26 verses of Quran promoted terrorism.In his plea, Rizvi has stated that Islam is based on the concepts of equity, equality, forgiveness and tolerance but due to extreme interpretations of the said verses of the holy book, the religion has been drifting away from the basic tenets.The plea of Rizvi has drawn massive backlash with several Muslim outfits and Islamic clerics protesting against the former chairman of the Waqf Board.Last month, an FIR was registered in Bareilly against Rizvi for allegedly hurting religious sentiments of Muslims with his petition in the top court.The FIR was registered at the Kotwali police station following complaints by Anjuman Khuddam-e-Rasool secretary Shan Ahmed and an organisation known as Ittehad-e-Millat council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/absolutely-frivolous-supreme-court-on-plea-for-removing-26-verses-of-quran-101618216038198.html
12-04-2021||India||India sees job losses as fresh curbs comes into effect in states||indiaA fresh round of provincial lockdowns to curb the record rise in virus infections is leading to job losses in India, according to the latest employment data by a private research firm.Unemployment touched 8.6% for the week ending April 11, from 6.7% two weeks ago, showed the data by Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy Pvt. Ltd. The hit is more severe in urban areas where it’s nearing 10% as local media shows images of workers fleeing cities fearing harsher curbs like last year.Asia’s third-largest economy is potentially on track to regain the second spot from Brazil after adding a record 168,912 cases in a day, taking the tally to 13.53 million cases. It is facing an escalating health crisis with the second wave overwhelming hospitals and forcing states to restrict activities.While wealthiest Maharashtra, the worst hit by the virus, is contemplating more curbs after announcing a strict weekend lockdown, national capital Delhi, which is operating under a night curfew, has warned of more restrictions if its medical facilities collapse.The pandemic had led to record job losses in India after a national lockdown last year saw millions of migrants heading back to their villages, many of them walking miles without proper food and water. Some of the jobs came back as the economy reopened and infections surprisingly started receding.The resurgence of Covid-19 is worsening the outlook again with jobs last month falling at the quickest pace since September 2020, according to a survey of manufacturers by IHS Markit. The central bank’s consumer confidence survey is also showing increasing pessimism on jobs.Prolonged and widespread night curfews could possibly lead to “another bout of reverse migration,” said Kunal Kundu, an economist with Societe Generale GSC Pvt. in Bengaluru. “Job creation will remain a challenge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-job-losses-as-fresh-curbs-comes-into-effect-in-states-101618215144342.html
12-04-2021||India||SC slaps ₹50k fine on plea to remove Quran verses, says ‘absolutely frivolous’||The Supreme Court on Monday imposed a penalty of ₹50,000 on former chairman of Shia Waqf Board Syed Waseem Rizvi, who had sought the deletion of 26 verses from the Quran, which he claimes are used as “justifications” by Islamist terrorist groups for attacks on “non-believers”. “It is an absolutely frivolous petition,” a bench, headed by justice Rohinton F Nariman, said. The bench, which also included justices BR Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy, had already cautioned Rizvi’s lawyer against pressing the plea but the warning was unheeded, resulting in the penalty. “Do you seriously want to argue this petition? Are you going to press it?” the bench had asked senior advocate RK Raizada, appearing for Rizvi, who chose to make submissions instead of simply withdrawing the petition. Raizada submitted that the focus of the petition was the indoctrination of children in madrassas, which were unregulated and had been engaged in imparting “literal interpretation” of Quran. Also Read | Several staff members of Supreme Court test positive for Covid-19“These verses that I have cited in my petition are not protected under Article 25 (right to practise, profess and propagate religion). Islamist organisations use these verses as a tool to promote hatred and terror. They are used as justifications by Islamist terrorist groups for attacks on non-believers,” argued Raizada. The bench, however, expressed displeasure at the contentions and junked the petition with a monetary fine. Saeed Noori, founding member of Raza Academy, which had filed a caveat in the Supreme Court for a hearing if Rizvi’s plea was to be entertained, expressed satisfaction at the dismissal of the petition. “As an organisation that promotes Islamic beliefs through publications and research, we wanted the mischievous petition to be dismissed with a penalty. The Supreme Court, by imposing the fine, has sent out a clear message that such any religious text cannot be maligned like this,” Noori told HT. Rizvi, in his plea, had alleged that certain verses in the Quran are a threat to the sovereignty, unity, and integrity of the country. He has sought a declaration from the court to hold those verses unconstitutional, non-effective and non-functional. The plea also sought directions to appoint a committee of religious experts to get an opinion on these verses, besides seeking the central government’s policy on the issue. Last month, the National Commission for Minorities (NCM) had issued a notice to Rizvi asking him to withdraw his comments on Quran failing which, it said, it will hold a hearing and direct authorities to take appropriate legal action against him. The NCM had observed that the remarks made by Rizvi appeared to be a well-thought conspiracy to disturb the communal harmony of the country.On Friday, the same bench in the Supreme Court had termed a petition by Bharatiya Janata Party leader and lawyer Aswhini Upadhyay that asked for a strict central law to check religious conversion as “very harmful”, and observed that adults are free to choose their faith. “There is a reason why the word ‘propagate’ is there in the Constitution. You have to have some meaning for that word. There is no reason why somebody above 18 cannot choose one’s own religion or somebody else’s religion,” justice Nariman had remarked while dismissing the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-rejects-plea-to-delete-verses-from-quran-imposes-rs-50k-penalty-101618214676823.html
12-04-2021||India||Congress launches online campaign to seek Covid vaccine for all||The Congress on Monday launched its online campaign, #SpeakUpForVaccinesForAll, which urges Indians to demand Covid-19 vaccine for everyone.Days days after writing a letter to PM Narendra Modi about the “nation starved of Covid-19 vaccine”, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi shared a video about the campaign on Twitter. The minute-long video said the exponential rise in Covid-19 cases had led to an atmosphere of uncertainty within the country.Slamming the Centre for allegedly creating a shortage of vaccine stocks in the country by exporting them, it added that hundreds of vaccination centres across India had been out of stocks for weeks. “On behalf of all the Indians, the Congress demands vaccination of all the Indian nationals within a specific time. There should be a ban on the export of vaccines with immediate effect,” it said.Gandhi had earlier called the decision to export vaccines “an effort to garner publicity at the cost of our citizens”. In an appeal to the masses, the video asked all Indians to flood social media with their demand for vaccines by using the hashtag, #SpeakUpForVaccinesForAll. Last week, in a meeting with chief ministers, Prime Minister Modi defended the country’s vaccine strategy and added that vaccines would be distributed in priority areas.Slamming the Congress, he said, “Those who have the habit of doing politics, let them do so. I have faced criticism but have remained committed to serving the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-launches-online-campaign-to-seek-covid-vaccine-for-all-101618214376703.html
12-04-2021||India||Man kills father for money in south Delhi, arrested||A 61-year-old man was stabbed to death allegedly by his inebriated son when the father refused to give him money in south Delhi's Fatehpur Beri area, police said on Monday.The victim, Manohar Lal, was stabbed multiple times by his 29-year-old son Balwan, who was arrested in connection with the incident, they said.The incident took place on Sunday near Bheem Basti, Junapur after a quarrel broke out between the father-son duo over some money following which Balwan attacked Lal with a sharp object, police said.The injured man sustained multiple stab wounds on his abdomen and he was taken to AIIMS Trauma Centre where he died during treatment, a senior police officer said.However, the officer said that the exact number of stab wounds will be ascertained in the post-mortem report which is awaited."During inquiry, it was revealed that a quarrel broke out between Lal and his son, Balwan, who was demanding money from him. When Lal refused, his son who was under the influence of alcohol then stabbed his father with a knife multiple times," Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said."A case of murder was registered and the accused arrested," he said.The deceased's wife had died earlier and he was living with his son, who worked as a labourer, police said, adding investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-kills-father-for-money-in-south-delhi-arrested-101618213603106.html
12-04-2021||India||Covid-19 active cases surpass September peak, cross 1.2 million mark||India has been witnessing a record increase in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, and on Monday, the country broke all records with 1,68,912 new cases of the infection in last 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed. This took the total tally of cases to 1,35,27,717.In a worrying trend, the number of active cases surpassed the 1.2 million (12 lakh) ma. These are the patients who have confirmed presence of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, along with the symptoms of the disease.The active cases have been rising for the past 33 days, and have now reached 12,01,009 comprising 8.88 per cent of the total infections, according to health ministry data. The recovery rate has dropped to 89.86 per cent, the data further showed.The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 and highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. So, in this fresh wave of Covid-19, the active case tally has even crossed its last year's peak.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,21,56,529, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.26 per cent, the health ministry data stated.The death toll increased to 1,70,179 with 904 daily new fatalities, the highest since October 18, 2020.The health ministry also said that 10 states are showing steep rise in daily Covid-19 cases. These are: Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan.They now account for 83.02 per cent of the new infections, the ministry said.Maharashtra has reported the highest daily cases at 63,294. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 15,276 while Delhi reported 10,774 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-active-cases-surpass-september-peak-cross-1-2-million-mark-101618213212438.html
12-04-2021||India||Over 100 million Covid vaccine shots given across India till now||India had administered over a 100 million Covid vaccine doses across the country by 8pm on Sunday, Day 1 of Tika Utsav launched to encourage more people to step out for vaccination.In all, 104,365,035 doses have been given in the country till now. This includes 9,012,768 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 5,523,718 who have got their second dose as well. Then, 9,994,360 frontline workers have had their first dose while 4,793,536 have got their second dose too.In the 45-59-year age group, 31,949,793 people have got their first dose and another 676,609 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 40,476,731 people have been administered their first dose while 1,937,520 have had their second dose as well.In all, 2,769,888 vaccine doses were given on Sunday, till 8pm. Of this, 2,547,691 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 222,197 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.Also Read | China considers mixing Covid-19 vaccines to boost protection rateMeanwhile, the Centre on Sunday warned the three worst affected states — Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab — that Covid-appropriate behaviour was not being followed in 50 of their districts, necessitating greater enforcement efforts.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to these states based on feedback received from central teams sent last week.“These teams were to assess the situation on the ground, share their feedback, and work closely with the state authorities in looking for solutions. The health secretary’s letter is based on the feedback received from these teams, and asks them to plug the loopholes,” said a senior official in the health ministry.Sixteen states in the country are currently showing an upward trajectory in daily new Covid-19 cases, according to government data, with six states getting added to the list in the last 10 days, even as a four-day special vaccination drive to cover a sizeable part of the eligible population began on Sunday.The states showing spikes in the infections are Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Kerala, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-100-million-covid-vaccine-shots-given-across-india-till-now-101618212156441.html
12-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi bats for Covid-19 vaccines for all, says 'everyone has right to safe life'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday endorsed the vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for all and said that "everyone has the right to a safe life". From his official Twitter account, Gandhi also shared a video as part of Congress' #SpeakUpForVaccinesForAll campaign on social media and urged citizens to protect themselves from the virus by making themselves and everyone else aware about the appropriate vaccine."The country needs the Corona vaccine. You all should also raise your voice for it. Everyone has the right to a safe life," he said in a tweet in Hindi.The 75-second video highlights that the country is facing a crisis over the coronavirus pandemic, with daily nationwide spikes in lakhs of cases. Despite there being adequate vaccines, the central government has "failed" to control the pandemic, the Congress campaign alleges, adding that there is a "shortage of vaccines, medicines, and injections" in various parts of the country.कोरोना वैक्सीन देश की ज़रूरत है।आप भी इसके लिए अपनी आवाज़ बुलंद कीजिए- सबको हक़ है सुरक्षित जीवन का।#SpeakUpForVaccinesForAll pic.twitter.com/qcxFZuzR2xCongress alleges that there are several vaccination centres across India where there are no vaccines for the past several days and that despite this fact, India is exporting vaccines abroad without paying attention to its own common citizens. Congress demands that the central government provide a fixed timeline to ensure "vaccine for all" in India, and impose a temporary ban on the export of Covid-19 shots.In addition to the Congress, several political parties, including the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), have in the recent days urged for universal vaccination, instead of the specific age criteria, keeping in mind the spike in Covid-19 cases. India on Monday reported 1,68,912 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, pushing the nation's infection tally up to 1,35,27,717. According to the Union health ministry, 904 Covid-related deaths were reported in the country in the last 24 hours, mounting the death toll up to 1,70,179. The number of active Covid-19 cases in India stands at 12,01,009.Meanwhile, from April 2, the government started vaccinating all people above 45 years as part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for the four-day-long 'Tika Utsav'. India started its vaccination drive on January 16 with priority given to all healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase. The second phase started on March 1 where doses were administered to people above the age of 60 and those between 45 and 59 years with specific comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-bats-for-vaccines-for-all-says-everyone-has-right-to-safe-life-101618210004892.html
12-04-2021||India||Sharad Pawar undergoes gallbladder surgery at Mumbai’s Breach Candy hospital||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar underwent a successful gallbladder surgery on Monday morning. He is stable and is likely to stay in the hospital for a day or two, said the NCP. The surgery was conducted at the Breach Candy Hospital in south Mumbai.“A successful laparoscopy surgery was conducted today on our party president Sharad Pawar Saheb’s gallbladder by Dr. Balsara. He is in stable health and is recuperating in his room at the Breach Candy Hospital, Mumbai,” said Nawab Malik, NCP chief spokesperson and minority affairs minister.Also Read | Strict restrictions in Maharashtra on the advice of Centre, experts: PawarThe 80-year old leader was admitted to the hospital on Sunday after being diagnosed with stones in his gallbladder.Before that, he underwent a procedure to remove one of the gall stones that had slipped into his bile duct, causing pain, mild jaundice and inflammation of pancreas, pancreatitis, on March 30. The former union minister was then discharged from the hospital on April 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-undergoes-gallbladder-surgery-at-mumbai-s-breach-candy-hospital-101618210596567.html
12-04-2021||India||Telangana records 2,251 new Covid-19 cases, death toll mounts to 1,765||Telangana reported 2,251 new Covid-19 cases pushing the tally to over 3.29 lakh, while the toll rose to 1,765 with six more fatalities, the state government said on Monday.The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 355, followed by Medchal-Malkajgiri (258) and Nizamabad (244), it said in a bulletin, providing details as of 8pm on April 11.The total number of cases stood at 3,29,529 while with 565 patients being cured, the total recoveries were at 3,05,900.The state has 21,864 active cases and over 79 thousand samples were tested on Sunday.Cumulatively, over 1.10 crore samples have been tested.The samples tested per million population was over 2.97 lakh, the bulletin said.The case fatality rate in the state was 0.54%, while it was 1.3% at the national level.The recovery rate in Telangana was 92.82%, while it was 89.9% in the country.According to a separate release, over 18.56 lakh people in the state have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine while over 3.02 lakh got their second shot also as of April 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-records-2-251-new-covid-19-cases-death-toll-mounts-to-1765-101618208900267.html
12-04-2021||India||Kumbh Mela 2021: Shahi Snan today with Covid-19 norms in place||Thousands of devotees gathered in Haridwar to take part in Kumbh Mela's Shahi Snan ritual amid the resurgence of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country. The royal holy baths will take place on Monday and Wednesday.The event comes in the backdrop of the state recording its highest single-day spike this year on Sunday with 1,333 cases. To ensure that the infection is not spread among devotees, authorities responsible for organising the Kumbh Mela said they would emphasise on the strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol.The Uttarakhand high court has mandated everyone to carry their RT-PCR negative test report and a medical certificate on the lines of Amarnath Yatra and Kailash Yatra and officials said they will make sure the court order is implemented.Kumbh Mela officer-in-charge Deepak Rawat also directed the Haridwar administration officials to ensure that Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed. “As far as facilities are concerned for the pilgrims they are at par with any other fair. Owing to Covid-19 pandemic, strict implementation of Covid-19 norms is being ensured for the Kumbh. RT-PCR negative report is mandatory for all outside people entering the Kumbh Mela zone and strict checking is being done at border check post,” Rawat said.The month-long event, which is expected to be attended by 30-50 million people, has also mandated all devotees to wear masks, maintain social distance and frequently sanitize hands in the Kumbh Kshetra.According to the state police, “adequate arrangements” have been made for the Shahi Snan. “Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday will witness three major Snans in the Mahakumbh including two Shahi Snans on Monday and Wednesday respectively. Tuesday will have one significant Snan day to mark the occasion of Navsampat. However, of all the three, the biggest one would be on Wednesday on the occasion of Baisakhi when all 13 akhadas will take the holy dip in Ganga,” Inspector general, Mahakumbh, Sanjay Gunjyal, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kumbh-mela-2021-shahi-snan-today-with-covid-norms-in-place-101618207754587.html
12-04-2021||India||Surge in Covid cases casts shadow on Bihu celebrations in Assam||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, a cloud of uncertainty hovers over Bohag Bihu or Rongali Bihu celebrations in Assam. The biggest festival in the state, which marks start of the Assamese New Year, begins this week. Bohag Bihu starts in mid-April and goes on for seven days, but cultural events, spread over two-three days, are organised in most major localities across the Brahmaputra , and continue for a month or so.Last year, the Covid-induced lockdown put a lid on cultural events which usually witness major performing artists and Bihu dance groups holding shows. With assembly elections getting over last week, the state government decided to allow celebrations this year, but with restrictions in place. As per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued on Friday require organisers of events to seek permission from local authorities and mention how many people are expected to take part. All organisers and volunteers will have to get themselves tested for Covid-19 three days prior to and also after the event. Also Read | Himanta Sarma defends ‘no need for mask’ comment, says Assam will celebrate BihuThe event sites should be spacious, kept open from all sides with adequate space for social distancing. There should be multiple entry and exit points and all visitors screened for fever. Use of face mask is mandatory and organisers will have to arrange for hand sanitisers. All functions, which usually continue till early mornings, will have to be wrapped by 11pm and the venues will have to be sanitised twice -- once before the event and again, after it is over. The guidelines haven’t gone down well with many Bihu organisers who have blamed to government for issuing them late, putting the entire burden of Covid-19 guidelines’ management on them. They have also questioned why such measures were not in place when campaigning for polls was underway barely days ago. “We had completed nearly 80% of work on conducting the functions, but the SOPs were issued this late and without consulting any organisers. We have reservations against several of the guidelines,” Pranab Goswami, general secretary of Sodou Asom Bihu Sanmilani Samanway Rakshi Samiti, the apex body of Bihu event organisers, told journalists on Sunday. “It won’t be possible to conduct Covid-19 tests of all organisers and volunteers so close to the functions. If that is forced on us, Bihu functions won’t be held. The time limit of 11pm also needs to be extended till 1am since most major artists take to the stage late at night,” he added. Members of Bihu organising committees in Guwahati also held a protest on Sunday, urging the authorities to either revoke the SOPs or alter some of the guidelines. The state government explained its stand. “There’s no lockdown or night curfew planned in Assam and we have even allowed Bihu celebrations even as some states have enforced night curfews. But we will be criticised [for laxity] if we allowed functions throughout the night,” health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Sunday. “We have allowed Bihu celebrations as a challenge this time. Organisers and performing artists should appreciate the government’s stand. If I allow Bihu functions to continue throughout the night, the Central government will issue directives to put an end to all celebrations,” he added. Daily Covid-19 cases in Assam were down to single digits in March but the number shot up this month with Sunday recording 352 new cases. Currently, there are 1,902 active Covid-19 cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surge-in-covid-casts-shadow-on-bihu-celebrations-in-assam-101618207717083.html
12-04-2021||India||Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra set to be next CEC: Reports||Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra is set to become the next chief election commissioner, sources said on Sunday.Going by the convention of appointing the senior-most election commissioner as the CEC, the government is learnt to have cleared his name for the top post at Nirvachan Sadan.The order of his elevation maybe issued anytime, the sources said.Chandra will assume charge on April 13, a day after incumbent Sunil Arora demits office.Chandra was appointed as an election commissioner on February 14, 2019 ahead of the Lok Sabha elections.He would demit office on May 14, 2022.Under him, the Election Commission would hold assembly polls in Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh.The term of the assemblies of Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Punjab ends on various dates in March next year.The term of the Uttar Pradesh assembly ends on May 14 next year.New assemblies have to be constituted before their five year term ends.Chandra was the chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes before he joined the poll panel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commissioner-sushil-chandra-set-to-be-next-cec-reports-101618198181470.html
12-04-2021||India||India to get 5 more Covid-19 vaccines by October: Report||As more and more states flag shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses, the Central government has pressed the accelerator to scale up vaccine production manifold.Top government sources told ANI that by end of the third quarter of this year, India will be getting vaccines from five additional manufacturers. India currently manufactures Covishield and Covaxin.Explaining the new strategy to manufacture additional vaccine doses, a source said "India currently has 2 Covid-19 vaccines being manufactured locally: Covishield and Covaxin, and we can expect five more vaccines by Q3 2021. These vaccines are Sputnik V vaccine (in collaboration with Dr. Reddy's), Johnson & Johnson vaccine (in collaboration with Biological E), Novavax vaccine (in collaboration with Serum India), Zydus Cadila's vaccine, and Bharat Biotech's Intranasal Vaccine. Safety and efficacy are the Union government's primary concerns while granting emergency use authorisation (EUA) to any Covid-19 vaccine in the country."Out of almost 20 Covid-19 vaccines in various clinical and pre-clinical stages, Sputnik V vaccine will get the nod first. It is expected that Sputnik is likely to get the EUA within the next ten days.Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has tied up with a host of Indian pharmaceutical players such as Hyderabad based Dr Reddy's Laboratories, Hetero Biopharma, Gland Pharma, Stelis Biopharma and Vichrow Biotech for the production of vaccine doses. With a production capacity of 850 million doses in the country, Sputnik V will provide a major shot in the arm in the fight against Covid-19.When asked from a top-level source when will the vaccines be available for use, he said, "Sputnik is expected to be available latest by June, if all goes well Johnson and Johnson ( Bio E) will be available by August, Cadilla Zydus will also be available by August, Novavex (Serum) by September and Nasal Vaccine (Bharat) by October."The Government is making all efforts to accelerate the progress without cutting any corners in research, development, and clinical trial stages, the source added.The government is taking all steps to augment vaccine production and availability in India. A decision has been taken at the highest level to ensure all steps are taken to help domestic manufacturers to scale up vaccine production manifold."The Government of India is determined to ensure India remains the pharmacy of the world and Indians have equitable access to the highest quality vaccines in the world. We encourage all Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers to come to India, as the Central Government is ready to provide manufacturing assistance, financial support, and partnership in running and designing clinical trials," sources added.India is currently facing the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic with the number of new cases increasing each day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-get-5-more-covid-19-vaccines-by-october-report-101618204857595.html
12-04-2021||India||Mukhtar Ansari to appear in 2 cases virtually today from Banda jail||Gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari will be presented before a court in Uttar Pradesh on Monday, news agency ANI reported. Ansari is an accused in the 21-year-old assault case involving the jailor and deputy jailor in Lucknow.The hearing will take place vis video conferencing and Ansari will join from Banda jail, ANI further reported. The case couldn't move forward because Ansari was lodged in a jail in Punjab; he was brought to Uttar Pradesh earlier this month.There are 52 cases against Mukhtar Ansari in Uttar Pradesh, and the government hopes that many of these will see some movement now.Ansari will also appear at Punjab's Mohali court in connection with an extortion case, according to ANI.UP Police on April 7 brought Ansari, who is the sitting Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA from Mau Vidhan Sabha seat to Banda prison, on the order of Supreme Court. He had spent over two years in Punjab prison.Since coming to Uttar Pradesh, Ansari has been complaining of a number of health-related issues. On Thursday, he complained of pain in the neck after which the hospital authorities called an ENT specialist, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported. The doctor detected sore throat and gave medicines accordingly.On Saturday, Mukhtar Ansari claimed of clouded vision. An eye specialist suggested getting a new pair of spectacles, according to Livehindustan.Last week, the Supreme Court adjourned the plea of his wife Afshan Ansari alleging 'grave threat' to the life of her husband. The court adjourned the matter as a letter for the same was already circulated by one of the parties in the case.Afshan, while alleging an imminent threat to Ansari's life, sought the intervention of the top court to ensure that her husband is not killed in a so-called fake encounter.The Supreme Court had on March 26 ordered that Ansari be shifted to an Uttar Pradesh jail from Punjab, keeping in view the fact that he is allegedly involved in many criminal cases.The Uttar Pradesh government had filed the petition in the top court seeking a direction to the Punjab government and Rupnagar jail authority to immediately hand over the custody of Ansari, to the district jail Banda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukhtar-ansari-to-appear-in-2-cases-virtually-today-from-banda-jail-101618201076230.html
12-04-2021||India||India's Covid-19 tally crosses 13.52 million with 168,912 fresh infections; active cases go up by 92,922||India on Monday breached another record by registering more than 1.68 lakh new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of cases reached 13,527,717, according to Union health ministry’s update on Monday morning. The number of fatalities due to the virus also increased, as 904 deaths were registered in the last 24 hours, the ministry’s data showed. More than 900 deaths were last reported in October 2020.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The number of recoveries on Monday stood at 12,156,529. The new wave, known to have increased transmissibility, has decreased the recovery rate of the country which currently stands at over 90 per cent. It used to be more than 97 per cent, one of the highest in the world in February.Tensions around the spread of the infection increased as 16 states showed an upward trajectory in daily new cases, according to the data released by the government. Six more states were added to the list in the last 10 days.Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Kerala, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal are displaying a rising trend in the number of new cases in a single day. Uttarakhand, which is hosting the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar, witnessing huge crowds, is also one of the 16 states spiraling the virus out of control in the country.The active cases curve in the country surpassed the September peak and currently stands at more than 1.2 million. The positivity rate stood at 1.29 per cent on the same date two months ago, increased to 8.29 per cent on Monday. The surge in Covid-19 cases comes as the country continues to administer the highest number of vaccine doses per day. More than 10 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far, according to the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-highest-single-day-rise-of-168-912-new-covid-19-cases-904-deaths-101618198017450.html
12-04-2021||India||Several staff members of Supreme Court test positive for Covid-19||Several staff members of the Supreme Court have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). As of Saturday, at least 44 members from judges' offices and in the court registry are found to be infected with the viral disease.Following this, sanitisation work is underway at the top court's premises including courtrooms and the proceedings will begin an hour late than their scheduled time. The Supreme Court has a staff strength of 3,400.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe latest outbreak comes as India is facing a spiralling Covid-19 crisis. On Monday, the country recorded as many as 168,912 fresh cases of infections which pushed the tally to over 13.52 million. Active cases in the country have gone up by 92,922 and the total number currently stands at 1,201,009. The death toll has also increased to 170,179 after 904 fresh fatalities, according to the numbers published on the Union health ministry's website.After the latest spike, the country has overtaken Brazil to become the second-most affected country globally by the pandemic. As per John Hopkins tally, Brazil has a caseload of 13.48 million cases. The Unites States is at the top of the list with 31.19 million cases, according to John Hopkins.After conducting virtual hearings since April last year, the top court decided to hold hybrid hearings from March 15.However, the order was challenged by Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) president Vikas Singh pressed the Chief Justice of India for resuming physical hearing, citing concerns regarding the financial burden on lawyers. “I don’t want lawyers to die of starvation. The positivity rate of Covid-19 has come down to 0.3%. Lawyers are daily wagers. Today, the government has permitted 200 people to gather in closed spaces,” the senior advocate said on March 12.The Supreme Court justified its order saying several states are reporting a surge in cases and it does not want to contribute to the rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-staff-members-of-the-sc-test-positive-for-covid-19-report-101618199889111.html
12-04-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorm likely over western Himalayan region till April 17: IMD||A fresh Western Disturbance (WD) is likely to affect western Himalayan region, bringing rain and thunderstorms to it till April 17, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The WD is likely to affect the region between April 14 and 17 and its adjoining plains between April 15 and 17. It is very likely to cause scattered rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning, and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) between April 14 and 17 over western Himalayan region and light isolated to scattered rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning, and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) over adjoining plains between April 15 and 17.Hailstorms are also likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh on April 14. Heavy rainfall is also very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, and Muzaffarabad on April 15.Also Read | Fourth warmest March since 1901: IMDThunderstorm or duststorm is likely over west Rajasthan on April 14 and 15.Due to thunderstorm activities over the most parts of the country, no significant change in maximum temperature is likely over the most parts of the country during the next 4-5 days, IMD said in its bulletin. Heatwave conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Saurashtra and Kutch on April 12.Under the influence of cyclonic circulations over south peninsula; scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning, and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) is very likely over southwest peninsular India during the next five days.A cyclonic circulation lies over southwest Madhya Pradesh and the neighbourhood areas at lower levels. Under its influence, isolated rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning, and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) is very likely over Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Gangetic West Bengal, and Odisha during the next 4-5 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorm-likely-over-western-himalayan-region-till-april-17imd-101618198055856.html
12-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Maharashtra CM to hold another round of meeting over lockdown SOP and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Another meeting on Covid-19 to be held in Maharashtra today, SOPs for lockdown likely to be discussedMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will hold a meeting on Monday on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the state. Read moreTika Utsav: India to inoculate citizens on day 2 of 'vaccination festival' todayIndia will hold the second day of the mass coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination festival, ‘Tika Utsav’, on Monday. Read moreThe Number Theory: State of economy amid Covid-19 surgeIndia is currently experiencing a severe second wave of Covid-19 infections. Read More‘He couldn’t hit a six’: Sehwag explains why Manish Pandey failed to finish 188-run chase against KKRSunrisers Hyderabad batsman Manish Pandey on Sunday played a fighting knock of 61 runs off 41 balls against Kolkata Knight Riders in Mumbai. Read moreBAFTAs honour Irrfan Khan, Rishi Kapoor in In Memorium segment, fans grow emotionalThe 74th British Academy Film Awards paid tributes to late actors Irrfan Khan and Rishi Kapoor in their In Memorium segment during Sunday night's ceremony. The Indian actors died last year in April. Read morePriyanka Chopra's bold blazer, ‘hot date’ Nick Jonas set BAFTA Awards on fireIt looked less of an awards show and more of a date night for global icon Priyanka Chopra and her popstar husband Nick Jonas as they dolled up for the British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA) Film Awards 2021. Read MoreWatch: Ajeeb Daastaans: Aditi Rao Hydari, Neeraj Ghaywan on Bollywood privilege||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-maharashtra-cm-to-hold-another-round-of-meeting-over-lockdown-sop-and-all-the-latest-news-101618196105978.html
12-04-2021||India||Gujarat HC to hear suo motu PIL on Covid-19 'health emergency' in state today||The Gujarat High Court on Sunday initiated a suo motu PIL over the coronavirus situation in the state, observing that media reports on the pandemic indicate that the state was heading towards a "health emergency of sorts".Through an oral order, Chief Justice Vikram Nath directed the high court registry to register a fresh suo motu PIL titled "In Re : Uncontrolled upsurge and serious management issues in Covid control".This is the second such PIL registered by the state high court on coronavirus situation. The first PIL was registered last year and it is still being heard at regular intervals.The chief justice informed the registry to make the Gujarat government, its health department as well as the central government parties in the fresh Public Interest Litigation (PIL).The PIL will be heard on Monday by the division bench comprising Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice Bhargav D Karia at Nath's official residence through online mode.The chief justice said that "news channels are flooded with the harrowing tales, unfortunate and unimaginable difficulties and unmanageable conditions of the infrastructure".Citing these media reports, he noted that there exists a "shortfall or deficit of not only testing, beds and ICU, but also supply of oxygen and basic medicines like Ramdesivir, etc".The chief justice further noted that these reports "indicate that the state is heading towards a health emergency of sorts".Gujarat on Sunday reported 5,469 new cases of coronavirus, which took its caseload to 3,47,495.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-hc-to-hear-suo-motu-pil-on-covid-19-health-emergency-in-state-today-101618196954624.html
12-04-2021||India||Sharad Pawar to undergo gallbladder surgery today||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar will undergo gall bladder surgery on Monday. He was admitted to Breach Candy Hospital in south Mumbai on Sunday ahead of the procedure."Sharad Pawar was advised to rest for seven days after he underwent a medical procedure (last month). It was then decided that the surgery for the removal of his gall bladder will be performed after 15 days. Accordingly, Pawar was admitted to Breach Candy hospital on Sunday," party leader Nawab Malik said on Sunday.Pawar, 80, had undergone an emergency endoscopy for the removal of a stone from his bile duct at the Breach Candy hospital on March 30, a doctor had said. He was discharged from the hospital on April 3 and advised a week-long rest by the doctors ahead of the surgery.Under the medical procedure, an endoscope is used to examine the interior of a hollow organ or body cavity.The NCP leader was taken to hospital after he complained of abdominal pain. The doctors said that this happened due to some stones in his gall bladder. "One of it had slipped into his bile duct, blocking the flow," said gastroenterologist and endoscopy expert Dr Amit Maydeo, who performed the surgery last time.It caused Pawar immense belly and back pain, he added.Pawar received the second dose of vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at his residence in Mumbai on April 7, on the occasion of World Health Day. He was given the first dose on March 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-to-undergo-gallbladder-surgery-on-monday-101618194590536.html
12-04-2021||India||Farmers ready to talk if govt invites, no change in demands, says Rakesh Tikait||Farmers protesting the contentious new farm laws are ready to talk if the Centre invites them, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said on Sunday, maintaining that the dialogue would resume where it had ended on January 22 and the demands remain unchanged.He said for the talks to resume, the government should invite the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body representing the protestors who are camping at the three border points of Delhi at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur since November 2020.“The talks with the government would resume from the same point where it had ended on January 22. The demands are also the same -- all three 'black' farm laws should be repealed, a new law made to ensure MSP (minimum support price) for crops,” Tikait was quoted as saying in a statement issued by BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik.The BKU national spokesperson's remarks came in response to Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij urging Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to resume talks with protesting farmers amid the coronavirus scare looming large.Maintaining that a surge in the coronavirus cases is being seen across the country and the situation is turning bad in Haryana too, Vij said he is worried about the farmers protesting on the state borders with Delhi.The protestors and the government last had a formal dialogue over the contentious issue on January 22 but the impasse continued. On January 26, the protestors had carried out a 'tractor parade' in Delhi which had escalated into a violence involving farmers and the police in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-ready-to-talk-if-govt-invites-no-change-in-demands-says-rakesh-tikait-101618193569251.html
12-04-2021||India||Another meeting on Covid-19 to be held in Maharashtra today, SOPs for lockdown likely to be discussed||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will hold a meeting on Monday on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the state. The issue of imposing a lockdown will also be discussed, with cabinet minister Aslam Sheikh saying that the focus of Monday's meeting with state departments is likely to be on standard operating procedures (SOPs) and guidelines for lockdown.At the Covid-19 taskforce meeting on Sunday, all the stakeholders agreed that there is a need to imposed a lockdown in Maharashtra."In today's meeting with the state Covid-19 taskforce, everyone was of the view to impose lockdown in the state. SOPs and guidelines for it will be discussed in the next meeting," Aslam Sheikh told reporters after the meeting on Sunday.The meeting was chaired by Thackeray via video conferencing in which measures were discussed, including the imposition of a lockdown in the state, to break the virus chain."Some of the stakeholders in the meeting were of view that the lockdown must be for two weeks, some were in favour of three weeks but at least 8 days lockdown to be imposed and lockdown is a must. If a lockdown is imposed, then the result must come," said Sheikh.The final decision on imposing a lockdown is likely to be taken at a Cabinet meeting on April 14, according to state health minister Rajesh Tope.Maharashtra is the worst affected state and has been witnessing record number of Covid-19 cases every day. On Sunday, the state recorded its highest one-day spike with 63,294 new cases. It also recorded 349 related fatalities in a 24-hour timespan.The state has been witnessing more than 40,000 cases every day since April 1. In just 11 days of this month, Maharashtra has recorded more than half-a-million cases of Covid-19 (594,179 to be exact). To understand how the situation has spiralled out of control, the state recorded 487,519 infections between November 2020 and February 2021.The state government has already imposed a strict weekend lockdown from Friday night till 7am on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thackeray-to-hold-meeting-on-covid-19-today-lockdown-sops-may-be-discussed-101618192832835.html
12-04-2021||India||Covid-19 patient's death triggers violence in Bihar hospital||Angry over death of a virus infested person allegedly due to medical negligence, his kins vandalised state-run Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) Sunday forcing the hospital staff run for safety, hospital sources said. The incident followed death of a man who was undergoing treatment for coronavirus at DMCH. The family members of the deceased alleged he died due to negligence by the hospital staff. DMCH Superintendent Mani Bhusan Sharma, however, denied negligence and said he was stable and was found dead in the hospital toilet. When the victim's father visited him this morning, he was told about the death. Complaining that the death happened on account of lack of proper care by the attending hospital staff, the kins ransacked the hospital forcing nurses and other medics to run for cover. The situation was brought under control after Sub Divisional Officer came to hospital after coming to know about the violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-patient-s-death-triggers-violence-in-bihar-hospital-101618192315607.html
12-04-2021||India||Huge crowd gathers for Kumbh Mela in Haridwar, police say difficult to ensure social distancing||At a time when the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is again spreading fast across the country, events like the Kumbh Mela pose a particular concern for the authorities. There are big crowds near the river banks who wish to take a holy dip on the occasion, throwing social distancing for a toss. Such a thing is being witnessed in Uttarakhand's Haridwar, where people have gathered for the second royal bath of the Kumbh early on Monday. The police said that it is very difficult for them to ensure social distancing or issue challans."We are continuously appealing to people to follow Covid appropriate behavior. But due to the huge crowd, it is practically not possible to issue challans today. It is very difficult to ensure social distancing at ghats,” said Inspector-general of Police, Haridwar Kumbh Mela, Sanjay Gunjyal, according to news agency ANI.This comes when the country is trying to combat and control the spread of the second wave of Covid-19 that took the case tally to over 13 million. The Inspector-general warned that the enforcement of social distancing at ghats may lead to a stampede-like situation, reported ANI.Also Read | Tika Utsav: India to inoculate citizens on day-2 of 'vaccination festival' today“A stampede-like situation may arise if we would try to enforce social distancing at ghats so we are unable to enforce social distancing here,” ANI quoted Gunjyal as saying.A massive crowd gathered on the second day of the royal bath to take the holy dip in the Ganga river at Har Ki Pauri in Haridwar. The IG said, reported ANI, that the general public will be allowed here till 7am and after that, the area will be reserved for the akharas.The Covid-19 situation in the country is presently alarming with the number of new cases breaching records daily. To control the spread of the infection, many states have imposed night curfew and lockdown-like measures to avoid huge crowds.Uttarakhand on Saturday reported 1,233 fresh Covid-19 infections, 317 recoveries, and three deaths. The Covid-19 case tally in the state stood at 107,479, with over 6,000 active cases till Saturday, reported ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/huge-crowd-gathers-for-kumbh-mela-in-haridwar-police-say-difficult-to-ensure-social-distancing-101618190938726.html
12-04-2021||India||Tika Utsav: India to inoculate citizens on day 2 of 'vaccination festival' today||India will hold the second day of the mass coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination festival, ‘Tika Utsav’, on Monday. During his virtual address to chief ministers on Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that such a festival must be celebrated from April 11-14 to speed up the ongoing vaccination drive.On the first day of the drive, the country recorded 152,879 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 839 new deaths. The number of people infected with the disease in India are 13,358,805 while the death toll stands at 169,275.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHere is all you need to know about 'Tika Utsav':1. The 'Tika Utsav' is a four-day exercise, starting April 11, which is the birth anniversary of social activist Jyotiba Phule and ending April 14, which marks the birth anniversary of BR Ambedkar, aimed at inoculating as many people as possible against the Covid-19 disease.2. On Sunday, over 2.7 million doses of the vaccine were administered to people across the country, according to the Union health ministry. This was much higher than the number of inoculations Sunday generally witnesses (about 1.6 million on an average), the ministry said.3. The number of Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) functional on Sunday were 63,8000, much higher than the daily average of 45,000, the ministry added.Also Read: On day 1 of 'Tika Utsav', over 2.7 mn doses of Covid-19 vaccine administered4. The two vaccines being used in India to inoculate its citizens are - Covishield, the Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s shot, which is being manufactured here by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) and Covaxin, India's only homemade vaccine against the viral disease, being manufactured by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited.5. Before the launch of the drive on Sunday, the PM took to Twitter to make four requests to the citizens. The requests were listed as "Each One-Vaccinate One, Each One-Treat One, Each One-Save One, and creation of micro-containment zones".6. In the first request, the PM urged everyone to help those people (less educated or old) who cannot get themselves vaccinated. The second request was about helping those who do not have the means to get vaccinated or do not know about the facilities available. In his third request, he reiterated the importance of wearing masks. In his final request, the PM said that when a Covid-19 positive case has been reported, people of the patient's family and locality must create a micro-containment zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tika-utsav-india-to-inoculate-citizens-on-day-2-of-vaccination-festival-today-101618185848401.html
12-04-2021||India||Vaccine is the solution but don’t lower your guard, 100-year-old urges others||“Har musībat kā diyā ek tabassum se javāb, Is tarah gardish-e-daurāñ ko rulāyā maiñ ne (For every adversity in life, I answered with a smile. With this (attitude) I made all such adversities cry)”: hundred-year-old Jai Dev Chowdhry quoted a nazm (verse) of poet Shaukat Ali Khan and said that a positive attitude in life could help people overcome the difficulties during the pandemic.Chowdhry was administered the first dose of the Serum Institute of India-manufactured Covishield at Medicover Hospitals, Madhapur on March 1. While he was scheduled to get the second dose on March 29, the government on March 22 increased the interval between the two doses from 28 days to 4-6 weeks.The ministry of health and family welfare took the decision on the recommendation of two expert groups – the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC).Read more: Centre halts exports of Remdesivir amid rising Covid-19 casesBut, Chowdhry insists, he has faced bigger crisis than the apprehensions surrounding the vaccine.“I have gone through more difficult times and faced more pains during my life. What can this injection do? I faced every difficulty with a smile because of my positive attitude, and this pandemic too I have overcome with a smile. So, I happily got vaccinated and it only made me feel more positive,” Chowdhry, a retired businessman, said.His family runs Gemini Edibles and Fats India Pvt Ltd which produces the Freedom brand of refined oils.“There is no need to have any concerns about vaccination and its efficacy. Everybody, particularly the old people and those with comorbidities, should get the vaccine. Vaccination is the best solution to overcome all these difficulties,” he said. Chowdhry is not suffering from any comorbidities.Read more: On Day 1 of 'Tika Utsav', states complain of Covid-19 vaccine shortage“I felt absolutely fine [after the vaccination] and didn’t feel any inconvenience. I am a little more relaxed now, because I am told I can meet people,” Chowdhry, who lives with his son Pradeep, 65, in the upscale Banjara Hills area of Hyderabad, said.His relief turned to joy when Prime Minister Narendra Modi cited Chowdhry’s example to motivate others for vaccination during his Mann ki Baat address on March 28. “The 100-year-old man Jai Chowdhry from Hyderabad has taken vaccine and it’s an appeal to everybody to take the vaccine, too,” the PM said.Chowdhry said he took inspiration from the PM. “When Modi sahab could get the vaccination jab, it must be safe for everybody. There was no need to feel any trouble in taking the vaccine even at this age,” he said. The Prime Minister received the first dose of his vaccine on March 1 in New Delhi; he was administered the second on April 8.Read more: 20-30% people lose natural immunity against Covid in 6 months, new study findsChowdhry also lamented that the vaccination drive wasn’t started earlier. “Being isolated within the house I felt like I was in a jail. It has been a long time since I have met my relatives and friends. Even with my family, how much can I talk when everyone is wearing masks,” he said.Most of Chowdhry’s relatives reside in Delhi and would visit him often before the pandemic struck, he said. “It was fun spending time with my cousins, nephews, nieces… All of it came to an abrupt halt during the coronavirus pandemic,” he said.Now, he said, he can socialize with people again. “I can call my friends, sit with them, gossip and enjoy a good card game,” he said, insisting that vaccines are the only way to arrest the spread of Covid-19. “Moreover, there is so much fear of coronavirus [disease] everywhere in the country and the world, so vaccination is the only solution and only way to fight the virus. It is good for the society,” he said.Read more: As Covid’s second wave surges in India, history repeats itselfThe centenarian, however, also advised caution against letting “your guard down”.“We still have to be cautious till all the people get vaccinated. I know vaccination doesn’t give you complete protection and we still need to be careful in following the norms. You cannot let your guard down completely,” Chowdhry said.Pradeep, who has also received the first dose of the vaccine, said that they only let people who have been vaccinated meet the 100-year-old. “Since the worst period is not yet over, we are a little cautious. Only two or three people who got vaccinated are being allowed to meet him,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-is-the-solution-but-don-t-lower-your-guard-100-year-old-urges-others-101618162221707.html
12-04-2021||India||New norms for thermal plants may dent India's emission targets: Experts||A new analysis by researchers shows that the new thermal power plant norms issued by the Union environment ministry last month, which allowed them flexibility in meeting certain criteria, could compromise India’s emission reduction goals that are part of efforts to tackle the climate crisis.The new rules, which came into effect on March 31, give an extension of 1 to 3 years to all thermal power plants to comply with emission norms that are mandated by the government.What makes it worse is that the penalty charged to companies for not complying with the extended deadline is even lower than the cost of complying with rules that are meant to reduce emissions, an analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment has found. This means that thermal power plants can continue to pollute by paying a lower price for not installing pollution control devices.Read more: Centre lays down plan to phase out single-use plastics by 2022CSE’s analysis released on Thursday shows that while installing the equipment for pollution control will cost between ₹40-100 lakh/MW, the penalty that a 500 MW thermal power plant will have to pay to keep running without installing the equipment is only ₹5-11 lakh/MW as per the new amendment.Similarly, the maximum penalty imposed on non-compliant thermal plants is 20 paise per unit of electricity. But the cost of retrofit of pollution control equipment to meet the new norms for these plants is estimated to be between 30 and 70 paise per unit of power generated.“The amended notification favours operation of old inefficient coal power stations, which can continue to run on paying a penalty – this can compromise India’s climate change goals. What is worse is that the deterrence penalty charged to companies for not complying with the emission norms in the extended deadline is in fact a license to pollute,” the CSE analysis said.Read more: ‘World’s two biggest democracies should join hands on confronting climate change’: John KerryA senior environment ministry official, however, said the cost of penalties will have to be borne by power companies but the cost of installing emission control devices can be passed on to the consumers. “The power ministry has already made provisions where the cost of compliance to new emission norms can be passed on to the consumer in the form of tariff but the penalty for not complying cannot be passed on, so this will be loss to the power generator. There are a limited number of suppliers of pollution control devices... [and] Covid also has caused delays. So we have tried to harmonise the process through this notification,” the senior environment ministry official said on condition of anonymity.The environment ministry’s notification dated March 31 replaces the Environment (protection) Rules, 1986, with the Environment (protection) Amendment Rules, 2021.It states that thermal power plants located within 10km radius of the National Capital Region (NCR) or cities with million-plus populations have to meet the emission norms by December 31, 2022. Thermal power plants within 10km radius of critically polluted areas or non-attainment cities (cities that did not meet the annual national standard for particulate matter emissions from 2011 to 2015) will have to meet the standards by December 31, 2023, it states. Thermal power plants that are not in these two categories and are not scheduled for retirement will have to meet the norms by December 31, 2024.Read more: India debates the net zero emission target— what is at stakeThe environment ministry had first notified superior emission standards for thermal power plants in December 2015 for implementation by the end of 2017. Later in 2017, this deadline was delayed to 2022 due to resistance from the industry. Last year, the Union power ministry approached the environment ministry requesting that the timeline to meet air quality norms be deferred on account of pandemic-linked economic slowdown and the inability to source flue gas desulphurization (FGD) systems, which help control sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions. The environment ministry appears to have heeded to their demand.“The cost of non-compliance as per the new notification is miniscule compared to the cost of compliance, so why will companies comply?” asked Sunita Narain, director general, CSE.Read more: Centre limits states’ role in forest matters“Looking at the past track record of penalisation and stay (through courts) ensured by the non-complying power plants as well at the structure and formulation of current proposed penalty amount per unit of generation it is very evident that firstly it wouldn’t even be enforced and secondly rather than ensuring compliance, it will support non-compliance by polluting power plants in a power surplus market, where cost of non-compliance is negligible compared to amount they are paid as fixed costs,” said Sunil Dahiya, researcher at Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA).Over 40% of India’s greenhouse gas emissions come from its energy sector because of heavy dependence on coal, according to India’s biennial report to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paying-emission-fines-cheaper-for-thermal-plants-than-following-norms-101618167373910.html
12-04-2021||India||‘Tika Utsav’ beginning of 2nd war against Covid-19: PM Modi||Terming it as the beginning of the second big war against the coronavirus pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday appealed for maximum inoculations among eligible age groups during the four-day ‘Tika Utsav’ and made several suggestions to keep the virus under check.Amid a rapid surge in Covid-19 cases, Modi, in his recent interaction with chief ministers, had proposed a four-day ‘Tika Utsav’ starting from Sunday to ensure maximum participants in the vaccination drive. At present, those above 45 years of age are eligible to get the anti-Covid shot.In a blog addressed to the citizens, Modi wrote: “The ‘Tika Utsav’ marks the beginning of the second war against Covid-19. We should vaccinate as many as eligible persons through a special campaign and decide on zero wastage.”“We have to move towards optimum utilisation of the country’s vaccination capacity. This is a way to augment our capacity,” he added.The Prime Minister also outlined four responsibilities for each citizen, including ‘each one, vaccinate one’, ‘each one, treat one’ and ‘each one, save one’.While ‘each one, vaccinate one’ suggested helping those who are less educated and the elderly who cannot go for the jab themselves, ‘each one, treat one’ hinted at assisting those who do not have the means or are not aware of the facilities available for vaccination. Through his message of ‘each one, save one’, the Prime Minister stressed on the importance of wearing masks to save oneself and also others. Highlighting the importance of establishing micro-containment zones in a densely-populated country like India, Modi urged everyone to focus on personal and social hygiene.“Our success will be determined by our awareness of the micro containment zone. Our success will be determined by not leaving the house when there is no need. Our success will also depend on whether we wear masks and follow other rules,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tika-utsav-beginning-of-2nd-war-against-covid-19-pm-modi-101618166716859.html
12-04-2021||India||Join the dots: The long-lasting impact of forest fires across India||From Uttaranchal to Nagaland, Madhya Pradesh to Odisha, Indian forests have burned away in the last six months, releasing the carbon sequestered for years.What gives? Each case is different. In Odisha, poachers and non-timber forest product collectors tend to set fires. In Madhya Pradesh, it could be deliberate human actions. In Nagaland’s Dzukou Valley, it’s unclear. And then, in Uttaranchal, multiple causes. This includes inflammable needles from pine trees planted during the colonial era, forest laws that inhibit removing pine trees, local alienation. In all cases, the lack of precipitation and intense heat-an outcome of climate change-is an exacerbating factor.Move to stubble burning in Punjab. It’s an annual environmental crises, where middle-class urbanites vilify farmers. Paddy stubble originates in ground water conservation in a dehydrated state. And Punjab is getting thirstier with heat stress.Join the dots to read the message. It’s clear climate change has an important role to play in both cases. Second, the policy framework needs rapid overhaul, so it is climate-adapted. For example, what prices can farmers expect for climate resilient crops? What legal modifications do local communities want around forests to shift the dynamic of conservation? Finally, the message is clear from those who tend to the soil and the forests : they don’t see other people-urban, middle class etc- as their allies for a secure future. But without building alliances and helping make their voices heard, we cannot expect to keep our desh ki dharti safe.(The writer is Founder and Director Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/join-the-dots-the-long-lasting-impact-of-forest-fires-across-india-101618170196365.html
12-04-2021||India||On Day 1 of 'Tika Utsav', states complain of Covid-19 vaccine shortage||The mass Covid-19 vaccination drive termed as ‘Tika Utsav’ by Prime Minister Narendra Modi began across the country on Sunday even as several states complained of shortage of vaccines.The ‘Tika Utsav’ comes at a time when India’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 13,525,348 while the death toll increased to 169,275 with 839 daily new fatalities, the highest since October 18, 2020, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.In places such as Nainital and Tehri Garhwal in Uttarakhand, Rajsamand and Pratapgarh in Rajasthan, Sitara and Panvel in Maharashtra and Morena in Madhya Pradesh, the drive had to be stopped midway as centres ran out of stock, officials said.Read more: As 'Tika Utsav' begins, PM Modi posts 4 requests for countrymenShortages were also reported from other places such Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Bihar, forcing state governments to scale down their daily vaccination targets.Several chief ministers -- Rajasthan’s Ashok Gehlot, Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray, Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal and Punjab’s Amarinder Singh informed the Centre about the vaccine shortages and sought immediate replenishment of stocks to meet new targets set by the Central government.“The Government of India has assured to send four lakh doses by Sunday night but that will be sufficient only for a day. The chief minister has demanded for 30 lakh doses and also wrote to the prime minister in this regard on Thursday,” said a senior Rajasthan government official, who was not willing to be quoted.Read more: On day 1 of 'Tika Utsav', over 2.7 mn doses of Covid-19 vaccine administeredA Punjab health department official, requesting anonymity, said lesser number of people were vaccinated on Sunday due to the shortage.In Uttarakhand, due to shortage of vaccine doses, Sunday witnessed less vaccination sessions with 519 vaccination sessions which was 178 less than the sessions done on Friday.As many as 900 vaccination sites in Odisha were shut on Sunday due to vaccine shortage, state health officials said.Bihar vaccinated 206,354 people on the opening day of the four-day ‘Tika Utsav’ on Sunday, amid reports of shortage of Covaxin, which was lower than Saturday’s inoculated of 206,354 people. State’s director of family welfare, Bijay Panigrahi, said, while vaccination is underway in 579 out of over 1,400 centres in the state, the inoculation programme may have to be stopped in many places on Monday, if fresh vaccine stock does not arrive. “We will know the actual position only after completion of vaccination work in the evening. I think the entire stock will be exhausted by today,” Panigrahi said.Till Saturday, the state had 233,658 doses of Covishield and 77,960 doses of Covaxin vaccines.Read more: On Day 1 of Tika Utsav, Delhi vaccinates over 1 lakh people amid record Covid-19 surgeOn Friday, several states warned that they would run out of vaccines in the next few days, prompting Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to reiterate that there was no shortage and the country has more than 43 million doses in stock or in the pipeline. To be sure, the problem seems to be more a result of last-mile allocation of vaccines within states, since, at the aggregate level, all of them have at least as many doses as they administer in a couple of days.Modi, during the CMs’ meet , said vaccines will have to be prioritised due to limited supply and lamented that some people were playing politics on the issue. “Those who have the habit of doing politics, let them do so. I have faced much criticism, but we remain committed to serving the people,” he said.(With inputs from state bureaus and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-day-1-of-tika-utsav-states-complain-of-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-101618169792975.html
12-04-2021||India||Covid-19 norms flouted in 50 worst districts: Centre||The Centre on Sunday warned the three worst affected states — Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab — that Covid-appropriate behaviour was not being followed in 50 of their districts, necessitating greater enforcement efforts.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to these states based on feedback received from central teams sent last week.“These teams were to assess the situation on the ground, share their feedback, and work closely with the state authorities in looking for solutions. The health secretary’s letter is based on the feedback received from these teams, and asks them to plug the loopholes,” said a senior official in the health ministry.Read more: Delhi breaks all records in daily Covid-19 cases, Kejriwal rules out lockdownThe central teams found a lack of adequate surveillance measures being taken by the state administrations, especially in areas declared containment zones, inadequate testing using RT-PCR tests, insufficient manpower on Covid-19 duty, among other things.The teams sent to Maharashtra found containment operations sub-optimal, especially in the Satara, Sangli and Aurangabad districts, with less than satisfactory perimeter control, a lack of active surveillance for influenza-like illness cases, mostly due to limited human resources. The testing capacity in many districts such as Satara, Bhandara, Palghar, Amravati, Jalna and Latur is overwhelmed, resulting in delays in reporting of results. Also, some districts have a skewed RT-PCR and rapid antigen testing ratio that needs improvement.Read more: Centre halts exports of Remdesivir amid rising Covid-19 cases“According to central government guidelines, at least 70% of the tests being conducted to detect Covid-19 need to be done through RT-PCR. All states will have to comply with this directive as RAT (rapid antigen test) is meant to be used in certain situations such as containment zones where mass testing is required to know the disease spread in a short span of time. It cannot replace RT-PCR testing,” said a health ministry official, requesting anonymity.Some districts are reporting a large number of cases from outside containment zones, for which the Centre advised states to expand containment areas or to notify new zones so that adequate surveillance measures can be taken.In Bhandara and Satara districts, a large percentage of Covid-19 patients are under home isolation, which requires rigorous follow-ups to minimise mortality. However, such a thorough follow-up is not happening currently.In Chhattisgarh, the team from Raipur and Jashpur reported a lack of perimeter control in containment zones, with no restriction on movement of people inside these zones either.“…Containment zones including micro containment zones need to be strictly implemented. Contact tracing efforts need to be reinforced in Korba. Resistance (even attacks on health care workers) to containment activities and testing was reported by the team from Dhaneli village, Raipur. This needs to be addressed on an urgent basis,” read Bhushan’s letter.Read more: Maharashtra reports 63,294 Covid-19 cases in biggest daily surge since onset of pandemicAnother issue flagged by the expert teams was shortage of RT-PCR testing facilities in Korba, Durg, and Balod districts, for which the state has been advised to explore the use of mobile testing labs.In Punjab, it was pointed out that there is an acute need for adopting enhanced contact tracing measures, especially in Patiala and Ludhiana.“Additional manpower must be deployed for contact tracing on a priority basis. Low rates of testing have been reported from Patiala. Also as reported by the team, there is no RT-PCR testing laboratory in Rupnagar. This has been addressed urgently. There is no dedicated Covid hospital in SAS Nagar and Rupnagar districts, and patients are being referred to neighbouring districts or Chandigarh... Teams have also reported issues with procurement of ventilators for proper case management in SAS Nagar. ln Rupnagar, although ventilators are available, these are not being optimally utilised due to shortage of health care workforce, particularly doctors and nurses…,” the team noted.The Centre advised the state to make contractual hiring of health care workers as per its additional requirement. Slow pace of vaccination among the elderly and those above 45 with comorbidities, especially in Patiala and Ludhiana, needs to be addressed on priority, it said.Read more: India observes 4-day 'Tika Utsav' as PM Modi calls for mass Covid-19 vaccinationFor the lack of Covid-appropriate behaviour in the general public, stricter ground-level enforcement of rules has been suggested.Experts say the way case numbers are rising, it is imperative to take strict containment measures. “The virus is very much in circulation, and clearly spreading faster than before. What we need to do is take stringent measures in terms of increasing testing, tracking and isolating cases in time so that they don’t spread the disease within the community. There is also a need for enhancing community-level surveillance so that no case is missed, for as long we keep missing cases, the virus will continue to spread,” said Jacob John, former virology head, CMC, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-norms-flouted-in-50-worst-districts-centre-101618166937900.html
12-04-2021||India||Worry mounts for 16 states as daily Covid-19 cases tick upward||Sixteen states in the country are currently showing an upward trajectory in daily new Covid-19 cases, according to government data, with six states getting added to the list in the last 10 days, even as a four-day special vaccination drive to cover a sizeable part of the eligible population began on Sunday.“The second wave is showing more transmissibility, and because there is still a large pool of susceptible population, the disease seems to be affecting those districts more that were not affected in the previous wave. That’s the reason we have to be extra careful; particularly about observing Covid-19 appropriate behavior,” a senior government official aware of the matter said.Read more: Centre halts exports of Remdesivir amid rising Covid-19 cases“Since vaccination is the key to saving lives, the prime minister has also urged eligible people who haven’t yet taken the jab not to just come forward themselves but also bring at least one other eligible beneficiary along for vaccination. It should become a people’s movement,” the official said on condition of anonymity.The states showing spikes in the infections are Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Kerala, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal.The country’s caseload, which dropped to under 5% about 10 days back, has nearly doubled, and currently stands at 8.29% of the total positive cases.Read more: Maharashtra reports 63,294 Covid-19 cases in biggest daily surge since onset of pandemicAt least 1.1 million people in the country currently have active Sars-CoV-2 infection, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s data.Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala cumulatively account for 70.82% of India’s total active cases. Maharashtra alone accounts for 48.57% of the total caseload in the country.The country’s Covid-19 recovery rate, which saw an improvement, has also seen a slump in the past few weeks. The recovery rate, which almost touched 98%, currently stands at 90.44%, with 90,584 recoveries having been reported on Saturday. The cumulative recoveries to date stand at 12,081,443, according to the health ministry data.However, the country has managed to keep the death rate low, currently at 1.27%.Read more: Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, UP closes schools for Classes 1 to 12 till Apr 30“Daily deaths continue to show an upward trend. 839 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. Ten States account for 86.41% of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (309). Chhattisgarh follows with 123 daily deaths,” health ministry statement said.Ten states and Union Territories, however, did not report any Covid-19-related deaths on Saturday. These were Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Nagaland, Tripura, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Mizoram, Manipur, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, and Arunachal Pradesh. Doctors treating Covid-19 patients attributed fewer deaths to standardised Covid-19 treatment across the country.Read more: Maharashtra, Punjab, C'garh: Govt points out gaps in Covid containment strategy“For a long time in the previous wave, we were actually experimenting with what worked better or what did not work at all for Covid-19 patients. The standardisation of treatment protocol helped as now doctors knew better what worked and that was being used across the country in treating Covid-19 patients with better outcomes,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, department of pulmonology and sleep medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.“Now that vaccination is also happening, it will also start showing results,” he added.India has already administered 100 million Covid-19 vaccine doses, with 3.5 million doses administered on Saturday, according to government data.“Cumulatively, 101,595,147 vaccine doses have been administered through 1,517,963 sessions, which include 9,004,063 health care workers who have taken the first dose, and 5,508,289 health care workers with second dose, 9,953,615 frontline workers (first dose), 4,759,209 (second dose), 39,651,630 first dose beneficiaries and 1,800,206 second dose beneficiaries more than 60 years old, and 30,276,653 (first dose) and 641,482 (second dose) beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years,” said the health ministry statement. Eight states account for 60.27% of the total doses given so far in the country.In terms of the number of daily doses administered globally, India continues to remain at the top with an average of 3,834,574 doses administered per day, according to the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worry-mounts-for-16-states-as-daily-covid-cases-tick-upward-101618169858186.html
12-04-2021||India||Fear of 2020 rerun grips Delhi's migrants amid Covid-19 infection spike||Every evening, Anil Kumar, who lives in Shahpur Garhi village in north Delhi and works in a plastic factory in the nearby Narela industrial area, religiously checks the day’s Covid-19-related news on his mobile. On Saturday, he could tell the exact number of new cases in Delhi, and how some hospitals in neighbouring Noida and Ghaziabad had run out of vaccines.“I am keeping a close watch on the Covid-19 situation, because it will help me decide when it is time to leave the city. Night curfew has already been imposed, lockdown could be next,” says Kumar. “I do not want to be caught off-guard like last year. Some of my friends who recently lost their jobs have already left for their villages.”Kumar is not the only one. There is fear and anxiety among the thousands of migrant workers in villages such as Shahpur Garhi, Tikri Khurd, Bhor Garh, and Singhola.The Narela industrial area has about 3,500 factories, manufacturing everything from footwear to auto parts and providing direct and indirect employment to about 150,000 people. Over the last two decades, as demand for housing labourers rose here, these villages transformed into workers’ colonies with hundreds of multi-storey tenements. Together, they housed about 100,000 people mostly from eastern UP and Bihar.Read more: Fearing lockdown, some migrants opt to go homeShahpur Garhi, a farming village till the mid-90s, alone was home to about 15,000 people before the lockdown last year. The village’s residents’ welfare association (RWA) president Surinder Singh Khatri says that soon after the lockdown, the village had turned into a ghost colony. Within a couple of months, the number of residents there had fallen to 3,000.“Last year, about 90% of the workers had left for their villages and we thought that they will never return. Most permanent residents here are dependent on rental income. But, thankfully, by the end of last year the workers were back, but today they are worried again and are talking of going back,” says Khatri, who also owns a tenement in the village.“People are leaving in small numbers right now, but we fear it might soon become an exodus. Three of my tenants from Bihar have already told me they will leave next week,” says Anand Khatri, another landlord.Read more: Amid Mumbai lockdown talk, migrant movement seen on MP routeMonthly rent for a room here varies from ₹2,000 to ₹2,500. The average monthly income of a tenant in these villages is around ₹13,000.Labourers living in these villages said that last year they had left due to fear of contracting the disease, but this time it was because work in Narela had been drying up in the past few weeks. “Last year, a lot of us had taken loans from local moneylenders to survive when we were in our villages, and we are yet to repay them. But when we returned , the landlords here forced us to pay all the pending rent in instalments,” says Satish Singh, who works in plastic factory.Rajiv Kumar, who lives in the nearby Bhor Garh village and lost his job in a footwear factory last week, says he will have no choice but to leave if he did not find work soon. “My factory owner explained that with Covid-19 cases rising in Maharashtra, he has few orders and will have to halt production,” he says.Similarly, Arun Prajapati, who lives in Tikri Khurd and, like Rajiv Kumar, works in footwear factory, says what worries him most is that, unlike last time, when factory owners provided food during the lockdown, they may not be as considerate this time. “I will be on my own if I am caught in another lockdown as most factory owners are not as sympathetic this year. I cannot decide if I should leave or watch the situation for some more time,” says Prajapati. “Last year, I walked almost 100km with my wife and 10-year-old daughter in May before a truck offered us a ride home. I do not want to be in the same situation again”.Read more: Migrant labourers leave Mumbai in packed trains fearing lockdownLakshman Mahto, who runs a dhaba for factory workers in the Narela Industrial Complex, says that a lot of his customers who left last year never returned. “And of the some who did, many have stopped coming in the past few days. Workers are leaving as work is dwindling in factories here ,” he says.He is not exaggerating.Bhagwat Dayal Aggarwal, president of the Narela Industrial Welfare Association, said the factories that were working at about 60% capacity before the current surge in coronavirus cases a month back, are now working at only at 35% capacity.“Things were slowly getting better after the lockdown. But this sharp and sudden surge in coronavirus disease cases, which has led to night curfews in many major cities, is again lowering demand. Many factories here have stopped production, and many are on the verge of doing so. They have no choice but to reduce manpower,” says Aggarwal.Deepak Vats, whose factory makes plastic containers and toys, says with cases rising in the states from where he got a lot of business, he has had to reduce capacity. “About a month ago, I was working at 70% capacity and employed 25 people. Now, I am working at 35% capacity with only 12 people ,” he says.It is late afternoon and back in Shahpur Ghari, Ranjeet Kumar, who is on night duty, is ready to leave for work.He says he worries being mistreated by his landlord if there is a lockdown and he loses his job. “Some of us were treated badly after we failed to pay the rent last year. We were shocked by their rude behaviour. I just hope they do not do it again if I lose my job and fail to pay,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fear-of-2020-rerun-grips-delhi-s-migrants-amid-covid-19-infection-spike-101618163342250.html
12-04-2021||India||After Crime Branch, Mumbai top cop may make changes in EOW||Mumbai Days after he ordered the transfer of 84 police officers, most of them who belonged to the elite Crime Branch, Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale is likely to initiate a similar ‘clean-up drive’ in the Economic Offences Wing (EOW), people familiar with the developments said. Ever since he took charge as the top cop on March 17, after former top cop Param Bir Singh was shunted out following the row over suspended Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze’s alleged involvement in the bomb scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, Nagrale has suspended 65 officers who had served in the Crime Branch for over five years. Officers who have been serving in the EOW for more than four years are likely to be his next target, the people cited above said. In a recent order to all the unit heads, EOW joint commissioner of police Niket Kaushik had hinted at possible transfers in the coming days. The order, a copy of which was accessed by HT, read: “Possible transfers of those officers who are completing four years in EOW as of May 31, 2021, cannot be ruled out in upcoming general transfers (which occurs every year in June). Hence, all unit heads are hereby directed henceforth not to give such officers the investigation of new cases.” The EOW deals with cases such as multi-crore banking fraud, corporate frauds, investment frauds, housing frauds by builders among other white-collar crimes. Generally, a police officer is supposed to serve at a post for a period of three years before his next transfer. “There are officers here (in EOW) who have been in the department for the past six to seven years by merely switching their postings within the EOW during the transfers,” the people cited above said. “Once these officers are moved out, 45 to 50 per cent of posts of officers in this wing would go vacant. These posts would be filled up by new officers,” an EOW officer said, requesting anonymity. Speaking on the transfers, a senior IPS officer who did not wish to be named said: “The commissioner’s clean-up drive aims to uproot the nexus or connivance of policemen with wrong elements that ultimately encourage corruption in the police department. It makes them indulge in unethical practices which eventually could lead to another Sachin Vaze-like episode which has brought tremendous embarrassment to Mumbai Police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-crime-branch-mumbai-top-cop-may-make-changes-in-eow-101618167512623.html
12-04-2021||India||Worry mounts for 16 states as daily Covid cases tick upward||New Delhi Sixteen states in the country are currently showing an upward trajectory in daily new Covid-19 cases, according to government data, with six states getting added to the list in the last 10 days, even as a four-day special vaccination drive to cover a sizeable part of the eligible population began on Sunday.“The second wave is showing more transmissibility, and because there is still a large pool of susceptible population, the disease seems to be affecting those districts more that were not affected in the previous wave. That’s the reason we have to be extra careful; particularly about observing Covid-19 appropriate behavior,” a senior government official aware of the matter said.“Since vaccination is the key to saving lives, the prime minister has also urged eligible people who haven’t yet taken the jab not to just come forward themselves but also bring at least one other eligible beneficiary along for vaccination. It should become a people’s movement,” the official said on condition of anonymity.The states showing spikes in the infections are Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Kerala, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal.The country’s caseload, which dropped to under 5% about 10 days back, has nearly doubled, and currently stands at 8.29% of the total positive cases.At least 1.1 million people in the country currently have active Sars-CoV-2 infection, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s data.Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala cumulatively account for 70.82% of India’s total active cases. Maharashtra alone accounts for 48.57% of the total caseload in the country.The country’s Covid-19 recovery rate, which saw an improvement, has also seen a slump in the past few weeks. The recovery rate, which almost touched 98%, currently stands at 90.44%, with 90,584 recoveries having been reported on Saturday. The cumulative recoveries to date stand at 12,081,443, according to the health ministry data.However, the country has managed to keep the death rate low, currently at 1.27%.“Daily deaths continue to show an upward trend. 839 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. Ten States account for 86.41% of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (309). Chhattisgarh follows with 123 daily deaths,” health ministry statement said.Ten states and Union Territories, however, did not report any Covid-19-related deaths on Saturday. These were Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Nagaland, Tripura, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Mizoram, Manipur, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, and Arunachal Pradesh.Doctors treating Covid-19 patients attributed fewer deaths to standardised Covid-19 treatment across the country.“For a long time in the previous wave, we were actually experimenting with what worked better or what did not work at all for Covid-19 patients. The standardisation of treatment protocol helped as now doctors knew better what worked and that was being used across the country in treating Covid-19 patients with better outcomes,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, department of pulmonology and sleep medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.“Now that vaccination is also happening, it will also start showing results,” he added.India has already administered 100 million Covid-19 vaccine doses, with 3.5 million doses administered on Saturday, according to government data.“Cumulatively, 101,595,147 vaccine doses have been administered through 1,517,963 sessions, which include 9,004,063 health care workers who have taken the first dose, and 5,508,289 health care workers with second dose, 9,953,615 frontline workers (first dose), 4,759,209 (second dose), 39,651,630 first dose beneficiaries and 1,800,206 second dose beneficiaries more than 60 years old, and 30,276,653 (first dose) and 641,482 (second dose) beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years,” said the health ministry statement.Eight states account for 60.27% of the total doses given so far in the country. In terms of the number of daily doses administered globally, India continues to remain at the top with an average of 3,834,574 doses administered per day, according to the health ministry. The US is the second fastest country with 3,111,327 doses and Brazil at the third spot with 781,886, Covid-19 vaccine doses having been administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worry-mounts-for-16-states-as-daily-covid-cases-tick-upward-101618167212719.html
12-04-2021||India||Survey of CEOs: ‘Covid-19 curbs better than lockdown’||Three-fourth of 710 chief executive officers (CEOs) expressed that partial lockdown measures would adversely impact the movement of goods and labourers, which would significantly affect industrial output, a Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) CEOs poll said on Sunday.Stringent implementation of health and safety norms is better than partial lockdowns on any industrial operations, CII said, quoting the survey. The poll covered CEOs from both manufacturing and services sectors. About 68% of the respondents belonged to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs).While 96% of the CEOs said the industry is well-prepared for the implementation of stricter health and safety protocols, 93% of them preferred “stringent implementation of safety norms” over partial lockdowns.Read more: Fear of 2020 rerun grips Delhi's migrants amid Covid-19 infection spikeAbout 60% of the CEOs polled said their production could be affected if there are restrictions on movement of labourers during partial lockdowns and majority of them feared up to 50% production loss if restrictions are imposed on the ecosystem that supports movement of goods, CII said.While 57% of the companies expressed the need to stock raw materials in excess of just-in-time levels to meet any likely shortage of raw materials, about 31% of them said they would accommodate their labour force in the factory in case of movement restrictions due to night curfew.More than 60% of the CEOs suggested that the government should allow the movement of workers in all shifts during night curfews and also free movement of goods along with the required personnel to facilitate the movement of goods. “This should be allowed with all workers and industry staff strictly following all health and safety protocols,” the CII statement said, quoting the survey.Read more: Centre halts exports of Remdesivir amid rising Covid-19 casesLooking at ways to mitigate the impact of the restrictions, 67% of CEOs expressed their desire to work with the government for mass vaccination of eligible workforce who are 45 years and above.“Protecting livelihoods along with lives is essential and industry is keen to work with the government on universal coverage (18 years and above) of vaccination programme and in implementing strict health and safety protocols,” said CII president-designate TV Narendran.The government handled both lives and livelihoods effectively during the first wave, he said in the statement. “It could do so again by keeping industrial activities out of the ambit of partial lockdowns aimed at restricting social gatherings. This will help India recover from the economic contraction and stabilize the upward growth trends being currently witnessed in several sectors,” he added.CII is observing ‘Tika Utsav’ from April 11-14 April across the country as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the statement said. CII has already activated its 65 state offices and has written to over 9,000 members from the industry to facilitate vaccinations of the eligible workforce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/survey-of-ceos-curbs-better-than-lockdown-101618165592610.html
12-04-2021||India||Four sheds in Bengaluru and one big dream: How India’s 1st satellite took form||Each man held two bricks as they walked through slush towards the four metal sheds in the Peenya industrial estate in the outskirts of Bengaluru. They would deposit one brick each as they walked to make a pathway. In an obscure corner of then Bangalore, these men were given four makeshift sheds and one big dream - make India’s first satellite.Among them was 26-year-old Surendra Pal who was responsible for the development and fabrication of all telecommunication systems for Aryabhata. Irreverent to the importance of the task at his hands, the pigeons who had a free reign in these sheds often targeted his thick curly hair.“The facilities were minimal. We were working out of sheds. But what happened in those sheds is a true testament to our aspirations and abilities. We were building a satellite without anyone’s help, without sufficient books for consultation or enough facilities. Most of us had not a seen a satellite in real life when started,” said Pal.The story of the Aryabhata and the four sheds in Peenya started around 1968 when Vikram Sarabhai who was heading India’s space programme asked one of his students, UR Rao, to come up with a plan for the development of satellite technology in India. By 1969 UR Rao assembled a team of about 20 engineers to be built India’s first satellite.Rao in his book ‘India’s Rise As A Space Power’ writes that by August 1971, the Soviets agreed to launch India’s satellites. As per the Soviet agreement, India had to design, fabricate and test the satellites and they would launch a satellite for free. After finalizing the specification of the satellite, they approached Indira Gandhi with a budget. He proposed a budget of ₹3 crores, and it was approved. The next step was finding a location to build it.Until that point, India’s Thumba in Kerala was the hub of India’s space programme, but Rao decided that the development of the project would take place in Bengaluru. “One of the reasons for the decision was the access to a number of industries and scientific institutes in the city. Rao met the then chief minister of the state Devaraj Urs and he allocated a property in Peenya for the development of the project,” says Pal.Pal recollected that unlike the Peenya of today, which is a buzzing industrial hub, his colleagues and he were welcome by a large, deserted area. “At the point, the space programme was still under the department of atomic energy and buses in ‘atomic energy grey colour’ would drop us to Peenya. When it rains, the entire place would be slushy. So, we would carry bricks to that we can make our way through it,” he remembers.While today India’s space programmes are guarded by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), back then two policemen with rifles provided security at Peenya when work on Aryabhata began. “It’s funny actually. More than the satellite that was under fabrication in the sheds, the policemen were used to worry more about their rifles. Because they feared someone would steal it, they used to lock them inside a room,” he says.The sheds were not the most comfortable places to work in. Out of the four, one was converted into a laboratory and another was a clean room, while the other two sheds were used for all other tasks. “The first task our day was to clean all the tables and equipment. Then there would be bird droppings. My thick curly hair too was a target for these pigeons,” he says.These little inconveniences were often forgotten because they had a bigger task of making a satellite from scratch, especially since these engineers, with an average age of 26, had never seen a satellite in their lives before. “Since the country was under sanctions, there was no transfer of technology and we had to figure how to build a satellite on our own. There were no reference books. I still remember that the only book that was available was a 1968 publication from Bell Telephone Labs which talked about early-bird satellites and some papers from Nasa,” Pal says.Even Pal’s college education didn’t prepare him for the task he was entrusted with. “It was all our thinking and innovation. Most importantly, UR Rao allowed us to innovate and do whatever it takes. Whenever I use to approach him saying I wanted to consult someone about some issue. He used to tell me that there is no one and no one knows more about the topic than me. Then he would ask to figure it out myself and I did,” Pal says.After years of hard work, the satellite was finally ready by 1975. It was only after the dates of the tentative launch were fixed the scientists realised the satellite had no name. Three names were sent to Prime Minister Gandhi - Jawahar, Maitri, Aryabhata and she chose Aryabhata.Finally, on April 16, 1975, Aryabhata, a dream that began in sheds of Peenya in Bengaluru, took off to the skies at the Kapustin Yar Cosmodrome near Volgograd in Russia. Twelve minutes after launch, Aryabhata was placed in its designated orbit at a height. “UR Rao was emotional; he hugged each one of us. Satish Dhawan brought us samosas and sweets to celebrate, but the samosas got spoilt. He promised to get us all samosas when we returned to Moscow,” remembers Pal with a smile.Pal says that after all these years, when he sits down to think about those days, it still baffles how some men in their 20’s managed to build a satellite from scratch from metal sheds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-sheds-for-office-and-1-big-dream-how-india-s-1st-satellite-took-form-101618081166283.html
