13-04-2021||India||India, France discuss boosting cooperation, greater collaboration in diverse sectors||India and France on Tuesday discussed the possibility of boosting cooperation in diverse sectors such as trade and investment, defence and security, health, education, energy and climate change, and working jointly in the Indo-Pacific.These matters figured in talks between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his visiting French counterpart Jean-Yves Le Drian, who is on an official visit to India during April 13-15. Le Drian will also participate in the Raisina Dialogue, the external affairs ministry’s annual flagship conference.During their meeting, the two sides “recognised the importance of fast-tracking the discussions on an India-EU trade and investment agreement” in order to tap the full potential of bilateral trade, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. India’s trade with France has seen a steady rise in the past decade, touching $10.75 billion in 2020. “In the context of the changes in a Covid-impacted world, both ministers recognised the immense opportunities for greater collaboration in diverse sectors such as trade and investments, defence and security, health, education, research and innovation, energy and climate change,” the statement said.Jaishankar and Le Drian discussed regional and global issues and reiterated their shared commitment to a multi-polar world and multilateralism. They also explored ways to strengthen cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, including through the India-France-Australia trilateral mechanism, and addressing emerging challenges in the maritime and space domains. In the area of climate action, India welcomed France’s decision to take up the “maritime resources” pillar of New Delhi’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative (IPOI).“A comfortable, substantive and productive discussion with FM @JY_LeDrian. India and France will advance their shared post-COVID agenda through close collaboration,” Jaishankar tweeted after the meeting.Le Drian will also participate in a panel discussion on climate change along with environment and climate change minister Prakash Javadekar. In the second leg of his tour, he will visit the National Centre for Biological Sciences and the Indian Space Research Organisation in Bengaluru on April 15.During an event held at the French embassy, Le Drian appointed 15 “alumni ambassadors” from the France Alumni network to boost student mobility between the two countries. He later interacted with French and Indian producers to boost bilateral cooperation in movies and television and to promote gender equality in cinema.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-france-discuss-boosting-cooperation-greater-collaboration-in-diverse-sectors-101618336363716.html
13-04-2021||India||Odisha halts Covid-19 inoculation in 11 districts due to shortage of vaccines||The inoculation drive against Covid-19 was on Tuesday halted in 11 of Odisha's 30 districts due to shortage of vaccines, a senior health department official said.Director of Family Welfare, Dr Bijay Panigrahi, who is also the officer in charge of immunization, said: "The inoculation drive has been halted in 11 districts due to shortage of vaccines."The districts where vaccinations have been halted were: Sambalpur, Puri, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Nayagarh, Boudh, Gajapati, Dhenkanal, Koraput, Jharsuguda and Sonepur, Panigrahi told reporters.An official source said that the inoculation drive was conducted in 495 session sites out of above 1,400 sites across the state."A total of 66,787 beneficiaries were vaccinated at 495 centres on Tuesday ...," he said.However, he said the vaccination drive was underway in the remaining 19 districts of the state.Panigrahi said the state has received 2.71 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine doses on Monday and another 2 lakh doses of Covaxin on Tuesday.Odisha Health Minister NK Das had on Monday written a letter to Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan urging to supply at least 10 days stock of Covishield (25 lakh doses).He said now the Covisheild vaccines will be dispatched to different districts while Covaxin doses are only given to the beneficiaries in Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation jurisdiction. "We hope some more vaccine centres will be re- activated on Wednesday after receiving new stock," he said.The Tika Ustav, which is going on for four days from April 11 to April 14, will end on Wednesday, he said, adding that the state has so far vaccinated 45,85,049 persons.On April 3, Odisha held 1476 vaccination sessions and vaccinated the highest ever 2,71,480 beneficiaries in a single day. However, since then due to short and uncertain supply of vaccines from MoHFW, the state has been forced to close vaccination centres, the minister said.Meanwhile, keeping in view the spike of cases, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation, Cuttack Municipal Corporation and some other district authorities have imposed restriction on observation of "Maha Bishuva Sankranti" and other festivals in order to avoid large gatherings.An official of Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) Tuesday said that at least 23 people associated with the Puri temple activities are identified as Covid-19 positive.Odisha's Covid-19 tally surged to 3,53,086 on Tuesday as 1,784 more people tested positive for the infection, while two fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 1,930, a health official said.The state on Tuesday registered recovery of 523 patients taking the total number of cured persons to 3,41,123 which is 96.61 per cent of the caseload.Odisha's case fatality ratio(CFR) stands at 0.54 per cent while active cases percentage is 2.82 per cent, an official data said. PTI AAM RG RG||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-halts-covid-19-inoculation-in-11-districts-due-to-shortage-of-vaccines-101618334804116.html
13-04-2021||India||Violent protests in Pak cities cast shadow over visit by 800 Sikh pilgrims||Escalating protests by a hardline religious group in several Pakistani cities have cast a shadow over a visit to the neighbouring country by more than 800 Indian Sikh pilgrims to participate in the annual Baisakhi festival, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.A total of 818 Indian pilgrims were briefly stranded in Lahore, the capital of Pakistan’s Punjab province, on Monday after they crossed the border at Wagah. The group left Lahore late on Tuesday afternoon for the city of Hasan Abdal, where they will join celebrations at Gurdwara Panja Sahib, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.The arrival of the Sikh jatha in Pakistan coincided with violent protests in several cities, including Lahore, Islamabad and Karachi, by Tehreek-i-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) against the arrest of the group’s chief Allama Saad Hussain Rizvi. TLP is also pressuring the Pakistan government to act on its demands, including the expulsion of the French envoy and a ban on French imports, over the publication of blasphemous caricatures in France.At least three people have died in the protests, including a police constable who was beaten to death during a clash in Lahore on Tuesday. Videos emerged from several places that showed paramilitary troops backing the protestors. The Pakistan government has not shown any intention of dispersing the demonstrators.“There are concerns that the Indian pilgrims could be stranded in Hasan Abdal if the protests become more violent. The protests have already disrupted the movement of vehicles between cities such as Lahore, Islamabad and Rawalpindi,” said one of the people cited above.The Indian pilgrims are scheduled to visit gurdwaras at several locations, including Gurdwara Janamsthan at Nankana Sahib, after the clebrations in Hasan Abdal.Baisakhi is a spring harvest festival that marks the Sikh new year and commemorates the formation of the Khalsa Panth under Guru Gobind Singh in 1699. Gurdwara Panja Sahib at Hasan Abdal, about 350 km from Lahore, is believed to have the hand print of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism. The main event of the Baisakhi celebrations will be held at Hasan Abdal on April 14.Sikhs from India travel to Hasan Abdal every year to celebrate the festival.The Indian pilgrims were initially stranded at the Wagah border crossing till 9.30 pm on Monday because of the violent protests.“We spent the whole day in buses, though arrangements for food and water were made for us. After Pakistan’s police and security forces got the roads cleared, we were taken to Gurdwara Dehra Sahib in Lahore at 11.30 pm on Monday,” said Gurdev Singh, one of the pilgrims.Singh said the original plan was for the pilgrims to travel directly to Hasan Abdal, without any stopover in Lahore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violent-protests-in-pak-cities-cast-shadow-over-visit-by-800-sikh-pilgrims-101618334742530.html
13-04-2021||India||Public transport, including trains, to remain operational: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray on new Covid-19 curbs||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Tuesday public transport, including buses and local trains, will not be suspended as he announced stricter restrictions to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Maharashtra. Section 144, which restricts the gathering of more than four or five people, will be imposed in the state for the next 15 days, Uddhav Thackeray announced.Public transport like aeroplanes, trains, taxis, autos and buses are categorised as essential and will remain operational for essential service workers during the restrictions effective from Wednesday 8pm till May 1 7am. According to the guidelines, no one will be allowed to be in a public place without any valid reason. All establishments, public place activities and services will remain closed. Services and activities under the essential category will be exempted.Also Read | No lockdown, Section 144 across Maharashtra from tomorrow: Uddhav ThackerayDuring his address to the state, the chief minister said the Covid-19 situation in the state is dreadful and it was time to take strict measures. “We are facing a shortage of oxygen, beds. Demand for Remdesivir has soared,” Thackeray said during the address.Informing the people about the situation, Thackeray said he will be writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow the air force to supply oxygen in the state. Announcing the new restrictions, the chief minister put the onus on the citizens to adhere to Covid-19 safety measures in order to prevent the spread. “People have to decide whether they want to help corona or the government that is working to curb it,” Thackeray added.The additional restrictions besides weekend lockdown and night curfew come as the state is reporting a rising trend in the number of daily Covid-19 infections. The healthcare system in the state has also reached capacity as it is not able to keep pace with the growth in the number of Covid-19 cases.Huge crowds are seen at marketplaces after the weekend lockdown gets over or during the non-curfew hours and the restrictions have been imposed to prevent this from happening.Maharashtra is the top contributor to the number of new Covid-19 infections in the country. On Tuesday, the state reported 60,212 fresh cases and 281 fatalities in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-transport-including-trains-to-remain-operational-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-on-new-covid-19-curbs-101618332238393.html
13-04-2021||India||PM Modi greets nation on Ramadan, says gives important message of serving the needy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday extended his greetings as Ramadan began amid the spike in coronavirus disease cases forcing authorities to put restrictions on the holy month's prayers in mosques. “Best wishes for the holy month of Ramzan,” the Prime Minister tweeted. “Greetings on the start of the holy month of Ramzan. Ramzan gives an important message of serving the needy and underprivileged. It also reaffirms the importance of equality, brotherhood and compassion,” PM Modi also said.Best wishes for the holy month of Ramzan. pic.twitter.com/mNlKCFyGlfRamadan 2021 began on Tuesday after Dakshina Kannada district Kazi Al-Haj Twaka Ahmed Musliar and the chief secretary of Zeenath Baksh central Juma Masjid Idgah mosque Mohammed Hanif announced on Monday that the moon was sighted in Kerala’s Kozhikode, reported news agency PTI.According to the Islamic calendar, Ramadan is the ninth month and Muslims across the world fast from dusk to dawn during the holy month. Eid-ul-Fitr marks the end of fasting.Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao also wished the people on the occasion of the beginning of the holy month and urged the Muslims to follow Covid-19 safety protocol and take all necessary precautions during Ramadan 2021.Muslim scholars on Tuesday also urged people not to hesitate and get vaccinated against Covid-19. The scholars said that the use of vaccines will not invalidate fasting during Ramadan and appealed people to get the shots during the ‘roza’ period.Delhi High Court on Monday allowed the mosque in Hazrat Nizamuddin to be open for devotees to offer prayers during the month of Ramadan. The offering of prayers in the famous mosque of Delhi will be subject to the guidelines of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) as coronavirus disease cases are on a rise.In the wake of rising cases and festivals lined up, state governments have urged citizens to take all precautionary measures like social distancing, wearing masks and using sanitisers among others.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-greets-nation-on-ramadan-says-gives-important-message-of-serving-the-needy-101618331433324.html
13-04-2021||India||Migrants workers head back to villagers but no fear of Covid-19 this time||Even though there is an unusual rush of people across interstate bus stations and railway stations, most of the migrants said they were going back to their villages for harvest season, festivals and local body polls in Uttar Pradesh with some admitting that they feared a complete lockdown.In Mumbai, amid talk of a complete lockdown to arrest the Covid-19 surge, the passenger rush on outstation trains in Mumbai has increased since the last weekend, Railway officials said on Tuesday, attributing the increase to the summer season during which a large number of people travel to their native places.“Trains were completely full but since the last few days there has been more rush,” said a Railway official at Mumbai’s Lokmanya Tilak Terminus.The officials familiar with the developments said the rush on outstation trains has gone up since the state government announced fresh Covid-19 curbs earlier this month, the weekend saw a steady flow of passengers on long-distance trains originating from different stations in the metropolis.Speculation is rife about the Maharashtra government mulling a “complete lockdown” to curb the current surge in Covid-19 cases. The state registered an all-time high spike of 63,294 infections on Sunday.“Panchayat elections are scheduled in Uttar Pradesh and hence many people are going for voting,” he said, adding there may be some migrant labourers among the passengers but their number is “negligible” as compared to the last year.A Central Railway spokesperson said they are operating 12 of the 88 scheduled summer special trains for North India, apart from 18-20 regular special trains for Darbhanga, Patna, Danapur, Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Manduadih, Puri, Raxaul and Guwahati, among other destinations.“The Railway administration appeals to people to avoid panic booking. The Railway runs more trains in summer for the convenience of passengers,” Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway, said.At Delhi’s Anand Vihar and Kaushambi inter-state bus terminals, there has been a rise in the footfall of passengers travelling between Delhi-NCR and Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttarakhand.“Many workers in the car spare parts manufacturing factory in Gurugram where I work were discussing for the last two days that the government will impose lockdown and the factory will be closed. It may be all rumours. But it’s better to return now than facing the situation that we witnessed last year. We will return to Delhi on April 22 if there is no lockdown,” said Sundaram Singh, who was returning to his village in Gorakhpur with his wife, Ritu Singh, and two children.Also read: India Covid-19 second wave has crossed previous spike, worrying - GovtWaiting at the Anand Vihar interstate bus terminals with five other relatives for a bus to her hometown in Uttar Pradesh’s Hardoi, Rameshwari, a 45-year-old woman who lives with her family in Faridabad and works as domestic help, said that their travel had nothing to do anything with the fear of rising Covid-19 cases.“One Pappu from our village is contesting the elections for the post of Gram Pradhan. He had been continuously requesting our presence to vote for him. He has agreed to bear all our travel expenses. As we depend on our pradhan for many of our works, we have to support him during the voting. We will return after the elections,” said Rameshwari.A police officer from the Patparganj Industrial Area police station, who did not want to be named, said that they have also been monitoring the situation and the police personnel on field duty have been speaking to the passengers about their purpose of visiting their hometown.“We have hardly come across any family who was leaving the city because of the Covid cases. Some did mention the lockdown anticipation but even they did not cite it as the reason for their travel,” the officer said, adding that they have been telling passengers not to believe any rumours and report to the police if they see anyone spreading the lies.In Ludhiana, which witnessed a huge exodus of workers last year during the lockdown, industry owners and workers said there was no fear of Covid-19 pushing the workers to return to their villages.According to Onkar Singh Pahwa, chairman and managing director of Avon Cycles, there is no shortage of workers. “The labour is not going anywhere in large numbers. The ones who went back are those who go to their villages for reasons of harvesting at this time of the year every year,” said Pahwa. DS Chawla, president, United Cycle Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) said there is no such shortage or reverse influx of labour is happening in Ludhiana.Rajesh Aggarwal, divisional railway manager, Ferozpur division said that there is no rush of passengers or labourers on railway stations across Ferozpur division. The railway officials are allowing only those passengers to board the trains who have confirmed RAC tickets and are following the Covid-19 protocols, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-workers-head-back-to-villagers-but-no-fear-of-covid-19-this-time-101618328922371.html
13-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Raghav Chadha warns of water scarcity in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Water supply will be hit’: Raghav Chadha warns of scarcity in Delhi, slams HaryanaDelhi Jal Board (DJB) vice chairperson Raghav Chadha on Tuesday once again raked up the water dispute between Delhi and Haryana, warning that supply in several areas of the Capital could be affected due to the presence of “untreatable” waste in the water of the Yamuna being sent by the neighbouring state. Read MoreWill do our best to save lives, says minister ahead of Maharashtra CM's addressMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will on Tuesday taken a decision about imposing strict guidelines in the state battling a massive spike in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and related deaths, minister Aslam Shaikh said. Read MoreTripura: Pradyot Kishore to take oath as autonomous council chief on April 20After a thumping victory in Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) polls, all the 18 winning candidates of the regional political party, Tipraha Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance (TIPRA), led by royal scion Pradyot Kishore Debbarma. Read More‘Already played a few little pranks on me’: Maxwell talks about his ‘close’ friendship with Indian cricketerGlenn Maxwell has started his Indian Premier League 2021 campaign on a positive note. Read MoreStep inside Kangana Ranaut's Mumbai home, a nod to her Himachali roots. See picsActor Kangana Ranaut maintains a 5 BHK flat in Mumbai, and a European-style mansion in her home town, Manali. Earlier this year, she had hosted a party for her Tejas team, giving a fans a good look at her flat. Read MoreIPL 2021: Virat Kohli shares post practice selfie with AB de Villiers and Harshal PatelA tweet by Virat Kohli, who is leading Royal Challengers Bangalore in the ongoing season of Indian Premier League (IPL), has gone viral. Read More‘Doses approved by US regulators…’: Centre on vaccines, Remdesivir use | CovidThe Centre on Tuesday said doctors should ensure "rational and judicious" use of anti-viral drug Remdesivir, underlining it is to be given only to serious COVID-19 patients in hospitals and is not to be used in home settings. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-raghav-chadha-warns-of-water-scarcity-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news-101618324623528.html
13-04-2021||India||India has walked the talk during pandemic: PM Modi at Raisina Dialogue||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday India has tried to walk the talk “in our own humble way and within our own limited resources” to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has affected and killed millions across the world. PM Modi said the pandemic has presented opportunity to reshape the world order and reorient our thinking as he inaugurated the sixth edition of the Raisina Dialogue.“This edition of Raisina Dialogue takes a place at a watershed moment in human history. A global pandemic has been ravaging the world for over a year. The last such global pandemic was a century ago,” PM Modi said during his addresses at the inaugural session of Raisina Dialogue. “During this pandemic, in our own humble way and within our own limited resources, we in India have tried to walk the talk. We have tried to protect our own 1.3 billion citizens from the pandemic. At the same time, we have also tried to support pandemic response efforts of others,” he added."We understand fully that mankind will not defeat the pandemic unless all of us, everywhere, regardless of the colour of our passports, come out of it. That is why, this year, despite many constraints, we have supplied vaccines to over 80 countries," the Prime Minister said.The four-day Raisina Dialogue is being held virtually this time due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. It is India’s flagship conference on geopolitics and geoeconomics and is being hosted by the think tank Observer Research Foundation (ORF) in partnership with the ministry of external affairs (MEA). The theme for the 2021 conference is “#ViralWorld: Outbreaks, Outliers and Out of Control”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-walked-the-talk-during-pandemic-pm-modi-at-raisina-dialogue-101618326038790.html
13-04-2021||India||Goa Forward Party quits NDA citing BJP’s ‘incompetence’ under CM Pramod Sawant||The Goa Forward Party formally exited the National Democratic Alliance on Tuesday-- one and a half year after it withdrew support from the Pramod Sawant led BJP government, following the sacking of its ministers—and alleged that the ruling party was no longer the same after former chief minister and defence minister Manohar Parrikar’s death. It wrote a letter to Amit Shah announcing “the termination of our participation in the NDA.”“Under the late Manohar Parrikar, the BJP used to be a party with a difference, and under Pramod Sawant it is a different party—an anti-Goan party,” party supremo Vijai Sardesai said in his letter to Union home minister Amit Shah.“During the peak of the Pandemic, the nation saw how little the BJP government in Goa cared and how incompetent it was in tackling the rising cases, consistently flouting all norms and protocols under the illusion of generating income.’ In just two years, the NDA has miserably failed the people of Goa, under the leadership of the BJP,” Sardesai said, and added, “The GFP is out of the NDA forever, and we will never look back.”GFP was part of the Parrikar government between March 2017 and July 2019 and was dumped after 10 Congress MLAs switched sides to the BJP. Out in the cold since then, it is now looking to join hands with the Congress in the state. However, the party’s continuation in the NDA was cited as a sticking point within a faction in the Congress.Sardesai’s Goa Forward Party, formed before the 2017 general assembly elections, fought the then BJP government, winning two of its three seats against sitting BJP ministers. However, after the election, it made an about-turn and pledged support to the BJP, keeping the single-largest party, the Congress away from power. In return, Sardesai and two other party MLAs were made ministers in the Manohar Parrikar government and continued to enjoy their position even when Pramod Sawant took over as the CM after Parrikar’s death in March 2019. However, they were dropped three months later in July 2019 after 10 MLAs of the Congress en masse switched to the BJP. Sardesai soon withdrew support from the Sawant-led government but stayed in the NDA.“Since July 2019, the state leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Goa has turned its back on the people of Goa who looked ahead with hope to the prospect of all-around development of our beloved state. The unfortunate demise of Manohar Parrikar brought Goa to despair, while ushering in a period of rampant corruption and dishonesty with the elevation of Shri Pramod Sawant as the 13th Chief Minister of Goa,” said Sardesai.“The NDA remains an umbrella for all like minded parties led by the BJP and remains strong as ever. It is their decision if they want to quit the NDA and we have nothing to say,” Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson and former Parliamentarian Narendra Sawaikar said.Despite Sardesai now angling for an alliance with the Congress ahead of the upcoming polls, a faction in the Congress is said to be dead against such an alliance, still peeved at the ‘betrayal’. The party was guarded in its official reaction to the developments.“The dynamics of politics is changing. People in future will prefer only those with integrity, commitment and loyalty to a particular cause or ideology. The days of turncoats and party hoppers are long over which has hurt Goa very badly,” state president Girish Chodankar said.“The Congress party is building up our grassroots organisation & we will surely win the trust of the people,” he added.An independent political observer, Mayabhushan Nagvenkar, who co-authored a book on Manohar Parrikar, said Sardesai’s party’s exit from the NDA ahead of a municipal poll only goes to show how desperate the regional party was to salvage its reputation in a municipal poll by aligning with Congress-sponsored candidates.“In Goa’s notoriously fluid politics, the NDA label which the Goa Forward formally sported until now, was only a foot in the door which had closed on the party in 2019. Vijai Sardesai harboured some hope of manoeuvring his way back into the treasury benches by lobbying with other opposition and ruling politicians and members of the late Manohar Parrikar’s coterie, who were collectively looking to oust Sawant. That move proved to be a dud,” Nagvenkar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-forward-party-quits-nda-citing-bjp-s-incompetence-under-cm-pramod-sawant-101618324122048.html
13-04-2021||India||Tripura: Pradyot Kishore to take oath as autonomous council chief on April 20||After a thumping victory in Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) polls, all the 18 winning candidates of the regional political party, Tipraha Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance (TIPRA), led by royal scion Pradyot Kishore Debbarma will take oath of office on April 20, ending the Communist Party of India’s (Marxist) (CPM) three-term rule of the council.“On 20/04/2021, Oath taking ceremony of Chief Executive Member and Executive Members will take place at NUAI Auditorium Hall, Khumulwng...,” read part of a notification signed by TTAADC chief executive officer Balin Debbarma.Pradyot Kishore is expected to take oath as the chief executive member of the 30-member council. With this poll, his party has emerged as the second biggest political force in the state, barely two years before the state goes to assembly polls. Pradyot resigned from the Congress in 2019 and floated TIPRA Motha this year with the chief promise of forming a Greater Tipraland by including indigenous population living outside the TTAADC region in Tripura and other Indian states like, Assam, Mizoram and some parts of neighbouring country Bangladesh.TIPRA won 18 of the 28 TTAADC seats that went to polls on April 6, leaving the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the second position with nine seats. One seat was won by an independent. Results were declared on April 10. Over 85 % turnout was recorded in the polling. The TTAADC, formed in 1982, covers close to 70% of Tripura’s geographical area and over 30% of the state’s population.BJP had earlier said that the party didn’t field enough candidates in the council polls to get majority of its own. The BJP fought the polls in alliance with the Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT), which failed to get even a single seat.An independent political analyst said that TIPRA’s rise was partly due to the charisma enjoyed by royals such as its leader and partly due to the search for an alternative political force. ” Generally, it is seen that the ruling party in the state wins any kind of local polls. But this district council polls came with a different result. It happened partly due to charisma of the royals among the indigenous people and secondly, since they wanted an alternative to the CPM and the BJP,” he said.The council polls were scheduled for May last year but were postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Governor RK Bais acted as its administrator in the interim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-pradyot-kishore-to-take-oath-as-autonomous-council-chief-on-april-20-101618323642347.html
13-04-2021||India||UP CM Yogi Adityanath self-isolates after officials test positive for Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday he has isolated himself after some officers in his office tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)."Some officers in my office have been infected with Corona. These officers have been in contact with me, so I have isolated myself as a precaution and am starting all the work virtually," Adityanath said in a tweet in Hindi.Adityanath, however, did not identify the officials who tested positive. The development comes shortly after Adityanath wrapped up his extensive campaign for the West Bengal assembly elections, where he was one of the star campaigners for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Some officials, including his OSD Abhishek Kaushik, tested positive for the coronavirus disease, reported news agency PTI.The Uttar Pradesh government has already announced restrictions on gatherings of five or more people in religious places for effective control of the Covid-19 pandemic during Navratri and Ramadan. Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday reported the highest-ever single-day spike of 18,021 coronavirus cases and 85 deaths, a senior official said. With this, the state's infection tally stands at 7,23,582 and the death toll at 9,309. The state's previous biggest jump of 15,353 cases was recorded on April 11."In the past 24 hours, 18,021 fresh cases were reported while 3,474 people were discharged during this period. There are 95,980 active cases while 6,18,293 were treated and discharged. The state has reported a total of 9,309 deaths since the start of the pandemic," Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (health), said.Witnessing a record surge in infections, the Yogi Adityanath government has imposed a night curfew in all districts with more than 500 active cases and also ordered the closure of schools and coaching from class 1 to 12 in the state till April 30.Earlier in the day, Union health ministry secretary Rajesh Bhushan flagged the spike seen in cases of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh where the infections have shot up from an average of 89 cases per day to 10,000 cases a day. "Average tests per million are increasing but not at the corresponding rate of cases. The average RT-PCR test is 45 per cent and it has to be ramped up. The weekly positivity rate is below 5 per cent but it is showing a rising trend," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-self-isolates-after-officials-test-positive-for-covid19-101618321647691.html
13-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: Lockdown extended in Durg, night curfew in Sukma from April 15||Amid the rise in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases many states across the country have imposed night curfew and lockdown-like measures to control the spread of the virus. On Tuesday, Chhattisgarh, which is among the nine states witnessing a rise in the number of daily cases, extended the restrictions in two of its districts, Sukma and Durg.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The administration of Durg district decided to extend the lockdown in the area, which reported over 1,500 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, till April 19. “The earlier lockdown, imposed in the district on April 6, has been effective in checking the spread of the infection. Therefore, it is being extended till April 19. Make this successful with your participation to prevent an increase in the infections,” read a tweet in Hindi from the official Twitter handle of the district on Tuesday.The guidelines issued by district collector SN Bhure on Twitter said the borders of the district will remain sealed while entry to the district will only be allowed after producing an e-pass. However, shops selling essential items will be allowed to operate. Bank and post offices will be operational between 10am and 1pm.15 अप्रैल से 19 अप्रैल के लॉक डाउन के लिए गाइड लाइन जारी।#Durg_Fights_Covid19@SarveshNBhure @DPRChhattisgarh pic.twitter.com/UIwESntT5PMeanwhile, Sukma district collector on Tuesday said the order for a night curfew from 12pm to 7am will come into effect from April 15. Shops will be allowed to open from 7am to 12pm, reported news agency ANI.“Curfew to remain imposed in Sukma district from 12pm to 7am, in the wake of rising in the number of Covid-19 cases. The order will come into effect from April 15. Shops will be allowed to remain open from 7am to 12pm,” ANI quoted the collector as saying.The situation in the state has taken an alarming turn as the bodies of Covid-19 patients are piling up in crematorium and mortuaries in capital Raipur.On Monday, Chhattisgarh reported 13,576, the third-highest number of new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry. The state also reported 139 new deaths, the second-highest in the country, in the last 24 hours, as per the ministry’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-lockdown-extended-in-durg-night-curfew-in-sukma-from-april-15-101618320392080.html
13-04-2021||India||Assam: Congress ally BPF’s candidates holed up in Chhattisgarh resort||Eight candidates of Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF) who contested the recently concluded assembly polls in Assam were moved to a resort in Chhattisgarh on Saturday amid horse-trading speculations, said a senior Congress leader. BPF is the second among the national party’s regional allies to have moved candidates to a Congress-ruled state.BPF, which was part of the ruling BJP-led coalition in Assam, tied up with Congress’s 10-party ‘mahajot’ (grand alliance) for the elections and fielded 12 candidates.“The BPF candidates were brought to Chhattisgarh on Saturday and were staying at the Mayfair Lake Resort in Raipur. They were likely to stay there till May 2 when counting of votes takes place,” said a senior Chhattisgarh Congress leader refusing to be named.“BJP are past masters at the game of manipulation in their lust for power. We have seen many instances in past where they have used all kinds of means to lure away elected representatives. This time if we have taken pre-emptive measures to prevent something like that from happening, what’s the harm?” questioned Assam Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Pradyut Bordoloi.BPF spokesperson Khampa Borgoyary said party candidates were on a “vacation”.“Our candidates have gone outside the state for a vacation after the long Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) polls which was followed by the assembly elections. BJP has a track record of horse-trading and could try to indulge in it this time as well. But there’s no chance of our candidates switching sides,” the spokesperson said.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, who was the Congress election observer for Assam, spent several weeks in the state preparing the party’s strategy for the polls. HT earlier reported about BPF candidates being taken outside the state. The ruling BJP alliance and the opposition Congress-led coalition are locked in a direct fight for power in Assam. The three-phased elections for the 126-member assembly concluded on April 6. In 2016, BJP won 60 seats and formed its first government in Assam with support of Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) (14) and BPF (12). On the other hand, Congress won 26 seats and the AIUDF bagged 13.“The fact that Congress is moving candidates of its allies to states outside Assam shows they don’t have any trust in them. BJP is not bothered with these antics as we are forming the next government with a comfortable majority,” BJP spokesperson Subhash Dutta said.The BPF suffered a setback even before polling when Rangja Khungur Basumatary, the party candidate from the Tamulpur seat retired from the contest six days prior to the third phase of polling and joined the BJP.BPF, which ruled the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) for 17 years, has a strong presence in the four BTR districts. The party is expected to see a keen contest with United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL), which is now heading the council with support of BJP.On April 9, three days after the end of polling for the third phase, AIUDF, which is also part of the Congress-led alliance and contested 20 seats, took 18 of their candidates to Rajasthan, another Congress-ruled state, said AIUDF organising secretary Md. Aminul Islam.While pilgrimage to Ajmer Sharif Dargah was stated as the reason for the trip, party leaders admitted that fear of their candidates being ‘influenced’ by the BJP ahead of counting prompted the move.Akhil Ranjan Dutta, professor of political science at Gauhati University said these instances did not augur well for the democratic process. “These incidents are not good for a democracy and a tremendous insult on conscience of voters. Such events happening even before the counting of votes could also lead to young voters, who are careful observers of the political process in Assam, losing faith in the election process, ” he said.(With inputs from Ritesh Mishra in Raipur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-congress-ally-bpf-s-candidates-holed-up-in-chhattisgarh-resort-101618319381959.html
13-04-2021||India||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to address state at 8:30pm over Covid-19||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is set to address the state at 8:30pm on Tuesday, where people familiar with the development said he will announce lockdown measures to curb the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Earlier in the day, state minister Aslam Shaikh said the government will come up with fresh restrictions to curb the spread of the virus on Tuesday itself.Speaking to reporters, the Mumbai guardian minister said the government will also have to decide guidelines regarding the people returning from Kumbh mela in Haridwar as Covid-19 appropriate behaviour was not followed at that congregation."Maharashtra chief minister has already spoken to members of the Covid-19 task force. He also held discussions with political leaders including those from Opposition parties, and with members of industries. We tried a weekend lockdown, night curfew and other measures. We will come up with fresh guidelines today to break the chain of coronavirus. There will be a standard operating procedure for the entire state, which will be announced (on Tuesday) itself," he said.Addressing an all-party meeting last week, CM Thackeray had hinted at the imposition of an extended lockdown in the state to curb the surge in cases.Read more: Sanjay Raut blames Centre for rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, PunjabState public health minister Rajesh Tope said the lockdown is inevitable, but the government was tapping the ways to reduce its impact. “We held a couple of meetings with various departments on Monday... We want to make sure that the people from the lower strata are not impacted. Besides the food, the period will also be utilised for the augmentation of the health infrastructure,” he said, adding that the people will be given ample time to prepare for the lockdown.Maharashtra had reported the highest 63,294 infections on Sunday, but the cases dropped significantly to 51,751 on Monday, apparently due to a lesser number of tests conducted over the weekend, taking the tally to 34,58,996. The overall death toll in the state is 58,245 as of Monday, as per the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-address-state-at-8-30pm-over-covid19-101618315633940.html
13-04-2021||India||Record 132 Covid deaths in Chhattisgarh on Monday, new cremation grounds opened||Chhattisgarh has opened 14 new centres in the capital city of Raipur to cremate bodies of Covid-19 victims. The move comes a day after videos of victims’ bodies piled up in a hospital went viral even as the state remains among the top eight states in the country where the second wave has surpassed the peak in the first wave last year.Grappling with the sudden rise in cases as well as fatalities, the administration has also taken measures such as reserving beds and capping treatment costs for Covid patients in private hospitals amid challenges such as RT-PCR results taking over 40 hours, said officials.On Sunday, videos circulated on social media showed bodies of Covid-19 patients piled up in Ambedkar Hospital in Raipur, reflecting the alarming situation. District health officials attributed the lapse to an “unexpected sudden rise” in the number of deaths.“Patients of multiple ailments, including coronavirus, are treated in Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar Memorial Hospital (DBRMAH). Bodies of non-Covid patients are also kept in the mortuary there. Among the deaths, there are also patients who belonged to other districts and their bodies are kept in mortuary too before being shifted to respective areas,” said Pulak Bhattacharya, additional commissioner Raipur Municipal Corporation (RMC). On Monday, there were 40 bodies, mostly of Covid victims, in the mortuary of DBRAMH, which was more than its capacity, he added.“For the last two days, 100 bodies have been cremated daily in Raipur. We have also increased the number of hearses so that bodies can be shifted to crematorium without any delay,” he added.On Monday, 18 Covid deaths were reported at DBRMAH, 11 at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Raipur and over 60 at private hospitals. Apart from the 14 new cremation centres, Raipur administration has also begun identifying new cremation grounds in every 8-10 villages to deal with the increasing death toll, according to the health department bulletin.On Monday , Chhattisgarh recorded 13,576 fresh cases, including 3,442 and 1,591 in the two worst-hit districts of Raipur and Durg respectively, while the state-wide death toll mounted to 5,031. This is the sixth consecutive day when the state has recorded more than 10,000 daily cases, taking active Covid cases to 98,856. Tuesday figures were not available on the state health department’s official website at the time of publishing of the report.Health officials said there were 4,051 beds in 33 dedicated Covid hospitals in the state, which includes 1,341 beds with oxygen facility, 438 HDU (high dependency unit) and 440 ICU (intensive care unit) beds.“The occupancy in dedicated Covid hospitals in Raipur and Durg is more than 95%,” said a senior health official.Besides these, there are 70 Covid care centres with more than 10,000 beds, including 1,087 beds with oxygen facilities, and 3,134 beds, including 1,052 with oxygen facilities in private hospitals.In areas of challenge, RT-PCR test results in the state were taking more than 40 hours in most of the districts, said a health official, who didn’t wish to be named. The health department claimed that more than 40,000 Covid tests were being conducted every day on an average across the state. They said on Saturday, the number of samples tested crossed 50,000, while on Monday, 45,997 tests were conducted. There was a backlog of around 10,000 tests, they added.On Monday, the Chhattisgarh government fixed a rate slab for treatment of Covid-19 patients, ranging from ₹6,200 to ₹17,000 a day in private hospitals, depending on their condition.“ ₹6,200 per day will be the cost of treatment of patients with moderate condition, ₹12,000 per day for ICU facility without ventilator for patients in critical condition and ₹17,000 per day including ICU facility with ventilator for very serious patients,” a government issued press release stated.It also reserved 20% of the beds in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients, taking treatment under the Dr Khubchand Baghel health scheme and Ayushman Bharat Scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-132-covid-deaths-in-chhattisgarh-on-monday-new-cremation-grounds-opened-101618316201760.html
13-04-2021||India||India Covid-19 second wave has crossed previous spike, worrying: Govt||The Centre on Tuesday said the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has crossed the previous highest surge and the upward trend of the infections is a cause of concern.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan pointed out that the trend in India's Covid-19 cases trajectory in the second wave is "worrying"."We have 89.51% people who have been cured, 1.25% deaths and 9.24% active cases. If we look at new cases, we will find that the previous highest surge has already been crossed and the trend is going upward. That is a cause for worry," Bhushan said during a press conference.The top health ministry official added that the daily Covid-19 deaths recorded in the country are registering an increasing trend but is yet to cross the highest toll seen during India's first wave last year."However, the previous surge's highest point was 1114 and presently we have reported 879 deaths," Bhushan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.India still has more than 1.67 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses still available with states and UTs, the Centre said on Tuesday, underlining that the problem is not of vaccine shortage but of better planning.Bhushan said so far states and UTs have received 13,10,90,370 vaccine doses, out of which the total consumption, including wastage, has been 11,43,69,677."As per 11 am data, unutilised doses available with states and union territories for administration is 1,67,20,693. From now till April end, 2,01,22,960 doses are in supply pipeline to states and UTs," he said.Providing the data from states where the infection is showing rapid growth despite low testing through RTPCR, the health secretary said that there the ministry has a reason to believe that if RT-PCR tests proportion goes up, then positivity may show a corresponding increase."In Maharashtra, you'll find that average daily cases, week on week, have grown significantly and reached a level of 57,000 plus. Tests per million are also growing but not keeping pace with the growth of average daily cases. If you look at the share of RT-PCR tests, it's progressively coming down," he said.Bhushan said that the weekly positivity rate in Chattisgarh is also increasing from one and a half percent, it has increased to 27.9 per cent, and added that this is another cause for concern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-covid-19-second-wave-has-crossed-previous-spike-worrying-govt-101618312914477.html
13-04-2021||India||As bodies of Covid-19 victims pile up in Chhattisgarh, health minister reacts||Chhattisgarh’s health minister TS Singh Deo said on Tuesday the situation in the state is "very concerning" and the sudden rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths has posed a challenge for authorities. Authorities in Raipur and Durg districts, which are the worst-hit areas by the coronavirus pandemic, have been struggling with the rising Covid-19 cases and related deaths. Bodies of Covid-19 victims have been piling up in mortuaries and crematoriums in Raipur and the situation was worrying in neighbouring Durg, reports said. Videos being circulated on social media show bodies on stretchers outside the mortuary of Raipur's Dr BR Ambedkar Memorial Hospital, the state's biggest state-run institute.Raipur and Durg districts witnessed 3,442 and 1,591 new Covid-19 cases, respectively, on Monday, taking their caseload to 94,753 and 56,986 respectively. In Raipur, 1261 people have succumbed to the coronavirus disease and Durg's death till stands at 953. Data shows that since April 1, 861 people have died due to Covid-19 in Chhattisgarh, with Raipur reporting 305 fatalities and Durg 213.Also read | Covid-19: Active caseload jumps by over 63,000, 5 states contribute 69%“The health department's responsibility is to look after the patients. We can't make other arrangements. I spoke with the district administration about it. More arrangements have been made to keep dead bodies,” TS Singh Deo was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. "The district administration and the municipal corporation have been asked to ensure the bodies are cremated at the earliest," he also said, according to news agency PTI on Tuesday.Chhattisgarh’s health minister said there is generally no delay in the cremation of bodies of Covid-19 victims belonging to Raipur. But last rites for those from other districts, who die in hospitals in the city, take time as officials have to make arrangement for their bodies to be taken to their respective places, he added.Also read | Sanjay Raut blames Centre for rising cases in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, PunjabPTI cited Raipur's additional municipal commissioner Pulak Bhattacharya as saying that patients with various ailments, including the coronavirus disease, were being treated in the DBRMAH. The bodies of non-Covid patients and those related to medico-legal cases were also kept in the hospital's mortuary, he added. The bodies of victims from other districts are also kept in the Raipur hospital's mortuary before being shifted to their native places, he also said. "Due to a sudden spike in deaths due to Covid-19, the bodies piled up in the mortuary," Bhattacharya said.Bhattacharya said the hospital's morgue had 40 bodies, mostly of Covid-19 victims, which was more than its capacity, on Monday. "Since the last two days, the last rites of nearly 100 victims were being performed per day in Raipur. We have pressed more hearses into service so that the bodies can be shifted to crematoriums without any delay," he was quoted as saying by PTI.Also read | Maharashtra, Punjab, C'garh: Govt points out gaps in Covid containment strategyMeanwhile, a delegation of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) including former chief minister Raman Singh will meet Chhattisgarh Governor Anusuiya Uikey on Tuesday over the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases sin the state. Chhattisgarh reported 13,576 Covid-19 cases and 107 deaths on Monday, according to officials. Officials also said that Chhattisgarh recorded 668 deaths in the last one week after 132 Covid-19 patients succumbed on Monday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-bodies-of-covid-19-victims-pile-up-in-chhattisgarh-health-minister-reacts-101618312236340.html
13-04-2021||India||Karnataka issues Covid-19 related guidelines for Ramadan, no large gatherings||The Karnataka government on Tuesday issued Covid-19 related guidelines for observing rituals in mosques in the month of Ramadan amid rising cases of the coronavirus disease in the state, officials said.Large gatherings will continue to be prohibited, wearing face masks has been made mandatory and mosques in containment zones will remain closed till the zone is denotified, according to the guidelines.The government has advised people above 60 years of age, with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below 10 years to stay at home. Seeking compliance with Covid-19 safety norms, the government has asked people to maintain adequate social distancing at all times, staggering crowd, avoiding physical contact while greeting, spitting and nose blowing shall be strictly prohibited, among several others.Karnataka Govt issues guidelines for observance of rituals in connection with Ramzan month in Masjids, in view of #COVID19; Masjids in containment zones to remain closed till the zone is denotified, large gathering continues to remain prohibited, face masks mandatory pic.twitter.com/WMu3Iv3lEvMuslims across the world are observing fasts, performing acts of charity, reciting prayers and reading the Quran from Tuesday with the start of the holy month of Ramadan. They will fast daily from sunrise to sundown for a month. Ramadan is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar, ends with Eid ul-Fitr and normally depending on the calendar it lasts either 29 or 30 days, with the sighting of the new moon as the indicator.If a person is found to be suspected of or has contracted coronavirus disease on the premises, they will have to be isolated from others. The person will be provided with a face mask or covering till the time he or she is examined by a doctor. The authorities will have to immediately inform the nearest medical facility such as a hospital or a clinic.Measures will have to be taken by the district health authorities for contact tracing and subsequent need for disinfection, the order added. If the person tests positive, immediate disinfection of the premises will have to be carried out.The government has issued a separate set of rules for the management committee in which it has prescribed the protocols for people coming in to offer namaz. According to the guidelines, common prayer mats should be avoided and people should bring their own prayer mats which they may take back home.The committee will ensure that instructions in vernacular language on preventive measures about Covid-19 are displayed prominently. Additionally, guidelines for people will be announced on loudspeaker before the namaz.The mosque is to be disinfected at regular intervals, the order stated. In order to ensure social distancing indoors, signs in the alternate row for positioning people during the prayer with six feet in between should be followed.Karnataka reported 9,579 fresh Covid-19 cases and 52 related fatalities, taking the caseload to 1.07 million and the toll to 12,941, the health department said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-issues-covid-19-related-guidelines-for-ramzan-large-gatherings-banned-101618311347056.html
13-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Uttarakhand CM shortens Covid-19 night curfew timings citing festivals and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uttarakhand CM Rawat shortens night curfew timing, cites festival celebrationsAmid rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Tuesday reduced the timings for night curfew citing upcoming festival celebrations in the state, officials said. Read moreIPL 2021: Chris Morris' reaction after Sanju Samson turns down single goes viral on TwitterMorris could not believe that Samson had just turned down a single when RR needed 5 off 2 balls against Punjab Kings in their IPL 2021 opener in Mumbai. Read moreKabir Bedi on son Siddharth's suicide: 'Tried my best to battle this, but lost'Actor Kabir Bedi has spoken about the death of his son, Siddharth, who took his own life in 1997, at the age of 25, after being diagnosed with schizophrenia. Read moreOwn a Chevrolet Cruze in India? Your car may be part of recall for airbag faultChevrolet India, in line with its promise of continuing to support customers however, has now announced a recall for certain Cruze models to check for a faulty airbag. Read moreInstagram launches Ramadan stickers, here's how to use themnstagram has launched new features on the occasion of Ramadan. There are three new stickers on Instagram created for Ramadan that started on April 12, and will continue until May 11. Read moreHarsh Goenka posts he is ready to play in IPL, has two requests for team ownersA recent post by Harsh Goenka has left people chuckling hard. In the post, the business tycoon jokingly shared how he is now ready to play cricket and also left a witty message for the IPL team owners. Read moreWatch: Mamata sits on dharna against EC's campaign ban, paints in silent protestWest Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee sat on a dharna to protest against Election Commission's ban. EC imposed a 24-hour ban on the Bengal CM from campaigning in any manner. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-uttarakhand-cm-shortens-covid-19-night-curfew-timings-citing-festivals-and-all-the-latest-news-101618311475039.html
13-04-2021||India||Sharad Pawar to be discharged from hospital in 2 days, says deputy CM Ajit||NCP chief Sharad Pawar, who underwent gall bladder surgery at a hospital here on Monday, will be discharged in the next two days, his nephew and Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said on Tuesday.Ajit Pawar and his wife met the Pawar senior at the Breach Candy hospital."Sharad Pawarji is recuperating after the surgery. He will be discharged in the next two days," he told reporters outside the hospital.On Monday, a laparoscopy surgery was conducted successfully on the gall bladder of Pawar, 80, NCP leader and state minister Nawab Malik had said.Laparoscopy is a minimally invasive surgical procedure.Earlier, the NCP president had undergone an emergency endoscopy for the removal of a stone from his bile duct at the hospital on March 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-to-be-discharged-from-hospital-in-2-days-says-deputy-cm-ajit-101618309057338.html
13-04-2021||India||‘Ensure a level playing field’: Stalin tweets, other leaders also support Mamata||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) chief MK Stalin on Tuesday said the Election Commission of India (ECI) must remain impartial and neutral towards all parties and candidates. Stalin’s tweet comes on a day when West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is staging a protest against the commission’s decision to bar her from campaigning in the state, in the middle of the ongoing assembly elections.The faith in our democracy rests on free and fair elections. The Election Commission of India must ensure a level playing field for all parties and candidates and ensure that impartiality and neutrality is maintained.#MamataBanerjee“The faith in our democracy rests on free and fair elections. The Election Commission of India must ensure a level playing field for all parties and candidates and ensure that impartiality and neutrality is maintained. #MamataBanerjee,” Stalin tweeted amid the ongoing political tensions in West Bengal.The Election Commission barred Mamata Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours, saying that the Trinamool Congress chief violated the model code of conduct and made “highly insinuating and provocative remarks.” The poll body banned her from campaigning for a 24-hour period starting 8pm on Monday until 8pm on Tuesday.Also read | Mamata stages dharna in Kolkata to protest EC's 24-hour campaign banSoon after the order, the Bengal chief minister tweeted. “To protest against the undemocratic and unconstitutional decision of the Election Commission of India, I will sit on dharna tomorrow at Gandhi Murti, Kolkata from 12 noon,” she said.To protest against the undemocratic and unconstitutional decision of the Election Commission of India, I will sit on dharna tomorrow at Gandhi Murti, Kolkata from 12 noon.Other leaders from the opposition parties have also expressed their to support Banerjee in her protest against the commission decision. Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Akhilesh Yadav took to Twitter in attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “Banning the election campaign of Mamata Banerjee shows the BJP’s desperation about losing the [West Bengal assembly] election,” he tweeted. He also expressed his party’s support to Banerjee’s protest.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut too expressed his support for Banerjee, calling her a “Bengal Tigress.” “ECI has imposed a ban on Mamta didi for 24 hours. This is clearly done at the behest of BJP, [the] ruling party in India. It is a direct attack on democracy and sovereignty of independent institutions of India. solidarity with Bengal Tigress, @MamataOfficial,” Raut tweeted.While the polling for assembly elections have concluded in Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry, four out of the eight phases have been held so far in West Bengal. The fifth phase of the polls in the state has been scheduled for April 17. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-a-level-playing-field-stalin-tweets-other-leaders-also-support-mamata-101618309887503.html
13-04-2021||India||KT Jaleel quits Kerala cabinet, days after Lokayukta holds him guilty. All you need to know||Kerala minister KT Jaleel resigned on Tuesday from the Pinarayi Vijayan cabinet, days after the state Lokayukta held him accountable for 'abuse of power' as a public servant to obtain a favour for a relative. The minister's resignation letter has been forwarded to the Kerala chief minister and the governor, PTI reported, citing sources in the chief minister's office (CMO). Simultaneously, the development was also confirmed by the minister himself, in a post on his personal Facebook account.Jaleel, who held the the portfolios for higher education, minority welfare, Waqf and Hajj, in the Left Democratic Front (LDF)-led ministry, moved Kerala High Court on Monday, seeking a stay on the Lokayukta report which held him guilty of abusing his position of authority. Kerala law minister AK Balan also backed Jaleel on Saturday, according to a PTI report, pointing out that he did not need to resign immediately and has several legal options left, including an appeal at the high court to get the Lokayukta order stayed. However, Jaleel announced his resignation from the Kerala cabinet on Tuesday. ”Those who wanted to suck my blood can rest for now,” KT Jaleel said. Claiming that he was been subjected to an "unjust and constant witch hunt" on part of the "media syndicate", Jaleel wrote on Facebook, "I have handed over my resignation to the chief minister."Here's the controversy surrounding Kerala minister KT Jaleel:What are the charges against KT Jaleel?The chief allegations levelled against KT Jaleel concern the appointment of his cousin KT Adeeb as the general manager of the Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation Limited in 2018. Adeeb, the manager of a private bank when the appointment was made, was allegedly named for his new post flouting all relevant rules.Although Adeeb was later forced to resign, the Muslim Youth League filed a complaint against KT Jaleel in November that year, alleging 'nepotism' and 'favouritism' on part of the minister in appointing his relative for the post.Although Adeeb was later forced to resigned, the Muslim Youth League filed a complaint against KT Jaleel in November that year, alleging 'nepotism' and 'favouritism' on part of the minister in appointing his relative for the post.KT Jaleel was also questioned several times by central agencies in connection with the import of dry dates and holy books. After the gold smuggling case involving the consulate of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) came to light last year Jaleel was questioned by the customs and the Enforcement Directorate on several occasions. Trouble began for him after phone call records of Swapna Suresh, the main accused in the gold smuggling case, were leaked to the media. The minister’s phone number figured prominently in the list.How did KT Jaleel try to defend the charges?In his Facebook post on Tuesday, KT Jaleel said that the Muslim Youth League has been "after him" right since 2006, following his win from the Kuttipuram assembly constituency. He also blamed a “media syndicate” for subjecting him to a "witch hunt" over the last several days. This, he said, was the conspiracy of an "anti-leftist alliance" consisting of the Muslim League, Congress, and "right-wing media". Even after three central investigation agencies probed his case, they have managed to find zero evidence of error, he said. "Any investigating agency, including media teams, are still welcome to my home a thousand times more," he said.എൻ്റെ രക്തം ഊറ്റിക്കുടിക്കാൻ വെമ്പുന്നവർക്ക് തൽക്കാലം ആശ്വസിക്കാം. രാജിക്കത്ത് മുഖ്യമന്ത്രിക്ക് കൈമാറിയ വിവരം...After the phone call records of Swapna Suresh was revealed last year, KT Jaleel said that he called Suresh, a consular employee, in connection with Ramadan kits offered by the UAE consulate in the state capital. But the minister’s clarification invited more trouble for him as he was not supposed to accept any funds or freebies without the consent of the ministry of external affairs and experts said it was a clear violation of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA). During the gold smuggling investigation, the customs also found that a heavy consignment came in last March in 31 bags, weighing more than 4000kg and they were taken to Malappuram. The minister later admitted that he took these packets to his constituency but said they were religious books.What did the Kerala Lokayukta find in KT Jaleel's case?The Kerala Lokayukta on Friday found the Kerala minister guilty of abuse of power, favouritism and violation of oath of office and ruled that he has no right to continue in the council of ministers. Presided over by Justice Cyriac Joseph and Justice Harun-al-Rasheed, the Lokayukta verdict read, "The action of the respondent (Jaleel) was actuated in a discharge of his function as minister by personal interest to favour his second cousin. It amounted to favouritism and nepotism and also lack of integrity in his capacity as the minister." It also said he diluted qualifications and norms for the post just to favour his kin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kt-jaleel-quits-kerala-cabinet-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-101618303056899.html
13-04-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM Rawat shortens night curfew timing, cites festival celebrations||Amid rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Tuesday reduced the timings for night curfew citing upcoming festival celebrations in the state, officials said.A statement from the CM's office said that Rawat has shortened the night curfew, which will now be imposed from 10:30pm to 5am now. "This is applicable for the areas where night curfew is already imposed," the statement from CMO said.The state has imposed a night curfew in Dehradun from 10pm to 5am to combat Covid-19. The state cabinet decided to shut schools for classes 1 to 12 in Dehradun, Haldwani, and Haridwar till April 30.The decision to relax the curbs in the state comes as the country celebrates Hindu festival of Chaitra Navratri or Vasant Navratri during the spring season in India. It is considered to be an important nine-day celebration for the Hindu community.This year Chaitra Navratri is being celebrated from April 13 to April 22. The festival is much like Maha Navratri, dedicated to the nine different forms of Goddess Durga, collectively known as Navdurga.The state has close to 8,000 active cases after 1,334 new cases were reported on Monday. The Uttarakhand government has allowed marriage gatherings with up to 200 people outside containment zones in the state.In a statement, Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash said that weddings outside containment zones will have a gathering of 200 people, who will have to abide by Covid-19 appropriate behavior.India on Tuesday recorded a total of 1,61,736 new coronavirus infections, pushing cumulative tally of cases to 1,36,89,453, even as the national Covid-19 recovery rate dropped further to 89.51 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll increased to 1,71,058 with 879 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-rawat-shortens-night-curfew-timing-cites-festival-celebrations-101618304959276.html
13-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Frames of crematorium furnaces melt due to rush of bodies in Gujarat||Metal structures of furnaces at some crematoriums in Surat have started melting or breaking as they are being used round-the-clock due to the rush of bodies amid the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said on Tuesday.Since the past one week, around 16 gas-based furnaces at the Kurukshetra Crematorium and Ashvini Kumar Crematorium here in Gujarat are operating 24X7 to cremate bodies, hence maintenance issues are cropping up, they said.The metal frames of gas furnaces, on which the bodies are kept, and chimneys are melting or breaking because of overheating and excessive use, the official said.In the last couple of days, Surat city reported 18 to 19 deaths due to Covid-19 every day."Before the coronavirus outbreak last year, around 20 bodies were cremated at the Kurukhsetra Crematorium every day. Now, there is a sudden rush of bodies. At present, we are handling about 100 bodies per day," Kamlesh Sailor, president of a trust which manages the crematorium, told PTI.Sailor said six gas furnaces at their facility are now being operated 24 hours and hence, the temperature there reaches up to 600 degrees Celsius.As a result, the iron frames and chimneys have started melting and breaking due to the heat, he said, adding that mechanics are being called to replace those parts.The Ashvini Kumar Crematorium, the oldest such facility in Surat, is also facing similar issues and its management has decided to increase the number of traditional wood pyres to manage the rush of bodies in case of maintenance issues in the gas furnaces."We operate 10 gas furnaces and three wood pyres. Earlier, we used to cremate about 30 bodies every day. Now, the number has gone up to 90-95," the crematorium's manager, Prashant Kabrawala, said.Since the furnaces are being operated round-the-clock, some of their iron frames have melted due to overheating. Some pipes and chimney joints have also broken because of the excessive heat generated in the facility, he said."We recently installed heat-resistant bricks in two of our furnaces, which were shut for some time. Our maintenance engineers are visiting the crematorium almost daily as we are facing these issues every day," he said.Kabrawala said they have decided to add two more wood pyres in the wake of these frequent maintenance issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-frames-of-crematorium-furnaces-melt-due-to-rush-of-bodies-in-gujarat-101618306897681.html
13-04-2021||India||Kerala minister KT Jaleel quits four days after Lokayutka’s ‘guilty’ verdict||Kerala higher education minister KT Jaleel (53) resigned from the Pinarayi Vijayan cabinet on Monday, four days after the Lokayukta found him guilty of abuse of power and favouritism, ruling he had no moral right to continue as a minister.“For the last two years I have been hounded by certain people and a section of the media. They will be happy (that) I have tendered my resignation. But I will bounce back. They can kill me but they can’t defeat me,” the minister posted a message on Facebook, announcing his decision on Tuesday. The term of the present Kerala government will end soon after the results of the assembly elections held on April 6 are announced on May 2. Jaleel contested the polls from Thavanoor seat in Malappuram this time.His resignation came while the Kerala high court heard his plea to stay the anti-corruption body’s verdict. He had filed the plea despite legal experts’ advice to quit and not challenge the Lokayukta order, people close to the former minister said on condition of anonymity.The case dates back to 2018, when Jaleel appointed his second cousin K T Adeeb as the general manager of the Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation Limited, flouting all norms. Later, his kin was forced to resign following a big uproar against the appointment. V K Mohammad Shafi, a supporter of the Muslim League, soon filed a complaint with the Lokayukta over the issue, resulting in the verdict against Jaleel on Friday.“The action of the respondent (Jaleel) was actuated in discharge of his function as a minister by personal interest to favour his second cousin. It amounted to favouritism and nepotism and also lack of integrity in his capacity as the minister,” said the verdict of the Lokayukta, presided over by justices Cyriac Joseph and Harun-al-Rasheed. The body also said the minister diluted qualifications and norms for appointment to the post just to favour his kin.The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist), popularly known as the CPM said Jaleel resigned to uphold high morality. “We are unlike Congress leaders who always cling on to power despite court verdicts,” said party’s acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan.The opposition Congress responded by saying Jaleel lost the right to cite morality. “The party disowned him when all doors were shut before him. It is better late than never,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. The BJP has also welcomed his resignation.Jaleel was also questioned several times recently by the customs and the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the case of gold and dollar smuggling through the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in the state capital.The minister’s phone number figured prominently in the leaked phone call records of the main accused in the gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh. Jaleel claimed he called Suresh, a consular employee, in connection with Ramadan kits offered by the UAE consulate last year. His clarification caused him more trouble as he was not supposed to accept any funds or freebies without the consent of the ministry of external affairs. Experts said his conduct was a clear violation of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA). The customs also linked him to a heavy consignment, in 31 bags, weighing more than 4,000 kg that arrived from UAE on March 4, 2020. Jaleel claimed the packets contained religious books, which he took to his constituency of Malappuram. He was also linked to the import of about 17,000 kg dry dates between 2017 and 2018.From the Muslim-majority district of Malappuram, Jaleel was considered close to CM Vijayan, who earlier protected him in a controversy over mark donation to a failed student during his tenure as the higher education minister in 2018 .A good orator, Jaleel started his political career with the banned Islamic Students Movement of India (SIMI) before moving to the Muslim Youth League, youth outfit of the Muslim League. He later fell out with his mentor P K Kunhalikutty, former minister, and defeated him as an Independent with the support of the LDF. He was backed by the CPI(M) and returned the favour by attracting many disgruntled Muslim leaders to the party fold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-minister-kt-jaleel-quits-four-days-after-lokayutka-s-guilty-verdict-101618307201128.html
13-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: Morgues overflow with bodies of Covid-19 victims||Bodies of Covid-19 victims have been piling up in mortuaries and crematoriums in Raipur, as the Chhattisgarh administration struggles to deal with the sudden surge in cases of the viral infection and fatalities.In some videos on social media, bodies were seen lying on stretchers outside the mortuary of Raipur's Dr B R Ambedkar Memorial Hospital (DBRAMH), the state's biggest government-run hospital, and last rites of victims being performed from morning till late night in crematoriums here.Talking to PTI on Tuesday, state Health Minister T S Singh Deo said the overall situation is "very concerning" and the sudden rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths has posed a challenge for authorities."The district administration and the municipal corporation have been asked to ensure the bodies are cremated at the earliest," he said.The situation was also grim in neighbouring Durg district.Since April 1, 861 people have died due to Covid-19 in Chhattisgarh, with Raipur reporting 305 fatalities and Durg 213, as per official data.The minister said there is generally no delay in the cremation of bodies of Covid-19 victims belonging to Raipur.But, for victims hailing from other districts who succumbed in hospitals here, it takes some time for completing the process of shifting the bodies to their respective places, he said.An official from the Raipur Municipal Corporation official said since the last couple of days, the last rites of about 100 victims were being performed every day in crematoriums and burial grounds here.Patients with various ailments, including Covid-19, were being treated in the DBRMAH. The bodies of non-Covid patients and those related to medico-legal cases were also kept in the hospital's mortuary, Raipur's Additional Municipal Commissioner Pulak Bhattacharya said.The bodies of victims hailing from other districts were are kept in the Raipur hospital's mortuary before being shifted to their native places, he said."Due to a sudden spike in deaths due to Covid-19, the bodies piled up in the mortuary," Bhattacharya said.On Monday, the hospital's morgue had 40 bodies, mostly of Covid-19 victims, which was more than its capacity, he said."Since the last two days, the last rites of nearly 100 victims were being performed per day in Raipur. We have pressed more hearses into service so that the bodies can be shifted to crematoriums without any delay," he said.Till about a fortnight back, the bodies of Covid-19 victims were disposed of only in two crematoriums in Raipur, but now the district administration has ordered to use all 18 crematoriums and burial grounds falling under the city civic limits for the purpose, he said.Crematoriums on the outskirts of Raipur have also been identified, the official said.During the first wave of Covid-19 last year, 10 crematoriums and burial grounds were being used in Raipur for the last rites of the victims, he added.A process was underway to set up more electric crematoriums in Raipur and other cities, another official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-morgues-overflow-with-bodies-of-covid-19-victims-101618304195978.html
13-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Active caseload jumps by over 63,000 in last 24 hours, 5 states contribute 69%||Active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India witnessed a jump of 63,689 cases on Tuesday and currently stands at 1,264,698 according to the latest data from the Union health ministry. It also accounts for 9.24 per cent of the overall confirmed cases in India so far, the ministry data showed.#Unite2FightCoronaIndia’s total Active Caseload reached 12,64,698 today; comprises 9.24% of the total Positive Cases. A net incline of 63,689 cases recorded from the total active caseload in the last 24 hours. pic.twitter.com/1XW2UJ2anMFive states - Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala - contribute to nearly 69 per cent of the overall active cases in the country, the data also showed.As the second wave of Covid-19 grips the country, the active caseload has been steadily increasing and crossed the one-million mark on April 10. Daily spike in active cases has been recorded at upwards of at least 30,000 cases since April 1 and upwards of at least 60,000 cases since April 8. The worst single day spike this month was observed on April 12 (Monday), when the number of active cases increased by 92,922 cases, according to data from the ministry.Also read | Why is Covid-19 spreading rapidly in India? Experts identify 4 reasonsHere is a look at the situation in five states which are contributing the maximum to the national tally:Maharashtra: The state accounts for 44.78 per cent of the overall active cases in India and remains the worst affected by the pandemic. Among its districts, Pune with 110,000 cases followed by Mumbai with 89,125 cases, Thane with 75,683 cases, Nagpur with 59,756 cases and Nashik with 37,760 remain the top five worst affected.Chhattisgarh: With 7.82 per cent of the active cases in the country, the state comes at a distant second trailing Maharashtra in terms of active cases. Raipur (24,107 cases), Durg (17,878), Rajnandgaon (9,765), Bilaspur (5,576) and Mahasamund (4,181) are the highest contributing districts in the state.Uttar Pradesh: Witnessing a recent spike in its daily new cases, UP accounts for 6.45 per cent of the national active caseload. While the capital city Lucknow alone has 23,090 active cases, Prayagraj (9,273), Varanasi (8,021), Kanpur Nagar (4,360) and Gorakhpur (2,416) are the other top contributors among districts.Also read | India fast-tracks emergency approvals for foreign-produced Covid-19 vaccinesKarnataka: The health ministry identified the state as the fourth highest contributor to active cases (6.01 per cent). Bengaluru Urban district has 56,545 cases and among other districts, Bidar and Kalaburagi has 2,082 cases each followed by Tumakuru with 1,984 cases and Mysuru with 1,960 cases, according to a state government bulletin.Kerala: The state adds 3.79 per cent to India’s active caseload, the health ministry said. Kozhikode with 7,420 cases remains the highest contributor of all districts in the state. Trailing it are Ernakulam (6,531), Kannur (5,458), Thiruvananthapuram (4,279) and Kottayam (3,184) districts, according to the latest state government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-active-caseload-jumps-by-over-63-000-in-last-24-hours-5-states-contribute-69-101618303431994.html
13-04-2021||India||'Unprecedented demand': Cipla doubles Remdesivir output as Covid-19 cases surge||India's Cipla Ltd has doubled production of Covid-19 medication Remdesivir to help meet "unprecedented demand" as the country battles a massive second wave of infections, the drugmaker said on Tuesday.India has overtaken Brazil as the world's second-worst coronavirus-hit country after the United States, having administered about 107 million vaccine doses among a population of 1.4 billion.On Sunday, the country banned the export of anti-viral drug Remdesivir and its active pharmaceutical ingredients to deal with crippling shortages of the medication in many parts."We have scaled up the production of Remdesivir by 2x from the last wave of the pandemic," Cipla said in a statement to Reuters. "Given the unprecedented demand for the drug, we have now further ramped up our capacities through our network."The company is working with authorities to restrict Remdesivir supply just to hospitals and places with a high burden of severe Covid-19 cases, it added.Just two months ago, Cipla had projected falling demand for Remdesivir in India as coronavirus infections were on a steady decline.The World Health Organization in November issued a conditional recommendation against the use of Remdesivir in hospitalised patients, saying there was no evidence that the drug improved survival and other outcomes. Still, many countries, including India, have continued its use.Cipla, one of India's oldest and largest drug manufacturers, has a deal to make and supply US-based Gilead's Remdesivir in more than 100 countries. Several other Indian drug producers also have similar agreements.Cipla also warned that it was facing a shortage of tocilizumab, an arthritis drug developed by Roche that has been shown in trials to reduce the risk of death in patients with severe Covid-19."We expect intermittent supplies (of tocilizumab) as demand outstrips supply," Cipla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unprecedented-demand-cipla-doubles-remdesivir-output-as-covid-19-cases-surge-101618302390422.html
13-04-2021||India||'Lakshadweep, J-K's Budgam set tone for tuberculosis-free India': Harsh Vardhan||The Union health ministry on Tuesday declared the union territory of Lakshadweep and Jammu and Kashmir's Budgam tuberculosis-free. Calling it a "landmark achievement" in the fight against tuberculosis, health minister Harsh Vardhan said the development set the tone for a TB-free India.  "We've now declared one union territory - Lakshadweep and one district in Jammu and Kashmir - Budgam - as tuberculosis-free. I think this is a landmark achievement to begin with and I think it has already set the tone for a TB-free India by 2025," Harsh Vardhan said.Addressing a meeting of WHO's National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme Technical Consultant Network Teams, the health minister further said, "WHO has always been a constant source of transformative change in all health matters - right from technical support, research, policy, monitoring and evaluation, capacity building to public health communication and knowledge dissemination - you have always been there to support us; be it in drawing up the National Health Policy, or in initiatives like Ayushman Bharat, strengthened primary care through Health and Wellness Centres or promotion of digital health." Remembering India's fight against polio, he said that despite India's large population it managed to wipe out the disease from the country."We have again shown the world what we can achieve together in our fight against COVID. The year 2020 will be etched in public memory as one where the world found itself amid an unprecedented public health crisis. The outbreak of COVID-19 exerted unimaginable pressure on our health care systems. But we put forth a strong response, rapidly undertaking contact tracing and active case finding to identify, isolate and provide timely care to patients. WHO consultants were pulled in from across different programs to combat COVID, and I thank each one of you for your diligence in ensuring the continuity of healthcare services and helping stop the pandemic in its tracks," he said.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-j-k-s-budgam-set-tone-for-tuberculosis-free-india-harsh-vardhan-101618293765387.html
13-04-2021||India||Monsoon likely to be normal for third consecutive year: Skymet Weather||Monsoon is likely to be normal or above normal for the third consecutive year, Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting agency, said on Tuesday. In its preliminary forecast for 2021, Skymet said the rainfall from June to September is likely to 103% of the long period average (LPA) of 88cm based on average monsoon rain from 1961 to 2010. In 2020 and 2019, the monsoon was above normal at 110% and 109% of LPA respectively.The Monsoon season, which begins on June 1, is crucial for summer crops and brings about 70% of India’s annual rainfall. It is crucial to the country’s agriculture, which is one of the mainstays of its economy. Monsoon spurs farm produce and improves rural spending. Monsoon rains are a lifeline for about 60% of the country’s net cultivated area, which has no irrigation. The monsoon impacts inflation, jobs, and industrial demand. Good farm output keeps a lid on food inflation. Ample harvests raise rural incomes and helps inject demand into the economy.In its forecast, Skymet said the northern plains, along with few parts of the northeast region, are likely to be at risk of being rain deficient through the season. Also, interior parts of Karnataka could face scanty rains in the core monsoon months of July and August.“The onset month of June and the withdrawal phase of September is assuring good countrywide rainfall distribution,” Skymet said in its statement.Yogesh Patil, CEO, Skymet, said La Nina conditions have been prevailing in the Pacific Ocean since last year. “It is, however, expected to remain neutral through the monsoon season. Occurrence of El Nino, which normally corrupts the monsoon, is ruled out.”The Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) is neutral and oscillating lightly on either side of the Zero Line. It is unlikely to harm the monsoon season. IOD is characterised by warmer sea surface temperature in the equatorial Indian Ocean. Positive IOD conditions are usually associated with normal or above normal monsoon.Also Read | Pre-monsoon rain deficiency hits statesEl Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.It has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods, and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, while La Niña has the opposite effect. In India, El Nino is associated with drought or weak monsoon while La Nina with strong monsoon and above-average rains, and colder winters.DS Pai, senior scientist, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, said in January that in a few years, India may be entering an epoch of above-average monsoon rains. The 1945 to 1985 period was also an above-average rain epoch. But from 1985 onwards, it has been a below-average rain epoch.“In a few years, we are likely to transition to an epoch of above-average monsoon rains because monsoon follows epochs of around 31 years in these transitions. An above-average epoch will be good for the country and agriculture but would mean more extreme rainfall events for which we should prepare,” M Mohapatra, director-general, IMD, said in January during a brainstorming session on monsoon forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-be-normal-at-103-of-long-period-average-skymet-weather-101618302520967.html
13-04-2021||India||India fast-tracks emergency approvals for foreign-produced Covid-19 vaccines||The central government on Tuesday fast-tracked approvals for foreign-produced Covid-19 vaccines that have been granted emergency use authorisation in other countries. This has been done to expedite the pace and coverage of the ongoing vaccination drive in the country.Calling vaccination as one of the critical pillars of Covid-19 control and management, the government said that fast-tracking of approvals will facilitate easier access to foreign Covid-19 vaccines approved by credible foreign regulators.The decision will pave the way for imports, fill and finish as well as production in India of those vaccines which have already been received such authorisation in other countries, the Centre said.A meeting of National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) was held on April 11, where the issue was discussed. "The NEGVAC, after comprehensive deliberation, recommended that vaccines for COVID-19, which have been developed & are being manufactured in foreign countries and which have been granted emergency approval for restricted use by USFDA, EMA, UK MHRA, PMDA Japan or which are listed in WHO(Emergency Use Listing) may be granted emergency use approval in India," the government said in a release.The Centre, after due consideration, accepted the recommendation of NEGVAC, it added.The government also said that first 100 beneficiaries of such foreign vaccines will be assessed for seven days for safety outcomes before it is rolled out for further immunisation programme within the country.This comes shortly after Russia's Sputnik V was approved by India's drug regulator Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use. The regulator's subject expert committee on Monday recommended that there was enough data to support that the vaccine was fit to be used.Presently, two Covid-19 vaccines - Covaxin by Bharat Biotech International Limited and AstraZeneca-Oxford University's Covishield which is being made by Serum Institute of India (SII) - have received emergency use authorization (EUA) from the DCGI.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 10.85 crore, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. A total of 10,85,33,085 vaccine doses have been administered through 16,08,448 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today.The nationwide inoculation drive began on January 16 this year, with healthcare and frontline workers getting the vaccine shot in the first phase. The drive was later expanded to include those above the age of 60 and 45+ with comorbidities.From April 1, the government opened the drive for everyone above the age of 45.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-fast-tracks-emergency-approvals-for-foreign-produced-covid-19-vaccines-101618301480253.html
13-04-2021||India||Maharashtra health minister seeks increase in Remdesivir production||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope has stated that the price of anti-viral drug Remdesivir, which is also used in the treatment of Covid-19, should be reduced to ₹1,200- ₹1,300. He also said that the companies manufacturing the anti-viral drug should double the production.The minister said that companies that produce Remdesivir should also double their production.Click here for all Covid-19 updatesSpeaking to the media he said, "Companies manufacturing anti-viral drug Remdesivir should double the production and decrease its Maximum Retail Price (MRPs) to ₹1200- Rs1300."Remdisivir is reportedly being sold between ₹2,400-6,000. The injection is being sold in black market at even higher prices.Tope had earlier said that the state has been consuming 50,000 doses of Remdesivir on a daily basis and that it needed a much higher number of doses.The state has been facing a shortage of Remdesivir amid a surge in cases. To tackle the shortage, the state government had decided to set up district-level control rooms to ensure a smooth supply of these injections and prevent hoarding and black-marketing of the drug.Also Read: Vaccination age limit of 45 years should be reduced: Maha minister Nawab MalikMaharashtra reported 51,751 new Covid-19 cases and 258 deaths in the last 24 hours, the state health department informed on Monday evening.According to the state health department, 52,312 people have recovered from the disease. The active number of cases in the state stands at 5,64,746, while the death toll has gone up to 58,245.Notably, the Centre government on Sunday (April 11) prohibited exports of injection Remdesivir and Remdesivir Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients till the Covid-19 situation in the country improves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-health-minister-seeks-increase-in-remdesivir-production-101618299431339.html
13-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: EC bans BJP leader Rahul Sinha from campaigning for 48 hrs and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.EC bans BJP's Rahul Sinha from campaigning over his remarks 'inciting' forcesThe Election Commission of India (ECI) barred Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Rahul Sinha from campaigning for 48 hours over his "highly provocative" statements during a speech that was telecast on a news channel. Read moreVaccination age limit of 45 years should be reduced: Maha minister Nawab MalikMaharashtra minority minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik said on Tuesday the age limit of 45 years for getting vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) should be reduced. Read moreUK economy advanced in February despite Covid-19 restrictionsBritain's economy rebounded slightly in February after slumping in January when much of the nation re-entered lockdown, official data showed Tuesday. Gross domestic product expanded by 0.4 percent in February after sinking by an upwardly-revised 2.2 percent the previous month, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) said in a statement. Read moreAsia shares bounce on strong China trade dataAsian stocks markets were broadly positive Tuesday after China's exports grew at a strong pace during March and imports rebounded giving investors heart that domestic demand is improving as part of the recovery from the pandemic. Read moreAbhishek Bachchan reacts to Big Bull hater who accused Sophie Choudry of taking bribe for tweeting positively about filmActor Abhishek Bachchan jumped in after a Twitter user accused Sophie Choudry of having accepted a bribe to share a positive reaction to The Big Bull. The film, inspired by the life of tainted stockbroker Harshad Mehta, released on Disney+ Hotstar on April 8. Read moreInside IPL’s ministry of soundYou may have been waiting for the stump microphone to throw up gems from Rishab Pant and MS Dhoni but they were drowned in the din of a full house hosting an Indian Premier League (IPL) game. Read morePriyanka Chopra made sartorial statement at BAFTAs in sustainable all-black lookPriyanka Chopra made heads turn at the BAFTA awards not once, but twice, as the actor served two gorgeous sartorial moments, one after another. At the British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA) Awards 2021, she wore quirky statement-making outfits that will go down in the history of the best red-carpet moments. Read moreWatch| ‘Sputnik V’ approved: Doctors explain significance in India’s Covid battle﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ec-bans-bjp-leader-rahul-sinha-from-campaigning-for-48-hrs-101618298620964.html
13-04-2021||India||Russian developers of Sputnik V plan to produce 850 mn doses a year in India||The Russian developers of the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine, which has been granted approval by India’s drug controller for emergency use, have tied up with several Indian pharmaceutical firms to manufacture more than 850 million doses a year.The developers – Gamaleya National Research Center for Epidemiology and Microbiology named and Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) – initially tied up with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories for trials, regulatory approvals and distribution of the vaccine.Watch| ‘Sputnik V’ approved: Doctors explain significance in India’s Covid battleDr Reddy’s has the rights for distribution of the first 100 million doses in India, which will be a combination of Indian and Russian made vaccines. Since March, the developers have stitched up more agreements to ramp up the production of the vaccine in India.This includes agreements with Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma and Virchow Biotech aimed at the production of more than 850 million doses a year.Also Watch | ‘Sputnik V’ approved: Doctors explain significance in India’s Covid battleThe Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) on Tuesday approved the emergency use of Sputnik V against Coronavirus in the country after a subject expert committee recommended there is enough data to support that the vaccine is fit to be used.India became the 60th country to approve Sputnik V, which is one of three Coronavirus vaccines registered by Indian regulatory authorities. India is also the most populous country to register the Russian vaccine.Other countries that have approved the Russian vaccine include Venezuela, Paraguay, the United Arab Emirates, Iran, Mexico, Pakistan, Bahrain, Egypt, Sri Lanka, Iraq, the Philippines, Cameroon and Mauritius.RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev said: “We appreciate the decision of India’s regulatory bodies to grant authorisation for Sputnik V. Approval of the vaccine is a major milestone as Russia and India have been developing an extensive cooperation on clinical trials of Sputnik V in India and its local production.”He added, “India is a vaccine-manufacturing hub and our strategic partner for production of Sputnik V. RDIF has created partnerships with a number of India’s leading pharmaceutical companies for production of Sputnik V which will provide for both vaccination of the population in India and global distribution of the Russian vaccine.”Collaboration on Covid-19 vaccines had also figured in a recent meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov, who noted RDIF had signed contracts with Indian firms to manufacture the Sputnik V vaccine. He didn’t rule out further cooperation to cover manufacturing of Indian vaccines in Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russian-developers-of-sputnik-v-plan-to-produce-850-mn-doses-a-year-in-india-101618298980993.html
13-04-2021||India||NCB busts drug cartel that received supplies from Uttarakhand pharma factory||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has seized 30.5 lakh opioid pills, 70,000 codeine-based cough syrups and nearly 15 kilogramme of amphetamine manufactured by a pharmaceutical company in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar, the federal drug law enforcement agency said on Monday.The agency said the pharma company allegedly fudged records and supplied the drugs to traffickers who shipped them to the United Kingdom, the United States and Europe via the postal department.Four persons have been arrested by the NCB from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh in the past 10 days. The statement said the contraband was seized in 34 searches conducted by the NCB’s Delhi zone team.NCB’s deputy director (operations) KPS Malhotra said the traffickers used the darknet to receive orders from international clients and communicated with suppliers and carriers of the consignments using various encrypted platforms including WhatsApp.“They used encrypted platforms to ensure the anonymity of both the receivers of consignments and the people involved in the logistics. The destinations of the consignments were primarily the US, the UK and Europe. To evade the law and escape detection, the syndicate used to conceal the psychotropic drugs in herbal supplement packages,” Malhotra said in a NCB statement.NCB officials said last month, more than two parcels of “herbal supplements”, destined for an address in the UK, were seized from a courier company in west Delhi’s Kirti Nagar following a tipoff that the parcels contained psychotropic drugs.The packets were opened and more than two kilos of opioid pills (Tramadol) -- the use of opioid pills is strictly curtailed across the world -- were recovered.“We traced the supply chain and found that multiple channels were used to deliver the parcels to the courier company. Our efforts led us to a drug peddler, Kapil Aggarwal in Agra, UP, from whose godown at least a dozen similar parcels, all destined for the same UK address, were seized. We arrested Aggarwal and his interrogation led us to a man named A Goyal, also from Agra, and the recovery of more such pills,” said an NCB officer, who asked not to be named.During his interrogation, Goyal disclosed the name of a key player of the syndicate whose job was to receive orders on the darknet and further issue instructions on WhatsApp and other encrypted platforms for procurement, packaging and dispatch of the contraband, the deputy director said. NCB did not reveal the name of the key player, citing ongoing investigations.“Goyal also revealed that the opioid pills were being supplied to them by a pharmaceutical company in Haridwar, Uttarakhand. The NCB searched the factory, found discrepancies in the documentation and seized more tramadol pills, cough syrup and other psychotropic drugs. The owner of the company is currently on the run,” Malhotra said.According to Malhotra, the NCB’s investigation revealed that the syndicate is a complex one and connected to various other groups involved in the illegal trade using a similar modus operandi. Last year, in a similar operation, the police had arrested a man named Mausam alias Kashmir and the name of one Som Dutt from Delhi had emerged during Mausam’s interrogation.“As Dutt’s name also surfaced during the interrogation of Aggarwal and Goyal, our team collected information about him from Delhi’s Narela. Dutt is one of the prominent shippers of the cartel and he uses India Post for sending consignments to the US and UK, using forged IDs. Dutt’s interrogation led to the arrest of Manish from Balia in Uttar Pradesh,” added the NCB deputy director.He said the arrest of the factory owner and the key player will help the NCB to further unravel the cartel and its dealings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-busts-drug-cartel-that-received-supplies-from-uttarakhand-pharma-factory-101618298681087.html
13-04-2021||India||12 fishermen missing after boat collides with ship near Karnataka coast||Twelve fishermen went missing in the early hours of Tuesday after their mechanised boat collided with a ship in Karnataka’s Mangaluru coast.The boat which was carrying 14 fishermen in total, was coming from the Beypore town in the Kozhikode district of Kerala. Ships and choppers of the coast guard have arrived at the accident site.In a swift sea-air #SAR operation @IndiaCoastGuard deployed 03 #ICG ships & aircraft to search for 14 fishermen of IFB ‘Rabah’ approx 43 NM west #NewMangalore #today. 02 crew found, search for other crew in progress.@DefenceMinIndia @Min_FAHD @shipmin_india @SpokespersonMoDReports also suggest that the ship which caused the accident sped away after the mishap. The Indian Coast Guard tweeted that two crew have been found so far while the search for the remaining 12 is in progress.Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-fishermen-missing-after-boat-collides-with-ship-near-karnataka-coast-101618297436846.html
13-04-2021||India||Telangana records 3,052 new Covid-19 cases, 7 fatalities in last 24 hours||A total of 3,052 new Covid-19 cases, 778 recoveries and seven deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours in Telangana.According to the State Health Department on Tuesday, the total count of Covid-19 cases in the state has increased to 3,32,581 including 3,06,678 discharges and 1772 deaths.The number of active cases in the state currently stands at 24,131.Out of the total reported cases, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 406, followed by Medchal Malkajgiri with 301 cases, Nizamabad 279 cases Ranga Reddy registered 248 new cases.The ministry said that 80.8 per cent are asymptomatic while 19.2 per cent are symptomatic.A total of 16,118 people are in institutional or home quarantine.The recovery rate of Telangana is 92.21 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 0.53 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-records-3-052-new-covid-19-cases-7-fatalities-in-last-24-hours-101618296201596.html
13-04-2021||India||India’s drugs controller approves Covid vaccine Sputnik V for emergency use||The drugs controller general of India (DCGI), Dr VG Somani, on Tuesday approved Russian Covid-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, for emergency use in India, a day after regulator’s subject expert committee recommended that there was enough data to support that the vaccine was fit to be used.Dr Reddy’s labs, which is conducting clinical trials in India on behalf of the makers of Sputnik V, said in a statement on Tuesday that they had received the national regulator’s emergency use approval. The company will import the vaccine for use in India.“We are very pleased to obtain the emergency use authorisation for Sputnik V in India. With the rising cases in India, vaccination is the most effective tool in our battle against Covid-19. This will enable us to contribute to our nation’s effort of vaccinating a significant proportion of our population,” said GV Prasad, managing director, and co-chairman, Dr Reddy’s Labs.Also Read | 10 states account for over 80% of new Covid-19 casesIn September 2020, Dr. Reddy’s had partnered with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct the clinical trials of Sputnik V and distribute the vaccine in India. In addition to the trials conducted in Russia by RDIF. Phase 2/3 clinical trials of the vaccine were carried out by Dr. Reddy’s in India.Sputnik V is now approved for use in 60 countries around the world. It ranks second among coronavirus vaccines globally in terms of the number of approvals issued by government regulators. Sputnik V uses two different vectors for the two shots in a course of vaccination. The efficacy of Sputnik V was determined to be 91.6% as per a published article in the Lancet.The vaccine’s efficacy is based on the final assessment of clinical trials in Russia, where roughly 20,000 people were part of the phase 3 clinical trials. In India, the vaccine is being tested in 1,600 people in a phase 2/3 trial meant as a “bridging study” that all foreign-made pharmaceutical products need to undergo.The bridging study in India is being carried out by Dr Reddy’s labs, which also has a contract to distribute 100 million doses once the final approvals are in place.“India is the most populated country to register the Russian vaccine. Total population of 60 countries where Sputnik V is approved for use is 3 billion people or about 40% of the global population. The vaccine has been registered in India under the emergency use authorisation procedure based on results of clinical trials in Russia as well as positive data of additional Phase 3 local clinical trials in India conducted in partnership with Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories. India is the leading production hub for Sputnik V. RDIF has reached agreements with the leading pharmaceutical companies in the country… aimed at production of more than 850 million doses per year,” said RDIF in a statement.In addition to Dr Reddy’s, RDIF has tied up with five Indian pharma companies. All of the other deals are for production of the vaccine in IndiaThe others include Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec and Virchow Biotech.Developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, Sputnik V is based on an adenovirus platform, similar to the Oxford-AstraZeneca dose, but it uses different adenoviruses that its makers say will help boost its efficacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-drugs-controller-approves-sputnik-v-covid-vaccine-for-emergency-use-101618295022146.html
13-04-2021||India||Union minister Santosh Gangwar tests positive for Covid-19||Union Minister Santosh Gangwar on Tuesday informed that he has tested positive for COVID-19."I want to inform you that my "Corona test report has come positive". I don't have any kind of symptom, I request that all the people who came in contact with me, please follow the Corona safety rules. Together we will win this epidemic," tweeted Santosh Gangwar.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMeanwhile, India has reported over 1.61 lakh new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours.According to the Union Health Ministry, the country recorded 1,61,736 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours. With this fresh surge, the total number of infections has reached 1,36,89,453.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-santosh-gangwar-tests-positive-for-covid19-101618294268671.html
13-04-2021||India||Kumbh Mela: 31 lakh devotees take holy dip on 'Shahi Snan', 26 test positive for Covid-19 | 10 points||The Uttarakhand government has organised the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar at a time when then entire country is reeling under the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. On Monday, when second 'Shahi Snan' or royal bath took place, a total of 31 lakh devotees took a holy dip in river Ganga at Har ki Pauri.Marching barefoot to their destination, the seers from various akharas also took the holy dip. They were showered with flower petals from helicopters arranged by the Uttarakhand government.Amid concerns that the Kumbh Mela could turn into a superspreader event, chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat said last week that “the faith in God will overcome the fear of the virus”.The first Shahi Snan was held on March 11 on the occasion of Mahashivratri.Here's everything you need to know about the ongoing Kumbh Mela:(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kumbh-mela-2021-31-lakh-devotees-take-holy-dip-on-shahi-snan-101618294030400.html
13-04-2021||India||10 states account for over 80% of new Covid-19 cases||Ten states -- Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Kerala have shown a rise in the Covid-19 daily cases accounting for 80.80 per cent of the new infections reported in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday.India's daily new cases continue to rise. A total of 1,61,736 new cases were registered in a span of 24 hours.Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 51,751. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 13,604 while Chhattisgarh reported 13,576 new cases.India's total active caseload has reached 12,64,698 which now comprises 9.24 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 63,689 cases recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours.The five states of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala cumulatively account for 68.85 per cent of India's total Active Cases. Maharashtra alone accounts for 44.78 per cent of the total active caseload of the country.Sixteen states -- Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Kerala, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases.India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,22,53,697 with 97,168 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Besides, 879 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours.Ten states account for 88.05 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (258). Chhattisgarh follows with 132 daily deaths.Thirteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in 24 hours. These are Jammu and Kashmir, Assam, Ladakh, Daman and Diu & Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Tripura, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Nagaland, Mizoram,Manipur, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh.The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 10.85 crore as the 'tika utsav' enters the third day.Cumulatively, 10,85,33,085 vaccine doses have been administered through 16,08,448 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am.These include 90,33,621 HCWs who have taken the 1st dose and 55,58,103 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 1,00,78,589 FLWs who have received the 1st dose and 49,19,212 FLWs who have taken the 2nd dose.Besides, 4,17,12,654 and 22,53,077 beneficiaries more than 60 years old have been administered the 1st and 2nd dose respectively, while 3,42,18,175 and 7,59,654 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years have taken the 1st and 2nd doses respectively.Eight states account for 60.16 per cent of the total doses given so far in the country.Over 40 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours.As on day-87 of the vaccination drive (12th April), 40,04,521 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 34,55,640 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 52,087 sessions for 1st dose and 5,48,881 beneficiaries received 2nd dose of vaccine."In terms of the number of daily doses administered globally, India continues to remain at the top with an average of 41,69,609 doses administered per day," the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-states-account-for-over-80-of-new-covid-19-cases-101618293489963.html
13-04-2021||India||President Ram Nath Kovind, PM Modi greet people on Gudi Padwa||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday extended wishes to all Indians on the occasion of Gudi Padwa which marks the beginning of the New Year for the Maharashtrian and the Konkani communities. Taking it to Twitter, President Kovind expressed his best wishes to the citizens.He pointed out Gudi Padwa, which falls on the same day as Chaitra Sukladi, Baisakhi, Vishu, Navreh and other festivals showcases India’s unity and also exhibits the country’s rich culture. “May these joyous festivals strengthen the spirit of prosperity, harmony and unity in our society and encourage goodwill and fraternity among the people,” the President tweeted.गुढीपाडव्याच्या या पवित्र सणाच्या दिवशी महाराष्ट्रातील आणि जगभरातील माझ्या मराठी बंधू-भगिनींना हार्दिक शुभेच्छा. हा आनंदाचा सण तुम्हा सर्वांच्या आयुष्यात चांगले आरोग्य, शांतता आणि समृद्धी घेऊन येवो या सदिच्छा.“Best wishes on Gudi Padwa. May the coming year bring good health and prosperity in everyone’s lives," PM Modi tweeted.On Gudi Padwa, people across India and especially in the states of Maharashtra and Goa purchase clothes, jewellery, automobiles, sweets etc. They draw rangolis and other decorations outside their doorsteps and also participate in street processions and dance.However, due to the prevailing coronavirus disease pandemic (Covid-19), celebrations are being carried out in a restricted manner.In Maharashtra, where a night curfew has already been imposed to curb the spread of the disease, residents are urged by the authorities to celebrate Gudi Padwa at home and not venture out to public and religious places due to the sharp spike in the state’s Covid-19 cases. “No more than five people at a place. Celebrate the festival only at home,” the home department’s guidelines, issued on Monday said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-ram-nth-kovind-pm-modi-greet-people-on-gudi-padwa-101618292115463.html
13-04-2021||India||Ramzan 2021 | Moon sighting, 'sehri' and 'iftaar' timings: All you need to know||Ramzan, considered the most pious month by Muslims across the world, will begin in India on Wednesday. The month-long festival, also widely known as Ramadan, is celebrated every ninth month of the Islamic calendar and it begins once the crescent moon is sighted.In Ramadan, Muslims observe a fast, also known as Roza. They do not eat anything from the time the sun rises to when it sets and also engage in humanitarian activities. Before sunrise everyday, they wake up to have their first meal called 'sehri' and they break their fast after the call for prayer in the evening with the meal called 'iftaar'.Fasting is mandatory for all adult Muslims, unless they are sick, travelling, are having their menstrual cycle, are pregnant, diabetic, or elderly.Here are the timings of 'sehri' and 'iftaar' according to the website islamicfinder.com:April 14, Wed – 04:35 am and 06:47 pm April 15, Thu – 04:34 am and 06:48 pm April 16, Fri – 04:33 am and 06:48 pm April 17, Sat – 04:31 am and 06:49 pm April 18, Sun – 04:30 am and 06:49 pm  April 19, Mon – 04:29 am and 06:50 pm April 20, Tue – 04:28 am and 06:50 pm April 21, Wed – 04:26 am and 06:51 pm April 22, Thu – 04:25 am and 06:52 pm April 23, Fri – 04:24 am and 06:52 pm April 24, Sat – 04:23 am and 06:53 pm April 25, Sun – 04:22 am and 06:53 pm April 26, Mon – 04:21 am and 06:54 pm April 27, Tue – 04:19 am and 06:55 pm April 28, Wed – 04:18 am and 06:55 pm April 29, Thu – 04:17 am and 06:56 pm April 30, Fri – 04:16 am and 06:56 pm May 01, Sat – 04:15 am and 06:57 pm May 02, Sun – 04:14 am and 06:58 pm May 03, Mon – 04:13 am and 06:58 pm May 04, Tue – 04:12 am and 06:59 pm May 05, Wed – 04:11 am and 06:59 pm May 06, Thu – 04:10 am and 07:00 pm May 07, Fri – 04:09 am and 07:01 pm May 08, Sat – 04:08 am and 07:01 pm May 09, Sun – 04:07 am and 07:02 pm May 10, Mon – 04:06 am and 07:02 pm May 11, Tue – 04:05 am and 07:03 pm May 12, Wed – 04:04 am and 07:04 pm May 13, Thu – 04:03 am and 07:04 pm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramadan-2021-moon-sighting-sehri-and-iftaar-timings-all-you-need-to-know-101618291909862.html
13-04-2021||India||India’s Covid vaccine tally crosses 108 million mark||India had administered 108.2 million coronavirus vaccine doses across the country by Monday evening even as the country’s drug regulator approved emergency use of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine. This would be the third vaccine, after Covishield and Covaxin, to be accessible to Indians amid reports of states running out of stock at a time when cases are surging at an unprecedented pace.In all, 108,292,423 vaccine doses have been given in the country till now. This includes 9,032,665 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 5,556,375 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 10,068,531 frontline workers have had their first dose while 4,891,565 have got their second dose too. In the 45-59-year age group, 34,101,749 people have got their first dose and another 755,197 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 41,645,168 people have been administered their first dose while 2,241,173 have had their second dose as well.In all, 3,763,858 vaccine doses were given on Monday, till 8pm as per the provisional report. Of this, 3,260,713 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 503,145 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.Tuesday saw India register as many as 161,736 new cases in 24 hours. With this, the total number of cases reached 13,689,453, according to the Union health ministry’s data. The number of fatalities due to the virus also increased, with 879 deaths registered in the last 24 hours, forcing many states to impose curbs. While Madhya Pradesh imposed a week-long lockdown in its capital city of Bhopal, Haryana clamped a night curfew with immediate effect. Maharashtra, the state worst-hit by the pandemic, readied its plan for a lockdown-- it is expected to make an announcement on Wednesday -- even as it decided to postpone state board exams for classes 10 and 12. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting with governors and lieutenant governors on tackling the pandemic tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-vaccine-tally-crosses-108-million-mark-101618290220469.html
13-04-2021||India||Election to 3 RS seats in Kerala to be held on April 30: Election Commission||The Election Commission (EC) on Monday declared that polls to the three Rajya Sabha seats from Kerala falling vacant later this month will be held on April 30.The poll panel issued a detailed press note for "conduct of biennial election to the council of states from Kerala to fill the seats of members retiring on April 21".Those retiring from these seats include Abdul Wahab (IUML), K K Ragesh (CPI M) and Vayalar Ravi (Congress).The EC said notification for the polls will be issued on Tuesday and polling will be held between 9 am and 4 pm on April 30. The votes will be counted on the same day.In Rajya Sabha polls, votes are counted in the evening.The election process for these seats were in the news recently after the EC had earlier put in abeyance these polls.The decision of the poll panel to issue a fresh schedule came on a day when the Kerala High Court directed the it to hold the biennial election to the three Rajya Sabha seats from the state from the present state assembly."It is seen that at least after it arrived at the decision that it's the duty to see that the vacancies are filled up at the earliest, the commission is yet to take any steps for the same," the court said."When the Commission itself has admitted that it is duty-bound to conduct the election and complete the process at the earliest, it is only appropriate that it takes expeditious steps without further delay to complete the election before another electorate comes into existence on May 02, 2021," Justice P V Asha said in the order.Days after the EC put the Rajya Sabha polls in the state in abeyance, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had questioned the "political intervention" behind the commission's decision.The EC had then responded by saying that the Law Ministry has "no remit" to make recommendation on the schedule of Rajya Sabha elections.Monday's press note said the EC had then "received a reference" from the Law Ministry "wherein a question of constitutional propriety was raised." Initially, election to the three Rajya Sabha seats was to be held on April 12.Members of legislative assembly elect Rajya Sabha members. The MLAs of the outgoing assembly, in which the ruling LDF has a majority, were to elect the three new members. Polling for Kerala assembly elections were held on April 6 and counting will take place on May 2.Rajya Sabha elections are usually held before the expiry of the term of retiring members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-to-3-rs-seats-in-kerala-to-be-held-on-april-30-election-commission-101618288780293.html
13-04-2021||India||Demonetised currency notes worth ₹4.8 cr seized in Tamil Nadu's Sivaganga||The police on Monday seized ₹ ₹4.8 crore in demonetised currency notes from Kalayarkoil area of Tamil Nadu's Sivaganga district.According to police, the demonetised currency notes were allegedly confiscated from the house of physiotherapist Arul Chinnappan.Police made the seizure based on a tip-off. They said the seized currencies were in the denominations of ₹1000.A case has been registered and an investigation into the matter is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demonetised-currency-notes-worth-rs-4-8-cr-seized-in-tamil-nadu-s-sivaganga-101618288241873.html
13-04-2021||India||PM Modi pays tributes to Jallianwala Bagh massacre victims||Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tributes to the victims of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre on Tuesday, and said their courage, heroism and sacrifice give strength to every Indian.Hundreds of people were killed by British troops on this day in 1919 as they fired indiscriminately on an unarmed gathering of thousands who had assembled in Jallianwala Bagh in Punjab amid nationwide protests against the Rowlatt Act which had extended wartime repressive measures.Tributes to those martyred in the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. Their courage, heroism and sacrifice gives strength to every Indian."Tributes to those martyred in the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. Their courage, heroism and sacrifice gives strength to every Indian," Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-jallianwala-bagh-massacre-victims-101618287334081.html
13-04-2021||India||PM Modi extends greetings on Baisakhi; lauds country’s ‘hard working farmers’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday extended greetings to fellow citizens on the occasion of Baisakhi- which is the New Year day for the Sikh community. Taking it to Twitter, Modi said, “May the auspicious festival of Baisakhi bring happiness and prosperity in everyone’s lives.”Expressing gratitude towards the country’s farmers, Modi said the festival has a special link with nature and our hardworking farmers. “May our fields flourish and may it inspire us to care for our planet,” the Prime Minister wrote on the micro-blogging site.Baisakhi is the spring season harvest. Apart from marking the beginning of the New Year, the festival also commemorates the formation of Khalsa panth under Guru Gobind Singh in 1699. It is widely celebrated in Punjab and other parts of North India.Best wishes on the auspicious occasion of Baisakhi. pic.twitter.com/lTyDDFcX4iHowever, due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, low key celebrations will mark Baisakhi in accordance with all government-mandated protocols. In Punjab’s capital Chandigarh, only 50 per cent occupancy will be allowed in gurdwaras and devotees without masks will not be allowed to enter. Langar will be served at all gurdwaras of Chandigarh.Meanwhile, in Delhi, there will be no special events at gurdwaras. Speaking to Hindustan Times, Manjinder Singh Sirsa, President of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management, said on Monday that all devotees will have to ensure social distancing and no entry will be allowed without masks.A total of 815 Sikhs from India reached Lahore in Pakistan on Monday to celebrate Baisakhi, news agency PTI reported. Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) spokesperson Amir Hashmi said on Monday that these devotees arrived in Lahore via the Wagah border to attend rituals at Gurdwara Panja Sahib, Hassan Abdal. “Main function will be held at Panja Sahib on April 14. They will be taken to all important and historical Gurdwaras in Pakistan during their 10-day stay and will return to India on April 22,” Hashmir told PTI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-extends-greetings-on-baisakhi-lauds-country-s-hard-working-farmers-101618287414798.html
13-04-2021||India||Amid rising cases, demand for Covid-19 care coaches returns||Months after being kept on standby, the Indian Railways’ Covid-19 isolation coaches are back in demand amid rising cases. The railways’ western zone has received a demand from Nandurbar, a Maharashtra district close to Gujarat border, for around 95 coaches and 1,500 beds.“Each Covid-19 care rake will have 20 coaches, comprising modified Sleeper and General coaches; each coach can accommodate 16 patients.The coaches will be suitably positioned as mutually agreed upon between the district administration of Nandurbar and divisional administration of Mumbai division of Western Railways,” a memorandum of understanding signed between Western Railways and the district authorities on April 11 noted.The district is currently under lockdown till April 15 and has reported close to 400 cases daily since March. Maharashtra on Monday reported 51,751 new Covid-19 cases, its lowest one-day count since April 5, taking the tally to 3,458,996. The state also reported 258 fatalities on Monday, taking toll to 58,245. Of the 258 deaths, 169 occurred in the previous 48 hours, 59 in the past week and the remaining are from the period before that.The Covid-19 isolation coaches were designed to be used for patients with mild symptoms in areas where states have “exhausted the facilities” and need to augment capacities for isolation of both suspected and confirmed cases, according to the railways.Also Read | Why is Covid-19 spreading rapidly in India? Experts identify 4 reasonsThe railways will be responsible for the basic infrastructure and maintenance of the premises like cleaning and sanitisation of platforms, provision of housekeeping materials like linen and blankets, management of bio-toilets, power and electric supply arrangements, watering, communication facilities and signage and marking of different areas. It will also provide catering and oxygen cylinders in the coaches, it said in its guidelines for the coaches last year.The Centre built its first prototype of a Covid coach in April last year; by May it was ready to deploy 5,231 railway coaches across 215 stations in 15 states considering the possibility of an increase in cases of Covid-19.But with little demand from the states for these coaches, on May 21, 2020 the Railway Board wrote to its zones to reconvert 60% of the Covid-19 coaches into normal ones to be utilised on Shramik Special trains launched to ferry stranded migrant workers back to their homes in the Indian hinterland. Since the last few months they have remained unoccupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-rising-cases-demand-for-covid-19-care-coaches-returns-101618287400387.html
13-04-2021||India||Why is Covid-19 spreading rapidly in India? Experts identify 4 reasons||As the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infects more and more people across the country, many people want to know why are daily cases flaring up so sharply in India? Scientists have given four reasons for it.One of the reasons for the spread of the infection is the emerging mutants - both imported and homegrown. “A new double mutant has emerged in India and is reported in 15-20 per cent of cases analysed from Maharashtra. If this percentage goes up further, it would be a clear indication of its role in the Maharashtra surge,” virologists Shahid Jameel told news agency PTI.In India, variants first identified in the UK, South Africa and Brazil have been found.Also Watch | ‘Covid-19 pandemic long way from over’: WHO Chief warnsIn late March, the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) announced that a new variant had been identified in samples of saliva taken from people in Maharashtra, Delhi and Punjab.The genome sequencing carried out by Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG), a consortium of 10 labs in India, identified two important mutations in the variant dubbed as “double mutant”.Explaining that the UK variant is known to be about 50 per cent more infectious, Jameel said one of the two mutations in the double mutant was also found in California, US, where it was associated with increased transmission.Next comes the lowering of guard by the people of India - something that the government too has highlighted and urged people of the country to keep following Covid-appropriate behaviour.“Everything opening up to pre-Covid levels and behaviour that was no longer risk-averse exposed the susceptible population in a big way," said Jameel."The speed of spread in the second wave is twice as fast as in the first wave. Partly due to variants and partly lowering of the guard,” explained another virologist T Jacob John, a professor at Tamil Nadu’s Christian Medical College (CMC).Talking about the vaccination drive, Jameel said the government needs to speed it up. “For various reasons, those eligible, including healthcare and frontline workers, were hesitant to get vaccines. Those above 60 also did not show enough eagerness even though cases had started going up by early March. Now we are on a very fast rising curve with only 0.7 per cent Indians having received both doses and only about 5 per cent having received one dose. That is too low to make an impact,” said Jameel.Apart from this, a recent study by the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) said that 20% to 30% of those infected with Covid-19 lose immunity after six months. This has also been pointed out by health experts as one of the reasons why people who have already recovered from Covid-19, catch the infection again, leading to a spike in the number of cases.According to scientists, including those from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Kanpur, the ongoing second-wave could peak by mid-April, following which the infections may see a steep decline by the end of May.India recorded 161,736 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed on Tuesday. With this, the infection tally has crosses 13.68 million mark. The country also recorded 879 related fatalities in the said period, which pushed the death toll to 171,058.The situation in Maharashtra and Delhi is particularly bad - the national capital recorded 11,491 fresh cases of the infection on Monday, its highest-ever single-day tally. Four other states also reported their respective single-day spike on Monday.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-is-covid-19-spreading-rapidly-in-india-experts-identify-4-reasons-101618285916036.html
13-04-2021||India||With 161,736 fresh Covid-19 cases in India, infection tally crosses 13.68 million; death toll goes up to 171,058||India on Tuesday recorded 161,736 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry’s data on Tuesday morning. With this, the total number of cases reached 13,689,453.The number of fatalities due to Covid-19 also increased, as 879 deaths were registered in the last 24 hours, the ministry’s data showed.The number of recoveries on Tuesday stood at 1,22,53,697. India is in the fourth spot in the Covid death tally behind the US, Brazil and Mexico.As many as 16 states have shown an upward trajectory in daily new coronavirus cases, according to the data released by the government. These states are: Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Kerala, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal.The surge in Covid-19 cases comes as the country continues to administer the highest number of vaccine doses per day. More than 100 million vaccine doses have been administered so far, according to the Union health ministry.All India Institute of Medical Sciences’ (AIIMS’) director Dr Randeep Guleria has said that India's second wave of the coronavirus disease has been aggravated by lack of adherence to Covid-appropriate safety protocols and the circulation of highly infectious strains of SARS-CoV-2."If you go out, you see that marketplaces, restaurants and shopping malls are crowded and full of people and these all are super-spreader events," Guleria said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-161-736-fresh-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-india-infection-tally-crosses-13-68-million-death-toll-goes-up-to-171058-101618284173856.html
13-04-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: PM Modi to inaugurate 6th edition of Raisina Dialogue and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.6th edition of Raisina Dialogue begins today; PM Modi to inaugurate conferenceThe sixth edition of the Raisina Dialogue, which is India’s flagship conference on geopolitics and geoeconomics will begin on Tuesday and continue till Friday (April 16). The conference is being held virtually this time due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Read more'He exhibited what Zaheer, Nehra always used to say': Virender Sehwag lauds Rajasthan Royals' Chetan SakariyaFormer Indian opener Virender Sehwag heaped praise on Rajasthan Royals’ new recruit Chetan Sakariya who stole the show on Sunday night with his brilliant bowling against Punjab Kings in the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2021 match No 4. Read moreKabir Bedi asked wife Parveen Dusanj to 'change her name' to avoid confusion with Parveen Babi, she said 'How dare you?'Actor Kabir Bedi has said that he had once asked his wife, Parveen Dusanj, to consider changing her name, because he had already 'had a Parveen' in his life. He was in an 'intense' and 'volatile' relationship with actor Parveen Babi, whose life was marred by mental illness. Read moreIPL 2021: Sanju Samson’s ton goes in vain as Punjab Kings win by 4 runsSanju Samson’s brilliant 119 went in vain as Punjab Kings beat Rajasthan Royals by four runs in the IPL 2021 match No 4 on Monday in Mumbai. Put to bat, Punjab Kings posted 221 for six. Watch moreNo thunder Down Under: Even Tesla can’t overcome Aussie hostility to EVsTesla Inc. and the electric-car industry generally thrive in the world’s richest nations. Not so in Australia, where even tractors outsell EVs two to one. Read moreIbrahim Ali Khan looks like a modern day prince as he flaunts washboard abs in traditional jacketIbrahim Ali Khan reminds people of a younger Saif Ali Khan who was a heartthrob and girls were mesmerised by his moves along with long curly locks. 20-year-old Ibrahim has an uncanny resemblance to his father and whenever pictures of him surface on social media, fans cannot help but be astounded by the similarity between the two. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-pm-modi-to-inaugurate-6th-edition-of-raisina-dialogue-and-all-the-latest-news-101618280693096.html
13-04-2021||India||Covid-19 latest: Study highlights how an asthma drug can speed up recovery||The deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has wreaked havoc across the world. The disease and its consequences have posed a challenge for health authorities worldwide.India now accounts for one in every six daily infections worldwide. Monday's new cases carried it past Brazil, for an overall tally of 13.53 million, data compiled by Reuters shows, placing it second after the United States, which has 31.2 million cases.Here are the latest news on Covid-19 around the world:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-latest-study-highlights-how-an-asthma-drug-can-speed-up-recovery-101618280869863.html
13-04-2021||India||Maharashtra records 51,751 new Covid cases, lowest single-day count since Apr 5||Maharashtra on Monday reported 51,751 new Covid-19 cases, its lowest single-day count since April 5, taking the tally to 3,458,996. The slight dip in new cases has been attributed to marginally fewer tests conducted in the previous 24 hours by the state health department. Maharashtra, in the past 24 hours, tested 208,021 samples and the positivity rate on Monday was 24.87%.The state also reported 258 fatalities on Monday, taking its death toll to 58,245. Of the 258 deaths, 169 occurred in the previous 48 hours.Also Read | Sanjay Raut blames Centre for rising cases in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, PunjabAlong with the surge in Covid-19 cases, the state has also witnessed a slight jump in fatalities with 5,522 deaths reported in a month. On February 12, the state had 51,451 fatalities which rose to 52,723 on March 12. In the past seven days alone, the state has added 2,212 fatalities.Meanwhile, after a slight slowdown in vaccination drive, Maharashtra was expected to cross 350,000-mark in beneficiaries on Monday, said senior officials. Owing to a shortage of vaccine, the state administration had to temporarily shut some vaccination centres, but the stocks have been replenished and distributed, said N Ramaswami, health services commissioner.“In the past two to three days, we have received about 2.1 million doses. All our 3,600 vaccination centres [across the state] are operational now. The stock is enough to last around five days or so,” Ramaswami said, adding the state is expected to cross 400,000-450,000 daily vaccinations soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-51-751-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-since-april-5-101618282540124.html
13-04-2021||India||Covid-19 spread: Grim milestones that India crossed in a single day||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has been wreaking havoc across the world. In India, under the rip of second wave, the infection is spreading at a fast pace, making new records almost daily in terms of the number of people infected.On Monday, India left behind Brazil to become the second worst-hit country after the United States in terms of Covid-19 infection. Many states in the country are reporting high daily caseload.A post shared by Hindustan Times (@hindustantimes)Here are some grim milestones that India crossed on Monday:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-spread-grim-milestones-that-india-crossed-in-a-single-day-101618281671021.html
13-04-2021||India||Widespread rain likely over western Himalayas till April 18||A Western Disturbance (WD) is likely to cause widespread rain over the Western Himalayan region till April 18, according to India Meteorological Department.A fresh WD is likely to affect western Himalayan region between April 14 and 18 and the adjoining plains between April 15 and 18. It is very likely to cause, scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) over western Himalayan region and isolated light rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) over adjoining plains during. Isolated heavy rainfall is also very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad on April 15. Thunderstorm or duststorm at isolated places is also likely over west Rajasthan on April 15 and 16.Also Read | Pre-monsoon rain deficiency hits statesA cyclonic circulation is lying over south Tamil Nadu and its neighbourhood at lower levels. A trough (area of low pressure) is running from the cyclonic circulation to south Konkan. Under the influence of these systems, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning, and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) are very likely over Kerala and Mahe during April 12 to 18; scattered to fairly widespread over coastal and south Interior Karnataka till April 16; isolated to scattered rain over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry & Karaikal till April 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-likely-over-western-himalayas-till-april-18-101618281520072.html
13-04-2021||India||Jallianwala Bagh massacre: Here's what happened 102 years ago||The Jallianwala Bagh massacre, in which several hundreds of people were killed on this day in 1919 as a result of indiscriminate firing by the colonial forces, completed 102 years on Tuesday. The Britishers had banned gatherings at the time and to punish civilians for their 'disobedience', Brigadier-General Reginald Dyer ordered the army to fire into a crowd of thousands of unarmed Indians who had come together to celebrate the festival of Baisakhi, unaware of the order.The colonial troops entered Jallianwala Bagh in Punjab's Amritsar and blocked the main entrance behind them to ensure nobody could flee before opening fire on the crowd for about 10 minutes. Many jumped into a well in a desperate attempt to save themselves as the soldiers showered bullets at them.Also Read: Jallianwala Bagh massacre ‘a shameful act’, says UK envoy in AmritsarWhile the official figure released by the British claimed that a little over 350 people were killed in the massacre, the Congress party claimed that the number was as high as 1,000.The only punishment that Dyer, who was lauded for his actions by some in Britain but criticised by the others, had to face was being removed from his post and denied promotion. He was also barred from being deployed in India further.Amid growing demand for an apology for the massacre, former British Prime Minister Theresa May expressed “regret” over the incident. She called the incident a "shameful scar" on British Indian history but stopped short of tendering an apology.In 2019, more than 100 years after the massacre, British High Commissioner to India Dominic Asquith visited the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial and paid tribute to those killed.“The events of Jallianwala Bagh 100 years ago today reflect a shameful act in British-Indian history. We deeply regret what happened and the suffering caused. I am pleased today that the UK and India have and remain committed to developing further a thriving 21st century partnership,” Asquith noted in the visitors’ book at the memorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jallianwala-bagh-massacre-here-is-how-the-deadly-incident-transpired-102-years-ago-101618276752335.html
13-04-2021||India||Raisina Dialogue 2021: PM to inaugurate 6th edition by sharing video message||The sixth edition of the Raisina Dialogue, which is India’s flagship conference on geopolitics and geoeconomics will begin on Tuesday and continue till Friday (April 16). The conference is being held virtually this time due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the conference by sharing a video message, according to a statement by the ministry of external affairs (MEA). The conference is being hosted by the think tank Observer Research Foundation (ORF) in partnership with the MEA.The theme for the 2021 conference is “#ViralWorld: Outbreaks, Outliers and Out of Control”. During these four days, talks will be held on five subjects- WHOse multilateralism? Reconstructing the UN and beyond; Securing and diversifying supply chains; Global ‘Public Bads’: Holding actors and nations to account; Infodemic: Infodemic: Navigating a ‘No-Truth’ world in the age of Big Brother and The Green stimulus: Investing in gender, growth, and development.A total of 50 sessions will be held and 150 speakers from 50 countries and multilateral organisations will attend the event virtually, the MEA statement said. Over 2,000 attendees have pre-registered from more than 80 countries and a large number of participants will also take part in the conference through social media.Prime Minister of Denmark Mette Frederiksen and President of Rwanda Paul Kagame will participate in the inaugural session as chief guests. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and European Council President Charles Michel will be a part of the subsequent sessions of the dialogue.Foreign ministers of Singapore, Japan, Portugal and 14 other countries will also take part in the event. “The event will also see the presence of Carl Bildt, Former Prime Minister of Sweden; Anthony Abbott, Former Prime Minister of Australia, and Helen Clark, former Prime Minister of New Zealand,” the MEA statement added.Started in 2016, the Raisina Dialogue has grown to emerge as a leading global conference on international affairs. It invites leaders from politics, business, media and the civil society to hold discussions on the state of the world and explore opportunities for cooperation on several contemporary matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6th-edition-of-raisina-dialogue-begins-today-pm-modi-to-inaugurate-conference-101618278970231.html
13-04-2021||NA||LIVE: Kerala receives 2 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses||India on Tuesday saw a slight fall in its daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally as 161,736 fresh cases were recorded in the last 24 hours taking the caseload to over 13.68 million, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. As many as 879 people died due to the disease on Tuesday while 97,168 people recovered, the update showed. On Monday, India surpassed Brazil to become the second worst-hit country from the Covid-19 pandemic.As the country is witnessing a second wave- which is known to have an increased transmissibility, the ministry said 10 states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka etc have recorded a steep rise in their daily cases.Maharashtra, which is the worst hit state, reported 51,751 new Covid-19 disease cases and 258 more deaths on Monday taking the caseload to nearly 3.5 million. The state government has been holding meetings regarding the imposition of lockdown across Maharashtra to curb the spread of the disease. Officials familiar with the development told Hindustan Times on Monday that the government is expected to make an announcement about the lockdown on Wednesday and its implementation will be done from Thursday evening.Haryana on Monday became the latest state to impose a night curfew between 9pm and 5am due to a recent surge in cases. "There shall be prohibition on the movement of individuals for all non-essential activities between 9 pm to 5 am in the state of Haryana," an order by the Haryana State Disaster Management Authority read. Hospitals, ATMs and medical shops will be allowed to operate round the clock, the order said adding that exemption from the night curfew has also been given for medical emergencies and essential workers.The Centre, meanwhile, on Monday granted approval for the restricted emergency use of Russian based Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine. Sources told news agency Reuters that nearly 100 doses of Sputnik V will be imported for emergency use in India in the coming six to seven months.Follow all the updates here:Kerala receives 2 lakh Covid-19 vaccine dosesKerala health minister KK Shailaja on Tuesday informed that the state has received two lakh more doses of Covid-19 vaccine. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday requested Centre to provide 50 lakh vaccine doses to the state, reported ANI.Chhattisgarh reports 15,121 new Covid-19 cases, 109 deathsChhattisgarh reports 15,121 fresh Covid-19 cases and 109 deaths, taking the total number of cases to 4,71,994.Himachal Pradesh reports 619 new Covid-19 infectionsHimachal Pradesh's death toll reached 1,122 with 11 new fatalities from Covid-19 on Tuesday, while the tally reached 71,394 with 619 new infections, PTI quoted an official as saying.Maharashtra: Pune reports over 10,000 new Covid-19 casesPune district reported 10,112 new cases, 9,843 recoveries, and 99 deaths in the last 24 hours.CM Thackeray announces support schemes 12 lakh registered building and other construction workers will be given ₹1500 each. ₹5,400 crore will be used to support people during this period, the Maharashtra chief minister announced. CM Uddhav Thackeray announces provision of free food thalis for one monthChief minister Uddhav Thackeray said 3kg wheat and 2 kg rice will be provided for one month to 7 crore people. "Shiv Bhojan thali will be given free for the next one month. State gives around 200,000 meal thalis daily, " the chief minister added. Public transport, including trains, to operate as usual during imposition of section 144 for next 15 days, announces CM ThackerayPeople have to decide whether they want to help coronavirus or the government that is working to curb it, said CM Uddhav Thackeray. The chief minister informed that public transport including local trains will not be shut.Uddhav Thackeray announces section 144 in Maharashtra for 15 days, curbs to come into effect from 8pm on WednesdayThe chief minister said time has come to take strict measures. "These restrictions will come into effect from tomorrow 8 pm," Thackeray said, adding, "We are imposing Section 144 for the next 15 days."This wave is massive, don't know if close to peak: CM on Covid-19 rise"This wave is massive. We don't even know if we are close to the peak (of Covid cases),"said CM Uddhav Thackeray. Vaccination drive has been ramped up but that will not help to recover from this wave but prevent other such wave in future, he added. Writing to PM to allow Air Force to supply Oxygen: CM Thackeray"I am writing to PM to allow Air Force to supply oxygen. Another demand is to push the deadline by three months to file GST returns of small and medium enterprises," said Thackeray.Facing shortage of oxygen, beds: CM Thackeray"In the last few days, I have interacted with people from all walks of lives, to get consensus. But now discussions will not help", said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. "We are facing shortage of oxygen, beds. Demand for Remdesivir has soared. We have told PM Modi that we will need oxygen from other states," he added. Maharashtra reports 60,212 new Covid-19 cases, situation in state dreadful: CMThe Covid situation in the state has become dreadful. Today, Maharashtra has added 60212 fresh cases, said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The increase in cases has now burdened the health infrastructure, he added. Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to address state shortlyMaharashtra chief minister is scheduled to address the citizens at 8.30pm over Covid-19 situation in the state.Delhi reports 13,468 new Covid-19 infections, takes active cases tally to over 43,000Delhi reports 13,468 new Covid-19 cases, 7,972 discharges and 81 deaths on Tuesday. Active cases stand at 43,510.France suspends all flights to and from Brazil to prevent spread of Covid-19 variant#BREAKING France suspending all flights to and from Brazil to curb spread of new Covid-19 variant: PM Castex pic.twitter.com/8mdOO47NF2Karnataka reports 8,778 new Covid-19 infections, 67 deathsKarnataka reports 8778 new Covid-19 cases including 5,500 cases in Bengaluru Urban district, 6079 discharges and 67 deaths.Rajasthan logs 5,528 new Covid-19 cases, 28 deathsRajasthan registered 5,528 new Covid-19 cases, 1,251 recoveries and 28 deaths in the last 24 hours.Tamil Nadu reports nearly 7,000 new Covid-19 casesTamil Nadu reported 6,984 new Covid-19 cases, 3,289 recoveries and 18 deaths in the last 24 hours. Active cases in the state reach nearly 50,000.Kerala reports over 7,500 new Covid-19 casesKerala reported 7,515 new Covid-19 cases, 2,959 recoveries and 20 deaths on Tuesday. Active cases stand at 52,132, as per ANI.Chances of infection, deaths reduce after Covd-19 vaccinaton: ICMR DGThese are disease-modifying vaccines, ICMR DG said on Tuesday, adding that antibodies develop and chances of infection, death reduce after administration of both doses of the vaccine. After vaccination, chances of hospitalisation after reduced by 85 per cent, he added.Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to address state at 8:30pm over Covid-19 situationMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will address citizens at 8:30pm on Tuesday regarding Covid-19 situation in the state.Over 4 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in last 24 hours: GovtHealth secretary Rajesh Bhushan said more than 10.85 crore doses of vaccine have been administered in the country till 8am on Tuesday. In the last 24 hours, over 4 million doses were administered, Bhushan addedCovid-19 testing in Maharashtra not in pace with growth of average daily cases: Health ministryIn Maharashtra, average daily cases, week on week, have grown significantly and reached a level of 57,000 plus. Tests/million growing but not keeping pace with growth of average daily cases. If you look at share of RT-PCR tests, it's progressively coming down, said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan.Kerala issues new Covid-19 restrictions to control spreadKerala Govt issues new restrictions to contain Covid spread- Max 100 people permitted to gather indoors and max 200 persons at outdoor functions. Shops to close by 9pm, religious leaders to persuade to avoid community gatherings (Iftar party) and malls, theatres to restrict occupancy, reported ANI.Karnataka issues Covid-19 related guidelines for Ramzan, large gatherings to stay prohibitedKarnataka Govt issues guidelines for observance of rituals in connection with Ramzan month in Masjids, in view of #COVID19; Masjids in containment zones to remain closed till the zone is denotified, large gathering continues to remain prohibited, face masks mandatory pic.twitter.com/WMu3Iv3lEvUttar Pradesh reports highest single-day spike of over 18,000 new Covid-19 casesUttar Pradesh logged the highest-ever single-day spike of 18,021 coronavirus cases and 85 fatalities, a senior official said, according to PTI.Supply shortages delay full speed production of Novavax Covid-19 vaccineNovavax Inc has pushed back the timeline of completing its target of 150 million Covid-19 vaccine doses per month until third quarter. The delay comes as the company is facing supply shortages including bags used to grow cells, Reuters quoted the spokesperson as saying. Air India to set up mass Covid-19 vaccination camp for its employeesAir India has decided to set up a mass vaccination camp for its employee aged 45 years and above on priority, reported ANI. NHS uses surge testing system as South African Covid-19 variant cluster found in LondonThe National Health Services of the UK said that is using a surge testing system in two areas of South London after a cluster of fast-spreading South African Covid-19 variant was found here, reported PTI.Russia adds 8,173 new Covid-19 cases, 338 more deathsRussia on Tuesday reported 8,173 new Covid-19 disease cases and 338 more deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload and death toll to 4,657,883 and 103,601 respectively, according to official figures. Centre fast-tracks approvals for foreign-produced Covid-19 vaccines that have been cleared for emergency use in other countriesThe central government on Tuesday fast tracked the emergency approval for foreign-produced Covid-19 vaccines that have been granted Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) in other countries to expand the basket of vaccines for domestic use and hasten the pace and coverage of vaccination."WHO seeks ban on sale of live wild animals in food market to stem Covid#CORRECTION #BREAKING @WHO seeks ban on sale of live wild animals in food markets to prevent diseaseThe earlier tweet will be deleted pic.twitter.com/9FmLhVQuEpThe World Health Organization (WHO) on Tuesday sought the ban on sale of of live wild animals in food market in order to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to news agency AFP. Odisha reports 1,784 new Covid-19 cases, 2 more deathsOdisha's tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went over 353,086 on Tuesday after 1,784 more cases were reported in the last 24 hours, a health official told news agency PTI adding that two more deaths took the toll to 1,930.Union labour minister Santosh Gangwar tests positive for Covid-19Union Minister Santosh Gangwar tests positive for #COVID19, says he is asymptomatic pic.twitter.com/CMoo7KU9siUnion labour minister Santosh Gangwar tested positive for the Covid-19 disease on Tuesday. Taking it to Twitter, he said he is asymptomatic and urged those who came in contact with him to get themselves tested. K'taka CM calls all-party meet on April 18 regarding Covid situation in stateHave called all-party meeting on April 18 regarding COVID situation here. No question of lockdown right now. Technical advisory committee has said that positive cases will increase here till May 2 hence people must abide by COVID appropriate behaviour: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa pic.twitter.com/lH2mCguYh9Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said on Tuesday that he has called an all-party meeting to review the coronaivrus disease (Covid-19) situation in the state and added there is no question of a lockdown right now. "Technical advisory committee has said that positive cases will increase here till May 2 hence people must abide by Covid appropriate behaviour," Yediyurappa added.Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally nearing 142,000; 2,366 new cases recordedJharkhand on Tuesday registered 2,366 fresh Covid-19 disease cases and 19 more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 141,750 and 1,232 respectively, a health official told news agency PTI. Ranchi added the highest number of cases (787), followed by Singhbhum (370) and Ramgarh (142), the official added. India's daily Covid tally sees slight dip with 161,736 new cases, recoveries over 12.25 millionIndia on Tuesday added 161,736 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours taking the caseload to over 13.68 million, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. As many as 879 people died due to the disease on Tuesday while 97,168 people recovered, the update showed.10,810 fresh Covid-19 cases take Germany's tally to over 3 millionGermany's Covid-19 disease tally on Tuesday breached the 3 million mark after 10,810 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the data shared by the data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases. As many as 294 succumbed to the disease taking the death toll to 78,746, the data showed. Mizoram reports 36 new Covid-19 cases; tally nearing 4,700मिज़ोरम में पिछले 24 घंटों में कोरोना वायरस के 36 नए मामले सामने आए। पॉजिटिव मामलों की कुल संख्या अब 4,655 है जिसमें 175 सक्रिय मामले, 4,468 डिस्चार्ज हो चुके मामले और 12 मौतें शामिल हैं: सूचना और जनसंपर्क विभाग, मिज़ोरम सरकार #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/UGVXqBLLJhMizoram reported 36 new Covid-19 disease cases in the last 24 hours taking the caseload to 4,655 which includes 12 deaths, 4,468 recoveries and 175 active cases. Where is the second Covid-19 wave bigger than the first?With new cases hitting a fresh high almost every day, India is currently climbing the second wave of Covid-19 infections at a much faster rate than the first. The second wave is also much taller than the first wave at the nationwide level. Read moreAmid rise in Covid cases in Delhi, migrants return to their native placesDelhi: Amid rising cases of COVID-19, migrant workers start returning to their native places; visuals from ISBT, Anand Vihar. "The rate at which the cases are rising makes it obvious that lockdown would be imposed. That is why I am going home," a labourer said yesterday. pic.twitter.com/8D2kfxQcfNAs Covid-19 disease cases in Delhi have been rising, prompting the government to impose a night curfew and other Covid curbs, migrant workers in the national capital were seen returning to their native places on Tuesday morning. UK completes Covid-19 vaccination of those above 50 ahead of schedule The United Kingdom (UK) on Monday completed its target of vaccinating people above the age of 50 ahead of schedule. The government said that all adults above 50, clinically vulnerable and healthcare and social care workers have been administered vaccine doses. "The target was reached ahead of schedule, with the government having pledged to offer a first dose to priority cohorts 1-9 by 15 April," Downing Street said, according to news agency ANI. Mexico reports 1,627 new Covid-19 cases, 364 more deathsMexico on Monday added 1,627 fresh Covid disease cases and 364 more deaths taking the caseload and death toll to 2,281,840 and 209,702 respectively, according to the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-april-13-2021-101618273308885.html
13-04-2021||India||Political slugfest erupts after Gujarat BJP chief offers free remdesivir||Amid a massive nationwide spike in Covid-19 cases, reports of severe shortage of remdesivir, a key antiviral drug, have triggered a political tug-of-war in Gujarat with the Congress demanding the arrest of state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief CR Patil, who offered free injections of the drug.On Friday, Patil organised some 5,000 vials of remdesivir and offered to distribute them free to people from the BJP office in Surat, while the state reeled under a severe shortage.A controversy erupted over this with chief minister Vijay Rupani and his deputy Nitin Patel stating they were not aware how Patil managed the injections and that it was not part of the state’s procurement. The BJP defended Patil and said his aim was to help the people of Surat, suffering from shortage of the antiviral drug. The Congress, meanwhile, accused the government of indulging in politics over shortage of the drug.On Monday, a Congress delegation, led by state unit chief Amit Chavda, called on Gujarat governor Acharya Devvrat and sought strict action against Patil for “flouting rules”. “No one knows how Patil procured 5,000 remdesivir injections. Is he having any licence to buy and store such critical drug in his premises? “How much money was spent (to buy the drug) and under which law it was procured? There is absolutely no information available about it,” Chavda told reporters.Remdesivir continues to be used in India despite WHO recommending against its use, on the grounds that there is no evidence that it works. India has banned the export of remdesivir and its ingredients in an attempt to address the shortage — brought about, in part, by hoarding and indiscriminate use.“It appears that one man is controlling the entire state. Since the BJP government is not taking any action, we urged the Governor to intervene in the matter. “We want the police to lodge an FIR and arrest Paatil for this illegal act so that others refrain from doing such acts in the future,” said Chavda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-slugfest-erupts-after-gujarat-bjp-chief-offers-free-remdesivir-101618257519928.html
13-04-2021||India||Covid-19 lockdown in Bhopal, Haryana night curbs begin||More regions were forced to reintroduce curbs on social movement due to a sharp rise in coronavirus disease cases, as India recorded a daily surge in infections with 160,676 new cases on Monday.While a complete week-long lockdown was announced in Madhya Pradesh capital Bhopal, the Haryana government decided to impose night curfew across the state.These are the latest in a string of regions across the country that have again started enforcing curbs ranging from night curfews to limits on public assembly as they struggle to reel from the second wave of Covid-19.On Monday, Bhopal district collector said Avinash Lavaniya said a lockdown has been imposed from 9pm on Monday till 6am on April 19. “The emergency services including medical and health, transportation of goods, movement of students for examination, construction work, vegetable and fruit vendors will be allowed during the curfew,” Lavaniya said.The state recorded 6,489 new cases on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 344,634, according to HT’s dashboard. Till Sunday, there were 5,234 active Covid-19 cases in Bhopal. “Despite all efforts, the Covid 19 cases are not coming down. To contain the spread, Corona curfew has become important,” the Bhopal collector said. State medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said that anyone found violating the lockdown norms would be booked under Section 144 of the CrPC.In Haryana, the state government clamped a night curfew with immediate effect on a day that the state recorded 3,818 new cases. The state has recorded more than 21,000 infections in the last nine weeks. “Night curfew between 9 pm and 5 am will be imposed from tonight and will remain in force till further orders,” state home and health minister Anil Vij told PTI.Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management, Sanjeev Kaushal, in an order, said that it is imperative to put in place strict measures for social distancing to contain the spread of the virus.“A lot of non-essential movement of people and vehicles has been reported during night hours,’’ the order said. “No person shall leave their home or move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public places during the above said hours.”Emergency services like hospitals, pharmacies and ATMs will be allowed to function round the clock, the order said. The order further states that there are no curbs on interstate and intrastate movement of essential and non-essential goods. “All vehicle and persons in bona fide transit shall be allowed to pass, but only after verification of point of origin and destination,” the order said.Meanwhile, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said his government would impose a lockdown, if the necessity arises. The state recorded 9,579 new cases on Monday, taking its total tally to 1,074,869.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-lockdown-in-bhopal-haryana-night-curbs-begin-101618257674812.html
13-04-2021||India||Clear more vaccines fast, says Sonia Gandhi to PM Modi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking for emergency approval of all vaccine candidates with required clearances, vaccination for anyone who demands it and minimum monthly guaranteed income of ₹6,000 in every eligible citizen’s account to help them cope with Covid-19-induced lockdowns in various places.The Congress president also suggested that all equipment, medicine and support infrastructure for Covid-19 should be exempted from the Goods and Services Tax (GST). In the letter dated April 12, Gandhi informed the PM about a meeting she held with all Congress- and ally-ruled states, and said: “While it will be necessary on one hand to substantially ramp up our domestic production capacity, it will also be prudent to allow emergency use authorization of all the vaccine candidates that have the required clearances, without any further delay.”Gandhi’s letter was released minutes after Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine got emergency use authorisation by a subject expert committee of India’s drug controller. Experts say the entry of Sputnik V will beef up the availability of Covid-19 vaccines in the states that, till Sunday, depended on Covaxin and Covishield.Gandhi maintained that most of the states, including those ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party and its allies, are left with stocks of just 3-5 days. Asking for vaccines for all, she wrote: “Vaccines are our foremost hope. Accordingly, with enhanced availability, categories eligible for vaccination should be expanded on the basis of need and exposure rather than just age. In the same vein, the numbers allocated to a state has to be based on the prevalence and projection of infection....”On Monday, Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter and urged people to speak up for the vaccines-for-all and urged the PM to stop “eventbaazi” and open up the immunisation drive.In a minute-long video, Rahul attacked the PM and echoed the concerns of other Congress leaders over an uncertain atmosphere in the country regarding the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clear-more-vaccines-fast-says-sonia-gandhi-to-pm-modi-101618257732041.html
13-04-2021||India||PM Modi to hold meet with governors over Covid-19 spike across states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, for the first time, will conduct a meeting on April 14 with the governors and lieutenant governors to tackle the spiralling Covid-19 cases in the country. Vice President Venkaiah Naidu will also attend the meeting.The scheduled meeting underlines the urgency of the situation as Covid-19 cases in April have surpassed the last year’s peak of the first wave, demanding frantic efforts from different quarters to stem the surging pandemic.Read more: Maharashtra, Punjab, C'garh: Govt points out gaps in Covid containment strategyThe meeting has been scheduled in the wake of the PM’s last meeting with all chief ministers on April 8 in which Modi spoke about involving the governors in the Covid management in states. Modi had maintained that governors should also be involved as the CMs already have their hands full.The PM had suggested that the governors, along with the chief ministers, can reach out to social influencers such as religious heads, writers and civil society to spread the message of Covid-19 awareness as people have started taking the pandemic very lightly.Read more: Experts clear Russia’s Sputnik Covid-19 vaccine for use in IndiaThe meeting, which will start at 6pm on Wednesday, is likely to see the PM reiterating the areas of help from the governor. An official, however, pointed out that the governors would certainly not be asked to go into the respective governments’ daily handling of the pandemic but make way for a joint collaboration between the elected CMs and the representatives of the President of India.This would also be the first such official meeting between the PM and the Vice President on Covid management. An official pointed out that under the constitutional scheme of things, the PM can’t directly call a meeting of the governors, and only the President or the VP can do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-meet-with-governors-over-covid-19-spike-across-states-101618257789970.html
13-04-2021||India||Norms go for a toss as millions throng 'shahi snan' amid Covid-19 surge||On the first official date of the shahi snan (holy bath) in the ongoing Mahakumbh at Haridwar, 3.12 million devotees gathered to take a dip in the Ganges, with next to no social distancing, poor adherence to mask discipline, and patchy enforcement of guidelines such as every bather needing to be registered — all of which were flagged by experts as a significant cause for concern amid a second wave of the coronavirus disease that is surging through the country.The administrators in charge of the event did not enforce social distancing guidelines citing the huge numbers. “It is difficult to ensure social distancing during shahi snan when lakhs of seers and pilgrims are at one specific Ganga ghat. Strict measures may lead to a stampede like situation,” said Sanjay Gunjiyal, inspector general, Mela force.He added that “we are ensuring pilgrims wear masks, sanitise and safely take holy Ganga dip and return to their base,” but many people heading for the ghat were not sporting masks.According to officials, only 33,000 tests, including antigen, were carried out at the Mahakumbh, although Gunjiyal claimed that the police has ensured that anyone entering the state from April 1 carried a negative RT-PCR test report. The requirement, he added, will last till April 30.Mahant Hari Giri, general secretary of the apex body of seers, Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad said: “They tried to follow the (Covid) protocol but couldn’t due to large numbers. However, many of them have already taken the vaccine and undertaken Covid-19 tests”On Monday, the first official Shahi Snan, or royal holy bath, after the month-long Mahakumbh was notified by the state government on April 1, devotees gathered to take holy dip in the Ganga in huge numbers, with most not wearing masks.Most police and health officials chose not to act against the devotees. On March 20, chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat said that “no devotees will be unnecessarily harassed in the name of Covid-19 restrictions but the government will ensure a strict implementation of all the necessary precautions.”That they would not be able to maintain this balance became evident during the religious procession of seers from the 13 akhadas in the morning; the seers chose not to wear masks and did not practice social distancing.To be sure, health officials were seen stopping devotees (other than the seers) minus face masks and handing over free masks to them.Expressing “grave” concern over such a large congregation of people at one place Dr DD Chowdhury, national vice president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), who has been also treating Covid-19 patients since the outbreak of pandemic last year in Uttarakhand, said, “it is absolutely shocking and unfortunate that such a large number of people were allowed to gather in Haridwar Mahakumbh. It will spell trouble for the country in next few days in this health emergency. “There is another shahi snan on Wednesday, and Dr Chowdhury estimates that by the end of that, Haridwar would have seen 5 million people taking a dip over three days. Only seers and VIPs should have been allowed, he added. He said he feared that the devotees may become “ responsible for spreading the virus in various parts of the country when they return to their home.”IG Gunjiyal said the police did try to check the Covid negative reports of the devotees but that this was impossible to do. “People without registration were allowed to enter after getting their Covid tests done,” he said, admitting that nobody was turned away .Meanwhile, social activist Anoop Nautiyal said: “Not only the social distancing is not being maintained in the mega event, the health department has also failed to meet the Covid-19 testing target of 50,000 as directed by the Nainital High Court.”Nautiyal said, “At present the average number of tests each day in the mela area since April 1 is 17,529 which is not even half the target of 50,000. On Sunday, the number was 19966 and on Saturday it was 20451.”“On paper the government will show that they implemented all the norms the ground reality is absolutely opposite to that,” he said.But district chief medical officer SK Jha countered these claims: “We are taking test samples of devotees each day which includes both Rapid Antigen and RT-PCR test. On Sunday, we took 58,000 test samples and during Monday’s shahi snan, we took 30,000 samples till 1pm.”The impact of the Mahakumbh, which threatens to become a super spreader event will be felt most in Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, from where most of the devotees come, said Dr Chowdhury. All of these “should issue a red alert in their states , keep data of all their residents coming back from these shahi snans and put them in quarantine for seven days as soon as they return.”“The states should also conduct Rapid Antigen test, if not RT-PCR test of all these people to check the spread “.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/norms-go-for-a-toss-as-millions-throng-shahi-snan-amid-surge-101618257830397.html
13-04-2021||India||Sputnik V gets India nod||An expert panel of India’s drugs regulator on Monday recommended emergency use approval of Russia’s Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine, according to officials, paving the way for the country to have access to a third vaccine at a time when several regions are reporting shortages and as infections continue to surge.The recommendation, issued by the subject expert committee (SEC), now awaits a formal approval by the drugs controller general of India (DCGI), who heads the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO). SEC analysed data from Sputnik V’s full clinical trials in Russia as well as a smaller bridging study in India.“The final decision on the approval will be of the drugs controller general of India. Normally, the drugs controller adheres to the SEC recommendations. The vaccines for initial use might be imported but it is for the companies to decide eventually. It always helps to have multiple options to choose from when you are trying to control a pandemic,” said a senior government official, asking not to be named.The vaccine’s efficacy is pegged at 91.6% based on the final assessment of clinical trials in Russia, where roughly 20,000 people were part of the Phase 3 study. In India, the vaccine is being tested in 1,600 people in a phase 2/3 trial meant as a “bridging study” that all foreign-made pharmaceutical products need to undergo.Read more: Covid-19 a reminder human, animal health interconnected: Harsh VardhanThe bridging study in India is being carried out by Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, which also has a contract to distribute 100 million doses once the final approvals are in place.The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which is marketing the vaccine globally, is expected to supply the first doses to Dr Reddy’s shortly after the approval.According to a pharma industry representative asking not to be named, India is yet to formalise any procurement order with Dr Reddy’s. “Dr Reddy’s is in talks with the government regarding procurement for a few months but nothing has been formalised yet. The modalities of distribution will be worked out only after they see the contours of approval granted to them,” said this person.Read more: Maharashtra, Punjab, C'garh: Govt points out gaps in Covid containment strategyA spokesperson for Dr Reddy’s said the company is yet to receive confirmation of emergency use authorisation (EUA) from the government. “Dr. Reddy’s and RDIF are working diligently with the Indian regulatory authorities to obtain the approval for Sputnik V. We are fully committed to playing our part in India’s fight against Covid,” said the company in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-gets-india-nod-101618256104014.html
13-04-2021||India||11-min call led ATS to accused in Hiran case||An 11-minute WhatsApp call made to murdered Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran’s phone, on the evening he went missing, led authorities to a bar dancer, who helped investigators arrest a bookie on suspicion of the murder, said a senior Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) officer on condition of anonymity.The ATS scanned calls made by 9,000 mobile phone users on the evening of March 4 in the vicinity of where Hiran lived, which led them to the two arrests, the official added.Hiran, a 48-year-old auto parts businessman was linked to a Mahindra Scorpio that was loaded with explosives and found parked outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in February. Hiran went missing on March 4 and his body washed up ashore the Reti Bunder creek on March 5.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested suspended Mumbai policeman Sachin Vaze in connection with the explosives case on March 13. Last month, the federal agency also took over the probe into the murder case, in which the ATS had arrested two people. The NIA now has custody of all three men.Read more: After crime branch, Mumbai Police's EOW officials to face 'clean up'After scanning the WhatsApp calls on March 4, ATS zeroed in on a particular number which matched the location of Hiran’s house and the approximate time he had left his home on of March 4. The ATS official said that the team reached out to mobile service providers to procure the numbers which were in use at the time. From this, they uncovered the number which was used to call Hiran on his phone.Hiran’s wife, Vimla, had said in her statement that Hiran had received a call from an officer named Tawde following which he left home at 8.30pm. Hiran did not return that night, and when Vimla tried his phone at 11 pm, she said it was switched off.Hiran’s body was found the following morning, but his personal effects including his phone and wallet are still untraceable.The officials were able to find the address that the number was registered on, which led them to a trader in Bhuj, Gujarat. The investigators discovered that the SIM card corresponding to the number was procured by a local trader. When questioned by the Thane ATS unit, he told the police that he sold 14 SIM cards to a cricket bookie, Naresh Gor.The trader also told the police that Gor had given one of the 14 SIM cards to one of his friends who worked as a bar dancer.The ATS team traced the woman who led them to a hotel in Mumbai which Gor frequently stayed at. In order to book a room, Gor would supply his address and identity card details, she told the investigating team. The officers were then able to find Gor through the Aadhar card details that he had supplied to that hotel.Gor was arrested from Bhuj on March 21. The bookie reportedly revealed the name of a south Mumbai-based club owner through whom he met former police constable Vinayak Shinde and Vaze. Gor reportedly told the ATS that he had given Shinde and Vaze five of the 14 SIM cards that he bought from the Bhuj trader.It was one of these SIM cards that were used to contact Hiran on the evening of March 4. The ATS suspect that Shinde or Vaze pretended to be a policeman by the name of Tawde to lure Hiran to a spot along Ghodbunder Road in Thane, following which he was abducted. The call reportedly lasted for 11 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11min-call-led-ats-to-accused-in-hiran-case-101618252079925.html
13-04-2021||India||Mumbai top cop transfers 13 EOW officers||City’s top cop Hemant Nagrale on Monday shunted out 13 police officers from the economic offences wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police. These officers were serving in EOW for over five years, said a senior IPS (Indian Police Service) officer.On Monday, HT had first published the story, ‘After crime branch its EOW’s turn to clean up’, explaining how Nagrale has taken at hand the task of shunting out those officers who are enjoying postings in the same department since a long period.On Monday Vishwas Nangre Patil, joint commissioner of police (law and order), who is holding additional charge of joint commissioner of police (administration), issued the transfer order of five inspectors and eight assistant inspector-rank officers from EOW.“These officers served in EOW for over five years and are now transferred to side branches, police stations and traffic divisions,” Patil said.“Generally, a police officer is supposed to serve on a post for a period of three years and then be transferred to other posting. But there are officers in EOW who have been in the department since the past six-seven years,” said a source from EOW.A senior officer indicated that Monday’s transfer can just be the beginning and a huge chunk of officers who are in EOW since long could be shunted out in the upcoming general transfers, slated to be announced in June.Recently, joint commissioner of police (EOW) Niket Kaushik had issued an order to all EOW unit heads, directing them to not assign officers, who have served in the unit for over four years, any new cases.EOW investigates multi-crore financial institution scams, corporate and investment frauds, housing frauds by builders and other white-collar crimes. Cases involving more than ₹6-crore disputes or complex financial crimes are assigned to EOW.On the backdrop of controversies surrounding suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and former police commissioner Param Bir Singh, Nagrale after taking charge on March 17 first started taking on cops who might have had developed close proximity with “unwarranted elements” by enjoying long tenure in the same department. Within six days of joining, he had shunted out 84 officers, including 65 from the crime branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-top-cop-transfers-13-eow-officers-101618251926349.html
13-04-2021||India||NIA on lookout for 2 men hired by Vaze as part of Hiran murder plot: Officials||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is looking for two people it suspects were hired by suspended Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze as part of the conspiracy to kill businessman Mansukh Hiran, senior officials familiar with the details of the case said.“The suspects were offered money to get rid of the Thane-based businessman after Hiran refused to take the blame for the explosives-laden car planted outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in Mumbai on February 25,” one of the officials who spoke on condition of anonymity said. The suspects are said to have criminal antecedents.Hiran, who is linked to the car found outside Antilia, was found dead in a creek at Retibunder in Mumbra on March 5.Read more: Sachin Vaze’s colleague Riyazuddin Kazi arrested, in NIA custody till April 16The officials told HT that it is being ascertained if the suspects smothered Hiran in a moving car, or at Gaimukh Chowpatty in Thane, or if somebody else was also involved in the murder. The officials are also trying to confirm if Vaze was present at the scene of the murder.The two suspects have been identified but are yet to be traced, one of the officials said, adding that more arrests are likely soon.NIA took over the investigation into the murder case from the Maharashtra ATS, as it was linked to the explosives case which the federal agency had been investigating.On Sunday, NIA arrested Riyazuddin Kazi, who, a second NIA officer said, assisted Vaze in the destruction of evidence in the murder case as well as the Antilia bomb scare case.Read more: Sachin Vaze’s Shiv Sena connectionParam Bir Singh, meanwhile, is learnt to have denied knowledge of Vaze’s plans. “He (Singh) said he was not kept in the loop by CIU [crime intelligence unit],” the officer said.Meanwhile, Inspector General Anil Shukla, who led the investigations in both the case, completed his tenure on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-on-lookout-for-2-men-hired-by-vaze-as-part-of-hiran-murder-plot-officials-101618252149129.html
13-04-2021||India||SC to hear PIL for action against PM, middleman in Rafale jet deal||The Supreme Court will hear after two weeks a public interest litigation (PIL) that seeks the prosecution of alleged middleman Sushen Gupta and Prime Minister Narendra Modi under charges of cheating, breach of trust, and criminal conspiracy, over alleged kickbacks of 1 million Euros in the Rafale fighter jet deal.Advocate-petitioner ML Sharma mentioned his PIL before Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, who said the matter will be listed after two weeks. No date, however, was set for the hearing.Sharma claimed he was making the rounds of the registry of the top court to get this matter listed urgently, but to little avail. The lawyer also requested the CJI to hear the petition himself, but justice Bobde, who retires on April 23, did not comment on it.Read more: Several staff members of Supreme Court test positive for Covid-19In December 2018, the top court rejected a bunch of petitions, including one by former Union ministers Yashwant Sinha and Arun Shourie, along with activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan, for a court-monitored probe into the fighter jet deal between India and France. It noted at the time that there was no evidence on irregularity or corruption in the government-to-government deal for 36 fighter jets, and that the decision-making process could not be doubted.Later, in November 2019, the apex court dismissed a batch of petitions that sought a review of the 2018 judgment on the ground that certain documents relating to the deal were concealed from the court by the government during the previous round. The court held there was no need for a “roving inquiry” into the case.However, Sharma has now relied on reports by Mediapart, a French online journal, published earlier this month. Medipart claimed that it was in possession of documents that showed Dassault Aviation, which manufactures the Rafale jet, and its industrial partner Thales, a defence electronics firm, paid “middleman” Sushen Gupta around 1 million euros (approximately ₹8.9 crore by the current exchange rate) “secret commissions” in connection with the ₹59,000 crore deal. Gupta’s name also figures in the Agusta Westland charge sheet.The Rafale deal became controversial, with the Opposition, led by the Congress, claiming that the price at which India bought the Rafale aircraft was ₹1,670 crore each, three times the initial bid of ₹526 crore by the company when the UPA was trying to buy the aircraft. It claimed the previous deal included a technology transfer agreement with HAL. The BJP dismissed the allegations, and called the reports “baseless”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-pil-for-action-against-pm-middleman-in-rafale-jet-deal-101618252212950.html
13-04-2021||India||Can’t deny citizenship for failure to explain link with a relative: HC||Not explaining links to some relatives shouldn’t adversely affect individuals’ claim to citizenship or be grounds to declare them foreigners, the Gauhati high court ruled, overturning a controversial 2019 foreigners tribunal order in Assam.According to the 1985 Assam Accord, anyone staying in the state prior to March 24, 1971 or with verifiable lineage to people residing in the state on or before that is an Indian citizen—a requirement also accepted for inclusion in the National Register of Citizens (NRC) .In August 2019, nearly 1.9 million people were excluded from NRC for failing to prove their or ancestors’ residency in Assam before the cutoff date. Those declared foreigners by foreigners’ tribunals (as well their relatives) were also left out. Foreigners tribunals are quasi-judicial courts set up to hear citizenship claims of people flagged by state and election officials as possible outsiders.Read more: Several staff members of Supreme Court test positive for Covid-19The court junked a tribunal order that declared an Assam resident a foreigner because he didn’t explain his lineage thoroughly enough and did not elaborate his relationship with some relatives of his mentioned in the same voters list of 1970 that mentioned his grandparents.“Non explanation of the relationship of the petitioner with other persons mentioned in the voters list of 1970 cannot be a ground for disbelieving the correctness of the entry of the names of the grandparents in the voters list, when the correctness of the entry of the names of the petitioner’s father and grandfather was not questioned,” the court said in its order passed on March 30 but made public on Monday.In 2019, a foreigners’ tribunal in Barpeta district termed Haider Ali an illegal immigrant and declared him a foreigner.Ali, 33, submitted documents showing names of his grandparents in voters’ lists of 1965 and 1970, copies of voters list of 1989 showing his parents names as well as certified copies of subsequent voters’ lists showing his name along with those of his parents. The tribunal didn’t rebut the admissibility of these documents and also didn’t reject them, but based on evidence on record, it held that Ali was not able to prove himself an Indian under section 9 of the Foreigners Act, and declared him a foreigner. The tribunal said that Ali did not mention his relationship to five other persons, whose names appeared along with grandparents in the copies of voters list of 1970 submitted by him, and that, as a result, he was a foreigner.Ali challenged the order in Gauhati HC in 2019. In an order issued on March 30, a division bench of justice N Kotishwar Singh and Justice Manish Chowdhury held the tribunal’s order as wrong. “Non-explanation of the linkage of the petitioner with others...does not affect the credibility or genuineness of the evidence,” it ruled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-deny-citizenship-for-failure-to-explain-link-with-a-relative-hc-101618253171491.html
13-04-2021||India||PM to hold meet with governors over Covid spike across states||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi, for the first time, will conduct a meeting on April 14 with the governors and lieutenant governors to tackle the spiralling Covid-19 cases in the country. Vice President Venkaiah Naidu will also attend the meeting. The scheduled meeting underlines the urgency of the situation as Covid cases in April have surpassed last year’s peak of the first wave, demanding frantic efforts from different quarters to stem the surging pandemic. The meeting has been scheduled in the wake of the PM’s last meeting with all chief ministers on April 8 in which Modi spoke about involving the governors in the Covid management in states. Modi had maintained that governors should also be involved as the CMs already have their hands full. The PM had suggested that the governors, along with the chief ministers, can reach out to social influencers such as religious heads, writers and civil society to spread the message of Covid-19 awareness as people have started taking the pandemic very lightly. The meeting, which would start at 6 pm on Wednesday, is likely to see the PM reiterating the areas of help from the governor. An official, however, pointed out that the governors would certainly not be asked to go into the respective governments’ daily handling of the pandemic but make way for a joint collaboration between the elected CMs and the representatives of the President of India. This would also be the first such official meeting between the PM and the Vice President on Covid management. An official pointed out that under the constitutional scheme of things, the PM can’t directly call a meeting of the governors, and only the President or the VP can do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-hold-meet-with-governors-over-covid-spike-across-states-101618253437910.html
13-04-2021||India||Covid reality contrary to Gujarat govt claims: HC||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat High Court on Monday observed that the people of the state were at “God’s mercy” while hearing a suo-motu petition on increasing Covid cases in the state and directed the government to take several corrective steps.Taking cognizance of media reports on rising number of cases over the last two days -- the state has added at least 10,000 cases in this time -- and the shortage of hospital beds, Remdesivir injections, oxygen, ventilators and vaccines, chief justice Vikram Nath took up a public interest litigation on Sunday while observing: “The State is heading towards a health emergency of sorts.” On Monday, not convinced by the detailed explanations and replies by state Advocate General Kamal Trivedi, a division bench of Nath and Justice Bhargav Karia observed: “People now think that they are at God’s mercy.” The high court bench heard out Trivedi but insisted, “The situation is quite different than what you are claiming. You are saying that everything is alright. But the reality is contrary to that.” The court went on to point out that there was a “trust deficit” among the people. “People are cursing the government and the government is cursing the people. This will not help. We need to break this chain of infection,” the court said.The bench refused to accept most of the Advocate General’s explanations on the steps being taken by the Gujarat government, especially on the availability of beds or Remdesivir, a key anti-viral drug that is in short supply.Queues can be seen outside the Zydus Hospital in Ahmedabad run by Zydus Healthcare that also makes Remdesivir . AG Trivedi denied that there was a shortage of the drug and cited expert medical opinion that it should be sparingly used given that it could have adverse side-effects on the liver and the kidney of the patients.Remdesivir continues to be used in India despite WHO recommending against its use , on the grounds that there is no evidence that it works. India has banned the export of Remdesivir and ingredients that go into it in an attempt to address the shortage -- brought about, in part, by hoarding and indiscriminate use. Trivedi told the court that people who do not need the drug were also trying to buy it as a precautionary measure. He stated, “Remdesivir is not required if the patient is under home treatment or is asymptomatic and not critical.” He added that even the supply was limited and said, “Only seven companies make it. The production is just 1.75 lakh vials per day. We are procuring around 25,000 injections every day for Gujarat.” But the high court wondered whether the government was trying to control the supply of Remdesivir when people were scrambling to get it and even designated hospitals were saying they did not have it. “The medicine is available, but it is being controlled by the government. Why can’t people buy it? Make sure it is available everywhere. There is no shortage of Remdesivir. Everything is available with you. We want results, not reasons.”Gujarat BJP President CR Patil organised some 5,000 vials of Remdivisir and offered to distribute them free to people from the BJP office in Surat, while the state reeled under a severe shortage.A controversy erupted over this with Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and his deputy Nitin Patel stating they were not aware how Patil managed the injections and that it was not part of the State’s procurement. The BJP defended Patil and said his aim was to help the people of Surat, suffering from shortage of the antiviral drug. The Congress accused the government of indulging in politics over shortage of the drug.The court was also angry over reports that RT-PCR test reports were taking long. Earlier, the RT-PCR test results used to come in 8, 10 or 12 hours.It now takes “almost five days to seven today”, the bench said. “That is for the common man. For someone like you or Mr Devnani (an advocate party to the case) or for us, maybe we can speed up, we can jump the line.” On health infrastructure, the court observed, “(It is happening because) you did not have the infrastructure. You did not increase facilities.” The bench scoffed at the government’s claim that there were adequate number of beds for Covid-19 patients. “I have information that patients are turned away even if beds are available at hospitals. If beds are there, then why are we seeing 40 ambulances with patients waiting outside hospitals?” asked Justice Vikram Nath.Trivedi replied that though all hospitals offered similar treatment, people had preferences and this was the reason for a huge rush outside some hospitals.The advocate general said a lockdown was difficult, pointing out that it would increase the miseries of the poor and migrant workers manifold, especially when industry is in dire straits.The high court finally asked the government to submit a detailed report by Wednesday and scheduled the next hearing for April 15.The Gujarat high court has been monitoring Covid preparedness in the state since last year and had issued series of directions to the state government in the past one year on ramping medical facilities to deal with Covid cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-reality-contrary-to-gujarat-govt-claims-hc-101618253379347.html
13-04-2021||India||Clear more vaccines fast, says Sonia to PM||New Delhi: Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking for emergency approval of all vaccine candidates with required clearances, vaccination for anyone who demands it and minimum monthly guaranteed income of ₹6,000 in every eligible citizen’s account to help them cope with Covid-19-induced lockdowns in various places.The Congress president also suggested that all equipment, medicine and support infrastructure for Covid-19 should be exempted from the Goods and Services Tax (GST).In the letter dated April 12, Gandhi informed the PM about a meeting she held with all Congress- and ally-ruled states, and said: “While it will be necessary on one hand to substantially ramp up our domestic production capacity, it will also be prudent to allow emergency use authorization of all the vaccine candidates that have the required clearances, without any further delay.”Gandhi’s letter was released minutes after Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine got emergency use authorisation by a subject expert committee of India’s drug controller. Experts say the entry of Sputnik V will beef up the availability of Covid-19 vaccines in the states that, till Sunday, depended on Covaxin and Covishield, the two vaccines that were previously approved in India.Gandhi maintained that most of the states, including those ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party and its allies, are left with stocks of just 3-5 days. Asking for vaccines for all, she wrote: “Vaccines are our foremost hope. Accordingly, with enhanced availability, categories eligible for vaccination should be expanded on the basis of need and exposure rather than just age. In the same vein, the numbers allocated to a state has to be based on the prevalence and projection of infection in that particular state.”On Monday morning, Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter and urged people to speak up for the vaccines-for-all and urged the PM to stop “eventbaazi” and open up the immunisation drive. Last week, Rahul Gandhi wrote a letter to the PM, demanding a ban on the export of vaccines, insisting that India’s vaccination drive was going on at a snail’s pace.In a minute-long video, Rahul Gandhi attacked the Prime Minister and echoed the concerns of other Congress leaders over an uncertain atmosphere in the country regarding the pandemic. He also demanded income support to the poor.The Congress president appealed to the PM to “put into place the much needed scheme of minimum monthly guaranteed income in place and transfer an amount of ₹6,000 in every eligible citizen’s account”. The Congress, in its 2019 election manifesto, proposed a similar scheme of direct financial help to the poorest sections.Sonia Gandhi also demanded that all equipment – even ventilators, oxymeters and oxygen cylinders, and life-saving drugs such as remdesivir and dexamethazone — should be complete exempt from GST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clear-more-vaccines-fast-says-sonia-to-pm-101618253377794.html
13-04-2021||India||Lockdown in Bhopal, Haryana night curbs begin||Bhopal/Chandigarh More regions were forced to reintroduce curbs on social movement due to a sharp rise in coronavirus disease cases, as India recorded a daily surge in infections with 160,676 new cases on Monday.While a complete week-long lockdown was announced in Madhya Pradesh capital Bhopal, the Haryana government decided to impose night curfew across the state. These are the latest in a string of regions across the country that have again started enforcing curbs ranging from night curfews to limits on public assembly as they struggle to reel from the second wave of Covid-19 cases.On Monday, Bhopal district collector said Avinash Lavaniya said a lockdown has been imposed from 9pm on Monday till 6am on April 19. “The emergency services including medical and health, transportation of goods, movement of students for examination, construction work, vegetable and fruit vendors will be allowed during the curfew,” Lavaniya said.The state recorded 6,489 new cases on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 344,634, according to HT’s dashboard. Till Sunday, there were 5,234 active Covid-19 cases in Bhopal. “Despite all efforts, the Covid 19 cases are not coming down. To contain the spread, Corona curfew has become important,” the Bhopal collector said. Madhya Pradesh medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said that anyone found violating the lockdown norms would be booked under section 144 of the CrPC.In Haryana, the state government clamped a night curfew with immediate on a day that the state recorded 3,818 new cases. The state has recorded more than 21,000 infections in the last nine weeks.“Night curfew between 9 pm and 5 am will be imposed from tonight and will remain in force till further orders,” state home and health minister Anil Vij was quoted as saying by PTI.Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management, Sanjeev Kaushal in an order said that it is imperative to put in place strict measures for social distancing to contain the spread of the virus.“A lot of non-essential movement of people and vehicles has been reported during night hours,’’ the order said. “No person shall leave their home or move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public places during the above said hours.”Emergency services like hospitals, pharmacies and ATMs will be allowed to function round the clock and people would be allowed to avail medical services, the order said. Passengers going to or returning from bus stands, airports or railway stations shall also be exempted.The order further states that there are no curbs on inter-state and intrastate movement of essential and non-essential goods. “All vehicle and persons in bonafide transit shall be allowed to pass, but only after verification of point of origin and destination,” the order said.The state government also decided to restrict gathering of maximum 200 people in indoor spaces and 500 in outdoor. All schools and colleges have been closed till end of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-in-bhopal-haryana-night-curbs-begin-101618253317808.html
13-04-2021||India||Norms go for a toss as millions throng shahi snan amid surge||Dehradun/Haridwar: On the first official date of the  shahi snans (holy bath) in the ongoing Mahakumbh at Haridwar, 2.3 million devotees gathered to take a dip in the Ganges, with next to no social distancing, poor adherence to mask discipline, and patchy enforcement of guidelines such as every bather needing to be registered -- all of which were flagged by experts as a significant cause for concern amid a second wave of the Coronavirus disease that is surging through the country. The administrators in charge of the mela did not enforce social distancing guidelines citing the huge numbers. “It is difficult to ensure social distancing during shahi snan when lakhs of seers and pilgrims are at one specific Ganga ghat. Strict measures may lead to a stampede like situation,” said Sanjay Gunjiyal, inspector general, Mela force.He added that “we are ensuring pilgrims wear masks, sanitise and safely take holy Ganga dip and return to their base,” but many people heading for the ghat were not sporting masks. It is also not clear how many of the devotees possessed RT-PCR test reports showing they tested negative for the virus, although Gunjiyal claimed that the police has enforced this and ensured anyone entering the state from April 1 has such a report. The requirement, he added, will last till April 30. Mahant Hari Giri, general secretary of the apex body of seers, Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad said: “They tried to follow the (Covid) protocol but couldn’t due to large numbers. However, many of them have already taken the vaccine and undertaken Covid-19 tests”On Monday, the first official Shahi Snan or royal holy bath after the month long Mahakumbh was notified by the state government on April 1, devotees gathered to take holy dip in the Ganga in huge numbers, with most not wearing masks. Most police and health officials chose not to act against the devotees. On March 20, chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat said that “no devotees will be unnecessarily harassed in the name of Covid-19 restrictions but the government will ensure a strict implementation of all the necessary precautions.”That they would not be able to maintain this balance became evident during the religious procession of seers from the 13 akhadas in the morning; the seers chose not to wear masks and did not practice social distancing. To be sure, health officials were seen stopping devotees (other than the seers) minus face masks and handing over free masks to them. Expressing “grave” concern over such a large congregation of people at one place Dr DD Chowdhury, national vice president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), who has been also treating Covid-19 patients since the outbreak of pandemic last year in Uttarakhand, said,”it is absolutely shocking and unfortunate that such a large number of people were allowed to gather in Haridwar Mahakumbh. It will spell trouble for the country in next few days in this health emergency. “There is another shahi snan on Wednesday, and Dr Chowdhury estimates that by the end of that, Haridwar would have seen 5 million people taking a dip over three days. Only seers and VIPs should have been allowed, he added. He said he feared that the devotees may become “ responsible for spreading the virus in various parts of the country when they return to their home.” IG Gunjiyal said the police did try to check the Covid negative reports of the devotees but that this was impossible to do. “People without registration were allowed to enter after getting their Covid tests done,” he said, admitting that nobody was turned away .Meanwhile, social activist Anoop Nautiyal said: “Not only the social distancing is not being maintained in the mega event, the health department has also failed to meet the Covid-19 testing target of 50,000 as directed by the Nainital High Court.”Nautiyal said, “At present the average number of tests each day in the mela area since April 1 is 17,529 which is not even half the target of 50,000. On Sunday, the number was 19966 and on Saturday it was 20451.”“On paper the government will show that they implemented all the norms the ground reality is absolutely opposite to that,” he said.But district chief medical officer SK Jha countered these claims: “We are taking test samples of devotees each day which includes both Rapid Antigen and RT-PCR test. On Sunday, we took 58,000 test samples and during Monday’s shahi snan, we took 30,000 samples till 1pm.”The impact of the Mahakumbh, which threatens to become a super spreader event will be felt most in Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, from where most of the devotees come, said Dr Chowdhury. All of these “should issue a red alert in their states , keep data of all their residents coming back from these shahi snans and put them in quarantine for seven days as soon as they return.”“The states should also conduct Rapid Antigen test, if not RT-PCR test of all these people to check the spread “.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/norms-go-for-a-toss-as-millions-throng-shahi-snan-amid-surge-101618253137840.html
13-04-2021||India||23-yr-old tortured on suspicion of theft in Bihar, one arrested: Cops||MADHEPURAA 23-year-old man was allegedly beaten up and force-fed faeces by a mob in Kushthan village of Bihar’s Madhepura district on the suspicion of theft, police said on Monday. One person was arrested and a case was filed against seven identified and 25 unidentified accused, police said. According to police, the victim, a scheduled caste (SC) man identified as Jhakash Sharma, was allegedly caught stealing maize from a field belonging to a Yadav family. A mob — comprising Yadavs and some SCs — then allegedly thrashed the 23-year-old after tonsuring his head, and paraded him in the village with slippers around his neck. Kushthan comprises mostly of people from the Yadav community, classified as Other Backward Class (OBC) in Bihar, and SCs. In the region, many SC families use the surname Sharma.Madhepura superintendent of police Yogendra Kumar ordered a probe into the incident after a video of the incident surfaced on social media on Sunday. HT has seen the video.The incident took place on April 8, the officials said, adding that the victim’s father filed a complaint. “I demand strict punishment for those who were responsible for the condition of my son,” the victim’s father, Prem Lal Sharma, said.Station house officer (SHO) of Bihariganj police station Arun Kumar said, “We have lodged an FIR against seven people and 25 unidentified people under various sections including SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on the basis of the written statement of Prem Lal Sharma, the father of the victim, Jhakash Sharma.” The arrested accused was identified as Gobinda Sharma, the SHO said, adding: “Police are carrying out raids to arrest the other accused.” Activists sought stringent punishment for the accused. “The incident has shamed us, and we are going to write to the state human rights commission to take up the issue,” said Sumit Prakash, a social worker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/23yrold-tortured-on-suspicion-of-theft-in-bihar-one-arrested-cops-101618253017834.html
13-04-2021||India||NIA on lookout for 2 men hired by Vaze as part of hiran murder plot: Officials||New Delhi: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is looking for two people it suspects were hired by suspended Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze as part of the conspiracy to kill businessman Mansukh Hiran, senior officials familiar with the details of the case said. “The suspects were offered money to get rid of the Thane-based businessman after Hiran refused to take the blame for the explosives-laden car planted outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in Mumbai on February 25,” one of the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said. The suspects have criminal antecedents, the officers suggested.Hiran, who is linked to the car found outside Antilia, was found dead in a creek at Retibunder in Mumbra on March 5. The officials told HT that it is being ascertained if the suspects smothered Hiran in a moving car, or at Gaimukh Chowpatty in Thane, or if somebody else was also involved in the murder. The officials are also trying to confirm if Vaze was present at the scene of the murder. The two suspects have been identified but are yet to be traced, one of the officials said, adding that more arrests are likely soon. Last month, the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) arrested former constable Vinayak Shinde for his alleged role in the murder and bookie Naresh Gor who provided SIM cards used in the crime. ATS also named Vaze as the mastermind of the murder. Vaze has denied his role in the crime.NIA took over the investigation into the murder case from the Maharashtra ATS, as it was linked to the explosives case which the federal agency was investigating. On Sunday, NIA arrested Riyazuddin Kazi, who, a second NIA officer said, assisted Vaze in the destruction of evidence in the murder case as well as the Antilia bomb scare case. Former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh, meanwhile, is learnt to have denied knowledge of Vaze’s plans. “He (Singh) said he was not kept in the loop by CIU (crime intelligence unit),” the officer said. Inspector General Anil Shukla, who led the investigations in both the cases, completed his tenure on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-on-lookout-for-2-men-hired-by-vaze-as-part-of-hiran-murder-plot-officials-101618252897769.html
13-04-2021||India||CBI to question Deshmukh over ex-top cop’s allegations||New Delhi: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has asked former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh to appear before it on Wednesday in connection with its preliminary enquiry (PE) against him into allegations that he asked suspended police officer Sachin Vaze to extort ₹100 crore a month in Mumbai from bars, restaurants, hotels, and other sources, two officials said on Monday. Former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh, in a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last month, levelled these allegations against Deshmukh in the aftermath of an explosives-laden vehicle being found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house, the murder of a man linked to the vehicle, the arrest of Vaze, and the removal of Singh as Mumbai’s police commissioner.“Anil Deshmukh is the primary suspect in this enquiry. He needs to be questioned regarding the claims that he wanted Vaze to collect this scale of money every month. He will be confronted with the statements of Vaze, Param Bir Singh and his staff,” said one of the officers who asked not to be named. The Bombay high court ordered a CBI probe against Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Deshmukh on April 5, saying a police investigation was not possible as the department reported to him. He resigned as home minister the same day. On April 8, terming the allegations as “serious”, the Supreme Court dismissed pleas by the NCP leader and the Maharashtra government challenging the high court order. On Sunday, CBI questioned Deshmukh’s personal assistants, Sanjeev Palande and Kundan Shinde. Vaze and Param Bir Singh were examined last week. CBI took their statements to find out if Deshmukh indeed asked Vaze and assistant commissioner of police Sanjay Patil to collect ₹100 crore from hotels, bars, restaurants, and other sources, as alleged by Singh in his eight-page letter to Thackeray on March 20. Singh also said in his letter that when Vaze and Patil went to meet Deshmukh at the latter’s residence, Palande and Shinde were present there. People familiar with the CBI’s PE procedure told HT that though they have just nine more days to conclude the inquiry, finding a “prime facie” offence would not be difficult. Several documents recovered by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) during the probe into the bomb scare near Ambani’s house Antilia, and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was linked to the vehicle in which the gelatin sticks were found, have been analysed by CBI over last few days. The federal agency has also questioned bar owners, Mumbai Police officers, and people close to Deshmukh. NCP leader Dilip Walse Patil has assumed charge as the home minister of Maharashtra after Deshmukh’s resignation. The state government has also set up a probe by retired Bombay high court judge Kailash Chandiwal to probe the allegations against Deshmukh, and submit a report within six months. NCP said that Deshmukh will cooperate with the agency in the inquiry. “If CBI has summoned him then he (Anil Deshmukh) will respond and cooperate accordingly. He made no mistake and we are sure he will come out clean in the CBI inquiry,” said Nawab Malik, the party’s chief spokesperson and state minority affairs minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-to-question-deshmukh-over-ex-top-cop-s-allegations-101618252537817.html
13-04-2021||India||Pre-monsoon rain deficiency hits states||The pre-monsoon season (March, April and May) has so far remained extremely dry in most parts of the country, the Indian Meterological Department (IMD) has said. While northwest India reported a rain deficiency of 43 per cent between March 1 and April 12, Uttarakhand recorded a deficiency of 78 per cent.Likewise, western and eastern Uttar Pradesh registered a deficiency of 93 per cent while Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi reported a shortage of 68 per cent during the same period, the weather body noted.“It hasn’t rained at all in the plains during this season. There was light rain and thunderstorm activity in the first week of April but it was very light. Even though four western disturbances have affected the Western Himalayan region this month, their impact has been limited to the upper reaches. It has been so dry that the relative humidity in Delhi yesterday was only 31 per cent in the morning when it is supposed to be the highest and only 17 per cent in the evening,” Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, said.Read more: Heatwave grips states, IMD predicts a warmer summerIMD Pune’s Standard Precipitation Index for March and first week of April suggested that almost the entire northwest India and Indo-Gangetic Plains region remained mildly to moderately dry between April 1 and 7. The country as a whole recorded a rain deficiency of 42 per cent between March 1 and April 12 with 54 per cent rain deficiency over the southern peninsula, 30 per cent over the central region and 39 per cent over northeast and east India.It is this rain deficiency that has led to several forest fires in Uttarakhand and high dust and particulate matter (PM) levels over the northern plains.Approximately, 8,550 forest fires have been recorded in Uttarakhand alone between April 1 and 12, according to data provided by Forest Survey of India’s Fire Alert System.Read more: India saw third warmest March in 121 years: IMDAccording to officials at Forest Survey of India (FSI), a large number of forest fires are due to man-made factors as well as the dry spell. “Forest fires in large numbers and extent in Uttarakhand are mainly a result of manmade fires and high fuel load on the forest floor. Due to dry spells and high temperatures, the fuel load increases. There are fallen dry leaves and twigs which act as fuel whenever there is a small ignition. If the fuel load is high, then obviously the fires will last longer. Lack of soil moisture and heat helps ignite fire quickly,” Sunil Chandra, deputy director (Forest Geoinformatics Division) of FSI, explained.However, a fresh disturbance is likely to affect the Western Himalayan region between April 14 and 17. It is likely to cause scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds over the Western Himalayan region during this period and isolated light rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds over the adjoining plains between April 15 and 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/premonsoon-rain-deficiency-hits-states-101618252357792.html
13-04-2021||India||Test results delayed as labs face rush amid Covid surge||Officials and members of the public say getting a Covid-19 test has become hard in several parts of the country and results for those who manage to get swabbed take more than two days, as the surge in infections and close surveillance has triggered a rush for RT-PCR tests.The problem has been acute in hot spot states and urban centres, and officials and experts warn that the crisis could further imperil containment efforts as contact tracers lose precious time in reaching any of the suspected cases before they can pass the disease on further.“For three days last week, we had to completely stop taking new clients,” said Dr A Velumani, chairman and managing director of Thyrocare, a private company that began conducting RT-PCR tests in its laboratories in Mumbai last year. Reports are now taking 36 hours to be issued as the company records a weekly jump of 20% in samples collected since mid-February. “In at least 100 cases last week, we have issued reports to travellers who were already at the airport to board flights,” he said.Read more: Maharashtra, Punjab, C'garh: Govt points out gaps in Covid containment strategyBetween April 5 and April 10, Mumbai tested between 47,000 to 52,000 samples daily. “Mumbai’s current RT-PCR testing capacity stands at 45,000,” said a civic official who did not wish to be named. “If the cases don’t increase further, this capacity is enough. During the first wave, the city’s daily testing capacity was 25,000,” the official added.“Our Covid-19 test was done only 48 hours after the request was made,” said Pudhumai Muniyappa, who said that getting a test in Karnataka’s capital Bengaluru was difficult. “It was after much pleading I got an appointment for bringing my elderly father to a sample collection centre.”Karnataka government officials admitted of long queues at testing centers even though the state said it aims to conduct more than 100,000 tests a day.A Thane based commercial photographer, Amit Rane, 26, cancelled his flight to Bhubaneshwar twice last week after none of the laboratories could guarantee him a Covid-19 test report before the flight taking off time. “I was literally in tears. I felt helpless with all that was happening. I lost ₹16,000 on the flights in a week,” said Rane.Read more: 14 private, 6 state govt hospitals dedicated for 100% Covid-19 treatment in DelhiOfficials of another high Covid infection state, Chhattisgarh, said sample collection was taking up to 2 days in hot spot cities even though the state has increased testing to 50,000 from about 10,000 a month ago.In Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal and Indore, officials said test reports were being made available only after three to five days depending on the severity of infection, while in some districts reports are coming within 48 hours. “There is a wait for up to two days to get the tests done for people having mild symptoms,” said a state health department official. State health minister Prabhuram Chaudhary said, “We are improving the testing facilities in MP. As of now, about 40,000 tests are being done daily. We are closely monitoring the situation.”In southern states of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, results took up to 48 hours after sample collection.Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender said only 10% of the required number of RT-PCR tests were being done and they were trying to increasing the capacity by another five percentage points. “Even in private diagnostic centres, not more than 20,000 to 21,000 RT-PCR tests are being conducted every day,” he said, adding there was no scarcity of Covid beds in the state. Officials in Andhra Pradesh said that the situation was no different there.Jharkhand too is reeling under a backlog of untested samples. Till April 11, Jharkhand had a backlog of 21,411 samples while Odisha had of about 20,000 samples. “In some cases, results are coming in up to 5 days after sample collection,” a Jharkhand government official on condition of anonymity said, adding that over 5,000 samples were sent to ICMR, Bhubaneswar for testing.Dr Bijay Mohapatra, Odisha’s director of health services said there was no delay in sample testing and any backlog. “All RT-PCR tests are being done in ICMR lab as well as government medical colleges,” he said.Read more: Experts clear Russia’s Sputnik Covid-19 vaccine for use in IndiaLow Covid infected states such as Tripura and Assam also reported no delays in getting the tests done and delivery of reports. “We conduct RT-PCR tests on those who are symptomatic and came in contact with such patients several times. Generally it takes 24-36 hours to get RT-PCR reports,” said state surveillance officer Dr. Deep Kumar Debbarma. On Sunday, Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma stated that there is no delay in Covid testing in the state.(with inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/test-results-delayed-as-labs-face-rush-amid-covid-surge-101618252358328.html
13-04-2021||India||Hold polls for 3 RS seats before May 2: Kerala HC to EC||The Kerala high court on Monday directed the Election Commission of India to conduct elections to three Rajya Sabha seats, falling vacant on April 21, before the results of the recently concluded assembly polls are announced on May 2.Allowing the petitions of CPI(M) legislator S Sharma and assembly secretary SV Unnikrishnan Nair, the single judge bench of Justice PV Asha said that the elections should be held during the term of the present assembly.In its order, the court noted that it is incumbent on the Commission to act fairly, urging it to avoid a situation where the nominations for the three seats are made by the existing assembly and voting is done by another.Read more: Several staff members of Supreme Court test positive for Covid-19“The Commission, which is fully aware of its duty conferred under Article 324 of the Constitution of India in its true spirit, has therefore to expedite the proceedings so as to see that the representation in the upper House from the State of Kerala is always in full swing and to avoid situations as pointed out by the learned senior counsel for the petitioners, where the nomination is made by the existing assembly and voting by another assembly,” it said.Sharma and Nair, through their petitions, challenged the EC decision to defer the elections which were initially scheduled for April 12.Last Friday, the Election Commission informed the Kerala high court that it had decided to announce and notify the schedule of the biennial election to the Rajya Sabha seats before the expiry of the term of the three MPs.The three Rajya Sabha members, PV Abdul Wahab (Indian Union Muslim League), KK Ragesh (Communist Party of India-Marxist) and Valayar Ravi (Congress), will retire on April 21.Read more: SC slaps ₹50k fine on plea to remove Quran verses, says ‘absolutely frivolous’In its statement filed in the court, the commission, however, did not mention the date of holding the elections to the three Rajya Sabha seats.The commission said that the decision to keep the proceedings in abeyance was taken after a communication from Union ministry of law and justice which said that it would be constitutionally just and proper that the new Assembly should constitute the electoral college for filling the three vacancies.According to the Commission, the Ministry said, “In this case, if the elections to elect new Members to the Council of States are held on April 12, 2021 as suggested, the popular will, which is already recorded in the ballot box consequent to the Assembly Elections already held on April 6 2021, it may not reflect the will of the people”.The EC maintained that there was no obligation to conduct elections during the term of the present assembly but the petitioners challenged it saying it was an encroachment on their rights.Welcoming the high court verdict, Sharma said, “We are happy the court upheld our rights.”It was not immediately known whether the EC will approach the Supreme Court to challenge the high court verdict.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hold-polls-for-3-rs-seats-before-may-2-kerala-hc-to-ec-101618252297727.html
13-04-2021||India||HC upholds Akhil Gogoi’s NIA court bail order||GUWAHATI: The high court upheld the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court order that granted bail to activist Akhil Gogoi in October last year and said that “unlawful acts including arson and violence aimed at creating civil disturbance and law and order problems can’t be termed as terrorist act under purview of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act unless committed with the requisite intention”. In its order, the HC bench comprising Justice Suman Shyam and Justice Mir Alfaz Ali pointed that sub section (1) (a) of Section 15 of UAPA can be attracted only if an alleged act is in the nature of “terrorist act” and involves use of bombs, explosive substances and other lethal weapons. “The dominant intention of the wrong doer must be to commit a ‘terrorist act’ coming within the ambit of Section 15(1) of the Act,” the verdict delivered on April 9 read. The HC held the NIA court was right in granting bail to Gogoi and dismissed the appeal by the investigating agency. “Unlawful act of any other nature, including acts arson and violence aimed at creating civil disturbance and law and order problems, which may be punishable under ordinary law, would not come under the purview of section (1) of the Act unless it is committed with the requisite intention,” it addedGogoi, who now heads Raijor Dal, a new political party, has been under arrest since December 2019 for allegedly inciting violence during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests. The case was initially lodged in Chabua, Dibrugarh district in December 2019 under various sections of IPC. Subsequently, sections 15(1) (a)/16 of UAPA were added to it. Trial in the case is yet to start. The case was later transferred to NIA the same month and a charge sheet was filed in June last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-upholds-akhil-gogoi-s-nia-court-bail-order-101618252237770.html
13-04-2021||India||IAF brass to hold key strategic meet||The Indian Air Force’s top commanders will assemble in the capital later this week for a three-day conference focusing on strategies to scale up its capabilities to have an edge over its adversaries, the defence ministry said on Monday.Defence minister Rajnath Singh will inaugurate the biannual IAF commanders’ conference on April 15.The meeting comes at a time when India and China have been locked in a standoff for over 11 months and are currently negotiating a withdrawal of troops and weapons from friction points on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). IAF remains in a high state of readiness in the Ladakh sector.Read more: 6 Rafale fighters to land in India on April 28, 4 more in May: Official“The conference of apex-level leadership is aimed at addressing the issues of IAF’s operational capabilities in the times to come. A series of discussions will be conducted to address strategies and policies related to capabilities that will give IAF a significant edge over its adversaries,” an official statement said.The conference also comes at a time when IAF gearing up to raise its second squadron of Rafale fighter jets at the Hasimara airbase in West Bengal.As India and China negotiate a complex disengagement process in the Ladakh sector, the air forces of both countries are deployed in the theatre as they were when the border row was at its peak last year, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.India and China have held 11 rounds of military talks so far to resolve border tensions that began last May.Read more: After Ladakh standoff, IAF defers mega drill to conserve flying hoursAt the latest 11th round of military talks with China on April 9, the Indian Army told the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) that completion of disengagement at all friction points was must for de-escalation of the border conflict.Apart from deploying fighter jets at bases in the Ladakh-Tibet theatre, PLA Air Force has positioned a large number of radars and missiles in the sector.IAF has projected its capability to carry out day-and-night, all-weather combat missions in the Ladakh sector, with front-line fighter jets, attack helicopters and multi-mission choppers deployed there. It also deployed its new Rafale fighter jets in the sector as part of India’s overarching plan to strengthen its military posture in the region.The IAF Commanders’ Conference comes at a time India is planning to begin a formal roll-out of its long-awaited theaterisation plan to best utilise its military’s resources amid growing security threats, with the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command set to be launched by May. India will also have three other integrated commands to secure its western, northern and eastern fronts — these are likely to be rolled out by December 2022.In addition, a logistics command is in the works to avoid duplication of efforts and resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-brass-to-hold-key-strategic-meet-101618252057820.html
13-04-2021||India||Sushil Chandra appointed next poll panel chief||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday appointed former Central Board of Direct Taxes chairman Sushil Chandra as the chief election commissioner with effect from April 13, as incumbent CEC Sunil Arora demits office.As the new CEC, Chandra will announce the results for the ongoing polls in West Bengal and completed polls in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on May 2. He will also conduct the Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh elections due next year.Chandra joined the election commission on February 15, 2019 and was elevated to the post of seniormost election commissioner after Ashok Lavasa quit the Commission last year. As an election commissioner, he has helped conduct polls to at least 10 states and also overseen the Lok Sabha election of 2019.Read more: Who is Sushil Chandra? Know your new chief election commissionerBorn on May 15, 1957, Chandra completed his BTech from Roorkee University and also holds a bachelor degree in law (LLB) from DAV College, Dehradun. He has undergone various trainings at International Monetary Fund (IMF), IIM Bengaluru and Wharton on management. Before joining Indian Revenue Services (IRS), he was in the Indian Engineering Service.A 1980-batch Indian Revenue Service officer, Chandra spent 38 years of his career with the IRS. He has worked with several state governments, such as Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. Chandra has extensive experience in the field of taxation and was the chief of the Central Board of Direct taxes from November 2016-May 2019. He was given two extensions as the CBDT chairman and spearheaded the Department’s action against tax evasion in the wake of demonetisation. He also helped the government crackdown on benami transactions by executing the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988.As CBDT chairman, Chandra also played a role in tracking illegal money exchanged during assembly elections“Under his stewardship the Department made extensive use of data mining and analytics for carrying out investigations into dubious transactions and tax evasion matters in a non-intrusive manner through ‘Operation Clean Money’,” states his profile on the EC website. “An avid proponent of the use of technology Shri Chandra has also taken the lead in rolling out the e-assessment process where scrutiny assessments are being made without any physical interface between the taxpayer and the tax department. With the increased use of technology and data mining, he was instrumental in increasing the number of taxpayers by 24% in. 2017-18.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushil-chandra-appointed-next-poll-panel-chief-101618251698859.html
13-04-2021||India||SC paves way for INS Viraat’s dismantling||The Supreme Court on Monday cleared the decks for the dismantling of iconic warship INS Viraat, dismissing a petition on converting the decommissioned vessel into a maritime museum.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, noted that the ship has already been 40% dismantled by a ship-breaking firm that bought it in an auction last year.“It has already been broken to the extent of 40% by the company which has spent a considerable amount of money in purchasing the decommissioner ship. What is there we can do now? You have come very late,” the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian told Rupali Sharma, the representative of petitioner M/s Envitech Marine Consultants Pvt Ltd.Read more: Several staff members of Supreme Court test positive for Covid-19After the Bombay high court refused to interfere in November 2020, the company in January this year moved the Supreme Court with a plea that it was willing to buy INS Viraat from the ship-breaking company, Shree Ram Group of Industries, so that the historic warship could be converted into a maritime museum. Envitech offered to purchase it for ₹100 crore.Agreeing to consider this plea, the top court in February stopped further dismantling of the ship, and asked the ship-breaking firm, based in Gujarat’s Alang, to consider Envitech’s offer.But senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for the ship-breaking firm, informed the bench that at least 40% of dismantling work has been completed for the ship, which was bought last July at a price of ₹38.54 crore in a valid auction.Dhavan also cited an inspection report by the Marine and Technical Surveyors on February 12 that found the vessel to be a “dead structure” not capable of being in seaworthy condition or navigational position. The report added that the vessel has got severe hull damage in several areas and that all kinds of machineries and operational manuals have been removed from it.Read more: SC slaps ₹50k fine on plea to remove Quran verses, says ‘absolutely frivolous’The senior counsel said that the high court directed the Union defence ministry to take a decision on the representation made by the company to acquire the ship, but that representation was also rejected on November 27, 2020.At this, the court said that it was too late in the day to interfere with the matter now. “We are with you as far as the spirit of nationalism is concerned, but you are already too late in this case. 40% of the ship has been dismantled. We cannot interfere now,” observed the bench.It also told Sharma that her company had not challenged the order of dismissal of the representation by the defence ministry. “The government has already rejected your representation, and there is no challenge to that. You have come too late. We are lifting our stay and dismissing this petition,” it remarked.INS Viraat, India’s flagship aircraft carrier for 30 years, was decommissioned in 2017. It was previously commissioned by the British Royal Navy as HMS Hermes, and was in service from 1959 to 1984.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-paves-way-for-ins-viraat-s-dismantling-101618251577704.html
13-04-2021||India||‘People in Gujarat think they are at God’s mercy’: HC amid Covid-19 surge||The Gujarat High Court on Monday observed that the people of the state were at “God’s mercy” amid the worsening Covid-19 pandemic in the country. The HC’s comments came while it was hearing a suo-motu petition on increasing Covid-19 cases in the state. The court directed the state to take several corrective steps to tackle the situation.Taking note of media reports on the rising number of cases up to 5,000 during last two days and shortage of hospital beds, Remdesivir injections, oxygen, ventilators and vaccines, chief justice Vikram Nath took up a PIL on Sunday while observing, “The state is heading towards a health emergency of sorts.”On Monday, not convinced by the detailed explanations and replies by Advocate General Kamal Trivedi, a division bench of Nath and Justice Bhargav Karia asserted that the reality flew in the face of the state government’s claims.“People now think that they are at God’s mercy,” the bench observed while pointing at several shortcomings in the state government’s handling of the Covid-19 cases.Read more: The Number Theory: Where is the second Covid-19 wave bigger than the first?The HC bench heard out Trivedi but insisted, “The situation is quite different than what you are claiming. You are saying that everything is alright. But the reality is contrary to that.”The court went on to point out that there was a “trust deficit” among the people of the state. “People are cursing the government and the government is cursing the people. This will not help. We need to break this chain of infection,” the court said.The bench refused to accept most of the Advocate General’s explanations on the Gujarat government’s Covid-19 measures, especially on the availability of beds or Remdesivir, a key anti-viral drug that is in short supply.Queues run long outside Ahmedabad’s Zydus Hospital run by Zydus Healthcare that also makes Remdesivir. AG Trivedi denied any shortage of the anti-viral drug and cited expert medical opinion that it should be sparingly used given that it could have adverse effects on the liver and the kidney of the patients.Trivedi told the court that people who do not need the drug were also trying to buy it as a precautionary measure. He stated, “Remdesivir is not required if the patient is under home treatment or is asymptomatic and not critical.”Read more: Political slugfest erupts after Gujarat BJP chief offers free remdesivirHe added that even the supply was limited and said, “Only seven companies make it. The production is just 1.75 lakh vials per day. We are procuring around 25,000 injections every day for Gujarat.”But the High Court wondered if the state government was trying to control the supply of Remdesivir as people were scrambling to get it and even at designated hospitals.“The medicine is available but it is being controlled by the government. Why can’t people buy it? Make sure it is available everywhere. There is no shortage of Remdesivir. Everything is available with you. We want results, not reasons,” the High Court asserted.Gujarat BJP President CR Patil organised some 5,000 vials of Remdivisir and offered to distribute it free to people from the BJP office in Surat, while the state reeled under a severe shortage, triggering a controversy. Chief minister Vijay Rupani and his deputy Nitin Patel said they were not aware of how Patil managed the injections and that it was not part of the state’s procurement. The BJP defended Patil stating that the gesture was for the people of Surat suffering from a shortage of the antiviral drug.Read more: Gujarat government not in favour of lockdown: CM RupaniCongress accused the government of doing politics over the shortage of the drug.The court was also livid over reports that RT-PCR test reports were taking too long. Earlier, the RT-PCR test results used to be available within 12 hours.“It now takes “almost five to seven days”, the bench said, adding, “That is for the common man. For someone like you or Mr Devnani (an advocate party to the case) or us, maybe we can speed up, we can jump the line.”On the state’s health infrastructure, the court observed, “(It is happening because) you did not have the infrastructure. You did not increase the facilities.” This came after Trivedi explained that the delay was because of a large number of samples being currently received by the labs every day.The bench scoffed at the government’s claim that there was an adequate number of available beds for Covid-19 patients. “I have information that patients are turned away even if beds are available at hospitals. If beds are there, then why are we seeing 40 ambulances with patients waiting outside hospitals?” asked Justice Vikram Nath.Trivedi replied that though all hospitals offered similar treatment, people had preferences and this was the reason for a huge rush outside some hospitals.The advocate general said a lockdown was difficult, pointing out that it would increase the miseries of the poor and migrant workers manifold, especially when the industry is in dire straits.The High Court finally asked the government to submit a detailed report by Wednesday and scheduled the next hearing for April 15.Gujarat reported 6,021 new Covid-19 cases and 55 deaths during the last 24 hours as of 5 pm on Monday, its biggest single-day rise since the beginning of the pandemic. The state’s total caseload stands at 3,53,516 while the death toll rose to 4,855 on Monday.The Gujarat HC has been monitoring Covid preparedness in the state since last year and issued a series of directions to the state government in the past year on ramping medical facilities to deal with Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/people-in-gujarat-think-they-are-at-god-s-mercy-hc-tells-state-govt-amid-covid-19-surge-101618247738372.html
13-04-2021||India||In the seas, when the US and India differ on principle||Last week, the United States (US) Navy’s Seventh Fleet put out a routine announcement on its website: “On April 7, 2021 USS John Paul Jones (DDG 53) asserted navigational rights and freedoms approximately 130 nautical miles west of the Lakshadweep Islands, inside India’s exclusive economic zone, without requesting India’s prior consent, consistent with international law.”This announcement may have been one of several freedom of navigation (FON) announcements for the US Navy (USN) but led to a considerable degree of dismay and outrage in India, more so given the recent Quad summit.The external affairs ministry issued a statement asserting that India’s position “on the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) is that the Convention does not authorise other states to carry out in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) and on the continental shelf, military exercises or manoeuvres, in particular those involving the use of weapons or explosives, without the consent of the coastal state.” It further added that Delhi had “conveyed our concerns regarding this passage through our EEZ to the government of the USA through diplomatic channel”. However, the Pentagon defended its Navy, asserting that the actions of its warship were “consistent with international law”.Also Read | India, US to work closely on clean energy: US envoy John KerryWhat explains this US unilateralism and is the Pentagon targeting India alone? A review of navigational rights announcements by the USN since last November indicate that it has conducted such patrols, citing “excessive maritime claims” by many nations including Russia, Japan, China, Vietnam, the Philippines, South Korea, Sri Lanka, India and the Maldives.Traditionally, the oceans of the world have been designated as the global commons and FON is enshrined in customary practice and codified by international law. Any ship that is flying the flag of a sovereign State, and engaged in legitimate maritime activity is not to be hindered on the high seas; this is also the bedrock of global trade. Thus, when there is reference to FON and respecting international law, it usually pertains to the non-military domain.The more nettlesome activity is freedom of navigation operations (FONOP), which are carried out by naval platforms and have come into focus after the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Seas (UNCLOS), which introduced the concept of territorial waters (12 nautical miles from the coast), a contiguous zone (24 nautical miles) and an EEZ that extends to 200 nautical miles.Coastal states can exercise sovereign rights in their territorial waters while allowing for “innocent passage” of naval platforms; they have some policing and pollution/health related enforcement rights in the contiguous zone. The UNCLOS envisaged the EEZ as a region whose natural resources could be exploited but did not confer exclusive sovereignty rights.The rationale for such a classification is that if all EEZ claims of the global community were aggregated, it would amount to almost 38% of the global commons. UNCLOS concluded that restricting access and passage in more than a third of the global maritime domain was untenable.Also Watch | French ships Tonnerre & Surcouf reach Kochi ahead of drill with QUAD naviesUNCLOS was adopted in 1982 but many anomalies came to the fore. The US accepted its provisions but chose not to be a signatory. Countries such as India and China signed up but added their own caveats and interpretation. And hence there was a lack of a consensual interpretation of the EEZ and the rights it confers on the coastal State.In the current instance, the US is sticking by its interpretation of the EEZ and India is pointing to its domestic laws that mandate Delhi’s prior concurrence. Harmonising these divergent positions will be complex and contested but is necessary.It may be prudent for the Quad nations that have emphatically upheld the FON principle and adherence to international law in the Indo-Pacific to decide on “whose” version of the law is to be upheld. Apropos adherence to law, for instance, there are different standards all around — for instance, the US and United Kingdom are yet to accept the UN tribunal ruling in relation to Diego Garcia.While maritime law cannot be divorced from geopolitics and State power, neither can it be devoid of acknowledging the sanctity of principle.C Uday Bhaskar is the director of Society for Policy StudiesThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-the-seas-when-the-us-and-india-differ-on-principle-101618225957103.html
13-04-2021||NA||Highlights: Over 3.7 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered till 8pm: Govt||A resurgent coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has hit the country hard, leading to swamped hospitals and complaints of scarcity of essential drugs like Remidesivir. The record number of new cases every day has taken the active caseload to more than 1.2 million. It is the second day of Tika Utsav', the mass Covid-19 vaccination programme. The four-day vaccine festival that began on Sunday is aimed at inoculating a maximum number of people against the deadly virus.Globally, the coronavirus disease has affected more than 135 million people and led to nearly 3 million deaths, as per the John Hopkins University Covid-19 tracker. The US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Sunday slammed China for the lack of transparency and called for a deeper investigation to discover the origins of the virus. The concerns about the AstraZeneca vaccine and export restrictions of Europe led Australia to abandon its vaccination target. China's centre for disease control and prevention is considering mixing coronavirus vaccines to improve the efficacy of its current shots, Bloomberg quoted China's top health official as saying.Follow all the updates here:Former HP chief minister Virbhadra Singh tests positive for Covid-19Former Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh tests positive for COVID19(File pic) pic.twitter.com/Oj05UpXzg1Virbhadra Singh, former chief minister of Himachal Pradesh, tested positive for the coronavirus disease, reports ANI.200 people allowed in weddings outside containment zone, Covid appropriate behaviour mandatory: Uttarakhand govtAmid increasing #COVID19 cases, weddings outside containment zones will have a gathering of 200 people, who will have to abide by Covid appropriate behaviour: Uttarakhand GovernmentUttarakhand government said that 200 people, who will have to abide by Covid appropriate behaviour, can gather in weddings outside the containment zones, reports ANI.Pune reports 9,621 new Covid-19 cases and 86 fatalities in last 24 hoursMaharashtra: Pune district reports 9,621 new cases, 8,151 recoveries and 86 deaths in last 24 hours.Active cases: 99,806Total cases: 6,58,014Total recoveries: 5,47,581Death toll: 10,796With 9,621 new Covid-19 cases and 86 fatalities in the last 24 hours, Pune's cases tally reached 658,014 and death toll climbed to 10,796, reports ANI.Uttarakhand logs 1,334 new Covid-19 infections, tally reaches 110,146Uttarakhand reports 1,334 new COVID cases and 7 deaths today; case tally rises to 1,10,146 pic.twitter.com/L4heCE47nJUttarakhand witnessed 1,334 new Covid-19 cases and seven related deaths, taking the state's tally to 110,146 cases and 1,767 deaths, reports ANI.Covid-19 vaccination drive: Over 3.7 million vaccine doses administered till 8pm on Monday#LargestVaccineDrive #Unite2FightCoronaOn an average, 45,000 COVID Vaccination Centres (CVCs) are functional on any given day. Today, 71,000 CVCs were operational, marking a rise of an average of 26,000 operational Vaccination Centres.@PMOIndia @drharshvardhan @PIB_IndiaThe Union health ministry said that more than 3.7 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered till 8pm on the day. The ministry also highlighted that on average, 45,000 Covid vaccination centres (CVC) are operational on any given day.Gujarat reports 6,021 new Covid-19 cases, 55 deaths in last 24 hoursGujarat reports 6,021 new cases, 2,854 recoveries and 55 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases: 3,53,516Total recoveries: 3,17,981Active cases: 30,680Death toll: 4,855Total vaccinated: 93,50,045With 6,021 new Covid-19 cases and 55 related deaths, Gujarat's cases tally reached 353,516 and death toll climbed to 4,855, reports ANI.Night curfew can help in some aspects, follow Covid protocol and vaccination: Chandigarh administrationNight curfew & other restrictions on gatherings & public functions can help certainly in some aspects. We can't seal borders because people come from Delhi, Haryana & Himachal Pradesh. People must follow COVID protocol&vaccination: Manoj Parida, Advisor, Chandigarh Admin#Punjab pic.twitter.com/gVdRnRFScJManoj Parida, advisor, Chandigarh administration, said that the night curfews can certainly help in some aspects. He also urged people to follow Covid-19 protocols, reports ANI.Approval of Sputnik V vaccine would help in efforts against Covid-19: Russian AmbassadorWe note reports that a committee of experts recommended Sputnik V for use in India. This step would definitely contribute to the efforts of Indian govt to counter #COVID19 pandemic. We hope approval by the DCGI will be completed soon: Nikolay Kudashev, Russian Ambassador to India pic.twitter.com/I8POGs5czkRussian ambassador to India Nikolay Kudashev said that the approval of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine would help the Indian government in its efforts against the pandemic, reports ANI.Number of hospital beds to be increased, follow strict SOPs for upcoming festivals: Aslam Shaikh, Maharashtra ministerDue to rising #COVID19 cases in Mumbai as well as Maharashtra, 5,300 new beds, 3 new facilities to be brought in. 70% of beds will have oxygen support while remaining to have ICU & ventilator. For upcoming festivals, strict SOPs to be followed: Aslam Shaikh, Maharashtra Minister pic.twitter.com/gbMBup3DqsMaharashtra minister Aslam Shaikh has said that 5,300 new beds and three new facilities would be brought in. He added that 70 per cent beds will have oxygen supports while remaining will have ICU and ventilator. He also asked the people to follow the SOPs strictly during upcoming festivals in the state, reports ANI.Nagpur reports 5,661 new Covid-19 cases, 69 deaths in last 24 hoursMaharashtra: Nagpur district reported 5,661 new #COVID19 cases, 3,247 recoveries and 69 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per Civil Surgeon Nagpur.  Total cases: 2,84,217Total recoveries: 2,20,560Active cases: 57,819Death toll: 5,838With 5,661 new Covid-19 cases and 69 deaths in last 24 hours, Nagpur's cases tally reached 284,217 and death toll climbed to 5,838, reports ANI.Delhi reports 11,491 new Covid-19 cases and 72 related deaths in last 24 hours11,491 new COVID19 cases and 72 deaths reported in Delhi in the last 24 hours; case tally rises to 7,36,688 pic.twitter.com/2mGKCKi32XWith 11,491 new Covid-19 cases and 72 related fatalities, Delhi's cases tally reached 736,688 cases and death toll climbed to 11,355, reports ANI.Mumbai reports close to 7,000 new Covid-19 cases, 43 deathsMumbai reports 6905 #COVID19 cases, 9037 recoveries and 43 deaths.Total cases 5,27,119Total recoveries 4,23,678Death toll 1,20,060Active cases 90,267 pic.twitter.com/8BcpvkHBZRAccording to a bulletin from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, Mumbai reported 6,905 new Covid-19 cases and 43 deaths, taking the city's tally to 527,119 and death toll to 12,060, reports ANI.Andhra Pradesh reports 3,263 new Covid-19 cases, 11 deathsAndhra Pradesh reports 3,263 new #COVID19 cases, 11 deaths and 1,091 recoveries in the past 24 hoursActive cases: 23,115 Death toll: 7,311Total cases: 9,28,664Total recoveries: 8,98,238 pic.twitter.com/PHADItqT79Andhra Pradesh reported 3,263 new Covid-19 cases and 11 related deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the state's tally to 928,664 cases and death toll to 7,311, reports ANI.'Corona curfew' from April 13 to 19 in Bhopal, MP minister Vishvas Kailash Sarang saysVaccination program, hospitals, petrol pump, bank, grocery shops ambulance, fire brigade, movement of labourers, agri-services, dine-in facilities... to be allowed. This is not a lockdown but 'Corona Curfew': Vishvas Kailash Sarang, MP MinisterMadhya Pradesh minister Vishvas Kailash Sarang said that a 'Corona Curfew' would be imposed on Bhopal from April 13 to 19. Inter-states, inter-district movement of essential services would be allowed, reports ANI.Goa reports 476 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths in last 24 hoursGoa reports 476 new #COVID19 cases, 231 recoveries and 2 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 62,780 Total recoveries 57,365Death toll 850Active cases 4565 pic.twitter.com/klpAiOIxY5Goa recorded 476 new cases, taking the state's tally to 62,780. Also 2 deaths in the last 24 hours, pushed the death toll to 850, reports ANI.Tamil Nadu reports over 6,000 new Covid-19 cases, 19 deathsTamil Nadu reports 6711 new #COVID19 cases, 2339 recoveries and 19 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 9,40,145Total recoveries 8,80,910Death toll 12,927Active cases 46,308 pic.twitter.com/dyAuqPJKgYTamil Nadu reported 6,711 new Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the state's tally to 940,145 and death toll to 12,927, reports ANI.UP reports 13,685 new Covid-19 cases, death toll reaches 9,224 with 72 new fatalitiesUttar Pradesh reports 13,685 new #COVID19 cases, 3197 recoveries and 72 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total recoveries 6,14,819Death toll 9224Active cases 81,576 pic.twitter.com/xSBOR5GIKUUttar Pradesh reported 13,685 new Covid-19 cases. Also 72 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 9,224, reports ANI. Active caseload stands at 81,576.Kerala reports 5,692 new Covid-19 cases, 11 deathsKerala reports 5,692 new #COVID19 cases, 2,474 recoveries and 11 deaths today.Active cases: 47,596Total recoveries: 11,20,174Death toll: 4,794Kerala reported 5,692 new Covid-19 cases as the active cases in the state reached 47,596. Also, 11 new deaths pushed the death toll to 4,794, reports ANI.Karnataka reports over 9,500 new Covid-19 cases, 52 deathsKarnataka reports 9,579 new #COVID19 cases, 2,767 discharges and 52 deathsTotal cases: 10,74,869Total dicharges: 9,85,924Active cases: 75,985Total deaths: 12,941 pic.twitter.com/mHrnOjIpUNWith 9,579 new Covid-19 cases and 52 related deaths, Karnataka's Covid-19 tally reached 1,074,869 cases and death toll climbed to 12,941, reports ANI.'One health' approach to mitigate rapid spread of diseases which could disrupt global economy, says Harsh Vardhan#Covid19 demonstrates the rapid spread of novel pathogens which can have a significant impact on the global economy. Preparedness for, and mitigation of such events require a 'One Health' approach: Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan'One Health' approach required for mitigation of and preparing for rapid spreading diseases which could disrupt global economy, said Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, reports ANI.Haryana minister Anil Vij says state officials asked to implement mask wearing strictlyAdditional Chief Secretaries of Home, Health and Urban Local Bodies instructed to get the implementation of wearing a mask in the state strictly: Haryana Minister Anil Vij#COVID19Haryana minister Anil Vij said that the additional chief secretaries of Home, Health and Urban Local Bodies to implement mask wearing strictly in the state, reports ANI.Russia reports 8,320 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursWith 8,320 new Covid-19 cases, Russia's cases tally reached 4,649,710, the government said. This is a slight decrease from the 8,702 cases on the previous day.Also 277 new fatalities pushed the country's death toll to 103,263, reports ANI.'Let's not create fear among people': Karnataka deputy CM on lockdownSo far govt has not thought about it. Both life & livelihoods need to be taken care of. This question should not arise and the CM has been clear about it. Let's not create fear among people. We're ensuring that both economy & livelihoods carry on: Karnataka Deputy CM on lockdown pic.twitter.com/iQbxaOS1rnDr. Ashwathnarayan CN, deputy chief minister of Karnataka said that the state government has so far not thought about a lockdown. "Let's not create fear among people. We're ensuring that both economy & livelihoods carry on," he said, reports ANI.Centre approves Russia's Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccineThe Central government approved Russia's Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine.Maharashtra defers Class 10 and 12 board exams due to surge in Covid-19 casesMaharashtra government postpones Class 10 and 12 board exams. Class 12 exams likely in May end and Class 10 in June education minister Varsha Gaikwad said.Many hospitals will be turned Covid-19 dedicated again, says Delhi CMAfter conducting a meeting over the Covid-19 situation in the national capital, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday directed to increase the number of beds in hospitals and said that many government and private hospitals will be made fully Covid hospitals once again, reported ANI.West Bengal reports 4,398 new Covid-19 casesWest Bengal's Covid-19 tally rose to 6,14,896 on Sunday as 4,398 more people tested positive for the infection, while 10 fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 10,400, a health bulletin said, reported PTI.Maharashtra village reports 62 new Covid-19 cases after Bagad festivalSixty two new Covid-19 cases have been reported from a village here in Maharashtra after the annual 'Bagad Yatra' festival held earlier this month, officials said on Monday, reported PTI.Mizoram reports 7 new Covid-19 cases, takes tally to over 4,600Mizoram's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 4,619 with seven fresh cases, an official said on Monday, reported PTI.Odisha reports 1,741 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deathsOdisha's Covid-19 caseload breached the 3.5-lakh mark on Monday as 1,741 more people tested positive for the infection, while two fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 1,928, a health official said, reported PTI.Jharkhand reports 2,296 new Covid-19 casesJharkhand's Covid-19 tally rose to 1,39,384 on Monday as 2,296 more people tested positive for the infection, while 21 fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 1,213, a health official said, reported PTI.Union minister Som Prakash gets second dose of Covid-19 vaccineChandigarh: Union Minister Som Prakash receives his second dose of #COVID19 vaccine at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) pic.twitter.com/G0ZnwOXzIg15 new Covid-19 cases in Andaman and Nicobar Islands take tally to over 5,000The Covid-19 tally of Andaman and Nicobar Islands rose to 5,190 on Monday as 15 more people tested positive for the infection, a health official said, reported PTI.Arunachal Pradesh records 4 new Covid-19 casesArunachal Pradesh reported four fresh Covid-19 cases, including a security personnel, pushing the tally to 16,882, a senior health department official said on Monday, reported PTI.Union minister Sanjeev Balyan tests Covid-19 positiveUnion minister Sanjeev Balyan said he has tested positive for coronavirus following which he has isolated himself, reported PTI.India reports over 1.68 lakh new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursIndia on Monday breached another record by registering more than 1.68 lakh new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry data.Maharashtra: Thane reports 6,733 new Covid-19 casesThane has added 6,733 new cases of coronavirus, raising the infection count in the Maharashtra district to 3,80,097, an official said on Monday, reported PTI.Covid-19 infections in Germany crosses 3 million markThe number of Covid-19 infections in Germany has crossed the three million mark, according to figures published Monday by the Robert Koch Institute disease control centre, reported AFP.Turkey reports over 50,000 new Covid-19 cases, 237 deathsTurkey's daily count of coronavirus cases reached over 50,000 and the nationwide death toll has mounted to 33,939 with 237 new fatalities on Sunday, reported ANI.Vaccinated Indian among 20 new Covid-19 cases in SingaporeA 23-year-old Indian national with a work permit who had received both doses of Covid-19 vaccine was the sole locally transmitted case among 20 infections confirmed on Sunday, reported PTI.Madhya Pradesh: Locals attacked officials trying to enforce weekend lockdownLocals attacked a team of govt officials when tried to enforce weekend lockdown in Naya Gaon, Chitrakoot y'day. "In a locality, shops were open and around 15 people were drinking liquor. When police tried to chase them away, they pelted stones," said SHO Santosh Tiwari, reported ANI.Mainland China reports 16 new Covid-19 casesMainland China reported 16 new Covid-19 cases on April 11, up from 10 cases a day earlier, the country's national health authority said on Monday, reported Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-april122021-101618188695691.html
