15-04-2021||India||Rajnath hails ‘timely response’ of IAF during Ladakh standoff||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday asked the Indian Air Force’s top brass to draw long-term plans and strategies for capability enhancement to counter future threats. Addressing top officials at the biannual IAF Commanders’ Conference, Singh congratulated the air force for its “timely and befitting response” to the developments in eastern Ladakh, an official statement said. He appreciated the IAF’s focus on reorienting for the future. “Changing dimensions of war would now include advanced technologies, asymmetric capabilities and info-dominance, and it was very important that the IAF’s preparations for the future must include these aspects,” the statement quoted Singh as saying. The minister stressed on the need to work towards the integration of the armed forces and to enhance synergy in areas of joint planning and operations. The conference comes at a time India is planning to begin a formal roll-out of its long-awaited theaterisation plan to best utilise its military’s resources amid growing security threats, with the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command set to be launched by May. The conference is focusing on strategies to scale up the IAF’s capabilities to have an edge over its adversaries, as previously reported by Hindustan Times. It comes at a time when the IAF is gearing up to raise its second squadron of Rafale fighter jets at the Hasimara airbase in West Bengal. As India and China negotiate a complex disengagement process in the Ladakh sector, the air forces of both countries are deployed in the theatre as they were when the border row was at its peak last year. India and China have held 11 rounds of military talks so far to resolve border tensions that began last May. At the latest 11th round of military talks with China on April 9, the Indian Army told the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) that completion of disengagement at all friction points was must for de-escalation of the border conflict. Apart from deploying fighter jets at bases in the Ladakh-Tibet theatre, PLA Air Force has positioned a large number of radars and missiles in the sector. IAF has projected its capability to carry out day-and-night, all-weather combat missions in the Ladakh sector, with front-line fighter jets, attack helicopters and multi-mission choppers deployed there. It also deployed its new Rafale fighter jets in the sector as part of India’s overarching plan to strengthen its military posture in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-hails-timely-response-of-iaf-during-ladakh-standoff-101618509550717.html
15-04-2021||India||US’s Afghanistan pullout will leave a vacuum: CDS||India’s senior-most military commander on Thursday flagged concerns about disruptors stepping in to fill the vacuum that will be created in Afghanistan with the withdrawal of American and North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) troops, possibly resulting in violence continuing in that country. US President Joe Biden announced on Wednesday that the remaining US troops will leave Afghanistan by September 11, the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks that took them there in the hunt for Al Qaeda. “We have concerns about Afghanistan. If the US feels that their withdrawal and a similar withdrawal by its NATO allies that we are hearing about is ultimately going to lead to peace and tranquility, we would be happy to see such a situation emerging. But our concern is that the vacuum should not create space for other disruptors to step in,” chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said during a discussion at the Raisina Dialogue. Biden said on April 14 that American forces cannot stay on in the hope of creating the ideal withdrawal conditions and “it’s time to end America’s longest war.” There are 2,500-3,500 US troops in Afghanistan, in addition to 8,500 deployed by coalition allies. Asked if Pakistan and Iran were the other disruptors he was referring to, the CDS said that he would not like to name any nation, but many countries were looking at the opportunity to walk into the vacuum. “Afghanistan is a nation which is rich in resources and there are nations we know who tend to exploit resources (of other countries) for their own benefit without the benefit going to the community of that nation. So, if that is going to happen, it should be prevented and the international community must step in to ensure that Afghanistan is for the Afghans,” Rawat said. The CDS’s comments came on a day US Secretary of State Antony Blinken visited Kabul to brief Afghan leaders on the forthcoming US troop withdrawal. Rawat said India would be happy to provide whatever support it can for the development of Afghanistan and to make sure that peace returns to that country. The CDS also spoke about China’s assertiveness in the region at the Raisina Dialogue. He said while China believed it could compel nations to give in to its demands with “a little bit of push and shove,” it was not able to do that in the Ladakh sector where the two countries have been locked in a border row more than 11 months. “India stood firm on its northern borders and we have proven that we will not get pushed (around),” Rawat said during a discussion on the future of conflict. His counterparts from Australia and Japan --- Generals Angus Campbell and Koji Yamakazi --- were also on the panel. India, the US, Japan and Australia constitute the Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad. China has been wary of the grouping that was revived in late 2017, and Beijing’s suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level in 2019. Asked to comment on China’s aggression in the region despite its behaviour bringing the Quad closer, Rawat said the Chinese feel that they have arrived and have a better armed force because of the technological advances they have made. The CDS linked China’s assertiveness to its developing disruptive technologies that can paralyse systems of its adversaries, causing breakdowns in critical areas such as banking, power grids, transportation and communication. “In whatever we have been able to achieve in standing firm, in preventing change of status quo; we have been able to gather world support. The international community has come to our support to say that yes there is an international rules-based order which every nation must follow,” Rawat said. Experts said China miscalculated India’s response in the Ladakh sector while making its forward deployments to alter status quo in the sensitive area. “China went wrong in its assessment of India’s response and resilience to the People’s Liberation Army’s forward deployment and aggressive behaviour along the LAC. This resulted in the first ever withdrawal of China’s forward deployment from a neighbouring country including the maritime domain,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations. The CDS said China tried to show it can change status quo by the use of disruptive technologies without using force. “As of now, they have not used force and they thought India as a nation will succumb to the pressures they are putting on us because of the technological advantage that they have,” he said. He said nations that have developed disruptive technologies feel they will be able to impose their will on other nations by saying that “if you don’t come to my terms, I have other means of bringing you into conflict through unconventional means.” “So, nations are trying to become assertive and this is what China attempted to do and say that ‘it is my way or no other way.’ Such nature of undeclared wars will place dilemma in the minds of decision makers whether or not to resort to kinetic force and thus be labeled an aggressor. It is trying to draw you into a conflict without you starting the conflict but (by it) resorting to disruptive technologies,” Rawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uss-afghanistan-pullout-will-leave-a-vacuum-cds-101618509372246.html
15-04-2021||India||CDS Gen Rawat flags concerns about US troop exit from Afghanistan||India’s senior-most military commander on Thursday flagged concerns about disruptors stepping in to fill the vacuum that will be created in Afghanistan with the withdrawal of American and North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) troops, possibly resulting in violence continuing in that country. US President Joe Biden announced on Wednesday that the remaining US troops will leave Afghanistan by September 11, the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks that took them there in the hunt for Al Qaeda.“We have concerns about Afghanistan. If the US feels that their withdrawal and a similar withdrawal by its NATO allies that we are hearing about is ultimately going to lead to peace and tranquillity, we would be happy to see such a situation emerging. But our concern is that the vacuum should not create space for other disruptors to step in,” Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said during a discussion at the Raisina Dialogue. Biden said on April 14 that American forces cannot stay on in the hope of creating the ideal withdrawal conditions and “it’s time to end America’s longest war.” There are 2,500-3,500 US troops in Afghanistan, in addition to 8,500 deployed by coalition allies. Asked if Pakistan and Iran were the other disruptors he was referring to, the CDS said that he would not like to name any nation, but many countries were looking at the opportunity to walk into the vacuum. “Afghanistan is a nation which is rich in resources and there are nations we know who tend to exploit resources (of other countries) for their own benefit without the benefit going to the community of that nation. So, if that is going to happen, it should be prevented and the international community must step in to ensure that Afghanistan is for the Afghans,” Rawat said. The CDS’s comments came on a day US Secretary of State Antony Blinken visited Kabul to brief Afghan leaders on the forthcoming US troop withdrawal. Rawat said India would be happy to provide whatever support it can for the development of Afghanistan and to make sure that peace returns to that country. The CDS also spoke about China’s assertiveness in the region at the Raisina Dialogue. He said while China believed it could compel nations to give in to its demands with “a little bit of push and shove,” it was not able to do that in the Ladakh sector where the two countries have been locked in a border row more than 11 months. “India stood firm on its northern borders and we have proven that we will not get pushed (around),” Rawat said during a discussion on the future of conflict. His counterparts from Australia and Japan --- Generals Angus Campbell and Koji Yamakazi --- were also on the panel. India, the US, Japan and Australia constitute the Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad. China has been wary of the grouping that was revived in late 2017, and Beijing’s suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level in 2019. Asked to comment on China’s aggression in the region despite its behaviour bringing the Quad closer, Rawat said the Chinese feel that they have arrived and have a better armed force because of the technological advances they have made. The CDS linked China’s assertiveness to its developing disruptive technologies that can paralyse systems of its adversaries, causing breakdowns in critical areas such as banking, power grids, transportation and communication. “In whatever we have been able to achieve in standing firm, in preventing change of status quo; we have been able to gather world support. The international community has come to our support to say that yes there is an international rules-based order which every nation must follow,” Rawat said. Experts said China miscalculated India’s response in the Ladakh sector while making its forward deployments to alter status quo in the sensitive area. “China went wrong in its assessment of India’s response and resilience to the People’s Liberation Army’s forward deployment and aggressive behaviour along the LAC. This resulted in the first ever withdrawal of China’s forward deployment from a neighbouring country including the maritime domain,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations. The CDS said China tried to show it can change status quo by the use of disruptive technologies without using force. “As of now, they have not used force and they thought India as a nation will succumb to the pressures they are putting on us because of the technological advantage that they have,” he said. He said nations that have developed disruptive technologies feel they will be able to impose their will on other nations by saying that “if you don’t come to my terms, I have other means of bringing you into conflict through unconventional means.” “So, nations are trying to become assertive and this is what China attempted to do and say that ‘it is my way or no other way.’ Such nature of undeclared wars will place dilemma in the minds of decision makers whether or not to resort to kinetic force and thus be labelled an aggressor. It is trying to draw you into a conflict without you starting the conflict but (by it) resorting to disruptive technologies,” Rawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-gen-rawat-flags-concerns-about-us-troop-exit-from-afghanistan-101618508411306.html
15-04-2021||India||Mumbai's Haffkine Bio Pharma to manufacture Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Centre gives nod||The Centre on Thursday allowed Mumbai-based Haffkine Bio Pharma to manufacture Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, which will be a shot in the arm of India's vaccine production. Haffkine Institute, the biomedical company owned by the Maharashtra government, has sought permission from the Centre for the transfer of technology from Bharat Biotech, which in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research, developed Covaxin.In a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi held in March, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray raised the issue and requested PM Modi to allow the state-owned pharma company to manufacture the vaccine.In January, Haffkine sought the nod from the ICMR for technology transfer. In March, it again sought permission and said that in case it is not granted the permission to manufacture the vaccine, it can 'fill and finish' operations of the Covid vaccine, where it will only fill vaccines in bottles and make them ready for dispatch.What this nod meansThe Department of Biotechnology has informed the Maharashtra government that permission has been granted to Haffkine to produce Covaxin with a year. This is the first time that another pharma company, which was not part of the vaccine development process, is being given the technology.The decision will boost India's vaccine production at a time the country is seeing a resurgence of the infection and the vaccination drive against Covid is being expanded.Haffkine is one of the country's oldest and premier biomedical research facilities. It has all the required facilities to produce the vaccine, Maharashtra ministers said. "Bharat Biotech produces Covaxin. If we get the formula from the company, the Maharashtra government is ready to manufacture it in Haffkine Institute, which has all the required facilities. It will help get more people vaccinated against COVID-19 in a short period," Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbais-haffkine-bio-pharma-to-manufacture-covaxin-centre-gives-nod-101618508212902.html
15-04-2021||India||Covid-19: 1,100 buildings sealed in Mumbai, over 8k containment zones in Delhi||Delhi has surpassed Mumbai in the number of single-day rise of Covid-19 infections after it recorded over 17,000 fresh cases on Wednesday, a mark that Mumbai is quite far from reaching. Mumbai's highest peak was recorded on April 4, when the city registered 11,163 fresh cases. As the civic bodies are tightening curbs and imposing local containments, figures reveal that posh areas in both the cities are contributing the highest number of new infections.8,661 containment zones in DelhiAccording to data till April 14, Delhi has 8,661 containment zones, including 7,706 active containment zones. With 2,2173, South Delhi has the highest number of containment zones in Delhi. Several buildings in Saket, Hauz Khas, Mehrauli have been declared as containment zones in the city.1,100 buildings sealed in MumbaiAccording to data till April 14, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has sealed 1,100 buildings in the municipal area while there are 95 active containment zones (slums and chawls) in the civic area. The KW ward comprising areas like Char Bungalow, Lokhandwala Circle, Jogeshwari (W), Behram baugh, Kevani pada, Irla, Vile Parle (W), Gilbert Hill, Saat Bungalow, Sakhar Nagar, Juhu Road, Lallubhai Park, Versova, Andheri (W), Juhu, has 263 building sealed, followed by the D ward that has 253 sealed buildings.Is Delhi's Covid-19 condition worse than Mumbai?Though the national Capital has surpassed Mumbai in the number of daily rises in, Mumbai has more active Covid-19 cases than Delhi. According to data, Mumbai has 85,494 active Covid-19 cases, while Delhi's active caseload stands at 54,309. Mumbai's total Covid-19 toll is 12,189, while Delhi has seen 11,652 total deaths, though Delhi's daily toll has been higher than Mumbai in the past few days.While Mumbai has been under night curfew and weekend lockdown, the Delhi government on Thursday took a step forward to bringing back restrictions as it announced weekend lockdown for this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-1-100-buildings-sealed-in-mumbai-over-8k-containment-zones-in-delhi-101618505871282.html
15-04-2021||India||Oxygen plants under PM-Cares to be installed in hospitals as Covid cases surge||With daily new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) seeing a record high every day, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Thursday said a meeting of Empowered Group 2 (EG2) ministers was held earlier in the day to review the availability of essential medical equipment and oxygen during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. During the meeting, the health ministry said, three key decisions were taken.Also Read | Maharashtra records over 60,000 fresh Covid-19 cases, 349 deaths in 24 hoursThe first decision, it said, was on the mapping of medical oxygen sources for 12 “high burden states.” These are Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. To give clarity and assurance to the states on oxygen supply over the next few weeks of rise in cases, a joint mapping exercise was held, it further said. The exercise, as per the health ministry, included, officials from the ministry, the Union steel ministry the critically affected states, among others.Accordingly, 4,880 metric tonnes (MT), 5,619 MT and 6,593 MT of medical oxygen have been indicated to the 12 states to meet their projected demands as on April 20, 25 and 30, it was further noted.Also Read | Delhi reports 16,699 new Covid-19 cases, 112 deaths in last 24 hours, active caseload tops 54,000The second decision was on Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plants, the MoHFW said, adding that these manufacture oxygen and help hospitals become self-sufficient in their requirement of medical oxygen. It said that 162 such plants, which were sanctioned under PM-Cares, have been identified for the early completion of 100% of plants to enhance self-generation of oxygen in hospitals in remote areas. Total 100 more hospitals will also be identified for the consideration of sanction for the installation of PSA plants.Also Read | Billionaire Mukesh Ambani sends oxygen from his refineries to aid India’s Covid-19 fightA tender for import of 50,000 MT of medical oxygen will be floated in the view of increasing demand, the ministry said on the third and final decision.India is currently gripped by a deadly second wave of the pandemic, recording more daily cases than during even the first wave last year. While there have been more than 100,000 fresh infections per day in the last few days, more than 200,000 cases were detected in the last 24 hours, making it the country’s highest single-day rise since the beginning of the pandemic. Also, for a second straight day, more than 1,000 related deaths were also recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-plants-under-pm-cares-to-be-installed-in-hospitals-as-covid-cases-surge-101618503831039.html
15-04-2021||India||MHA orders 50% attendance in work, staggered timing at its offices||In view of the "unprecedented rise" in number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, the Union Home Ministry Thursday said its officers up to the level of Under Secretary can work from home and only 50 per cent staff need to attend office.In an office memorandum, the home ministry said all officers who attend the office can stagger timings with entry into the office spread between 9 AM to 10 AM with corresponding office exit timings and those living in containment zones be exempted from attending office."In view of the unprecedented rise in the numbers of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, it has been decided to take measures to prevent its spread," the home ministry said.The home ministry said officers of the level of Under Secretary or equivalent and below be allowed to work from home and their physical attendance in office be restricted to 50 per cent of the actual overall strength.Rosters for their attendance will be prepared by concerned divisional or wing heads. Individual wing heads can, however, call for more than 50 per cent physical attendance of any of the categories of officials in their wings, if required on administrative grounds.All officers of the level of Deputy Secretary, equivalent and above are to attend office on regular basis."All officers who attend office can stagger timings with entry into the office spread between 9 AM to 10 AM with corresponding office exit timings. This will also avoid rush in commuting, as also in lifts and corridors. Roster system by divisional or wing heads to take care of this aspect," the home ministry said.All officials who do not attend office on a particular day are to make themselves available on telephone and other electronics means of communication at all times from their residence and work from home.All officials residing in containment zones shall continue to be exempted from coming to office till the containment zone is denotified, it said.All officials who attend office shall strictly follow Covid appropriate behaviour including wearing of mask, physical distancing, use of sanitizer and frequent hand washing with soap and water.Crowding in lifts, staircases, corridors, common areas including refreshment kiosk and parking areas is to be strictly avoided and meetings, as far as possible, to be conducted through videoconferencing, the home ministry said.Entry of outsiders or visitors to be curtailed appropriately and all employees of the age of 45 years and above are advised to get themselves vaccinated, the ministry said."The above instructions or guidelines shall come into effect immediately and will remain in force until April 30,2021 or further orders, whichever is earlier," it said. Delhi recorded 16,699 fresh Covid-19 cases and 112 fatalities due to the disease on Thursday, according to data shared by the health department here.This comes a day after the national capital registered 17,282 new infections, its highest single-day spike till date. The number of cases has been on an upward spiral in the last few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-orders-50-attendance-in-work-staggered-timing-at-its-offices-101618504629238.html
15-04-2021||India||Over 2 lakh new cases, weekend lockdown in Delhi | Covid-19 in top 10 headlines||India continues to reel under the massive Covid-19 surge as the nation reported a record single-day surge on Wednesday with over 2 lakh new cases. Restrictions have been imposed on several cities to curb the spread of Covid-19, exams have also been cancelled across several states and several regions are also reporting issues with hospitalisations and shortage of medical oxygen, hospital beds and medicines like remdesivir.Here are the top 10 developments related to Covid-19 in India:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-2-lakh-new-cases-weekend-lockdown-in-delhi-covid-19-in-top-10-headlines-101618502562681.html
15-04-2021||India||Defence minister Rajnath Singh asks IAF to make plans to counter future threats||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday asked the Indian Air Force’s top brass to draw long-term plans and strategies for capability enhancement to counter future threats. Addressing top officials at the biannual IAF Commanders’ Conference, Singh congratulated the air force for its “timely and befitting response” to the developments in eastern Ladakh, an official statement said.He appreciated the IAF’s focus on reorienting for the future.“Changing dimensions of war would now include advanced technologies, asymmetric capabilities and info-dominance, and it was very important that the IAF’s preparations for the future must include these aspects,” the statement quoted Singh as saying.The minister stressed on the need to work towards the integration of the armed forces and to enhance synergy in areas of joint planning and operations.The conference comes at a time India is planning to begin a formal roll-out of its long-awaited theaterisation plan to best utilise its military’s resources amid growing security threats, with the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command set to be launched by May.The conference is focusing on strategies to scale up the IAF’s capabilities to have an edge over its adversaries, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.It comes at a time when the IAF is gearing up to raise its second squadron of Rafale fighter jets at the Hasimara airbase in West Bengal.As India and China negotiate a complex disengagement process in the Ladakh sector, the air forces of both countries are deployed in the theatre as they were when the border row was at its peak last year. India and China have held 11 rounds of military talks so far to resolve border tensions that began last May.At the latest 11th round of military talks with China on April 9, the Indian Army told the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) that completion of disengagement at all friction points was a must for de-escalation of the border conflict.Apart from deploying fighter jets at bases in the Ladakh-Tibet theatre, PLA Air Force has positioned a large number of radars and missiles in the sector.IAF has projected its capability to carry out day-and-night, all-weather combat missions in the Ladakh sector, with front-line fighter jets, attack helicopters and multi-mission choppers deployed there. It also deployed its new Rafale fighter jets in the sector as part of India’s overarching plan to strengthen its military posture in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-asks-iaf-to-make-plans-to-counter-future-threats-101618501571083.html
15-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata Banerjee urges EC to club remaining phases of WB assembly polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mamata urges EC to club remaining phases of Bengal polls amid Covid-19 spikeAmid rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Thursday requested the ECI to consider holding the remaining phases of state assembly elections in a single go.Mulani joins DC as short-term COVID-19 replacement for Axar Patel; Anirudha Joshi in for Shreyas IyerDelhi Capitals have brought in Shams Mulani as a short-term COVID-19 replacement for Axar Patel for the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL) 2021 season. Kiara Advani responds to fan who requested 10-minute meeting: 'Dreams do come true'A fan of actor Kiara Advani's on Thursday expressed her desire to meet her, saying that it would be her 'dream come true moment'. Kiara responded to the fan. Read moreAsus ZenBook Duo 14 UX482 review: More than just two screensWe got our hands on this dual-screen laptop made for a really niche audience. With so much power under-the-hood, ZenBook Duo 14 does deliver a lot more than what meets the eye. Here's the review. Recipe: Try Oat Stuffed Apple Delight and you’ll never eat apple normally againAs a symbol of health, love and fertility, apples are a fruit that can be eaten in more ways than one including drying, sousing, fermenting and many more creative cooking ways. Read moreMan spots eerie ‘face’ inside washing machine. Turns out to be thisIt was a normal day for comedian Alex Boardman as he loaded his washing machine with his pet dog’s blanket and pillow for a wash. Violence in Pakistan as security forces clash with TLP supporters, fire tear gasViolent anti-France protests in Pakistan have paralysed large parts of the country. Supporters of Tehreek-i-Labaik Pakistan (TLP) clashed with Pakistani security forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mamata-banerjee-urges-ec-to-club-remaining-phases-of-wb-assembly-polls-and-all-the-latest-news-101618500208288.html
15-04-2021||India||Maharashtra records over 60,000 fresh Covid-19 cases, 349 deaths in 24 hours||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 61,695 new Covid-19 infections and 349 deaths as the state has been put under a strict curfew till May 1. Mumbai in the last 24 hours reported 8,209 new infections and 50 deaths.While both the 24-hour rise — Maharashtra' and Mumbai — are not their highest rises, the curve is still going up, the Covid-19 bulletin published on Thursday confirmed. On April 11, Maharashtra recorded the highest single-day spike of over 63,000 cases, making Thursday's spike the second-highest since the beginning of the pandemic. In the last 24 hours, the state conducted 2,34,452 tests and the positivity rate jumped to 26.3 per cent. With 53,335 recoveries reported in the last 24 hours, the gap between daily infections and daily recoveries narrowed, taking the state's active Covid-19 caseload to 6,20,060.However, the number of active cases are projected to be double in the state, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The state’s active caseload will reach 11.9 lakh by April 30, it has been projected.From 8pm on April 14, Section 144 has been imposed in entire Maharashtra barring the gathering of more than four people. All shops, apart from those dealing with essential services, have been closed, for which the government has promised financial package. As far as the divisions are concerned, the 24-hour rise in the number of fresh infections has been in four digits. The Nashik division reported 9,582 cases, including 3,235 in Nashik city. The Pune division saw 12,169 fresh infections, including 5,469 in Pune city. The Kolhapur division added 2,019 new cases; the Aurangabad division 3,334; the Latur division 4,561 and the Akola division 2,093. The Nagpur division registered 11,031 cases, including 4,282 in Nagpur city||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-over-60-000-fresh-covid-19-cases-349-deaths-in-24-hours-101618499566785.html
15-04-2021||India||Ensure there is no panic buying, Centre tells states as Covid-19 curbs come back||The Centre has asked all states and Union territories to ensure that there is no hike in the price of essential items as people may panic buy things apprehending lockdowns to contain the spread of the Covid-19 infection.As India is surpassing a grim milestone in Covid-19 tally every day, states and UTs are bringing back stricter curbs. But grocery stores, chemists, pharmacists etc., should not be restricted, the ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution has said.Unless the prices of the raw materials go up, which may result in price hike, prices of all essential supplies should remain fair and there will be no hike, the ministry said adding that the state and UT authorities will have to sensitise people against panic buying.In a letter written to state governments, additional secretary in Union consumer affairs ministry Nidhi Khare said due to sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, concerns have been raised about "availability of essential commodities to the common man at fair prices"."It should also be ensured that the prices of all essential supplies are not increased and they are at fair prices, unless necessitated by cost enhancement due to raw material costs and exchange rates fluctuations," she said.एक #Morphed तस्वीर में दावा किया जा रहा है कि भारत सरकार द्वारा 15 से 30 अप्रैल तक देश भर में लॉकडाउन लगाया जाएगा। #PIBFactCheck: यह दावा #फर्जी है। भारत सरकार द्वारा #लॉकडाउन के संबंध में ऐसी कोई घोषणा नहीं की गई है। कृपया ऐसी भ्रामक तस्वीरों या संदेशों को साझा न करें। pic.twitter.com/gnRpyDcMRfAs several states and Union territories, including Delhi, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, are imposing specific restrictions, apprehension of a national-level lockdown is being reported. The Centre has already busted fake news doing the rounds claiming that a 15-day lockdown will be imposed in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-there-is-no-panic-buying-centre-tells-states-as-covid-19-curbs-come-back-101618498260212.html
15-04-2021||India||Covid-19: All centrally protected monuments, museums closed for visitors till May 15||All centrally protected monuments, museums and sites under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) have been closed with immediate effect till May 15 due to the surge in coronavirus cases in the country, the Union culture ministry said on Thursday.An order to this effect was issued by the ASI and it was tweeted by Culture Minister Prahlad Patel this evening."Due to the prevailing COVID situation, it has been decided to close all centrally protected monuments, sites and museums under the ASI with immediate effect and till May 15 or until further orders," the ASI said.Last year, too, all monuments and sites maintained by the ASI were closed due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-all-centrally-protected-monuments-museums-closed-for-visitors-till-may-15-101618497661314.html
15-04-2021||India||India simplifies process for re-issue of OCI cards. Here's all you need to know||The ministry of home affairs on Thursday announced the decision to simplify the process for re-issue of Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) cards. The Central government has so far issued at least 37.72 lakh OCI cards to foreigners of Indian origin, foreign spouses of Indian nationals, or foreign spouses of OCI cardholders. OCI card is popular among them as it helps in hassle-free entry and unlimited stay in India with a number of other major benefits attached to it that are not available to other foreigners.Currently, OCI cardholders are required to get it re-issued every time a new passport is issued for individuals up to the completion of 20 years of age and once on completing 50 years of age. Reissuance of OCI card is not required between 21-50 years of age. The requirement was in view of biological changes in the face of the applicant.What are the changes?In order to ease the process, the government has decided to dispense with these requirements. OCI cardholders will now have to get the card re-issued only once when a new passport is issued after reaching 20 years of age. “If a person has obtained registration as OCI cardholder after attaining the age of 20 years, there will be no requirement of re-issue of OCI card,” the ministry said in a statement.The OCI cardholders have to upload a copy of the new passport containing their photograph and the latest photo on the online OCI portal each time a new passport is issued prior to attaining the age of 20 years and once after completing 50 years of age. They may upload the documents within three months of receipt of the new passport.Also Read | Foreigners married to Indians cannot enjoy OCI status after divorce, Centre tells HCHowever, those registered as OCI cardholder as foreign spouses of Indian nationals, or foreign spouses of OCI cardholders have to upload a copy of the new passport, the latest photograph along with a declaration that their marriage is still subsisting each time a new passport is issued. The details will be updated on the system and an auto acknowledgement through e-mail will be sent to the OCI cardholder informing that the updated details have been taken on record.“There will be no restriction on the OCI cardholder to travel to/ from India during the period from the date of issue of new passport till the date of final acknowledgement of his/ her documents in the web-based system,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-simplifies-process-for-re-issue-of-oci-cards-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-101618497285638.html
15-04-2021||India||Showed in Ladakh that China can’t push India around: CDS Gen Rawat||India’s senior-most military commander on Thursday said while China believed it could compel nations to give in to its demands with “a little bit of push and shove,” it was not able to do that in the Ladakh sector where the two countries have been locked in a border row for more than 11 months. “India stood firm on its northern borders and we have proven that we will not get pushed (around),” chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said during a discussion on the future of conflict at the Raisina Dialogue. His counterparts from Australia and Japan --- Generals Angus Campbell and Koji Yamakazi --- were also on the panel. India, the United States, Japan and Australia constitute the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad. China has been wary of the grouping that was revived in late 2017, and Beijing’s suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level in 2019. India and China are currently negotiating a withdrawal of troops and weapons from friction points on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). Asked to comment on China’s aggression in the region despite its behaviour bringing the Quad closer, Rawat said the Chinese feel that they have arrived and have a better armed force because of the technological advances they have made. The CDS linked China’s assertiveness to its developing disruptive technologies that can paralyse systems of its adversaries, causing breakdowns in critical areas such as banking, power grids, transportation and communication.“In whatever we have been able to achieve in standing firm, in preventing change of status quo; we have been able to gather world support. The international community has come to our support to say that yes there is an international rules-based order which every nation must follow,” Rawat said. Experts said China miscalculated India’s response in the Ladakh sector while making its forward deployments to alter status quo in the sensitive area. “China went wrong in its assessment of India’s response and resilience to the People’s Liberation Army’s forward deployment and aggressive behaviour along the LAC. This resulted in the first ever withdrawal of China’s forward deployment from a neighbouring country including the maritime domain,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations. The CDS said China tried to show it can change status quo by the use of disruptive technologies without using force. “As of now, they have not used force and they thought India as a nation will succumb to the pressures they are putting on us because of the technological advantage that they have,” he said. On April 7, Rawat said China was way ahead of India in technology, and it was capable of launching cyber-attacks and disrupting a large number of Indian systems. He said the biggest gap between the two countries was in the cyber domain and India was looking at collaborating with western nations to overcome deficiencies in the critical area. A few weeks ago, Recorded Future, a US-based security consultancy, reported that Chinese groups had intruded into the networks of at least a dozen Indian state-run organisations since mid-2020 in an attempt to insert malware that could cause widespread disruptions. To be sure, India denied any data breach in the attempts made by Chinese hackers to target the country’s power grid. At the Raisina Dialogue, the CDS said while some nations follow the international rule-based order, there are others who make their own rules and regulations and attempt to change status quo. “Such things do lead to conflicts (like the one) that we are witnessing on our northern borders. The world is now becoming fragile on account of threats from hybridisation of warfare. Some nations feel they have arrived with better technology and, therefore, threaten other nations which probably don’t have that kind of technology,” the CDS said. He said nations that have developed disruptive technologies feel they will be able to impose their will on other nations by saying that “if you don’t come to my terms, I have other means of bringing you into conflict through unconventional means.” “So nations are trying to become assertive and this is what China attempted to do and say that ‘it is my way or no other way.’ Such nature of undeclared wars will place dilemma in the minds of decision makers whether or not to resort to kinetic force and thus be labelled as an aggressor. It is trying to draw you into a conflict without you starting the conflict but (by it) resorting to disruptive technologies,” Rawat said. On the scheduled withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) forces following suit, the CDS said the vacuum created there should not create space for other disruptors to step in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/showed-in-ladakh-that-china-can-t-push-india-around-cds-gen-rawat-101618495089904.html
15-04-2021||India||NEET PG 2021 postponed amid Covid-19 spike, new date will be announced later||The National Eligibility cum Entrance test for post graduate students, scheduled to be held on April 18, has been postponed for the time being, in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday."Decision has been taken keeping wellbeing of our young medical students in mind," the minister tweeted. The next date will be decided later, the minister addeIn light of the surge in #COVID19 cases,GoI has decided to postpone #NEETPG2021 exam which was earlier scheduled to be held on Apr 18Next date to be decided later Decision has been taken keeping wellbeing of our young medical students in mind.@PMOIndia @MoHFW_INDIA #NEETPGNEET PG examination is for doctors seeking admission in MS, MD courses. The examination was earlier scheduled to be held in January but was postponed because of the pandemic.A group of doctors of Thursday moved the Supreme Court seeking the postponement of the examination, before the Centre announced its decision. In their plea, the doctors said that the candidates who would be appearing in the exam are doctors treating Covid-19 patients daily. the petition also mentioned that when the exam in January got cancelled, the pandemic situation of the country was not this perilous. At a time where there is a sudden surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country and an acute shortage of doctors, the notification for the examination on April 18 was against public interest, the plea said referring to the deferment of CBSE class 12 exams, a decision taken on Wednesday.The exam is conducted by the National Board of Examination, which also released admit cards for the exam.The demand to postpone NEET PG 2021 was raised by several political leaders, with DMK chief MK Stalin voicing his concerns on Thursday. "CBSE exams have now got cancelled due to the second wave of #COVID19. With increasing cases and fatalities, when our doctors are fighting hard against all odds, is this the right time to hold National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) for PG courses," Stalin tweeted.As India recorded over 2 lakh fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest ever since the beginning of the pandemic in 2020, several states decided to postpone Board examination as holding exams at the times does not appear judicious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neet-2021-postponed-amid-covid-19-spike-101618493400430.html
15-04-2021||India||Umar Khalid granted bail in connection with Northeast Delhi riots case||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid in connection with one of the northeast Delhi Riots cases concerning Khajuri Khas FIR.The court noted that Khalid cannot be made to incarcerate in jail for infinity merely on account of the fact that other persons who were part of the riotous mob have to be identified and arrested in the matter, reported Live Law, citing the court's observation.The former JNU student leader was arrested in October last year in the case of violence in Khajuri Khas area. Suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain is also an accused in the case.He was also arrested in September, 2020, under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in another case related to a conspiracy in the riots.Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. More than 750 cases were registered in the northeast Delhi violence, in which at least 53 people were killed and several others injured. So far, over 250 charge sheets have been filed in the riots-related cases in which 1,153 accused have been charge-sheeted.Khalid had moved an application last month seeking directions towards safeguarding his security during his physical production in the court for the remand proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/umar-khalid-granted-bail-in-connection-with-northeast-delhi-riots-case-101618492081461.html
15-04-2021||India||Woman drowns self after husband dies of Covid-19; 3-year-old son follows suit||A 33-year-old woman allegedly died by suicide by drowning herself in a lake, following her husband's death due to Covid-19 in Maharashtra's Nanded district, police said on Thursday. The woman's three-year-old son also followed her into Sunegaon lake in Loha and drowned as a result on Wednesday night, an official said. According to the police, a 40-year-old labourer from Telangana had come to Loha, located 40 km from Nanded city, in search of work and had gotten infected with the disease. The man died in a government hospital on April 13, following which his wife allegedly died by suicide by drowning herself in the lake, the official said. The couple had three children, and one of them, a three-year-old boy, followed his mother into the lake and drowned in the process, he said, adding that the matter came to light on Thursday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-drowns-self-after-husband-dies-of-covid-19-3-year-old-son-follows-suit-101618491349855.html
15-04-2021||India||Kashmir YouTube channel puts out enactment video of anti-terror ops, warned||A YouTube channel being operated from Jammu & Kashmir’s Baramulla district was ordered to take down a video enacting a recent terror encounter, police said in a statement.The statement added the army and police counselled the channel’s administrators, but no action was taken considering their young age. It added “misguided youth and social media influencers” of the channel uploaded the video “replicating/enacting” the gun battle and circulated it on WhatsApp. A senior police officer confirmed that the administrators were asked to delete the video and the incident was also reported to YouTube.“The incident received quick attention of Baramulla Police and 46 Rashtriya Rifles [of the Army]... the youth involved were identified and caught within no time. The video was deleted immediately from YouTube handle ensuring timely containment of radical thoughts,” the statement said.It cited an investigation and added it came to the light that the YouTube channel has been uploading videos on problems such as drug menace. “The subscribers of their channel were on [the] rise, and in the mad race for more subscription, they uploaded the inappropriate content that could provoke radical ideas.”The statement said the parents and guardians of the administrators were also called and Baramulla’s senior police superintendent Rayees Mohammad Bhat counselled them too. Bhat advised them to keep a check on the activities of their children so that they do not fall prey to false propaganda, it added.“The police have released the individuals considering it as inadvertent act not amounting to sedition… such acts will not be tolerated and will be dealt in accordance with the law,” the statement said. It added as a part of its efforts to bring “misguided youth back into the mainstream” the security forces “are transforming hearts and minds by bringing them close to the local masses with various efforts to include regular counselling of misguided youth to prevent them from falling prey to anti-national propaganda”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-youtube-channel-puts-out-enactment-video-of-anti-terror-ops-warned-101618490949189.html
15-04-2021||India||Coronavirus variants inciting India's second surge, epidemiologists say||The second surge of Covid-19 cases in India has swamped hospitals much faster than the first because mutations in the virus mean each patient is infecting many more people than before, epidemiologists and doctors say.India's daily infections skyrocketed more than 20-fold to more than 200,000 on Thursday since a multi-month-low in early February, though the government has played down the role of mutants in the latest rise, the worst anywhere this month.The world's hardest-hit country after the United States has reported about 950 cases of people contracting the variants first detected in the United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil."The point is that these variants of concern are still not on top of the discourse," said epidemiologist Rajib Dasgupta of New Delhi's Jawaharlal Nehru University."Even if it is a new variant, you need to do the same things" to control it and treat patients "but it requires a different urgency to recognise that", he said.Doctors at New Delhi's All India Institute of Medical Sciences have found that one patient is now infecting up to nine in 10 contacts, compared with up to four last year.Scientists in Britain say the B.1.1.7 variant, widely known as the British mutant, is 70% more transmissible than previous variants, and much deadlier.The northern Indian state of Punjab, which has reported one of the highest recent fatality rates in the country, said late last month 81% of 401 Covid-19 samples it sent for genome sequencing were found to be the British variant."This virus is more infectious and virulent," said Dhiren Gupta, a senior consultant at New Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital."More children are reporting high-grade fever compared to last year. We have 35-year olds with pneumonia in intensive care, which was not happening last year."India has recorded 14.1 million infections and 173,123 deaths in total.Mass gatheringsThe government has mainly attributed the big rise in cases to a reluctance to wear marks and crowding.Still, it has refused to call off a mass gathering of Hindu devotees for a festival and its ministers are addressing tens of thousands of largely mask-less people in election rallies.A scientist at the National Institute of Epidemiology said more evidence was needed to directly link the rise in cases to the variants, but that anecdotally that seemed to be the case."There are in-vitro experiments which can also tell us about the infectivity, the severity, how lethal it is, etc, but those are not completed yet, they are ongoing," said Tarun Bhatnagar."We haven’t had a virus that has spread so rapidly, and we haven’t had the time to study it. Everything is on the go. We are dealing with it, being affected by it and studying it. The pace of every thing is too fast."But with crowding still common in many regions of India, "we are about to find out just how dangerous this strain is", said Om Srivastava, head of infectious diseases at Mumbai's Jaslok Hospital who also advises India's worst-hit Maharashtra state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-variants-inciting-india-s-second-surge-epidemiologists-say-101618490334501.html
15-04-2021||India||Kerala to test 2.5 lakh people for Covid-19 in two days between April 16, 17||Kerala government on Thursday decided to test 2.5 lakh people in the state for Covid-19 between April 16 and 17.The decision was taken in a high-level Covid-19 review meeting called by Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the wake of the rising number of Covid cases in the state.The Chief Minister said the government intends to curb the spread of Coronavirus infection through three levels--extensive testing, strict control and intensive vaccination."Facilities for extensive testing have been provided in all the districts. The district authorities have to complete the target set for them. All those who actively participated in the election process will be tested," he said.Others in the priority group for testing include front line workers, who live in areas where Covid is spreading rapidly, those who work in the public transport sector, hospitality, tourism sector, shops, hotels, markets and service centres where they interact with many people, and delivery executives."Mobile RT-PCR testing units will be used in areas where cases are high and markets," he said.The Kerala government also announced that prior permission must be obtained to hold public functions, including weddings and housewarmings. The number of people who could attend indoor events was limited to 75 people and 150 at outdoor events."The district administration has asked to make sure people keep social distance everywhere. Tuition centres will be monitored," Vijayan said.Health Minister KK Shailaja, Chief Secretary VP Joy, state police chief Lokanath Behera, department secretaries, senior police officials, district collectors, district police chiefs and district medical officers attended the meeting.Vijayan, who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 8, has been discharged from the Government Medical College at Kozhikode on Wednesday.Kerala reported 8778 new Covid-19 cases, 2642 recoveries and 26 deaths on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-test-2-5-lakh-people-for-covid-19-in-two-days-between-april-16-17-101618487718052.html
15-04-2021||India||Polls for 2 municipal corporations, 5 Telangana municipalities slated for April 30||Telangana is all set to go in for yet another round of elections to two municipal corporations and five municipalities on April 30, even as the campaigning for the by-election to the Nagarjunsagar assembly seat in Nalgonda district scheduled to be held on Saturday, ends by Thursday evening. The Telangana state election commission on Thursday issued orders for polls to Khammam and Warangal municipal corporations, besides five other municipalities – Siddipet, Nagarkurnool, Mahabubnagar, Ranga Reddy and Nalgonda. State election commissioner K Parthasarathy told the media that the nominations for these seven urban local bodies would begin at 10.30 am on Friday (April 16). The last date of accepting nominations would be April 18 (Sunday) and the scrutiny of nominations would take place on April 19. “If any candidate wants to appeal against the rejection of his or her nomination, he can do so on April 20 and the disposal of such appeals would be done on the following day. The last date of withdrawal is April 22. The polling will be held on April 30 and re-poll, if any, will be held on May 2. The counting of votes will take place on May 3,” Parthasarathy said. In all, 66 wards in the Warangal municipal corporation and 60 wards in Khammam will go to polls. Similarly, polling will be held for 43 wards in Siddipet, 20 each in Nagarkurnool and Nalgonda, 27 in Mahabubnagar and 12 in Ranga Reddy. “The model code of conduct in these two municipal corporations and five municipalities will come into effect immediately,” the SEC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polls-for-2-municipal-corporations-5-telangana-municipalities-slated-for-april-30-101618486810583.html
15-04-2021||India||UAE played key role in bringing together india, pak for talks on Kashmir: Envoy||The United Arab Emirates (UAE) played a role in bringing together India and Pakistan for talks aimed at calming tensions over the Kashmir issue and getting bilateral relations “back to a healthy level”, the UAE envoy to the US has said. The remarks by ambassador Yousef Al Otaiba, who also played a key role in facilitating the September 2020 Abraham Accords between Israel and the UAE, mark the first time a senior official of the UAE has publicly acknowledged the country’s role in efforts to normalise relations between India and Pakistan. The comments, made during a virtual discussion between Al Otaiba and former US national security adviser HR McMaster that was organised by the Hoover Institution of Stanford University, came in the wake of media reports about the UAE facilitating talks between India and Pakistan. Al Otaiba brought up the issue by himself while replying to a question on whether the UAE can persuade Pakistan to play a more meaningful role in finding a settlement in Afghanistan. He referred to a news article that came out about three weeks ago which “highlighted the role the UAE played in bringing the Kashmir escalation down and sort of created a ceasefire, hopefully ultimately leading to restoring diplomats and getting the relationship back to a healthy level”. Al Otaiba was apparently referring to a report by Bloomberg that spoke of the UAE’s role in facilitating secret negotiations between India and Pakistan that led to the militaries of the two countries recommitting themselves to the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) from February 25. Asked by McMaster whether it would be worthwhile for the UAE to pursue such a course given the Pakistan Army’s role in such matters and the low prospects for a better relations between India and Pakistan, Al Otaiba replied: “Absolutely, they might not sort of become best friends but at least we want to get it to a level where it’s functional, it’s operational, where they are speaking to each other, where there’s lines of communication and that’s our goal. “You know, we don’t think they’re going to become, you know, most favoured nations with each other but I think it’s important for them to have a healthy functional relationship which is exactly our objective.” Al Otaiba said the UAE tries to be helpful “where we have influence with two different countries”. He added, “So, India and Pakistan was the most recent one but you remember about three years ago, we also brought the Ethiopians and the Eritreans together for a peace deal which seems to not be doing too well right now. “To the extent we can bring people together and create a win-win environment, whether it’s Ethiopia and Eritrea, Pakistan and India or UAE and Israel, we’ve been doing a lot of that I would say in the last two to three years.” Reuters cited unnamed people to report on Thursday that top officers from India’s Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) and Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) held secret talks in Dubai in January in a new effort to calm military tension over Kashmir. The meeting was facilitated by the UAE government, the report said. There was no immediate response by Indian officials to the remarks by Al Otaiba or the Reuters report. Al Otaiba described India as one of the “most important countries and relationships” for the UAE, “not just because there’s a little over two million Indians that live in the UAE but also because of the historical nature of the relationship where trade routes [and] cultural experiences between the two countries are incredibly strong”. He added, “India is one of the most important countries for us for economic reasons, social reasons, cultural reasons. We’ve been trying to enhance our relationship with them for several years now and I think it’s really important to look at it completely holistically – not just trade and economics, but also...on climate and energy security.” On Afghanistan, Al Otaiba said an abrupt withdrawal of US troops will serve “the interests of illiberal forces” and leave the Afghan government with a weaker hand. The biggest issue, he said, was whether the US, Afghan government and Taliban can “reach an agreement that they can all live with”. He also said it would be hard to stabilise Afghanistan “without Pakistan playing a helpful role”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-played-role-in-bringing-india-pak-together-for-talks-emirates-envoy-to-us-101618486808817.html
15-04-2021||India||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani sends oxygen from his refineries to aid India’s Covid-19 fight||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani is diverting oxygen produced at his refineries to help India battle a savage coronavirus outbreak that’s paralyzed the commercial capital as daily new infections spike by a record.Ambani’s Reliance Industries Ltd., which operates the world’s biggest refining complex in western India, has started supplying oxygen from Jamnagar to Maharashtra at no cost, according to a company official, who asked not to be identified due to internal policy. The western state will get 100 tons of the gas from Reliance, Eknath Shinde, urban development minister, said in a tweet.India is in the grip of a second wave of Covid-19 infections that has caught the federal and state governments unprepared, with local media reporting that patients are dying due to a shortage of oxygen and hospital beds. Maharashtra state is home to the financial hub of Mumbai where the fresh outbreak is most severe, and where Ambani officially resides and Reliance has its headquarters.Reliance is diverting some oxygen streams meant for its petroleum coke gasification units after making it suitable for medical use, the official said. A company spokesman couldn’t immediately comment.Separately, state-run Bharat Petroleum Corp. has built up a stockpile of 20 tons of medical-grade oxygen at its Kochi refinery in southern India that can be readily offered, the company said in an emailed statement. It previously supplied 25 tons of oxygen for medical use.Bharat Petroleum can further supply about 1.5 tons of oxygen daily from the Kochi plant, where it has a unit that can produce medical-grade oxygen, according to the statement.Refineries can produce limited volumes of industrial oxygen in air-separation plants meant for nitrogen production. Medical-use oxygen can be extracted by scrubbing out other gases, such as carbon dioxide, to make it 99.9% pure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukesh-ambani-sends-oxygen-from-his-refineries-to-aid-india-s-covid-19-fight-101618485552882.html
15-04-2021||India||How will the second Covid wave affect India’s economy?||India is currently experiencing a massive second wave of Covid-19 infections. An HT analysis of seven-day average of cases shows that the current wave is nowhere near its peak. The weekly moving average of daily new cases has increased 14 times since February 11, when it started rising again after declining for five months. India’s first Covid-19 wave rose for 29 weeks (or 33 if the first case reported on January 30 is taken as the starting point) before it peaked. As has been pointed out in an HT analysis by Abhishek Jha, the second wave is far steeper in nature than the first wave.The curve of Covid-19 cases and mobility trends will have a direct bearing on the level of economic activity. India’s GDP went down by 24.4% in the quarter ending June 2020. According to the second advance estimates, 2020-21 is expected to suffer a GDP contraction of 7.96%. The 2021-22 Budget projected a nominal GDP growth of 14.4% for the year. In its latest meeting, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of RBI, had the following to say about the growth outlook of the Indian economy, “the projection of real GDP growth for 2021-22 is retained at 10.5 per cent consisting of 26.2 per cent in Q1, 8.3 per cent in Q2, 5.4 per cent in Q3 and 6.2 per cent in Q4”.Also Read | Covid-19: Urban hot spots drive surge, in greater need of jab scale-upAssuming these growth rates hold, the 2021-22 GDP will have a distribution of 23%, 24.1%, 25.8%, and 27.2% in each quarter in terms of contribution to the whole. In comparison, the 2019-20 GDP had a distribution of 24.5%, 24.4%, 24.8%, and 26.3% and the 2020-21 GDP had a distribution of 20.1%, 24.6%, 27%, and 28.3%. This suggests that any adverse effect on economic activity in the first quarter of the current fiscal year will affect a significant portion of the year’s GDP.The effects of any significant economic disruption, if it were to happen, will not be limited to the first quarter itself. It can have a cascading effect through both demand and supply channels. If supply chains get hit and inflation starts rising — it has already been on an upward trajectory — purchasing power and therefore demand is bound to come under squeeze. Similarly, any cutback in economic activity, especially in sectors which are being forced to do so because of social distancing requirements, will adversely affect incomes and hence demand.It is to be expected that the worst affected quarter in fiscal year 2021-22 because of the second wave will be the one ending in June 2021. Because, unlike the first wave, we have vaccines this time, it is reasonable to expect that the pace of new infections will slow down as vaccinations pick up. An HT analysis by Jamie Mullick showed that if India administers vaccines at the current pace of 4 million doses a day, it will take until the end of May for it to vaccinate 100 million people or 10.6% of the population over the age of 18, according to 2021 population projections by the National Commission on Population. Given the fact that the government has granted emergency use authorisation to many more vaccines which are being used in other countries, the pace of vaccination can be expected to be faster.Still, it is unlikely that the ongoing quarter will be able to escape the adverse economic effect of the sharp spike in Covid-19 infections. This will have a bearing on GDP levels, and therefore tax revenues, in the current fiscal year. While the official revenue figures for 2020-21 will only be available by April end, media reports have said that both direct and indirect tax collections have exceeded the Revised Estimate (RE) targets for 2020-21. To be sure, the 2020-21 RE targets were scaled down significantly from the Budget Estimates (BE) which were presented before the pandemic erupted. What is more important is the fact that even the 2021-22 BE targets assume lower tax buoyancy compared to previous numbers. When GDP declined in 2020-21, the government expected the fall in tax revenue to be 1.28 times the fall in GDP, but it has estimated tax revenue to grow only 1.16 times the GDP growth in 2021-22. Indirect taxes, which were expected to grow 3.6% in the RE despite a contraction in GDP, are expected to grow less than the GDP growth in 2021-22. One reasons for this could be the dominance of petroleum taxes in the indirect tax basket, which is more a function of increased tax rates rather than a sharp rise in consumption of petroleum products. In fact, consumption of petrol and diesel is likely to be lower than 2019-20 in 2020-21.Whether or not India’s favourable GDP revisions undergo a downgrade will depend on how fast vaccinations pick up, which will determine the time it will take to flatten the second wave.Experts believe that the second wave will extract a significant economic cost. A research note by Pranjul Bhandari, Chief Economist, India HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Private Limited, said the following.“It is likely that reported year-on-year GDP growth in the quarter ending March will dip into negative. Even before the second wave struck, the Statistics Office was forecasting GDP growth at -1.1% year-on-year for the quarter. And now with GVA likely to be weaker, GDP growth for the quarter ending March could come in even more negative. Furthermore, the q-o-q sequential momentum in the quarter ending June will likely come in negative. Led by favourable base effects, the year-on-year growth number will be a large positive (over 20% y-o-y versus –24.4% in the June quarter last year). But what matters more is the seasonally adjusted q-o-q momentum. That we think will dip into negative after consecutive positive prints over the last three quarters, led by weaker momentum in high-touch services like trade and tourism, as well as construction”.“To be fair, once the second wave subsides and a larger proportion of the population are vaccinated, pent-up services demand could push GDP growth back up. But that is likely to be delayed to 2HFY22,” the note added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-will-the-second-covid-wave-affect-india-s-economy-101618486569202.html
15-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Uddhav asks PM Modi to declare Covid-19 natural calamity in Maharashtra and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uddhav writes to PM Modi for financial aid, asks Centre to declare Covid-19 ‘natural calamity’ in MaharashtraThackeray asked PM Modi to release the first installment of the central share of the SDRF and also asked him to urge banks to defer due instalments in the first quarter of the current financial year without interest. Read more here.IPL 2021: 'Enjoying working with him,' Prithvi Shaw reveals discussions he has with DC coach Ricky PontingOn being asked about the discussions he has had with coach Ricky Ponting, DC's Prithvi Shaw said that he is enjoying working under him. Read more here. Step inside Sidharth Malhotra's fuss-free Mumbai bachelor pad, designed by Gauri Khan. See picsSidharth Malhotra's Mumbai home is a typical bachelor pad where 'less is more'. Check out the pictures here.Jacqueline Fernandez shares post-cupping picture, here’s why you must try it tooJacqueline Fernandez breaks the Internet with her topless picture, sporting a reddish-purplish heart shape and no, it’s not a tattoo. It’s the mark after cupping therapy or Hijama and here are some of its health benefits with precautions. Read more here. Indian teen with world’s longest hair cuts them after 12 years for special cause. WatchThe recording by Guinness World Record shows Nilanshi Patel displaying her long hair and then sitting down for a haircut. Watch here. ‘Pinarayi Vijayan is a Covidiot’: BJP’s V Muraleedharan slams Kerala CM﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-uddhav-asks-pm-modi-to-declare-covid-19-natural-calamity-101618485456265.html
15-04-2021||India||Centre asks MP to stock up on oxygen and ICU beds as Covid-19 cases rise||The Centre on Thursday advised the Madhya Pradesh government to strengthen and enhance oxygen beds and ICU beds in the face of the rising Covid-19 infection cases in the state. This came after Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla chaired a high-level meeting to review coronavirus status and public health measures taken by the state. Bhalla also focused on a five-fold strategy of “test, track, treat, vaccinate”.Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said private hospitals have been asked to procure Remdesivir injections from their sources. "Yesterday, 10,000 injections had arrived which are being distributed. We have ordered the supply of 50,000 more injections," he added.In the wake of rising cases of Covid-19, Remdesivir is in high demand as it is used especially in adult patients with severe complications.The Madhya Pradesh government has roped in its aircraft to rush Remdesivir injections from Indore to various other districts in the state for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, an official said.Congress MLAs on Wednesday staged a silent sit-in protest at the Mahatma Gandhi statue in Bhopal with empty oxygen cylinders protested against the alleged poor state of health services in Madhya Pradesh.On Wednesday, Madhya Pradesh recorded 9,720 fresh coronavirus cases, the biggest single-day spike so far, pushing the infection tally to 3,63,352. The death tally rose to 4,312 with 51 more fatalities, also the highest one-day count so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-madhya-pradesh-to-stock-up-on-oxygen-and-icu-beds-as-covid-19-cases-101618483164726.html
15-04-2021||India||Lok Sabha Speaker to chair virtual meet on Apr 19 to discuss Covid-19 situation||Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla has called a virtual meeting of presiding officers of state assemblies on April 19 to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the country and the role of the public representatives, according to circular issued in this regard.The meeting will be held amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the country and is the first such gathering of presiding officers to discuss the role of legislative assemblies during a pandemic.The meetings of speakers have been regularly held over the issues such as governance and legislative policy. A two-day all-India presiding officer’s conference was held last year in October in Gujarat to discuss the harmonious coordination between the legislature, executive, and judiciary.Also Read | Over 1,700 test positive for Covid-19 in Kumbh Mela over 5-day periodThe pandemic has come as a huge challenge for the elected representatives in terms of their work in their constituencies and keeping in contact with their voters.The government has also stopped the release of funds under the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme for two years. This has further affected the scope of the work of lawmakers.In 2020, the Indian Parliament had to scrap its Winter Session and curtail the two remaining sessions due to Covid-19. This year too, the Budget Session was curtailed.Parliament normally holds three sessions in a calendar year–Budget (end of January to early April), Monsoon (July to August), and Winter (November to December). The Budget Session last year was cut short by eight days, and an already shortened Monsoon Session was also reduced by the same duration due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lsspeaker-to-hold-meeting-of-presiding-officers-to-discuss-pandemic-101618485798590.html
15-04-2021||India||10 states, including Maharashtra, UP, show steep rise in daily Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan have shown a steep rise in COVID-19 daily cases, accounting for 80.76 per cent of the new infections reported in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.India's daily new cases continue to rise and, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am, a record 2,00,739 cases were registered in a span of 24 hours.Maharashtra reported the highest number of daily cases at 58,952 and it is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 20,439 cases and Delhi with 17,282 new cases, it said.India's total active cases reached 14,71,877 and now comprises 10.46 per cent of the country's total infections.A net increase of 1,06,173 cases has been recorded in the total active cases in a span of 24 hours.Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala cumulatively account for 67.16 per cent of India's total active cases, the ministry said.It said that Maharashtra alone accounts for 43.54 per cent of the country's total active cases.India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,24,29,564 with 93,528 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours.The ministry said 1,038 deaths were reported in a day and 10 states account for 82.27 per cent of the new fatalities.Maharashtra saw the highest number of deaths (278). Chhattisgarh follows with 120 daily deaths, it said.The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 11.44 crore.The total vaccination figure during the Tika Utsav, which was observed from April 11 to April 14, saw a jump of 1,28,98,314 doses being administered to people of the eligible population groups across the country, the ministry said, adding that the Tika Utsav aimed to give boost inolculation across the country by covering the public and private sectors. .Cumulatively, 11,44,93,238 vaccine doses have been administered through 16,98,138 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am.These include 90,64,527 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 56,04,197 HCWs who have taken the second dose, and 1,02,13,563 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 50,64,862 FLWs who have taken the second dose.Besides, 4,34,71,031 and 27,47,019 beneficiaries over 60 years of age have been administered the first dose and the second dose, while 3,74,30,078 and 8,97,961 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years have taken the first dose and the second dose respectively. Over 33 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours. As on Day-89 of the vaccination drive, 33,13,848 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 28,77,473 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 44,864 sessions for the first dose and 4,36,375 beneficiaries received the second dose of a vaccine, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-states-including-maharashtra-up-show-steep-rise-in-daily-covid-19-cases-101618485605908.html
15-04-2021||India||Man who strayed from Pak occupied Kashmir, repatriated by Indian Army||The Indian Army on Thursday repatriated a man from Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK), who had strayed into Indian territory on Sunday. “On humanitarian grounds we repatriated a civilian from PoK. He had strayed into Indian territory on April 11, said Defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand.“On Thursday, at about 11.55 am, Ghulam Qadir, son of Mohammad Din, a resident of village Ghim in Nikial in Pakistan Occupied Jammu & Kashmir was repatriated to PoJK. We handed him to the counterparts via Chakan da Bagh crossing point on the LoC (Line of Control) in Poonch district,” he added. The individual was a woodcutter who strayed into the Indian territory in BG sector in Jammu division’s Poonch district on April 11. Nothing incriminating was recovered from him, said the spokesperson.There has been peace along the 744 km long LoC and 200 km long international border since India and Pakistan renewed their ceasefire agreement of November 2003 on February 25 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-who-strayed-from-pak-occupied-kashmir-repatriated-by-indian-army-101618483681005.html
15-04-2021||India||A look at what different states have decided about board exams||Close on the heels of the Centre announcing the cancellation of CBSE class 10 exams and the deferring the class 12 board exams, several states followed suit and took a similar decision in view of the rising Covid-19 infection cases in the country.This is the first time that the CBSE cancelled the board exams. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), however, said it will soon take a decision on class 10 and 12 board examinations.Meanwhile, West Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee said a decision will be taken giving priority to the health of the students. The exams of the state board are scheduled to begin in June.Karnataka state primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar said the government has not taken any decision on cancelling the class 10 board exams. The education department in Meghalaya said it is ready to hold the state board exams for class 12 and will take a decision on class 10 exams after a review of the Covid-19 situation.Here's a list of states that have so far cancelled/postponed their class 10 and class 12 board exams:· Uttar Pradesh -- The Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday postponed the board examinations till May 20 and decided that all schools in the state will remain shut till May 15. The new examination schedule will be decided in the first week of May after reviewing the coronavirus situation.· Haryana -- State education minister Kanwar Pal informed Haryana cancelled class 10 board exams and deferred the exams for class 12. Matriculation students will be promoted on the basis of internal assessment.· Gujarat — The Gujarat government has decided to postpone class 10 and 12 board examinations, scheduled to be held between May 10 and 25, and has decided to promote the students of class 1 to 9 and 11 en masse. The new dates will be announced after a review of the coronavirus situation on May 15, the chief minister’s office informed.· Himachal Pradesh-- The Himachal Pradesh government has postponed the ongoing state board exams for classes 10 and 12 in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases, state education secretary Rajeev Sharma said. The situation will be reviewed at a government-level meeting on May 1 and directions will be issued accordingly, he said.· Maharashtra--The Maharashtra government has postponed the state board exams of classes 10 and 12 which were scheduled to be held later this month. The state government would study and discuss the CBSE's move of cancelling its class 10 exam before taking any such decision for the state education board exams, minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Wednesday.· Madhya Pradesh-- The Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education announced the postponement of the examinations of classes 10 and 12. The exams of the high school, higher secondary and diploma in pre-school education were scheduled to begin from April 30 and May 1. The exams are likely to be conducted from the first week of June and the education board will soon issue an amended schedule, a spokesperson of the state board said.· Rajasthan-- The Rajasthan government has decided to postpone the state education board examinations for classes 10 and 12 at a meeting of chief minister Ashok Gehlot and education minister Govind Singh Dotasra.· Chhattisgarh--The Chhattisgarh government had earlier put off class 10 exams which were scheduled to begin from April 15.· Tamil Nadu--The state government had in February cancelled class 10 board exams.· Odisha-- Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday ordered suspension of board exams of classes 10 and 12 in the state. All students of classes 9 and 11 in academic year 2020-21 will be promoted to classes 10 and 12 respectively. They do not have to take any tests for this, said Odisha CMO.· Punjab--The Punjab government said that students of classes 5, 8 and 10 will be promoted to the next standard without examinations. According to a statement, a decision on class 12 exams will be taken later.·Jammu and Kashmir--The ongoing class 10 exams for remaining subjects have been cancelled and students would be promoted to class 11 based on internal assessments. Ongoing class 12 exams have been postponed, said Office of Lieuteanant General of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-look-at-what-different-states-have-decided-about-board-exams-101618479277857.html
15-04-2021||India||'If all other religious places are open': Delhi high court allows 50 people to offer namaz at Nizamuddin Markaz building||Delhi high court on Thursday allowed 50 people to offer namaz five times a day at the first floor of the Markaz building during Ramzan saying if other places of worship are open in Delhi, this should not be closed. Noting that the overall Covid-19 situation in the country is grim, the bench said the Delhi Disaster Management Authority has restricted all religious gatherings and congregations but it has not ordered the closure of the places of worship, considering the spurt in the number of infections.However, only 50 people will be allowed at the first floor of the building, the bench ruled, turning down the request of the Delhi Waqf Board to allow 50 people each on three more floors of the Markaz building, apart from the first floor.The Markaz comprises Masjid Bangley Wali, Madarsa Kashif-ul-uloom and an attached hostel.Also Read: Delhi HC pulls up AAP MLA, says hearing to reopen Markaz is still in progressGiving the order, Justice Pratibha M Singh directed the Station House Officer of the Nizamuddin police station to permit the entry of 50 people accordingly.The Markaz building has remained shut since March 2020 after the gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat held during the outbreak of the pandemic was termed as a superspreader. On March 24, this year, the Delhi high court allowed conditional reopening of the Markaz during Shab-e-Barat.In connection with last year's gathering, which became the centre of several controversies, an FIR has been registered under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act, Foreigners Act and various provisions of the penal code. The Delhi Police charged 952 foreigners from 36 countries who took part in that gathering and stayed when lockdown was imposed in the country.Markaz was one of the first hotspots of Covid-19 in Delhi from where Police evacuated 2,458 people after a 36-hour drive on April 1, 2020.During the hearing this time for allowing namaz at Markaz during Ramzan, the Waqf Board, in its plea, contended that even when other religious places were opened in the Capital following the unlock guidelines, the Markaz building remained shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-allows-50-people-to-offer-namaz-at-nizamuddin-markaz-101618482867075.html
15-04-2021||India||Over 1,700 test positive for Covid-19 in Kumbh Mela over 5-day period||Over 1,700 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the Haridwar Kumbh Mela area from April 10 to 14 confirming fears that one of the world's largest religious gatherings may contribute further to the rapid rise in coronavirus cases.Medical workers conducted 2,36,751 tests over the five-day period in the mela site. Out of these, 1,701 came out positive for coronavirus.The numbers include both RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test reports of devotees and seers of different akharas (ascetic groups) over the five-day period in the entire mela site extending from Haridwar to Devprayag, Haridwar's Chief Medical Officer Shambhu Kumar Jha said on Thursday.More RT-PCR test reports are awaited and the trend shows that the number of infected persons in the Kumbh Mela site is likely to climb to 2,000, he said.The Kumbh Mela area is spread over 670 hectares covering parts of Haridwar, Tehri and Dehradun districts, including Rishikesh.A majority of the 48.51 lakh people who took part in the last two 'royal baths' (shahi snan) held on the occasion of Somwati Amavasya on April 12 and Mesh Sankranti on April 14 were seen openly violating Covidnorms like wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing.Despite their best efforts, the police could not impose the standard operating procedures (SOPs) on the seers of akharas and the ash-smeared ascetics thronging Har Ki Pairi ghat on the two major bathing days due to severe time constraints.As the 13 akharas had to take their holy dip at Har ki Pairi in accordance with their allotted time slots before sunset, the police and paramilitary personnel were hard-pressed to ensure each of them vacated the ghat before the arrival of the next akhara in line to prevent chaos.As seers were averse to undergoing RT-PCR tests till the Mesh Sankranti Shahi Snan of April 14, both testing and inoculation in the Kumbh Kshetra including the areas allocated to the akharas are likely to be stepped up in the coming days, Jha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-700-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kumbh-mela-over-5-day-period-101618482657238.html
15-04-2021||India||Take concrete steps to prevent Covid-19 spread: Priyanka to UP government||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to take concrete steps to prevent the spread of coronavirus and asserted that it is "futile" to invest time and resources in "hiding" this tragedy.Taking to Twitter, the Congress general secretary also tagged a video purportedly showing Baikunth Dham crematorium in Lucknow being covered by opaque screens."There is a request to the government of Uttar Pradesh: It is futile to invest time, resources and energy into hiding, suppressing this tragedy," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi."Take concrete steps to stop the pandemic, save lives, and prevent the spread of infection. This is the need of the hour," she said.The Congress leader had on Wednesday accused the Uttar Pradesh government of hiding coronavirus numbers and said had they been cautious from day one, people would not have witnessed such times.She had made the remarks while speaking to state party leaders during a virtual meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-concrete-steps-to-prevent-covid-19-spread-priyanka-to-up-government-101618482292079.html
15-04-2021||India||India natural ally in shaping Indo-Pacific: Oz PM||Australia perceives India as a natural partner in shaping the future of the Indo-Pacific and the elevation of bilateral ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership has boosted cooperation in areas ranging from trade and critical minerals to defence, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Thursday.The first Quad Leaders’ Summit last month reflected the momentum being built by Australia, India, Japan and the US to forge a positive and inclusive agenda for the Indo-Pacific, Morrison said in his keynote address at Raisina Dialogue, the flagship conference of the external affairs ministry.Morrison, who has established a close working relationship with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was effusive in his praise of India’s role in the Covid-19 vaccine distribution and the Vaccine Maitri initiative that has so far supplied 65.5 million doses to 91 countries.“Australia sees India as such a natural partner in shaping the future of our region,” he said, adding this was due to a combination of geography, values, growing economic security and people-to-people ties.“In India, I know we have a friend who will help build our region, where all nations can prosper,” he said.Welcoming India’s “increasingly active role” in the Indian Ocean and the wider Indo-Pacific and its leadership in manufacturing and distribution of vaccines, Morrison noted that New Delhi is building economic capability, promoting maritime security and advocating regional cooperation.“We welcome your leadership, Prime Minister Modi, and welcome India’s leadership and engagement, whether it’s on the outstanding vaccines that are necessary and the Maitri campaign that you’ve engaged in,” he said.The elevation of bilateral ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership last June was a “declaration of our shared values and interests, our capabilities and the deep trust we have for each other”, and this has led to new ways of cooperation in commerce, critical minerals, science, technology, defence, maritime security and critical technology issues, Morrison said.It also led to Australia joining the navies of India, Japan and the US in the Malabar exercise last November, and this reflects the “deep trust, shared ambition and the united commitment to keeping our region safe and secure”, he added.At the same time, Morrison said he had told the Quad Leaders’ Summit that other nations can rely on Australia at a time when the region faces challenges that no country can take on alone. The summit was a mark of the momentum being built among like-minded countries in the region to forge a positive and inclusive agenda for the Indo-Pacific, he added.Without naming China, Morrison cited many issues linked to Beijing’s aggressive and assertive actions as the foremost challenges confronting the Indo-Pacific. Though full of promise, the Indo-Pacific is the “epicentre of strategic competition” and there are tensions over territorial claims and unprecedented military modernisation, he said.Democratic nations were being threatened and coerced by foreign interference, and cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated, including from state-sponsored actors, while “economic coercion is being employed as a tool of statecraft” and liberal norms are under assault, he added.“Our region confronts some formidable challenges, and the pandemic has sparked a renewed appreciation among like-minded nations for each other and what all of us can contribute to our partnerships and to our region,” Morrison said.Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said India’s relations with US allies such as Japan and Australia have flourished on the back of the vibrant India-US security ties. “Australia’s inclusion in the last Malabar naval exercise underlined the expanding defence partnership with India. Both the countries have similar concerns about China’s growing aggressiveness – in India’s case, it’s the border standoff, and Australia is grappling with China’s growing influence both domestically and in the South Pacific. On the back of this, India-Australia ties are set to thrive,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raisina-dialogue-india-a-natural-partner-in-shaping-region-s-future-says-australian-pm-101618482300535.html
15-04-2021||India||Kerala CM violated Covid protocols, allege Cong, BJP, seek action||A day after Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan was discharged from hospital after testing negative for Covid-19, Opposition parties, Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), sought action against him for allegedly flouting Covid-19 protocols. They allege Vijayan, who tested positive for coronavirus on April 8, concealed his health condition to participate in a road show two days before the assembly polls and also voted on April 6, the polling day. They have also raised questions if the CM was discharged early in violation of the quarantine protocols for patients.“Hospital records show he was infected much early. On the polling day, his daughter Veena Vjayan, who was staying with him, wore a PPE suit to cast her vote. He must have gone on quarantine immediately. But on polling day, he came in a large group to the polling booth in Pinarayi village,” said Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan in Delhi on Thursday. Asking the police to register a case against the CM, he added, “Two days before the polling, the CM held a mega road show in his constituency in Dharmadam in north Kerala.”The CM was admitted to the medical college hospital in Kozhikode on April 8 and discharged six days later on Wednesday, April 14. Hospital authorities said he might have contracted the infection days before he got admitted. They also said he had severe infection at the time of hospitalisation but was asymptomatic. According to the Covid-19 protocol, patients must stay in quarantine for a week even after testing negative; a minimum two weeks of quarantine is prescribed for patients after testing positive. When asked if the rules were followed in CM’s case, medical college hospital authorities said he will be quarantined in his house for a week.“He gives big lessons to all on quarantine and post-quarantine norms. But it seems he is beyond these restrictions. He flouted all norms brazenly. During his admission and discharge some family members accompanied him. Usually such patients are moved in ambulances and relatives are not allowed to travel with them,” said Muraleedharan.The Youth Congress said it will petition Governor Arif Mohamad Khan against the CM. “If I had violated Covid norms like this and stood in the queue to vote, my house would have been destroyed the same day,” young Congress leader Veena Nair, a candidate from Vattiyoorkavu, said on social media.State governments impose fines and jail term under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 for violations related to Covid-19 norms. Kerala government has announced a fine of ₹500 for those not wearing masks and ₹2000 for those violating quarantine rules.State health minister KK Shailaja said the whole controversy was unwarranted and uncalled for. She said the CM was discharged after testing negative and he was in quarantine in his house for a week in line with the norms.“How can you say he was infected two days before the election? His daughter was infected on the polling day (April 6) and isolated herself in her house. There is no room for any controversy,” she said. But Opposition parties said Shailaja was forced to defend the CM.Vijayan, the CPI(M) candidate from Dharmadam in Kannur, had travelled throughout the state during the campaign for the polls.As Covid-19 cases rise alarmingly in the state, the CM has convened a virtual meeting later on Thursday to assess the situation. The state logged 8,778 new Covid-19 cases and 22 related fatalities on Wednesday, taking the caseload to 11.89 lakh and the death toll to 4,836, according to state government data.As many as 2,642 people were cured of the infection in the same period, taking the total number of recoveries to 11,25,775. Among the districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of 1,226 cases, followed by Kozhikode with 1,098 and Malappuram with 888.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-violated-covid-protocols-allege-cong-bjp-seek-action-against-vijayan-101618481640613.html
15-04-2021||India||'Chaotic' monsoons threaten India's farmers without climate action||Indian monsoons are likely to become stronger and more erratic if global warming continues unchecked, threatening farming and incomes across the region, researchers said on Wednesday.Monsoon rains will likely increase by about 5% for every degree Celsius of warming, found the study of more than 30 state-of-the-art climate models from around the world, published in the journal Earth System Dynamics."What is really on the line is the socio-economic well-being of the Indian subcontinent," said co-author Anders Levermann, a climate scientist at Germany's Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research and New York's Columbia University."A more chaotic monsoon season poses a threat to the agriculture and economy in the region and should be a wake-up call for policy makers to drastically cut greenhouse gas emissions worldwide."Governments are lagging behind in implementing the 2015 Paris Agreement, which aims to hold the rise in average global temperatures to "well below" 2 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels, and preferably 1.5C.Temperatures have already risen by more than 1C since pre-industrial times, and scientists warn further increases risk triggering tipping points that could render swathes of the globe uninhabitable, devastate farming and drown coastal cities.About 80% of the annual rainfall over India occurs between June and September, with an average of 88 centimetres of rain over the four-month period determining yields for crops, such as rice, wheat and sugarcane, and replenishing dams.Too much rainfall can harm plants, including rice, on which the majority of India's population depends, as well as causing flooding and soil erosion.Monsoon rains are critical for farm output and economic growth as about 55% of India's arable land is rain-fed and the sector employs more than half of its 1.3 billion population, boosting rural spending.India's monsoon rains are expected to be 103% of the long-term average in 2021, according to the private forecasting agency Skymet, following two consecutive years of above average rains in 2020 and 2019, for the first time in six decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chaotic-monsoons-threaten-india-s-farmers-without-climate-action-101618478272908.html
15-04-2021||India||Tirupati LS bypoll: Ruling YSR Congress in high stakes battle with BJP, TDP||'Jagan Seva versus Jana Seva' (service to Jagan versus service to people) has been the war cry in the campaign for the by-election to Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency in Andhra Pradesh, where the stakes have become high for all the main parties.What triggered this was the choice, of the ruling YSR Congress, of a political novice M Gurumurthy as its candidate, whose only credentials were that he accompanied the party chief Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy in his 3,600-km-long padayatra (foot march) in 2017-19 and tended to the latter as a physiotherapist."If you elect Gurumurthy, he will be only in the service of Jagan and not raise voice in Parliament for you," the opposition BJP and TDP have been telling people in the run-up to the April 17 by-election, referring to his role as Jagan Mohan Reddy's personal physio.The YSRC hit back at the opposition parties saying the latter were seeking to make everything an issue as they had nothing else to speak about.Tirupati, an SC reserved constituency, is going to the bypoll due to the death of sitting YSRC member Balli Durga Prasad Rao in September last year.Spread over seven Assembly segments in Chittoor and SPS Nellore districts, Tirupati is witnessing a triangular contest with the BJP, in particular, making a desperate bid to win the seat it last bagged way back in 1999.The BJP fielded K Ratna Prabha, a former IAS officer who retired from service as Chief Secretary of Karnataka, who is fighting her first electoral battle.The Jana Sena of Pawan Kalyan is supporting Ratna Prabha's candidature as an ally and the actor himself campaigned for her.Former Union Minister of State Panabaka Lakshmi is the Telugu Desam nominee while another former Union Minister of State Chinta Mohan is the Congress candidate.Buoyant after the landslide victories in the recent elections to the local bodies, the ruling YSRC is confident of victory in Tirupati and is eyeing a big margin.The YSRC has set a victory margin of five lakh votes as its target as, barring the Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy, almost the entire Council of Ministers has taken it upon itself to make it happen.In 2019, the YSRC won Tirupati by a record margin of 2.28 lakh votes.It captured this Lok Sabha seat in 2014 also, but with a much lesser margin.But, it may after all not be a cakewalk for the ruling party given the antagonism being faced by some of the legislators in the Assembly segments under Tirupati Lok Sabha.Realising this, Jagan Mohan Reddy himself wanted to campaign in Tirupati to turn the tide but he cancelled it citing the "coronavirus wave."The chief minister limited himself to writing a letter (pamphlet) to every household in the constituency, listing out the various freebie schemes launched by the government in his and his late father Y S Rajasekhara Reddy's names.Though it did not overtly announce it, the BJP sought to convey to Tirupati voters that they may be electing a "prospective Union Minister" in Ratna Prabha by ensuring victory of the party.AP does not have a representative in the Union Cabinet now.The TDP, on the other hand, wants the YSRC defeated to showcase that the people are vexed with the "draconian, vengeful, despotic rule" of Jagan Mohan Reddy.In equal measure, both the TDP and the BJP sought to rake up religious sentiments, questioning the faith of the YSRC candidate among other things.Being unsuccessful in the contest may not affect the opposition parties much but an adverse outcome, even a reduced margin, could be ominous for the ruling party, political observers feel.The outcome will become clear on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tirupati-ls-bypoll-ruling-ysr-congress-in-high-stakes-battle-with-bjp-tdp-101618477570308.html
15-04-2021||India||How Kejriwal govt plans to tackle Covid-19: Delhi curbs explained in 10 points||Overwhelmed by the coronavirus disease outbreak, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday imposed a weekend curfew in the national capital and shut public places to bring the number of infections down. Delhi is witnessing the fourth wave of infections which is far more severe than the last three waves.The move comes shortly after a high-level meeting with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal. "To control the spread of Covid-19, it has been decided to impose weekend curfew in Delhi," the chief minister said.With 17,282 fresh infections, Delhi on Wednesday recorded the highest-ever coronavirus diseases (Covid-19) cases, breaking its own previous daily spikes and pushing the cumulative tally to 767,438 cases, officials said. Pushing the national capital in the red zone, the positivity rate—the proportion of samples that test positive— spiked and was logged at 15.92 %, a sharp rise from 13.14 % a day earlier.Also read: Delhi to witness weekend curfew, gyms, malls to be shut, announces CM Arvind Kejriwal as Covid-19 cases spikeHere is how the Delhi government plans to tackle Covid-19:L-G Baijal is likely to review the enforcement with Delhi Police, division commissioners and MCD commissioners on Friday.The Delhi government on Wednesday revised its decision to allow certain beds to be used for non-Covid patients as well. These included Indraprastha Apollo Hospital in Sarita Vihar, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Holy Family Hospital, Max SS Hospital and Fortis Hospital in Shalimar Bagh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-kejriwal-govt-plans-to-tackle-covid-19-delhi-curbs-explained-in-10-points-101618473326532.html
15-04-2021||India||Variant found in India may be of concern: Vijay Raghavan on the Covid crisis||The Johnson & Johnson vaccine is the present front-runner as the next foreign vaccine to possibly be available in India, according to the country’s principal scientific adviser K Vijay Raghavan. In an interview with Rhythma Kaul, he also said that the so-called double mutant variant that has arisen locally may now be a variant of concern. Edited excerpts:Now that the path is opened for more vaccines to come in, do you think we should open up Covid-19 vaccination for all adults?The dilemmas are the following: there are people who are older, who are more vulnerable if they get the disease, and people who are younger, who are vaccinated and can go into the workforce, mingle, and not bring back disease to their homes. Ideally, you’d like to vaccinate both groups, but there’s obviously a supply and demand challenge. As manufacturing increases exponentially, and we have the pipeline to vaccinate, there will be more and more flexible vaccination happening. Now with the emergency-use authorisation flexibility, which has just come in, globally authorised vaccines can become available here; we are going to see potential for many vaccines to come in. In practice, given global suppliers’ commitment, we are going to see the Johnson and Johnson vaccine, and the Novavax when it gets approval elsewhere, coming in to India. As that scales up, all these solutions will be at hand. J&J will certainly, likely, be a good candidate for entry into India soon because they have been authorised elsewhere. There have been points raised about J&J in a manner similar to another vaccine about potential clotting, but so far it looks very rare, and there’s no reason to not use the vaccine. Let’s see what the global regulators say in a day or two. Then it shouldn’t be a problem.Also Read | India’s single-day Covid-19 spike went from 1 lakh to over 2 lakh in just 10 daysWhat about Moderna and Pfizer vaccines?It is a bit of a hypothetical situation there, because their supply commitments are rather strong as it is, the manufacturing commitments already are in place, and they are rather stretched. So, should that situation change very rapidly then certainly they are also eligible to come in, should they apply.How long do you see this second wave lasting? What are the projections?Projections, of course, are difficult, but they are very useful, both best case and worst case, because they tell you how you should be prepared. The reasonable ground for pandemics of this sort is to look at the shape of the curve in terms of what’s happening; the rate of change, and not just the absolute level. And the rate of change now all over the country is, of course, a matter of concern. Therefore, right now, I would not focus on when the peak would come down but what one should do to prevent the peak from going further up. As for when we will reach the peak, we will know when they (the trends) start coming down. There are some positive trends which will start showing up in a week or two because that’s the typical gap between [containment] measures and their effect. The teams of central government have gone to 50 locations; more teams will go, and we will start seeing those impacts in a couple of weeks from now. How fast or how slow that downward trend will be remains to be seen. Intense efforts started a couple of weeks ago, so we should start seeing the beginnings of change very soon, and as those efforts continue you’ll start seeing the impact further and further.What, according to you, has led to the sudden surge that we are seeing now?We know that many factors have contributed; it’s not one single factor. As the peaks descended early this year, there was perhaps the feeling that we were over the worst, and we could relax. Fatigue also set in, particularly in young people; humans are social animals, after all; and it is difficult to curtail our interactions constantly. So, in theory, if you all stayed far away from each other, then nothing would happen. It’s tough to do that both in terms of livelihood and social behaviour. The other factor related to this is the way disease spread takes place. There are pockets where there is high infection, and there are other pockets that are less infected, so it is a network effect. And the result of that is there are many areas which were not open to infection earlier, which, because of changes in behaviour and so on, have now become open. Finally, there is, of course, the important contribution of variants that can have greater speed of infection, and also other consequences.What role are mutants playing in driving the current surge?It is good to understand how one characterises changes in the virus. A virus goes from place to place as it infects people; and mutations in the virus are, by and large, just indicative of where it has been. There are, however, other mutations that expand in a population for two kinds of reasons: one is something called the founder effect -- that those mutations just happen to be there in a population early on, and therefore, when the spread occurs, these are also seen at a greater level. Now there are other mutations which have a physiological effect, an advantage, over other viruses. When all these mutations accumulate in a virus then these are called variants of interest, first, and then variants of concern. We know globally that there are some mutations that are variants of concern (some of them are seen even in India) – some are famously called the UK variant, or the South African variant or the Brazil variant. These have either come here, or could have independently arisen over here. There is another variant which has been found in India, and now it’s reasonable to say that the variant is of concern because it’s been found in a significant number of people and has physiological effects. Our scientists have isolated these strains in our national labs of ICMR, CSIR and DBT, and they are studying them. They will know for sure, in our context, soon what are their biological impacts. Also Read | India may begin Sputnik vaccine import by May; start production around JulyWill the vaccines that are currently in use in India work against these variants of concern?It’s important to see how this conclusion is reached. There are multiple kinds of tests. People have already been vaccinated, and they are on the field -- you can ask whether these variants infect them despite being vaccinated, and do they show symptoms of disease, and if so, what are the levels of symptoms they show. Even if anyone is vaccinated no matter what the strain, vaccines don’t protect against the infection; they protect against progression of illness. Therefore, what people are finding now for the variants of concern, which are being studied, the vaccines at hand sometimes reduce protection to mild and moderate disease but they still afford protection to severe disease. These are the kinds of concerns that will come up, and we need to see how they work out in our population, but right now it looks very reassuring that the vaccines are protective; they don’t cause big escape, and those who still get disease, despite being vaccinated, are likely protected against severity. Speedy vaccination reduces the prevalence of viruses in the population, and therefore, reduces the impact of current variants and potential of new variants.Are we going to ramp up our genome sequencing efforts?We should look at the percentage from the time when we started ramping up genome sequencing; there’s no point in looking at it as a percentage of all the cases so far. The genome sequencing capacity is ramping up; it hasn’t yet reached 5%, but it’s ramping up quite well. Importantly, it has to be combined with epidemiology on one side and laboratory tests on the other. That linkage is also a work in progress, and is going pretty well, and we will have a dynamic analysis at hand soon. Right now the good news is that the variants have been isolated in the national laboratories of ICMR, CSIR and DBT; they are being studied now and results should come in a matter of week or 10 days. As new data are studied in different patients, and in different contexts, we will keep getting that information. It’s a dynamic situation.What additional measures are being taken this time around as Covid-19 situation clearly is worse than before?We actually have now multiple elements in our kit to deal with the virus which we didn’t have during the first wave. We are better ramped up on personal protection equipment (PPEs), oxygen, hospital facilities, ventilators and so on. So, even though those are being stretched now, the response time, and dealing with any crisis in any locality will be better. The second change is the potential of the impact of people’s behaviour; we know a lot now which we didn’t earlier. We know now how the virus is transmitted -- through droplets, through aerosols -- and it gets transmitted in closed rooms, for example. So, there are measures like masks and distancing that we know will be very effective. Therefore, depending on whether one is inside or outside, in crowded spaces or open spaces, we really need to take calibrated measures that are feasible and can reduce transmission. In terms of treatment, hospital practices have improved a lot, and we know treatments like dexamethasone and steroids have an impact in lowering the disease intensity. And very amazingly, within a year’s time, we have vaccines at hand. We have two vaccines in India, and the permission now to deploy more, so the vaccination is getting scaled up. All the positive aspects need to be balanced with how we deal with situations such as variants of concern of Sars-CoV-2 in circulation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/variant-found-in-india-may-be-of-concern-vijay-raghavan-on-the-covid-crisis-101618476899489.html
15-04-2021||India||No board exam till May 20 in Uttar Pradesh, announces UP Board after 17 officials test covid positive||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday postponed board examinations till May 20 and all schools in the state will remain closed till May 15. The new exam schedule will be decided in the first week of May after reviewing the pandemic situation of the state. The decision comes at a time when the Central Board of Secondary Education has cancelled class 10 and postponed class 12 exams, in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country. Uttar Pradesh, specifically, has emerged a hotspot of infections in last week.However, the exams have not been cancelled.The exams were scheduled to start from May 8. Class 10 exams were supposed to continue till May 25, while class 12 exams were scheduled till May 28. But a review meeting was held after many staff associated with the exam process tested positive. According to reports, at least 17 staff of the Board out of 19 who are directly engaged in exam work, have recently detected with the infection.The decision brings temporary relief to about 56 lakh students in the state who are to appear in the class 10 and 12 exams. But this is also the second time the exams are being postponed. The exams, originally scheduled to be held in April, were earlier postponed for panchayat elections.Colleges in Uttar Pradesh will also remain closed till May 15. Earlier, all education institutions of the states were asked to remain closed till April 30. The government earlier decided to promote students of classes 1 to 8 without any examination.The Covid-19 situation of Uttar Pradesh became precarious with Varanasi, Kanpur reporting a sharp spike in rthe number of cases amid shortage of beds and Remdesivir.On Wednesday, the state reported 20,510 new Covid-19 infections in the state's highest-ever single day rise. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has also tested positive.A night curfew from 8pm till 7am has been imposed in 10 districts with more than 2,000 active Covid-19 cases, including Lucknow, Allahabad, Varanasi, Kanpur, Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut and Gorakhpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-board-10th-12th-exam-2021-no-board-exam-till-may-20-announces-government-101618476509570.html
15-04-2021||India||Just a sham: Rahul Gandhi criticises Centre over handling of Covid crisis||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government over the handling of the Covid-19 crisis in India on Thursday, and alleged that the “tika ustav” was just another sham by the government. He also alleged that there are no beds, ventilators or vaccines available.Through his official Twitter handle, he tweeted, “There are no tests, no beds in hospitals. There are no ventilators, no oxygen. There are no vaccines also. The utsav is a pretence”. The Wayanad MP also took a dig at the Prime Minister asking what PM-CARES is doing, as huge donations were allocated to the fund for managing the Covid-19 situation.Gandhi’s attack comes in the wake of India reporting an unprecedented increase in Covid-19 cases with over 200,000 cases being reported on Thursday, the biggest single-day hike since the beginning of the pandemic. According to the health ministry data, the overall tally of infections in India is currently at 14,075,564.Also Read | India’s single-day spike went from 1 lakh to over 2 lakh in just 10 daysThe former Congress president has been critical of the government’s way of handling the Covid-19 crisis since the pandemic spread. Last week, Gandhi raised questions over conducting the tika ustav when the country is facing a vaccine shortage and vaccination centres are being shut down.On Wednesday, the Congress leader also took a dig at the Centre over its decision to fast-track approval for foreign vaccines. Gandhi, who had been earlier criticised by BJP for his demand to fast-track more vaccines, tweeted, “First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win.”On Monday, he had endorsed the vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for all and said that “everyone has the right to a safe life”. From his official Twitter account, Gandhi also shared a video as part of the Congress’ #SpeakUpForVaccinesForAll campaign on social media and urged citizens to protect themselves from the virus by making themselves and everyone else aware of the appropriate vaccine. The Congress leader has been actively using Twitter to criticise the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/just-a-sham-rahul-gandhi-criticises-centre-over-handling-of-covid-crisis-101618475579831.html
15-04-2021||India||No heatwave conditions over country on April 15: IMD||A day after several parts of the country recorded temperatures over 40 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said there will be no heatwave conditions on Thursday.It said heatwave conditions were observed in isolated pockets over Gujarat and Haryana on April 14."There will be no heatwave conditions over the country on April 15," the IMD said.It said maximum temperatures of more than 40 degrees Celsius were recorded in parts of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Bengal, among other places."Maximum temperatures of more than 40 degrees Celsius were recorded at most places over East Uttar Pradesh; at many places over Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Gangetic West Bengal and West Rajasthan; at a few places over Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat state and West Uttar Pradesh and at isolated places over Chhattisgarh, Vidarbha, Odisha, Jharkhand and Marathwada," the IMD said.The highest maximum temperature of 42.8 degrees Celsius was reported at Nowgong (East Uttar Pradesh) over the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-heatwave-conditions-over-country-on-april-15-imd-101618475373080.html
15-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi criticises Centre’s vaccine festival, calls it a ‘sham’||Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on Thursday criticised the Tika Utsav organised by the Centre by calling it a ‘sham’. The former Congress president said in a tweet the Centre’s shortcoming is exposed as it does not have adequate beds, medical oxygen as well as vaccines but the government is celebrating a ‘sham’ in the name of a ‘vaccine festival.’“No tests, no hospital beds, no ventilators or medical oxygen in hospitals. There is no adequate vaccine either, if there is anything then there is a government busy celebrating a sham of a vaccine festival. PM Cares?”, Rahul tweeted.ना टेस्ट हैं, ना हॉस्पिटल में बेड,ना वेंटिलेटर हैं, ना ऑक्सीजन,वैक्सीन भी नहीं है, बस एक उत्सव का ढोंग है।PMCares?The Lok Sabha MP from Wayanad has been critical of the Centre’s handling of the pandemic as India continues to report high single-day surges in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccinations. Over the past week, Rahul has targeted the Centre over its pace of inoculations and vaccine strategy.In his letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 9, Rahul demanded that Covid-19 vaccine exports are halted immediately and vaccination be opened before people of wider age groups. He also demanded that the vaccination be made available for anyone who needs it and urged the government to fast-track the approvals of other vaccines by adhering to norms and guidelines.Gandhi’s demand was met with sharp criticism from the government when Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad called the Congress leader a ‘lobbyist’ for the big pharmaceutical companies and asked him to tell chief ministers of states where Congress is in power to strongly commit to providing basic universal healthcare to the people.Maharashtra, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand and Assam said that they were facing a shortage of vaccines owing to a lack of adequate numbers of doses. The vaccine shortage in the financial hub Mumbai was so severe that last week the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation had to stop vaccinations at private centres on April 11 and 12 due to lack of doses.Rahul again took a dig at the Centre on April 12 and said the government should accept that the Opposition’s suggestions were appropriate. His tweet aimed at the government came hours after the expert panel granted emergency use approval to Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik-V, developed by Russia.Rahul attacked the government once more on Wednesday evening when he quoted Mahatma Gandhi and tweeted a news clip that reported that the government is fast-tracking emergency approval for foreign-produced vaccines.India recorded a record daily-high on Thursday with over 2,00,739 new Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 14,074,564. The death toll rose to 173,123 with 1,038 fresh fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-criticises-centre-s-vaccine-festival-calls-it-a-sham-101618474199041.html
15-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: MP minister shocker on Covid-19 deaths and all latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'People get old, they have to die': MP minister shocker on Covid-19 deathsMadhya Pradesh minister Prem Singh Patel on Thursday delivered a shocker on deaths from coronavirus in the country and said that while nobody can stop the virus deaths from occurring, "people get old and have to die".Read more.Centre releases list of top 20 states with highest Covid-19 casesThe central government on Thursday ranked states/union territories in India on the basis of confirmed coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases that have been reported. The list was released by the Union ministry of information and broadcasting via its #IndiaFightsCoronahandle on Twitter.Read more. PLA reluctant to restore April 2020 status at Gogra, post-US Kabul a new theatreThe 11th round of India-China military talks on disengagement and de-escalation from Gogra-Hot Springs area of East Ladakh did not yield the required result with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) reluctant to restore April 2020 status quo along the 1597-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the western sector.Read more. SC orders CBI probe in 1994 espionage case against Nambi NarayananThe Supreme Court on Thursday ordered an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the 1994 espionage case against former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist Nambi Narayanan.Read more. David Warner fumes as Harshal Patel continues to bowl despite 2 beamers, SRH coach explains why umpires were rightSunrisers Hyderabad captain David Warner fumed after the umpires let Royal Challengers Bangalore bowler Harshal Patel continue to bowl despite bowling two no balls because of waist-high full tosses during an IPL 2021 match in Chennai on Wednesday. According to the rules – changed in 2017 – a bowler will be barred from bowling in the match after receiving two warnings from the umpires for bowling waist-high full tosses or beamers in the same match.Read more. Khushi Kapoor is the ultimate Gen Z fashionista, these sunkissed pics are proofKhushi Kapoor and cousin Shanaya Kapoor are the ultimate Gen Z fashion icons at the moments. The two sisters have drool-worthy on-trend wardrobes which are full of mini skirts, distressed jeans, statement outfits and beautiful tops. Every time the two share new images on social media, they end up making headlines and that is what Khushi’s latest post is doing.Read more.Shaan takes a dig at Yo Yo Honey Singh's songs, says they have no 'musicality'Singer Shaan said that the standard of music in the country has been lowered and seemed to take a dig at rapper Yo Yo Honey Singh. While Shaan did not directly name Honey, he cited the songs Chaar Botal Vodka, Sunny Sunny and Lungi Dance, saying that they had no ‘musicality’.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mp-minister-shocker-on-covid-19-deaths-and-all-latest-news-101618469489649.html
15-04-2021||India||Video of Srinagar teacher slapping student goes viral, triggers outrage||A video purportedly showing a teacher repeatedly slapping a student at a coaching centre in Srinagar has gone viral, provoked outrage and prompted police to register a case.In the 44-second video, the teacher, Fayaz Ahmad Wagay, is seen slapping the student repeatedly at the centre. Wagay was apparently angry that the student had not asked for his permission though it was unclear for what.“We have registered a case,” said Raees Hussain, the in charge of Srinagar’s Saddar police station.The court of Srinagar’s additional district magistrate has also summoned the centre’s managing director to appear before it on Thursday and record a statement over the slapping.“This horrendous action has created a huge outcry among the local population and might have left [an] immense psychological impact on the student,” the court said in the summon. It cited the Right to Education Act and added it prescribes disciplinary action over corporal punishment.Also Read | Study reveals spanking may affect brain development of a childSrinagar’s chief education officer has recommended strict action against Wagay and the coaching centre.Wagay told a local newspaper that he wanted the good of the student but lost his control. “I am concerned about the studies of these students, but I lost my control and mistakenly slapped him.”The Coaching Centres Association of Kashmir has constituted a committee to look into the matter and recommend measures so that such incidents do not happen again. “We condemn the incident, but people should not read into it too much. Unfortunately, a witch hunt has been launched by people against the teacher and the coaching institute, both of whom are known for their reputation,” it said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-of-srinagar-teacher-slapping-student-goes-viral-triggers-outrage-101618472400146.html
15-04-2021||India||Centre asks states to make rational use of medical oxygen, ensure no wastage||The Centre on Thursday asked states to make rational use of medical oxygen and ensure there is no wastage while stressing that there is sufficient stock of oxygen in the country.Medical oxygen is a critical component in the treatment of Covid-19 affected patients. An inter-ministerial Empowered Group (EG2) of officers was constituted during the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020 to ensure the availability of essential medical equipment including medical oxygen to the affected states, the Union health ministry said.“Along with the ramped up production of the oxygen manufacturing units and the surplus stocks available, the present availability of oxygen is sufficient,” the ministry said.Besides, states have been asked to set up control rooms to ensure smooth supply of oxygen to the districts according to need and review requirement of cylinders, tankers etc. the ministry said in a statement.A detailed daily mapping of sources for supply of medical oxygen to the affected states is under preparation to ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply, it said.The exercise will be carried out on the basis of detailed daily deliberations between officers of the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, health ministry, steel ministry, various critically affected states, Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation, along with key stakeholders including representatives from oxygen manufacturers, All India Industrial Gas Manufacturers Association according to the directions of the inter-ministerial Empowered Group (EG2), it added."It is pertinent to note that there is sufficient production capacity of around 7127 MTs for oxygen in the country, and as per need, the surplus oxygen available with the steel plants is also being utilised,” the ministry said."The country has a daily production capacity of 7127 MT of oxygen per day. Against this, the total production has been 100 per cent since past two days, as directed by the EG2, since supply to medical oxygen has gone up rapidly," the ministry added.On April 12, the medical oxygen consumption in the country was 3842 MTs, that is 54 per cent of the daily production capacity.The maximum consumption of medical oxygen is by Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, followed by Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Rajasthan, the ministry stated.With increasing cases, the medical oxygen consumption will need to keep pace with the requirements of the states. For this, the current oxygen stocks of the country, including the industrial oxygen stocks with the manufacturing plants, is more than 50,000 MTs, the ministry said.The EG2 has initiated several measures to ensure supply of medical oxygen to various affected states, it said. Some of the key measures include increasing oxygen production according to production capacity of each oxygen manufacturing plant which has resulted in 100 per cent production in the oxygen manufacturing units, ramping up availability of oxygen in the country, it said.The measures also include utilising surplus stocks available with steel plants and mapping requirements of top states with oxygen sources, including with sources across the state borders and those available at steel plants, for greater clarity and assurance for the states on the oxygen sourcing, the ministry said.Thus, Maharashtra has been able to utilise surplus medical oxygen on daily basis from steel plants like JSW in Dolvi (Maharashtra), SAIL in Bhilai (Chhattisgarh) and from JSW in Bellary (Karnataka). Similarly, Madhya Pradesh is able to supplement its oxygen supply from the Steel plant in Bhilai (Chhattisgarh), the ministry said.According to the ministry, the challenge at present is to move oxygen from states with less necessity to those with increased necessity. Mapping of surplus sources with states that have greater need for oxygen is being finalised in consultation with the manufacturers, states and other stakeholders, it said.This has been undertaken through coordinated planning between the Union and state governments to map their requirements up to April 30 with the available sources and stocks of oxygen in the country, the ministry said.A subgroup has been formed under the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways with Ministry of Railways and transport departments of states to facilitate the movement of tankers for Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO). Moving of oxygen tankers by rail is also being actively worked out, it said.Some of the key decisions taken in the context of seamless movement of oxygen tankers include orders given by PESO (Petroleum and Safety Organisation) for conversion of argon and nitrogen tankers for use as oxygen tankers; thereby the fleet available for transportation of tankers has been enhanced, and free movement of oxygen tankers inter-state has been facilitated through MoRTH without registration in the other states, it said.Further, industrial cylinders have been permitted to be used for transporting medical oxygen after due purging and placing of orders for the purchase of another one lakh oxygen cylinders by the health ministry is also being undertaken, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-make-rational-use-of-medical-oxygen-ensure-no-wastage-101618471915453.html
15-04-2021||India||Sharad Pawar discharged from hospital, days after gall bladder surgery||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar was discharged from the Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai on Thursday. On Monday, a laparoscopy surgery was conducted successfully on his gall bladder.Laparoscopy is a minimally invasive surgical procedure.Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik tweeted on Thursday to say that Pawar will be discharged later in the day and thanked people for "good wishes and support for Saheb".After the surgery, Pawar’s daughter and Baramati parliamentarian Supriya Sule posted a photo on her Facebook timeline, in which the NCP chief can be seen reading a newspaper while sitting on a chair. He was accompanied by wife Pratibha, Ajit Pawar and his wife Sunetra, Sule and her husband Sadanand.“Gudi Padwa, after a successful surgery of honourable Sharad Pawar. Baba is still at the hospital. Ajit Dada and Sunetra tai came to see him and we all could come together at the hospital. Cannot celebrate Gudi Padwa owing to the spread of Covid-19 but sharing moments with our family will give us strength to defeat the current circumstances. Celebrate Gudi Padwa but be careful. Be safe (sic),” stated her post.On March 30, the NCP president had undergone an emergency endoscopy for the removal of one of the gallstones that had slipped into his bile duct. This caused blockage to the flow leading to immense pain, mild jaundice and inflammation of pancreas (pancreatitis).Pawar's party shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-discharged-from-hospital-days-after-gall-bladder-surgery-101618471723889.html
15-04-2021||India||2 charred to death in fire after collision of trucks outside Hyderabad||The driver of a container truck and its cleaner were charred to death in the fire caused when their vehicle rammed into another in Telangana’s Ranga Reddy district in the early hours of Thursday, the police said.The accident took place on the Outer Ring Road expressway near Himayatsagar village on the outskirts of Hyderabad at around 4.30 am. The deceased were identified as Surya Kumar (driver), resident of Uttar Pradesh and Mrutyunjaya (cleaner), resident of Thane, Maharashtra.“The exact age of the victims could not be ascertained immediately,” Rajendranagar inspector of police K Kanakaiah said.According to the inspector, the container truck belongs to one Rayi Uma Maheshwar, a shrimp exporter from Palakole, West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh.It was carrying a big consignment of shrimps to Mumbai.“As the truck was passing through the ORR at high speed, it rammed into another truck at Himayatsagar exit road. Due to the impact of the collision, the driver’s cabin of the container truck caught fire and soon it engulfed the entire truck,” Kanakaiah said.The driver and the cleaner were charred to death even before the police reached the spot with fire tenders, said the police officer.“While the truck, which was rammed into, suffered partial damage, the container truck loaded with shrimp products was burnt completely” the inspector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-charred-to-death-in-fire-after-collision-of-trucks-outside-hyderabad-101618470178809.html
15-04-2021||India||Centre releases list of top 20 states with highest Covid-19 cases||The central government on Thursday ranked states/union territories in India on the basis of confirmed coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases that have been reported. The list was released by the Union ministry of information and broadcasting via its #IndiaFightsCoronahandle on Twitter. It features Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, and several other prominent states and union territories in the top 20 states that have reported the highest number of confirmed coronavirus cases.Also Read: India's single-day Covid-19 spike went from 1 lakh to over 2 lakh in just 10 daysAs per the central government, the 20 states and union territories with the highest number of Covid-19 cases, as of 8am on Thursday, are as follows:1 . Maharashtra2 . Kerala3 . Karnataka4 . Tamil Nadu5 . Andhra Pradesh6 . Delhi7 . Uttar Pradesh8 . West Bengal9 . Chhattisgarh10 . Rajasthan11 . Gujarat12 . Madhya Pradesh13 . Odisha14 . Telangana15 . Haryana16 . Bihar17 . Punjab18 . Assam19 . Jharkhand20 . Jammu and Kashmir#CoronaVirusUpdates:📍#COVID19 India Tracker(As on 15 April, 2021, 08:00 AM)➡️Confirmed cases: 1,40,74,564➡️Recovered: 1,24,29,564 (88.31%)👍 ➡️Active cases: 14,71,877 (10.46%)➡️Deaths: 1,73,123 (1.23%)#IndiaFightsCorona#Unite2FightCorona#StaySafe @MoHFW_INDIA pic.twitter.com/l7jXVuQSGEThe central government listed states/UTs in an order that ranks them as per the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases that have been reported. It was seen that there are eight states with more than five lakh confirmed Covid-19 cases. These, in descending order, are -- Maharashtra (35,78,160 cases), Kerala (11,89,175 cases), Karnataka (10,94,912 cases), Tamil Nadu (9,54,948 cases), Andhra Pradesh (9,37,049 cases), Delhi (7,67,438 cases), Uttar Pradesh (7,44,021 cases), and West Bengal (6,30,116 cases).Meanwhile, India reported over 2 lakh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike so far since the pandemic broke out. With over 2,00,739 cases recorded in the last 24 hours, the health ministry data shows that India's single-day spike went from 1 lakh over to over 2 lakh in just 10 days. The record surge in cases in a little more than a week comes in the backdrop of the deadlier second wave of Covid-19 that the country is now struggling with.India's cumulative Covid-19 case tally has now crossed the 14 million mark. The death toll, too, rose to 173,123 with more than 1,000 new fatalities recorded for the second in a row. According to the central government, India's cumulative vaccine coverage has crossed 11.43 crores, with 11,43,18,455 vaccine doses administered nationwide till 8pm on Wednesday.Also Read: India’s vaccine status: Here's a break up of state-wise doses||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-list-of-top-20-states-with-highest-covid-19-cases-101618456612876.html
15-04-2021||India||'People get old, they have to die': MP minister shocker on Covid-19 deaths||Madhya Pradesh minister Prem Singh Patel on Thursday delivered a shocker on deaths from coronavirus in the country and said that while nobody can stop the virus deaths from occurring, "people get old and have to die".The state minister was responding to a question on a surge in deaths caused by coronavirus disease. A video of his remark has been shared by news agency ANI."I agree that these deaths have occurred. No one can stop them (Covid-19 deaths). I am not the only one saying this. We have to cooperate (to fight the virus)," Patel said.Suggesting ways to fight the disease outbreak, Patel said that the issue has been discussed in the state assembly. People need to wear masks and maintain social distancing. "People should consult doctors. We have arranged for doctors as well," Patel told ANI.#WATCH: MP Minister Prem Singh Patel speaks on deaths due to #COVID19. He says, "Nobody can stop these deaths. Everyone is talking about cooperation for protection from Corona...You said that many people are dying every day. People get old and they have to die." (14.04.2021) pic.twitter.com/os3iILZGyM"You said that many people are dying every day. As far as deaths are concerned, with age people get old and they die," the minister said.Also read: India's single-day Covid-19 spike went from 1 lakh to over 2 lakh in just 10 daysAccording to a Free Press Journal report, Patel was handed the charge to oversee corona-related arrangements in a district by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday.In a never-seen-before pandemic outbreak, India has been gripped by the second wave of coronavirus which experts term ‘worsening’ and ‘highly infectious’. India on Thursday broke all its previous single-day spike and recorded the highest-single day jump of 2,00,739 cases of the Covid-19, which took the country’s total infection tally past 14 million, according to the latest figures released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The latest wave that shows no sign of receding has begun to overwhelm hospitals and crematoriums as states have started running out of resources and space to cremate the people succumbing to the virus.A substantial rise in the fatality rate has led to a rush of bodies in crematoriums and burial grounds in states like Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.In Bhopal, officials at the crematorium are struggling to dispose of bodies as these facilities have started facing several issues, including that of space crunch.The number of bodies being brought to the crematoriums or burial grounds has been witnessing a surge over the last few days, say the operators of these establishments."In the last four days, we have cremated 200 bodies, including those that needed to be disposed of as per Covid-19 protocols. Now, we have created a new such facility on two acres of land," said Mamtesh Sharma, secretary of the management committee of Bhadbhada Vishram Ghat, one of the biggest Hindu crematoriums in the state capital told PTI.Madhya Pradesh reported 51 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry's data released on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-get-old-they-have-to-die-mp-minister-shocker-on-covid-19-deaths-101618466407042.html
15-04-2021||India||Migrants returning to Uttar Pradesh must follow these Covid-19 guidelines||As India is witnessing a massive surge of Covid-19 cases, many migrants, fearing a complete lockdown like last year, are returning to their home states. The Uttar Pradesh’s additional chief health secretary on Thursday issued directives for the migrant workers coming to the state, news agency ANI reported.According to the notice cited by the agency, workers will be screened by administration of respective districts where they are going and those showing Covid-19 symptoms, but are not infected, will have to quarantine at home for 14 days while the asymptomatic ones need to remain in home quarantine for seven days.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Here’s a look at the protocols that need be followed to prevent coronavirus from spreading*The state government has asked district administrators to prepare a list of all migrant workers which will have their addresses and mobile numbers. The district authorities have been asked to take the every worker's signature against the details.UP Addl Chief Secy (Health) issues directions on quarantine of migrant workers returning to the state. Wworkers to be screened by dist admn. Those showing symptoms, but are not infected, will be sent to 14-day home quarantine, 7-day home quarantine for the asymptomatic ones. pic.twitter.com/DQG9D94oAM*Those migrant workers coming from other states who cannot quarantine at home will be kept in institutional quarantine.*If there is no provision for quarantining in rural areas, primary school or other available school building will be used for the purpose.*People in quarantine must ensure that they remain indoors and must compulsorily wear a face mask to cover the nose and mouth, the government order said. They must wash their hands with soap and water at regular intervals.*Only one family member of the person in quarantine will be allowed to step out to buy things for the house, according to the government order.*Those above 60 years of age, those with heart problems, and pregnant women are advised to maintain distance from the person in quarantine.*If the family violates the rules, then the district administration will be informed by the neighbours or a monitoring committee, which will have residents of the village as members. However, if the family faces social stigma, they must also inform the monitoring committee for necessary action.Other state governments have also taken steps to assist migrant families who are fearing losing their livelihood due to the second wave of Covid-19. The Jharkhand government has set up a control room to cater to migrants’ requirements and according to officials, there has been a drastic increase in the number of phone calls received by them, ANI reported. "They are fear-stricken and not able to make decisions. Some migrants have reported they have returned. Most calls are being received from Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, and Delhi," head of control room, Shikha Pankaj told the agency.Soon after the Maharashtra government announced that Section 144 will be imposed in the state, several migrant workers were found to be heading home. "Now that curfew has been imposed, what would we do here? What would we eat? We are leaving the city because we do not want to go through the pain we endured during the lockdown," Shivam Pandey, who hails from Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi, told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-returning-to-uttar-pradesh-must-follow-these-covid-19-guidelines-101618466989569.html
15-04-2021||India||Supreme Court orders CBI probe into 1994 espionage case against former ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan||The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the 1994 espionage case against former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist Nambi Narayanan.Narayanan has welcomed the federal agency probe into the alleged police conspiracy to implicate him in the case. "I am happy. I sought a central agency probe that led to the conspiracy that delayed the country's cryogenic project" the former ISRO scientist said in Thiruvananthapuram.The Supreme Court was hearing Centre’s plea seeking consideration of the report filed by a high-level committee regarding the role of erring police officials in the 1994 espionage case relating to Nambi Narayanan, who had been acquitted and was eventually awarded ₹50 lakh compensation by the top court in in 2018.On April 5, the Centre moved the top court seeking urgent hearing and consideration of the panel's report terming it as a “national issue”.A bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar accepted the report by the committee it had appointed and asked the CBI to carry out further investigation in the case, which involves allegations of transfer of certain confidential documents on India's space programme to foreign countries by two scientists and four others, including two Maldivian women.The court had appointed the panel on September 14, 2018 and directed the Kerala government to cough up ₹50 lakh compensation for compelling former ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan to undergo "immense humiliation".The committee was told to take appropriate steps against the culpable officials for causing "tremendous harassment" and "immeasurable anguish" to the scientist and had directed the Centre and state government to nominate one officer each in the panel, according to news agency PTI.The court had termed the police action against Nambi Narayanan a "psycho-pathological treatment" and said that his "liberty and dignity", basic to his human rights, were jeopardised as he was taken into custody and, eventually, was compelled to face "cynical abhorrence", according to the agency. The CBI, in its probe, had held that the then top police officials in Kerala were responsible for Narayanan's illegal arrest.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-orders-cbi-probe-into-1994-espionage-case-against-isro-scientist-nambi-narayanan-101618467694844.html
15-04-2021||India||Andamans Covid-19 tally climbs to 5,247; 38 fresh cases reported||Andaman and Nicobar Islands reported 38 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the coronavirus tally in the union territory to 5,247, an official said on Thursday.The Covid-19 death toll in the archipelago rose to 63 as one more person succumbed to the infection on Wednesday, the official said.All the new cases were detected in South Andaman district during contact tracing, he said.The union territory now has 106 active Covid-19 cases and all the patients are in South Andaman district. The other two districts North and Middle Andaman and Nicobar have no active Covid-19 cases, the official said.Twenty four more Covid-19 patients recovered from the disease on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 5,078, he said.The union territory administration has so far tested 3,43,431 samples for Covid-19 and the test positivity rate is 1.53 per cent.Information, Publicity and Tourism secretary of the union territory administration S K Singh said people not following the Covid-19 protocols is the major reason for the sudden surge in coronavirus cases in the archipelago.He said that there are no plans as of now to impose lockdown but Covid-19 protocols will be strictly enforced and action will be taken against violators.The secretary said more than 46,000 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the union territory so far and test, track and treat is our focus. The administration is also observing strict Covid-19 protocols for tourists. The administration demands a negative RT-PCR test done 48 hours prior to arrival in Port Blair. Tourists are also required to produce the negative test report before entering ferries and prominent hotels in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andamans-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-5-247-38-fresh-cases-reported-101618465920467.html
15-04-2021||India||Parliamentary panel’s Mumbai trip postponed amid rise in Covid cases||A six-day study trip of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Railways to Mumbai from April 24 has been postponed indefinitely due to rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. Saroj Pandey, a member of the panel, has also tested positive for the disease, according to a Parliament official.Also Read | BMC allows two 5-star hotels to be used for admitting non-critical patientsChief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday announced strict restrictions in Maharashtra from Wednesday to check the surge in the Covid-19 cases. The state is the worst hit by the pandemic.Gatherings of over four people have been barred in the state until May 1, and no person will be allowed in a public place without a valid reason. Only shops with essentials will be allowed to remain open.Thackeray rolled out a one-time ₹5,476 crore financial package for over 70 million daily wage earners, construction workers, tribals, street vendors, families below the poverty line, widows, and senior citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-s-mumbai-trip-cancelled-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-101618466578280.html
15-04-2021||India||India’s vaccine status: Here's a break up of state-wise doses||India had administered over 114 million coronavirus vaccine doses across the country by Wednesday evening, the fourth day of the Tika Utsav. More than 3.1 million doses were administered till 8pm on the day, as per the Union health ministry data.Interacting with governors and lieutenant governors over the pandemic on Wednesday, PM Narendra Modi also assured of adequate availability of vaccines. Last week, several states had claimed vaccine shortage, alleging the Centre was biased against non-BJP ruled states. To be sure, individual centres may run out of stock on account of how the states manage their replenishment.Also Read | Fears of big Covid-19 surge in Kerala after assembly polls, CM faces heatAs per HT dashboard, a total of 127,673,790 doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been received by states and UTs by Wednesday morning. Of these, 113,900,814 doses have already been administered (this figure includes wastage of doses), while another 13,772,976 remain with states and UTs as on Wednesday morning, according to government data accessed by HT. Another 13,760,850 doses, meanwhile, are in the pipeline.Maharashtra, the worst-hit state,received 12,962,470 doses and it consumed 11,164,812 of those [including wastage], leaving it with 1,797,658 in stock.The national Capital of Delhi got 2,970,710 doses and used up 2,468,658 doses.Chhattisgarh, which has been reporting the second-highest active caseload in the country, got 4,916,550 vaccine doses and reported consumption of 4,718,591 doses.Uttar Pradesh received 11,796,780 doses, it consumed 10,261,718 of them, and has 2,211,000 in the pipeline.Karnataka was sent 7,057,900 doses, it used up 6,662,337, and there are another 1,577,560 doses in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-vaccine-status-making-doses-count-101618465799113.html
15-04-2021||India||'Shubho Nabo Barsho': PM Modi extends greetings on Bengali New Year||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday took to his official handle on Twitter to extend greetings on the Bengali New Year and wished his followers "Subho Nabo Barsho" (Happy New Year) on the occasion of Poyla Boishakh, the first day of the Bengali calendar. He also shared a set of two graphics -- in Bengali and in English -- as well as a campaign video of the BJP for the ongoing West Bengal assembly polls, saying, "A New Year and a resolve for new beginnings and progress for the great land of West Bengal!"A New Year and a resolve for new beginnings and progress for the great land of West Bengal! pic.twitter.com/JYpwx6SxAyThe day, also known as Pehala Baishakh or Poila Baishak, is celebrated either on 14th or 15th April (depending on the lunisolar Bengali calendar) every year with traditional processions in West Bengal Tripura, and Assam, as well as in Bangladesh by people of Bengali-origin heritage.Also Read: Shubho Nabo Barsho 2021: Date and history of Pohela Boishakh or Bengali New YearThe Bengali New Year's graphic, signed by the Prime Minister, reads, "The love of life and the fervour of celebration that one sees in the people of Bengal are truly heartening. My heartfelt wishes to Bengalis in India and across the world on Poyla Boishakh."Greetings on Poyla Boishakh. Shubho Nabo Barsho! pic.twitter.com/ctH3S5WcMbThe auspicious day is marked by various cultural and art performances. People visit their relatives and greet each other saying "Shubho Noboborsho" as a mark of respect for the shared Bengali heritage, both in India as well as in Bangladesh. To celebrate the new year, Bengalis clean their house and decorate their front door with alpana, which is a painting done with a mixture of rice and flour. A notable event in Bangladesh on this day is the 'Mangal Shobhajatra', organised by the students and teachers of the Faculty of Fine Arts of Dhaka University, which takes place at dawn. The festivity was declared as a cultural heritage of humanity by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shubho-nabo-barsho-pm-modi-extends-greetings-on-bengali-new-year-101618463692398.html
15-04-2021||India||Fears of big Covid-19 surge in Kerala after polls, central minister demands action against CM for flouting norms||The government in Kerala has taken strict measures to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state. In capital Thiruvananthapuram, many areas have been declared containment zones.There are fears of big surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state after assembly elections where norms were flouted during campaigning. The positivity rate in the state has reached 13.45 per cent.The strict measures were put in place after chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan held a virtual review meeting on Thursday, a day after getting discharged from the hospital. Vijayan tested positive for Covid-19 on April 8 and was admitted to Government Medical College at Kozhikode.In a Facebook post after his discharge, Vijayan said the doctors and staff had provided the best possible care to him. Vijayan, the CPI(M) candidate from Dharmadam in Kannur, had travelled extensively throughout the state during the campaign for the April 6 assembly polls.Kerala health minister KK Shailaja denied reports that the chief minister flouted Covid-19 norms. The opposition has claimed that Vijayan developed Covid-19 symptoms two days before the assembly elections and suppressed the information."It is sad to whip up unnecessary controversies," said KK Shailaja. The minister also said it was not proper to blame assembly elections for the recent surge in Covid-19 cases.But the issue is far from over. Minister of state for external affairs and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader V Muraleedharan has sought action against Pinarayi Vijayan for flouting Covid-19 protocol."The blatant violation of #COVID19 protocols by @VijayanPinarayi & his daughter is a total disgrace. They let the entire state down and set a shameful example," Muraleedharan said on Twitter.The blatant violation of #COVID19 protocols by @VijayanPinarayi & his daughter is a total disgrace. They let the entire state down and set a shameful example. @narendramodi @AmitShah @JPNadda @surendranbjp @BJP4Keralam https://t.co/HDiS63m45sKerala logged 8,778 new Covid-19 cases and 22 related fatalities on Wednesday, taking the caseload to 11.89 lakh and the death toll to 4,836, according to state government bulletin. As many as 2,642 people were cured of the infection, taking the total number of recoveries to 11,25,775.Among the districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of 1,226 cases, followed by Kozhikode with 1,098 and Malappuram with 888.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fears-of-big-covid-19-surge-in-kerala-after-assembly-polls-cm-faces-heat-101618463280451.html
15-04-2021||India||India's single-day Covid-19 spike went from 1 lakh to over 2 lakh in just 10 days||India reported over 2 lakh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike so far since the pandemic broke out. The single-day spike of 2,00,739 cases comes a day after 1,84,372 Covid-19 cases were recorded on Wednesday in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data. The country had first clocked over 1 lakh Covid-19 cases in a single day on April 5, merely 10 days ago. The record surge in cases in a little more than a week comes in the backdrop of the deadlier second wave of Covid-19 that the country is now struggling with.Registering a steady increase for the 36th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 14,71,877 comprising 10.46 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 88.31 per cent.India's cumulative Covid-19 case tally has now crossed the 14 million mark, with the Union health ministry dashboard showing 14,074,564 cases at 8am on Thursday. Casualties rose to 173,123 with more than 1,000 new fatalities recorded for the second in a row. When India first clocked over 1 lakh Covid-19 cases on April 5, the nationwide infection tally was at 12,589,067. This time, however, it took merely 10 days to breach its earlier single-day spike record.More than 114 million vaccine doses have been administered, according to latest data from India’s health ministry.After seeing new infections ebb at the beginning of this year, Covid-19 cases in India began spiking up in March. The latest wave that shows no sign of receding has begun to overwhelm hospitals and crematoriums, triggered a shortage of vaccines and forced many part of the country to impose lockdown-like restrictions this month to break the chain of viral transmission.The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 and highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,24,29,564, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.23 per cent, the data stated.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.According to the ICMR, 26,20,03,415 samples have been tested up to April 14 with 13,84,549 samples being tested on Wednesday.Earlier this week, India fast-tracked approvals for Covid-19 vaccines already approved in some developed countries to have a wider pool of shots in a race to curb the outbreak. The move effectively opened the door to shots made by Pfizer Inc. and Moderna Inc., and came a day after the Narendra Modi-led government granted emergency use approval for Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine - third shot that can be used in the nation’s inoculation program.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-single-day-spike-went-from-1-lakh-to-over-2-lakh-in-just-10-days-101618459463326.html
15-04-2021||India||India may begin Sputnik vaccine import by May; start production around July||Russian made Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Sputnik V, is likely to be imported to India by the next month, according to people aware of the matter. The local production, through various tie-ups, could start by the end of June or early July, according to Kirill Dmitriev, CEO, Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia’s sovereign wealth fund that is marketing the vaccine globally. Dr Reddy’s Labs, that has the license to distribute the vaccine, on Tuesday received India’s drugs controller’s approval for import of the vaccine under restricted use in emergency situation, making it the third vaccine allowed for use in India against Covid-19. Also Read | Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to hold Covid-19 review meet with L-G Anil BaijalApart from partnership with Dr Reddy’s Labs that is conducting Sputnik V clinical trials locally, and have the distribution rights for the Russian vaccine, RDIF has entered manufacturing partnership with five other local companies for production.The companies are: Stelis Biopharma, Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec and Virchow Biotech.India will be producing at least 50 million doses of Sputnik V per month, over the next couple of months.“We are looking at producing 50 million doses or more a month of Sputnik V by this summer, or end of summer, in India. India has a significant production capacity; we have already announced tie-ups with five local companies for mass production of Sputnik V, and we intend to have several more tie-ups that will announce soon; likely in the next two weeks,” said Dmitriev.“The India trial of Sputnik V has shown a high level of immune response; also Sputnik has high-level of safety and efficacy profile in the real world, not only in Russia but also Argentina, Mexico and other countries where the vaccine is being used. Sputnik is one of the three vaccines with more than 90% efficacy,” he added. The vaccine’s efficacy is pegged at 91.6% based on the final assessment of clinical trials in Russia, where roughly 20,000 people were part of the phase 3 clinical trials. In India, the vaccine is being tested in 1,600 people in a phase 2/3 trial meant as a “bridging study” that all foreign-made pharmaceutical products need to undergo.He also said that the day approval was granted by the Indian government to Sputnik V (April 12) was significant as big space day for the Russians, for 16 years ago Russia’s Yuri Gagarin was the first cosmonaut to reach space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-begin-sputnik-vaccine-import-by-may-start-production-around-july-101618461897427.html
15-04-2021||India||India has administered over 114 million Covid vaccine doses||India had administered over 114 million coronavirus vaccine doses across the country by Wednesday evening, with Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh giving over 10 million doses on the day.An alarming rise in cases -- many states registerd their highest single-day spike -- also saw the Centre announce scrapping of this year’s CBSE class 10 boards while it postponed those of class 12.In all, 114,318,455 vaccine doses have been given in the country till now. This includes 9,063,976 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 5,603,568 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 10,209,443 frontline workers have had their first dose while 5,061,571 have got their second dose too.Also Read | India records over 200,000 new Covid-19 cases, more than 1,000 deaths in 24 hoursIn the 45-59-year age group, 37,334,924 people have got their first dose and another 894,077 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 43,413,349 people have been administered their first dose while 2,737,547 have had their second dose as well.As many as 3,139,063 vaccine doses were given on Wednesday till 8pm, as per the provisional report, on the fourth day of the Tika Utsav. Of this, 2,719,964 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 419,099 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.Notwithstanding the alarming surge in cases across the country, over a million people participated in the third shahi snan of Kumbh Mela in Haridwar while many senior politicians in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh tested positive for covid; the prominent ones being chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-114-million-covid-vaccine-doses-101618459856669.html
15-04-2021||India||India records over 2 lakh new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, more than 1,000 deaths reported for second consecutive day||As India’s trajectory of the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to witness an upward trend since the last month, the nation reported more than two lakh new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry updated at 8am on Thursday. The toll from the disease remained above 1,000 for the second day in a row.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here With 200,739 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest spike in a day, the total tally crossed the 14 million mark (14,074,564 to be exact), the ministry's update showed. The active cases too witnessed a massive jump of 106,173, taking the total caseload to 1471,877. As more grim figures are being reported each day, states have imposed restrictions on movement of people.“Ten States including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi,Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthanhave shown a rise in the COVID daily new cases. 82.04% of the new cases are reported from these 10 states,” the health ministry said in a statment on Wednesday.While Delhi, Haryana, and Gujarat have imposed a night curfew, Maharashtra, which is contributing the maximum number of daily cases, is not only observing night curfew and weekend lockdown but Section 144, which prohibits the assembly of more than five people, has also been imposed across the state during the daytime.Against the backdrop of the Covid-19 surge, the government on Monday decided to cancel the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) examinations for class 10 and has postponed them for students of class 12. The announcement came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting with education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' and other top officials.As the second wave of Covid-19 intensifies, the government has urged citizens, who eligible to take the coronavirus vaccine, to get shot as soon as possible.PM Modi also held a meeting with governors of states to discuss the ways to intensify Covid-19 fight against the second wave of infections. He called for combined power of community groups, political parties and NGOs to collaborate seamlessly with the state governments towards micro-containment.“The Prime Minister emphasised the significance of increasing tracking, tracing and testing, and said that RT-PCR testing needs to be increased from 60% to 70%. He said that it is pertinent to ensure that more and more people get tested,” according to a government statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-over-2-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-more-than-1-000-deaths-reported-for-second-consecutive-day-101618458877569.html
15-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi in a Covid-19 spiral amid calls for tighter curbs and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi in a Covid-19 spiral as experts call for tighter curbsThe number of new Covid-19 infections in the Capital soared past previous records, with 17,282 cases recorded in the 24 hours till Wednesday and the test positivity rate – a crucial proxy for outbreak severity – was higher than it had been in the city’s last two waves, bringing yet more signs that the crisis has taken an unprecedented turn and may now require stringent curbs. Read moreIPL 2021 | SRH vs RCB: Royal Challengers defeat Sunrisers Hyderabad by 6 runsRoyal Challengers Bangalore beat Sunrisers Hyderabad by six runs in the match number 6 of the Indian Premier League on Wednesday in Chennai. Watch hereGovernment weighs stimulus as virus surgesThe government may announce a stimulus package to ensure that the resurgence of Covid-19 does not derail the economic recovery that was underway before a surge in cases prompted states to impose restrictions. Read moreUP panchayat polls begin today: All you need to know about first phase of votingElections for the 58,189 village panchayats in Uttar Pradesh have started with polling in the first phase today amid strict protocols to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreWhen Sharmila Tagore's father blamed her for Tiger Pataudi dropping a catch: 'You shouldn't have kept him up all night'Veteran actor Sharmila Tagore has spoken about how not just Anushka Sharma, but she, too, was blamed for her cricketer husband's bad performance on field. However, it wasn't angry fans who accused her of distracting Tiger, but her own father. Read moreHina Khan wears beautiful chanderi yellow suit to wish fans Ramadan MubarakHina Khan recently took to her Instagram to wish her followers Ramadan Mubarak. For her first Roza, the gorgeous actor donned a bright yellow suit and looked like a ray of sunshine. Read moreKey Team India questions IPL 2021 can answerVirat Kohli got off the mark in IPL 2021 in a rather awkward manner. Against Trent Boult’s length ball on the stumps, the RCB captain leaned to play on the on-side but got a leading edge as the ball raced to the straight boundary. No matter how they came, he would have taken those runs any day. The demand of the format is such. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-in-a-covid-19-spiral-amid-calls-for-tighter-curbs-101618454465362.html
15-04-2021||India||With over 58,000 new cases, Maharashtra Covid tally reaches 3,578,160||Maharashtra recorded 58,952 fresh Covid-19 infections and 278 deaths, pushing the tally to 3,578,160 and toll to 58,804, the ninth straight day of over 50,000 new cases, even as the state began its 15-day curfew from 8pm on Wednesday.India’s worst-hit state continues to reel under the unprecedented Covid-19 surge, with a total of 765,094 cases recorded in the past 14 days. The spike has led to a sharp rise in active cases at 612,070 — 17.10% of the total infections.With a rising number of active cases, occupancy of beds in hospitals and Covid-19 centres is also increasing rapidly, but the state government is more worried about the lack of oxygen.Responding to the request of the state government for providing oxygen from the neighbouring states, the Centre has allowed them to get it from places including Haldia and Durgapur in West Bengal, Bokaro (Jharkhand), Rourkela (Odisha), Bhilai in Chhattisgarh, Bellary in Karnataka, and Hyderabad in Telangana.Also Read | ‘India’s double mutant could be considered a variant of concern’The government has appointed a committee of three IAS officers for procuring oxygen, said a senior official. Maharashtra produces around 1,200 metric tonnes of oxygen daily and has started consuming the entire production for medical purposes, owing to the increased demand from hospitals.“We will prefer bringing oxygen by railways, but will choose to bring it by road in 30- tonne tankers each if there is no other option left. Since some locations are too far, we have planned for it. For instance, oxygen coming from eastern states will be supplied in districts such as Nagpur, Amravati, while that from southern states will be used in Kolhapur, Osmanabad, Beed, and Nanded etc. This will reduce the travel time,” said Sitaram Kunte, chief secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-over-58-000-new-cases-maharashtra-covid-tally-reaches-3578160-101618455716333.html
15-04-2021||India||Rajnath Singh to inaugurate 3-day IAF commanders’ conference today||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh will on Thursday inaugurate the Indian Air Force’s (IAF) commander’s conference at its headquarters (Vayu Bhawan) in Delhi. The conference, which will take place for three days, is aimed at addressing issues regarding IAF’s operational capabilities in the near future, according to a defence ministry statement.The conference will be attended by the air officers commanding-in-chief of all commands of IAF, all principal staff officers and all director generals posted at the air headquarters.During the course of these three days, several discussions will take place to address strategies and policies related to capabilities that would give the Air Force a significant edge over its adversaries, the defence ministry statement said, adding that talks will be held on multiple welfare and human resource measures to improve the administrative efficiency of the IAF.The conference will also see top commanders of the IAF conducting a comprehensive review of all the security challenges India is facing including the recent border standoff with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh, news agency PTI reported quoting officials on Monday.Also Read| Disengage from friction points, Army tells ChinaThe above mentioned officials stated that the conference will discuss the current situation in Eastern Ladakh, the site of the Sino-India border standoff apart from the IAF’s capabilities to deal with any situation along the LAC.India and China have been engaged in a border standoff for more than 11 months. Armies of both the countries are currently negotiating the withdrawal of troops from friction points at the disputed border.The eleventh round of talks were held on April 10 on the Indian side of the Chushul-Moldo meeting point and lasted for 13 hours. After the meeting got over, army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand told Hindustan Times on April 11 that Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army saw a detailed exchange of views for the resolution of the remaining issues related to the disengagement along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-inaugurate-3-day-iaf-commanders-conference-today-101618455555589.html
15-04-2021||India||CBSE decision on board exams: What states are doing||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday announced its decision to cancel class 10 exams and deferring class 12 board examination. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi where Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal and other officials were present.The step was taken in view of a steep nationwide surge in Covid-19 cases. These exams were originally scheduled to be held in May and June.PM Modi said that the well-being of students was the top priority for the government.But before the CBSE order, many state governments had taken similar decisions. While Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh and Maharashtra have postponed their state board exams, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh said they are monitoring the Covid-19 situation.Karnataka said it will conduct the exams as scheduled. Meghalaya too said it is ready to hold the state board exams for class 12 but will take a decision on class 10 exams after a review of the Covid-19 situation is completed.In Maharashtra, the state worst hit by the coronavirus disease pandemic, the state government on Monday announced the postponement of state board exams for classes 10 and 12, which were scheduled to be held later this month. State school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Wednesday that they will study and discuss the CBSE's move of cancelling its class 10 exam before taking any such decision.In Madhya Pradesh, the exams are likely to be conducted from the first week of June and the board will soon issue a new amended schedule, according to a spokesperson.Chhattisgarh government had earlier put off class 10 exams which were scheduled to begin on April 15.Tamil Nadu too had cancelled class 10 exams in February.The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), the other prominent national board besides the CBSE, said it will soon decide on conducting class 10 and 12 board exams."We are reviewing the situation and will soon take a decision in this regard," CICSE chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon told news agency PT on Wednesday.This is the first time that the CBSE has completely cancelled the board exams and it will affect over 21 lakh students across the country.Last year, the board exams were partly cancelled because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Students were evaluated based on internal assessment.India is seeing a resurgence of Covid-19 positive cases in 16 states. The total number of active cases in India has increased to 13,65,704. Schools have been closed again in 11 states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-decision-on-board-exams-what-states-are-doing-101618453933381.html
15-04-2021||India||2nd ISJK operative arrested in Jammu within 10 days||Jammu and Kashmir Police have arrested an alleged operative of the Islamic State of Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK) from the outskirts of Jammu city late on Wednesday night. Aqib Bashir Parrey alias Assadullah, a resident of the Unisoo area of Handwara in Kashmir, is the second ISJK terrorist to have been arrested in the past few days. A senior police officer claimed that with his arrest, a major plan of the terror outfit in Jammu has been foiled. The arrests come ahead of the annual Amarnath Yatra, scheduled from June 28.“He was working as an ISJK operative in Kashmir on the direction of his ISJK commanders,” said the officer, who didn’t wish to be named. ISJK is inspired by the international terrorist organisation, the Islamic State, and is linked to Pakistan, as per the National Investigation Agency (NIA).Earlier on April 4, Jammu Police along with the Special Operation Group (SOG) arrested one ISJK terrorist with one pistol, eight rounds and cash worth ₹1,13,000.“On the basis of specific inputs, Special Operation Group (SOG) Jammu laid a Naka at Jhajjar Kotli area of Jammu on Jammu-Srinagar national highway and during the checking of vehicles at around 1900 hours (7pm) on Wednesday, one person tried to flee from the spot. He was chased upon and apprehended, from whom, huge cash, one pistol and eight rounds were recovered concealed in a bag he was carrying,” an official statement said.“During the enquiry, the accused has been identified as Malik Umaid alias Abdullah, son of Abdul Rashid Malik of Yaripora in Kulgam, who had received a delivery of weapon and cash to further carry out terror strikes in Jammu and Kashmir. In this regard, a case FIR No 53/2021 u/s 13,17,20 & 23 ULA(P) Act had been registered in Police Station Jhajjar Kotli and investigation was taken up, the police said then. EOM....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-isjk-operative-arrested-in-jammu-within-10-days-101618454156106.html
15-04-2021||India||UP panchayat polls begin today: All you need to know about first phase of voting||Elections for the 58,189 village panchayats in Uttar Pradesh have started with polling in the first phase today amid strict protocols to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The second, third and fourth phase will witness polling on April 19, April 26 and April 29 respectively. Counting of votes will be done on May 2.These panchayat elections are crucial ahead of the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh next year.Here is all you need to know about the first phase of voting in the UP panchayat elections:1. Polling for the first phase will take place across 18 districts including Ayodhya, Agra, Kanpur, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Jaunpur and Jhansi. Voters will exercise their franchise by the means of paper ballot. The timings of polling are from 7am to 6pm.2. More than 333,000 candidates are in the fray this time in over 221,000 seats for the posts of zila panchayat (district council) members, kshetra (block) panchayat members, village panchayat heads and wards.3. A total of 11,442 candidates from 779 wards are in the fray for the post of zila panchayat members. For kshetra panchayat, 81,747 candidates are contesting in 19,313 wards. There are 114,142 candidates for 14,789 posts of the gram panchayat and 126,613 candidates for 186,583 seats for the gram panchayat wards.4. At the time of casting votes, all voters will be required to wear face masks, sanitise their hands and ensure social distancing at all times, as per the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the state election commission (SEC) in late March. Polling booths will be sanitised and voters and polling staff will be thermally screened.5. The commission also said that not more than five people will be permitted to accompany a candidate during door-to-door campaigning.6. Additional election commissioner Ved Prakash Verma had earlier stated that all Covid-related protcols will be adhered to during the time of counting on May 2 and PPE kits will also be provided as per requirement.7. The top contenders in this year’s panchayat polls are the Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP). Three other parties - the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and Bhim Army chief Chandra Shekhar Aazad’s Azad Samaj Party - are making a debut in this year’s panchayat polls. The AIMIM has joined hands with the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uppanchayat-polls-begin-today-all-you-need-to-know-about-first-phase-of-voting-101618453103143.html
15-04-2021||India||No in-flight meals in journeys less than 2 hours from today: All you need to know||The passengers taking flights which have a duration of less than two hours won't be getting any meal onboard from Thursday, as a government order comes into effect. The directive was issued by the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) on Monday.The meals, however, will be made available in flights flying for more than two hours as long as the airlines use disposable cutlery and serve only pre-packed food, the ministry clarified.As domestic flights resumed on May 25 last year after the nationwide lockdown, the MoCA had allowed the airlines to serve in-flight meals under certain conditions. The ministry said it decided to review the on-board meal services in domestic flights due to the "the increasing threat of Covid-19 and its variants," news agency PTI reported. All three coronavirus variants of the UK, South Africa and Brazil demonstrated increased transmissibility, as reported by the World Health Organization, the ministry added.Here’s everything you need to know about the new rules:*To curb the spread of Covid-19, no meals will be served aboard domestic flights with a flight duration lesser than two hours.*In case of a flight with duration of more than two hours, tray set-up, plates and cutlery will be completely disposable with no re-use, or cleaned and disinfected rotables will be used.*Used disposable trays crockeries/cutleries shall not be re-used. Used rotables shall be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected before re-use.*In all classes, tea, coffee,alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverage services will be in disposable cans containers, bottles, or glasses. There will be no pouring service and beverages will be served in single-use disposable units.*All used disposable and reusable meal trays, plates, cutleries, beverages bottles, cans and glasses will be disposed of in the trash bags and carts by the crew, at the end of the meal service. The crew shall wear a fresh set of gloves for every meal beverage service.*The passengers would be informed of the practices for strict compliance before the start of catering services by way of passenger announcements.*The servicing of in-flight meals will be staggered among the adjacent seats as far as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-in-flight-meals-in-journeys-less-than-2-hours-from-today-all-you-need-to-know-101618451908252.html
15-04-2021||NA||Covid-19 LIVE updates: Jharkhand logs 3,480 new cases, tally goes past 150,000||India's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) breached the 200,000-mark on Thursday with 200,739 new cases reported in the last 24 hours, the highest single day spike since the beginning of the pandemic last year. More than 1,000 deaths were reported for a second consecutive day, according to the data from the Union health ministry's dashboard. The country's caseload has now climbed to 14,074,564 including 1,471,877 active cases, 12,429,564 discharges and 173,123 deaths, the data showed.Uttar Pradesh and Delhi on Wednesday reported the highest number of Covid disease cases since the beginning of the pandemic last year.Uttar Pradesh saw 20,510 new cases which pushed the overall tally to 744,021. The active caseload of UP breached the 100,000-mark with 111,835 cases. The state government on Thursday extended night curfew timings from 8pm to 7am in Noida, Lucknow, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Kanpur Nagar and Gorakhpur.Delhi recorded 17,282 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 767,438. Amid the sharp spike in the Capital's Covid-19 tally, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a weekend curfew will be imposed in Delhi. Those employed in essential services will be issued passes, all gyms, malls and auditoriums will be closed, Kejriwal said while addressing an emergency press briefing. Dining is restaurants is not allowed and only home delivery of food will be available, the chief minister added.As infections and deaths have been spiking across states and Union Territories (UTs) under the second wave of the coronavirus disease, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday held a meeting with the governors and lieutenant governors (L-Gs) of all states and UTs where he suggested that governors "can actively engage to ensure that social institutions collaborate seamlessly with the state governments towards micro containment," according to a statement.Follow all the updates here:Jharkhand reports 3,480 new Covid-19 cases, 28 deathsJharkhand reports 3,480 new COVID19 cases and 28 deaths; case tally at 1,51,272, death toll at 1,320 pic.twitter.com/BIqaF8Ua2EWith 3,480 new Covid-19 cases and 28 deaths, Jharkhand's cases tally reached 151,272 and the death toll climbed to 1,320, reports ANI.Pune reports 9,956 new Covid-19 cases, 114 deaths in last 24 hoursMaharashtra: Pune district reports 9,956 new cases, 8,175 recoveries, and 114 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 98,859Total cases: 6,85,970Total recoveries: 5,76,177Death toll: 11,103 pic.twitter.com/oP1v6pjUOPPune's Covid-19 tally and death toll reached 685,970 and 11,103 respectively, after the district reported 9,956 new cases and 114 deaths in last 24 hours, reports ANI.Over 2.6 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered on Thursday, cumulative coverage over 117 million doses#IndiaFightsCoronaMore than 26.02 lakh #COVID19 #vaccine doses given till 8 pm push Cumulative #Vaccine Coverage to more than 11.70 Cr doses.#Unite2FightCorona #StaySafe Details: https://t.co/bWKZfRlsUC pic.twitter.com/iOQK3dqVw3Under the Covid-19 vaccination drive more than 2.6 million doses of the vaccine have been administered on Thursday, the government said.'Only 200 people allowed in religious and social gatherings': Uttarakhand chief secretaryMovement of people restricted during night curfew from 10:30 pm to 5 am. Persons over 65 years of age and pregnant women and children below 10 years of age are advised not to leave the house: Om Prakash, Uttarakhand Chief SecretaryUttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash said that only 200 people would be allowed in religious and social gatherings in the state while public transport, gyms would operate at 50 per cent capacity, reports ANI.Haryana reports 5,858 new Covid-19 cases, 18 deaths in last 24 hoursHaryana reports 5,858 new #COVID19 positive cases, 2,743 recoveries & 18 deaths in the last 24 hours. The total number of cases stands at 3,35,800 pic.twitter.com/ervEanskvtHaryana reported 5,858 new Covid-19 cases and 18 deaths in last 24 hours as the state's tally reached 335,800 and death toll reached 3,334, reports ANI.Maharashtra reports 61,695 new Covid-19 cases, 349 deathsWith 61,695 new Covid-19 cases and 349 deaths, Maharashtra's cases tally reached 3,639,855 and the death toll reached 59,153.Mumbai reported 8,209 new cases as the cases tally reached 553,404 and 50 new fatalities pushed the city's death toll to 12,197.West Bengal reports 6,769 new Covid-19 cases, 22 deaths in last 24 hoursWest Bengal reports 6,769 fresh #COVID19 cases, 2,387 recoveries and 22 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 6,36,885Active cases: 36,981Death toll: 10,480Total recoveries: 5,89,424 pic.twitter.com/M9CJefMNyRWest Bengal reported 6,769 new Covid-19 cases and 22 deaths in last 24 hours taking the state's tally to 636,885 and death toll to 10,480, reports ANI.Delhi reports 16,699 new Covid-19 cases, 112 deaths; active caseload moves close to 55,000-markDelhi reports 16,699 new #COVID19 cases, 112 deaths and 13,014 recoveries in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 54,309Total cases: 7,84,137Total recoveries: 7,18,176Death toll: 11,652 pic.twitter.com/8vcX4IUndqDelhi reported 16,699 new Covid-19 cases and 112 fatalities in last 24 hours, taking the city's tally to 784,137 and death toll to 11,652, reports ANI.Covid-19: 11-day lockdown to be imposed in Bijapur from April 16, essential services to be exemptedChhattisgarh | Due to upsurge in #COVID19 cases, an 11-day lockdown will be imposed in Bijapur district from April 16 to 26. Essential services exempted, their operations to be unrestricted: Collector Bijapur Ritesh AgarwalBijapur district collector said that a 11-day lockdown would be imposed in the district between April 16 and 26 due to rising Covid-19 cases. He also said that essential services would be exempted, reports ANI.Tamil Nadu reports 7,987 new Covid-19 cases, 29 deaths; tally goes past 960,000Tamil Nadu reports 7,987 new #COVID19 cases, 4,176 recoveries and 29 deaths. Total cases: 9,62,935Total recoveries: 8,91,839Active cases: 58,097Deaths: 12,999 pic.twitter.com/P6bpeOB4e2Tamil Nadu reported 7,987 new Covid-19 cases and 29 deaths, taking the state's tally to 962,935 and death toll to 12,999, reports ANI.Govt postpones NEET PG 2021 exams as Covid-19 cases surge, new dates to be decided laterIn light of the surge in #COVID19 cases,GoI has decided to postpone #NEETPG2021 exam which was earlier scheduled to be held on Apr 18Next date to be decided later Decision has been taken keeping wellbeing of our young medical students in mind.@PMOIndia @MoHFW_INDIA #NEETPGUnion health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan announced that the NEET PG 2021 exams have been postponed by the government due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. He also said that the next dates would be decided later.Nagpur reports 5,813 new Covid-19 cases, 74 deaths in last 24 hoursMaharashtra: 5,813 new #COVID19 cases, 74 deaths and 4,634 recoveries reported in Nagpur in the last 24 hours  Total cases: 2,99,849Total recoveries: 2,32,705Active cases: 61,110Death toll: 6034With 5,813 new Covid-19 cases and 74 deaths in last 24 hours, Nagpur's cases tally reached 299,849 and death toll climbed to 6,034, reports ANI.Karnataka reports another record single-day spike in Covid-19 infections with 14,738 casesKarnataka reports 14,738 new COVID19 positive cases, 3,591 discharges and 66 deaths.Total positive cases: 11,09,650Total discharges: 9,99,958Death toll: 13,112Active cases: 96,561 pic.twitter.com/5eYtM4C2zrWith 14,738 new Covid-19 infections, Karnataka reported its highest single-day spike. Cases tally reached 1,109,650 and death toll climbed to 13,112 with 66 new deaths, reports ANI.Andhra Pradesh reports 5,086 new Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths in last 24 hoursAndhra Pradesh reports 5,086 new #COVID19 cases, 1,745 recoveries and 14 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 9,42,135Death toll: 7,353Total recoveries: 9,03,072Active cases: 31,710 pic.twitter.com/hE0uaF34RlWith 5,086 new Covid-19 cases and 14 fatalities, Andhra Pradesh's cases tally reached 942,135 and death toll climbed to 7,353, reports ANI.Goa reports 757 new Covid-19 cases, tally moves close to 65,000-markCOVID19 | Goa reports 757 new COVID19 cases and 5 deaths today; case tally at 64,572 pic.twitter.com/uVF6AKsnRuWith 757 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths, cases tally in Goa reached 64,572, according to a bulletin from the state government.Uttar Pradesh reports yet another record single-day spike, logs 22,439 new Covid-19 casesUP reports 114 coronavirus deaths and 22,439 fresh cases, highest single-day spikes: OfficialsUttar Pradesh reported 22,439 new Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day spike and 114 fatalities, reports PTI.Kerala health minister denies allegations of Covid-19 protocol violation on CM VijayanDon't know on what basis did he make such allegations. Kerala CM hasn't violated any #COVID19 protocols. His daughter tested positive on Apr 6 on voting day, CM cast his vote prior to it. How could have anyone known that he'd test positive on Apr 8?: Kerala Health Min KK Shailaja pic.twitter.com/m8fpyX6ZyiKerala health minister KK Shailaja has denied allegations of Covid-19 protocol violations on chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, earlier made by BJP' V Muraleedharan, reports ANI.Delhi HC allows 50 people to offer Namaz at first floor of Nizamuddin Markaz, says other religious places also openDelhi high court allowed 50 people to offer namaz five times a day at the first floor of the Markaz building. It also pointed out that other religious places are open and this should not be closed.Kerala minister VS Sunil Kumar tests Covid-19 positive for second time in 7 monthsKerala Agriculture Minister V S Sunil Kumar says he has tested positive for COVID-19 for second time in seven monthsKerala agriculture minister VS Sunil Kumar has tested positive for Covid-19 for the second time in seven months, reports PTI.Odisha government suspends class 10, 12 board exams; all class 9, 11 students to be promotedCM Naveen Patnaik orders suspension of all 10th & 12th board exams in the state in view of COVID situation. All students of Class 9 & 11 in academic year 2020-21 will be prompted to the 10th and 12th standards respectively. They do not have to take any tests for this: Odisha CMOOdisha government has suspended the board exams for class 10 and 12 due to rising Covid-19 infections. Also, class 9 and 11 students to be promoted without any tests, reports ANI.Uddhav Thackeray write to PM Modi suggesting Covid-19 measures to undertakeMaharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray writes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggesting various measures to be undertaken in view of the #COVID19 pandemic. pic.twitter.com/maXtfDdlR6Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray write to prime minister Narendra Modi suggesting various Covid-19 related measures to be undertaken, reports ANI.Gujarat government postpones Class 10, 12 board exams, new dates to be announced after May 15In the wake of #COVID19 pandemic, Gujarat Govt decides to postpone Class 10 & 12 board examinations, scheduled to be held between May 10 to 25 & mass promotion for students of std 1 to 9 & 11. New dates to be announced after reviewing coronavirus situation on May 15: Gujarat CMOGujarat government postpones Class 10 and 12 board exams due to increasing Covid-19 cases and the new dates would be released after a review on May 15, reports ANI.Night curfew timings extended from 8pm to 7am in Noida, Lucknow, Varanasi and 5 UP districts as Covid cases soarThe Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday extended night curfew timings from 8pm to 7am in Noida, Lucknow, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Kanpur Nagar and Gorakhpur.The extension comes in the backdrop of Uttar Pradesh adding 20,510 new Covid disease cases- the highest single day spike since beginning of pandemic last year.Madhya Pradesh to rush Remdesivir to many districts by airAs the cases and deaths of the coronavirus deaths are spiking in Madhya Pradesh, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led state government will quickly supply Remdesivir injections from Indore to various other districts, an official told news agency PTI. Two hundred boxes containing 9,264 injections arrived at the Indore airport of which 42 boxes will go to Bhopal, 39 to Jabalpur, 19 to Gwalior and 18 to Rewa, the official added.Theft of Covaxin doses from Rajasthan hospital serious situation: BJP's Satish PooniaRajasthan Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Dr Satish Poonia on Thursday sharpened his attack on the Congress-led state government over the theft of Covaxin doses from the cold storage of a hospital in the capital city Jaipur on Tuesday. Read moreCurfew passes to be issued for those in essential services: Delhi CM KejriwalKejriwal said that those employed in essential services will be issued passes during the weekend curfew.No shortage of beds in Delhi hospitals, says CM KejriwalDuring the emergency press briefing, CM Kejriwal also said there is no shortage of beds in all hospitals of the national capital adding more than 5,000 beds are available.As Covid cases spike, Kejriwal govt announces weekend curfew in DelhiDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Thursday that a weekend curfew will be imposed in the national capital amid a spike in Covid disease cases. Addressing an emergency presser over the overall Covid situation, Kejriwal said all gyms, malls and auditoriums will be closed. Cinemas are allowed to function at 30 per cent capacity.The CM also added that dining is restaurants is not allowed and only home delivery of food will be available.Cancelling Tokyo Olympics due to Covid remains a possibility: Japanese politicianSecretary-General of Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga's first cabinet Toshihiro Nikai said on Thursday the cancellation of Tokyo Olympics due to the Covid-19 pandemic remains a possibility and it must be cancelled 'without hesitation' if the overall situation is severe, reports AFP.Thailand records highest ever-single day spike of 1,543 new Covid-19 casesThailand on Thursday registered the highest single-day spike of 1,543 new Covid-19 cases since the beginning of the pandemic last year, taking the caseload to 37,453. The country is currently witnessing a third wave of the disease. However, no fresh deaths were reported on Thursday and the death toll stands at 97.Telangana's Covid caseload nearing 340,000; 3,307 new cases addedTelangana reported 3307 new #COVID19 cases, 897 recoveries and 8 deaths on 14th April. Total cases 3,38,045Total recoveries 3,08,396Death toll 1788Active cases 27,861 pic.twitter.com/y4R5IlEnYDTelangana added 3,307 new Covid-19 disease cases, eight more deaths and 897 discharges, taking the caseload to 338,045, according to the state health department's bulletin. The active cases have climbed to 27,861 while nearly 309,000 people have recovered till now.India's single-day spike went from 1 lakh to over 2 lakh in just 10 daysIndia reported over 2 lakh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike so far since the pandemic broke out. The single-day spike of 2,00,739 cases comes a day after 1,84,372 Covid-19 cases were recorded on Wednesday in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data. Read moreMaharashtra's Thane logs 5,566 new Covid-19 cases, 33 more deathsThane recorded 5,566 new Covid-19 disease cases, taking the district's caseload to 395,690, an official told news agency PTI on Thursday. 33 more succumbed to the disease and the death toll has climbed to 6,794, the official said adding the mortality rate is at 1.71 per cent.India's daily Covid cases breach 200,000-mark; 1,038 more deaths recordedIndia's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) breached the 200,000-mark on Thursday with 200,739 new cases reported in the last 24 hours, the highest single day spike since the beginning of the pandemic last year. More than 1,000 deaths were reported for a second consecutive day, according to the data from the Union health ministry's dashboard294 active Covid cases, 15 deaths reported in prisons across MaharashtraPrisons across the state of Maharashtra have reported 284 active cases of the Covid-19 disease till now of which 198 are inmates and remaining 86 are members of jail staff, according to news agency ANI. Seven inmates and eight jail staff have succumbed to the infection till now and 1,326 inmates and 3,112 jail staff have been administered vaccine doses. 29,426 fresh Covid-19 cases push Germany's caseload to over 3.07 millionGermany's tally of the coronavirus disease cases climbed to 3,073,442 on Thursday after 29,426 fresh cases were reported, according to data shared by the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases. Nearly 300 people succumbed to the disease on Thursday taking the death toll to 79,381, the data showed. European Union to get 50 million doses of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine earlier than expectedThe European Union (EU) said on Wednesday it is expected 50 million doses of the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine earlier than expected. The doses were initially expected to arrive in the later part of this year. Brazil registers 73,513 new Covid-19 cases, 3,459 more deathsBrazil continued to register more than 3,000 deaths due to the coronavirus disease with 3,459 deaths added on Wednesday, according to data released by the country's health ministry. 73,513 fresh cases pushed the tally to 13,673,507, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-april-15-2021-101618446839322.html
15-04-2021||India||Number Theory: Are more people dying in India’s second wave?||The most important target in dealing with any pandemic is to keep the number of people dying from the disease as low as possible. This has been repeatedly stressed by the government as the primary target of India’s handling of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.As the country’s second Covid-19 wave continues to push daily case numbers up to record levels, daily deaths have also started increasing, though currently they remain below peak levels seen in the first wave.What does this mean? Some say it shows that the second wave is not as dangerous as the first. But a deeper look at some crucial indicators for Covid-19 fatalities shows that India may be on the cusp of an alarming trend of deaths.First, a ‘base’ CFR that can serve as a comparison pointOverall, of the 13,686,024 people infected across the country till Monday night, 171,108 people lost their lives to Covid-19. This places the country’s overall case fatality rate (CFR) at just a shade under 1.3%. However, in the initial months of the outbreak, a larger proportion of people were dying as doctors across the world took time to narrow down on effective treatments, and the health infrastructure was in the process of being strengthened. As a result, India’s CFR has steadily been improving – it was 3% till the end of June; it improved to 1.6% by the end of September. In the six months before the start of the second wave (from September 2020 to January 2021), only around 1.1% of cases resulted in deaths (there were 70.8 million cases and nearly 76,000 deaths). This 1.1% is a good comparison point. It is recent, and it is from a time when cases were declining.So, are more people dying in the 2nd wave?The 1.1% base CFR can be used as a yardstick to compare the death rate during India’s second wave.In order to see if the second wave has had a lower death rate, HT plotted the seven-day average of deaths (with a 14-day lag) against the seven-day average of cases since October 1, 2020, at a ratio of 0.011:1 (as the CFR since October is 1.1%). Any deviation from the 1.1% CFR would be visible in such a chart – the target would be to keep the line representing daily deaths below the line for daily cases.To be sure, all death calculations and CFRs used in this analysis have assumed a 14-day lag between cases being reported and deaths occurring. This is because a February 2020 study showed that the median time between someone testing positive for Covid and their death is around 13.8 days.We see that the death trajectory is nearly identical to the case trajectory in the second wave for new cases occurring till the first week of March. But from there on, things take a turn for the worse: deaths are rising faster than cases. This gap, if anything, appears to be getting worse by the day.After a long gap, the CFR has again started risingFor a period that lasted over four months – from the start of December till the end of March – the CFR for any week remained at 1% or below. The 1%-mark, incidentally, is significant because officials from the Union government have repeatedly stressed that their eventual goal is to bring the country’s CFR for Covid-19 to 1% or below, a number that is impressive for a country this size.However, this trend did not last long. With the start of the second wave, CFR started to climb again. Accounting for the two-week lag in deaths, 1.1% of the people who got infected in the week ending March 8 ended up dying. In the two weeks that followed, the CFR was 1.2%. Then, 1.3% of the people who were infected in the week ending March 29 ended up dying.If this trend of a CFR of 1.3% continues , it would mean that India is set to touch a record number of daily deaths. In the two corresponding weeks, there have been 548,698 (for week ending April 5) and 937,428 (for week ending April 12) cases. This would mean that 1,019 people may die every day across India in the coming week, and 1,741, in the week after. India’s death toll has never been this high – at the peak of the first wave, the seven-day average of daily deaths touched 1,169 for the week ending September 16.Can any factor cause deaths to soar even further?Simply put, yes. The number of active cases – those Covid-19 patients who have tested positive and are under treatment at a given point of time – in a region is crucial in determining the load that a health care system is bearing. The higher this number, the more hospitals and doctors get burdened and the more resources such as ventilators and hospital beds get stretched.As of April 12, there are 1,264,430 active cases of Covid-19 in the country – the highest this number has ever been. This means that currently the health care system in the country is bearing a load of cases that it has never witnessed. An even more worrying trend is that this number is rising at the fastest rate ever recorded. On average, 67,951 active cases have been added to the national tally every day in the past week – the highest ever. This number has nearly doubled in a week (it was 35,214 a week ago).This means that the health care system in the country is stretched the most since the start of the outbreak, and conditions are getting worse by the day. If this trend continues, it may result in an increase to the already rising CFR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/are-more-people-dying-in-india-s-second-wave-101618432869598.html
15-04-2021||India||Telangana, Andhra log steep rise in Covid-19 cases in 2 weeks||Health department officials of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have sounded a high alert with the rapid increase in the number of positive cases for Covid-19 in the last few days. According to an official bulletin from the Telangana state medical and health department on Wednesday, as many as 2,157 new positive cases and eight deaths were recorded by Tuesday night. The total number of active cases in the state, which was just 6,159 on April 1, went up to 25,459 by Tuesday night – a steep rise by 19,300 cases in less than two weeks. “The infection is spreading at an alarming rate and if this trend continues, Telangana may have to face a Maharashtra-like situation in a few weeks. At present, we are managing to accommodate the patients in both government and private hospitals but if we don’t take precautions, we may not be able to provide bed facilities in the coming days,” director of medical and health department G Srinivasa Rao said. He said the only way to prevent this spread of the disease is to strictly follow Covid-19 guidelines and avoid moving in public places. He suggested that people should wear face masks even when they were at home. State minister for health Eatala Rajender, who held a teleconference with the department officials and doctors, said there was no dearth of beds in the government hospitals and in private hospitals, there were nearly 14,000 beds available. He appealed to the private hospitals not to reject patients who were in need of beds. The highest number of 361 cases was reported in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, while 241 positive cases were reported from the neighbouring Medchal-Malkajgiri district and 206 positive cases from Rangareddy. In Andhra Pradesh, the situation is more alarming. For the last two days, the number of positive cases for Covid-19 has crossed the 4,000-mark. On Wednesday morning, as many as 4,157 people tested positive for the virus and 18 deaths were reported from different parts of the state. The total number of active cases in the state was 28,383 as on Wednesday, as against 8,142 on April 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-andhra-log-steep-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-2-weeks-101618431833852.html
15-04-2021||India||‘India’s double mutant could be considered a variant of concern’||The so-called “double mutation” coronavirus found in India can be considered a variant of concern (VOC) because of its significant spread and how some of the mutations are known to behave, India’s principal scientific adviser K VijayRaghavan said in an interview on Wednesday.VijayRaghavan’s remarks represent the first time a top government official has said that the variant, since designated the code B.1.617, is a cause for concern after government officials said last month that it was too early to believe the mutation was driving the surge or causing repeat infections.“It’s reasonable to say that the variant (the “double mutation” variant) is of concern because it has been found in a significant number of people. And it’s not just because it’s been found in a certain number of people but we know that these particular mutations have (also) got physiological effects on our context,” he said, while adding that Indian scientists are carrying out further tests to determine exact biological consequences.The double mutation refers to specific changes, among some others, that are denoted by E484Q (glutamate is replaced by glutamine at the 484th spot of the spike protein) and L452R (substitution of leucine with arginine at the 452nd position). Both these mutations are being investigated for giving the virus an ability to evade immunity from a past infection, even vaccines.On March 24, the Union health ministry said the variant was found in over 200 samples sent from Maharashtra, which became the first hot spot region during the second nationwide wave that began that month. Till about April 7, Maharashtra alone was accounting for more than half of the new cases being recorded in the country, prompting experts to suspect that the variant may be to blame.VijayRaghavan added that vaccines are likely to still offer protection from variants of concern. “The vaccines at hand sometimes offer reduced protection to mild and moderate disease but they still afford protection to severe disease,” he said.The official also spoke on the government’s recent decision to make it easier for vaccines developed outside to seek authorisation in India as long as they have been approved by certain western countries, Japan or the World Health Organization.VijayRaghavan said he expects the single dose vaccine by Johnson & Johnson to become available under this route first. “In practice, given global supplies and commitment, we are going to see in India pretty much very soon the Johnson and Johnson vaccine, and the Novavax, when it gets approval elsewhere, coming in,” he said, while adding that the mRNA vaccines by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna may face difficulties since they are already stretched on supply commitments. J&J’s vaccine has already received approvals in several of these regions, although its use is currently under pause in the US while regulators look into blood clots forming in very few individuals who have been injected with the vaccine.Once any of these additional vaccines arrive, it will give the government more freedom to allow wider groups of people to seek doses, he added, describing as a dilemma the question whether younger people should now be given doses. “The dilemmas are the following: there are people who are older, who are more vulnerable if they get the disease, and people who are younger, who are vaccinated and can go into the workforce, mingle, and not bring back disease to their homes. Ideally, you’d like to vaccinate both groups, but there’s obviously, supply and demand challenge,” he said.The principal scientific adviser said he also believes the current wave of infections may begin to ebb in a week or two as benefits from stricter curbs become apparent. “The intense efforts started a couple of weeks ago, so we should start seeing the beginnings of change very soon, and as those efforts continue you’ll start seeing the impact further and further,” he said.VijayRaghavan, who headed the National Centre for Biological Sciences in the past, said the current outbreak in India is the result of multiple factors including Covid fatigue (where people tire of restrictions and break them) and economic compulsion for people to move about more freely.But health care professionals are better prepared to handle the disease now, he explained.He added that there is now more understanding related to how the virus behaves, what treatments work and what precautions in particular could help. “We actually have now multiple elements in our kit to deal with the virus which we didn’t have at the first wave. We are better ramped up on personal protection equipment (PPEs), oxygen, hospital facilities, ventilators and so on... The second change is the potential of the impact of people’s behaviour; we know a lot now which we didn’t know earlier. We know now how the virus is transmitted: through droplets, through aerosols, and it gets transmitted in closed rooms for example. So, there are measures like masks and distancing that we know will be very effective.”ions such as variants of concern of Sars-CoV-2 in circulation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-double-mutant-could-be-considered-a-variant-of-concern-101618428592954.html
15-04-2021||India||Covid spike: Telangana, Andhra on high alert||Hyderabad Andhra Pradesh and Telangana health department officials have sounded a high alert in view of the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases and urged all citizens to comply with virus-related guidelines. According to an official bulletin released by the Telangana state medical and health department on Wednesday, as many as 2,157 fresh cases and eight fatalities were reported on Tuesday. The overall caseload in the state which stood at 6,159 on April 1 rose to 25,459 by Tuesday night - a sharp increase by 19,300 cases in less than two weeks. The sudden spurt has prompted authorities to warn citizens against a “Maharashtra-like situation” where the government on Tuesday imposed a two-week curfew to curb the rising cases. “The infection is spreading at an alarming rate and if this trend continues, Telangana might have to face a Maharashtra-like situation in a few weeks. At present, we are managing to accommodate all patients in government and private hospitals but if we don’t take precautions, we may not be able to provide bed facilities in the coming days,” director of medical and health G Srinivasa Rao said. Rao reiterated the need to follow Covid-19 protocols and avoid visiting public places until absolutely necessary. He also suggested people wear masks even while at home. State minister for health Eatala Rajender, who held a teleconference with department officials and doctors, said nearly 14,000 beds were available in government and private hospitals. He appealed to private hospitals not to refuse beds to patients who were in need. The highest number of 361 Covid cases in the state was reported from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits while 241 cases were registered in the neighbouring Medchal-Malkajgiri district. Besides these, 206 cases were reported from Rangareddy. In Andhra Pradesh, the number of cases breached the 4,000 mark in the last two days, the highest daily tally in six months. On Wednesday, as many as 4,157 people tested positive for the virus while 18 deaths were reported from different parts of the state. The highest Covid fataliites reported since October 27 last year.The total number of active cases in the state stood at 28,383 on Wednesday as against 8,142 on April 1. “There has been no laxity in conducting testing, as there are strict instructions from chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy to step up testing, tracing and treatment. All the primary health centres and private hospitals are regularly conducting tests as per the protocol. There is no scarcity of beds in the hospitals also,” state health department spokesman M Ramana Murthy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-spike-telangana-andhra-on-high-alert-101618427572786.html
15-04-2021||India||April 17 Bypolls: Vote for TRS, if you want development, says KCR||Hyderabad: Stating that voting for the opposition in a by-election would not fetch any benefits to the people, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday called upon the voters of Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency in Nalgonda district to vote for the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi(TRS) for the comprehensive development of the constituency. “You cannot feed the donkeys and then milk the cow, expecting that it would give the milk. If you want the development of the constituency, you have to think wisely and vote for the TRS,” KCR said, addressing a big rally at Halia town, which is part of the Nagarjunasagar assembly constituency and is going for a by-poll on April 17. The by-election was necessitated after the death of sitting TRS legislator Nomula Narasimhaiah due to ill-health in January. He cautioned the people against getting carried away by the promises and false propaganda of the opposition parties. “You don’t have to vote going by even my promises. But I request you to judge the performance of the TRS government in the last six years,” he said. Recalling the struggle waged by the TRS to achieve the statehood for Telangana region, KCR said Telangana was like an orphan before the formation of TRS. “The Congress leaders from Telangana were responsible for the sorry state of affairs in Telangana while it was combined with Andhra Pradesh. Had they worked with commitment for the upliftment of the region, the TRS would not have been born,” he said. He lashed out at veteran Congress leader and former minister K Jana Reddy, who represented Nagarjuna sagar constituency in the past and was contesting the elections again. “In his three-decades of experience as a legislator, he could not bring even a degree college to this constituency,” he criticised. The chief minister vowed to complete all the pending lift irrigation schemes, particularly the Nellikal Lift Irrigation Scheme, that would create irrigation facility for major portion of Nagarjunasagar within next one and a half year. He also promised to provide Godavari River water to irrigate the ayacut under Nagarjunasagar. He declared that he would not seek votes in the next elections without completing the lift irrigation schemes.On Tuesday, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) had sought immediate intervention of the Election Commission to stop the distribution of money, liquor allegedly by the ruling TRS leaders in Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency.In his letter addressed to Election Commissioner Rajiv Kumar, TPCC chief Uttam Kumar Reddy said that even in the recent MLC elections from Graduates’ Constituencies last month, the ruling TRS party had resorted to the huge distribution of cash and liquor. “It was so rampant that the TRS cadre was openly distributing approximately ₹1,000 to ₹2,000 per vote and liquor for several days before the election and also on polling day near the polling booths itself,” the Congress leader alleged.“Despite my written complaints (with evidence) to CEO of Telangana and district officials with videos of TRS leaders distributing money, no action was taken. It is widely perceived that the ruling TRS party may have spent more than ₹100 crores in each MLC constituency. The same situation is now continuing in the ongoing Nagarjuna Sagar Assembly by-election (polling on 17th April 2021) in Telangana,” the letter stated. He further alleged that Sarpanches and other elected representatives of the congress party are being purchased by TRS party leaders from outside. He further requested that Central forces must check posts and check all vehicles for cash and liquor.With Agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/april-17-bypolls-vote-for-trs-if-you-want-development-says-kcr-101618427514095.html
15-04-2021||India||Another subdued Vishu as coronavirus concerns loom||Amid the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic, Kerala observed yet another muted Vishu (New year) celebrations on Wednesday as the usual pomp, colour, lighting and crackers were missing for the second consecutive year. People mainly remained indoors and restricted the festivities to the confines of their homes. The state’s Covid-19 graph continues to rise alarmingly as it added 8,778 new cases to its tally on Wednesday clocking a positivity rate of 13.45%. The government is now mulling more restrictions, said a senior health ministry official on Wednesday. The state had announced a fresh set of restrictions on Monday. The state’s active case burden now stands at 58,245. It reported 22 new deaths taking the toll to 4,836. Among the infected are 41 health workers, according to the data released by the state health ministry on Wednesday. The active caseload is highest in Ernakulam (1226) followed by Kozhikode district in north Kerala 1098. “Out of those found infected today, 205 reached the state from outside, while 7,905 contracted the disease through their contacts. The sources of infection of 627 are yet to be traced. Forty one health workers are also among the infected,” health minister K K Shailaja said.The government has empowered district collectors to lockdown localities and streets with high positivity rate. The authorities can now impose a clampdown, if required, locally. The senior health official said the government would tighten restrictions if the infection curve did not show signs of flattening out. As Covid cases continues to rise; many government agencies are planning delivery of essential items at doorsteps. The government said a uniform platform will be ready soon. Online platforms were a big hit during the last year’s lockdown. With high connectivity, many mobile ATMs were deployed even in villages last year. Health ministry statistics shows a steady rise in new cases and test positivity rate (TPR) in last two weeks. On April 1; new cases recorded was 2,798 but on April 14 it shot up to 8,778. Similarly, TPR was below 5 % in April first week but it went up to 13.45 % on Wednesday. Medical professionals now blame the recently-concluded elections for the sudden spurt. Almost all political parties had flouted norms at the peak of campaigning and experts have warned a big surge in next two weeks. A close look at Kerala‘s case trajectory shows big ups and downs. During the year-end cases had peaked in the state and on October 10 the TPR had touched a record high of 17.46%. Later it came down but again it went up after local body elections in December clocking a TPR of 14% to 15 % in December but it came down after two months in March. In March; TPR was below five per cent while cases were around 3,000. Amid rise in cases the only silver lining is the fast pace of vaccination drive in the state with around 11 % of the total population have been vaccinated so far. Two thousand doses reached the state on Tuesday and five thousand are expected by this weekend. On Monday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had written to the union health minister Harsh Vardhan seeking urgent delivery of vials. According to the union health ministry data; the state has almost zero wastage of vaccine in the country. Meanwhile, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan who was admitted to the medical college hospital was discharged after he tested negative. He will be in quarantine for another week in his house in Kannur, his office said. In a Facebook post after his discharge, Vijayan said the doctors and staff had provided the best possible care to him.“Have returned home as I have been discharged after being cured from COVID-19. The people of the state have given huge support,” the Chief Minister said and thanked everyone.With Agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-subdued-vishu-as-coronavirus-concerns-loom-101618427452779.html
15-04-2021||India||Almost all ICU beds occupied in Bengaluru’s govt hospitals, 60% in pvt hospitals||BengaluruNearly 100% of the around 400 intensive care units (ICU) beds and the ones with ventilators in government hospitals in Bengaluru are occupied, according to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) data, leaving little room for the growing number of Covid-19 patients who are in need of critical care.The occupancy for the same category of beds in government medical colleges stands at nearly 90%, data shows.The occupancy in private hospitals and private medical colleges is in the range of 60% with beds rapidly filling up, which could force the state government into announcing a lockdown as availability--or non-availability--of beds is one of the two main parameters considered for announcing strict restrictions, experts said. The other being high mortality rate, experts added.Officials from the state health department and BBMP are trying to get more beds from private medical institutions to increase the count to around 11,000-14,000 across Karnataka, which would make it on par with the preparations during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic around September last year.“We have around 3,750 beds in both government and private medical institutions and another 600 in Covid care centres (CCC). We are trying to get more beds from private hospitals and medical institutions and right now there is availability of around 30%,” said a senior BBMP official, requesting not to be named.Data shows that there are 3,819 beds in total across general and ICU categories in Bengaluru, of which 2,750 are occupied. There are 493 beds across government and private medical institutions, of which 461 are occupied, by Wednesday afternoon.More importantly, the availability of beds in private hospitals and colleges would entail a high cost of treatment, which many Covid-19 patients will find hard to afford despite capping of treatment tariffs by the BS Yediyurappa-led state government.Karnataka chief secretary P Ravi Kumar, in an order on April 7, said that treatment for persons referred by the government or BBMP to private hospitals will be capped between ₹5,200 and ₹10,000 per day. The cost dramatically jumps up for walk-in patients in private medical institutions as the tariffs per day ranges between ₹10,000 and ₹ 25,000 or higher depending on whether the patient requires general ward beds, ICU or ICU with ventilators.Officials said there were many people who would take up beds even though they may not require hospitalisation, fearing the spread or complications that come with contracting Covid-19, leading to an acute shortage.Bengaluru on Wednesday reported 8,155 new infections, taking the active caseload to 63,167. The city also reported 23 new deaths on Wednesday, taking the toll to 4,933.The surge in the city increased the tally of Karnataka, which reported 11,625 new cases on Wednesday, to 85,480. A total of 38 patients died of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the state toll to 13,046.The single-day spike is the highest in the state and Bengaluru since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. The requirement of beds, even for asymptomatic persons, gains significance in respect of creating micro-containment zones in Bengaluru as suggested by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The strategy is to minimise the area taken up by a cluster of Covid-19 patients, leaving other parts of the city to remain open for economic impact, KV Trilok Chandra, the state’s health commissioner said. “If there are five or more people on the same floor who are infected, we will declare that floor as a containment zone. In smaller apartments, it will be the entire block. In crowded localities, since we cannot ensure isolation or social distancing, we will move patients to the CCCs,” Chandra said.Bengaluru has seen a sudden surge of cases and the government’s decision to rule out a lockdown completely but retain some restrictions like a night curfew has had little effect on the free--and often careless movement and mingling--of people in crowded places. The situation in other districts of the state has also deteriorated in recent weeks, leaving Karnataka firmly in the grip of the raging pandemic.“In smaller localities, we have to test a higher number of people and then encourage more to come in for vaccination as a measure to contain the rise of cases in areas where there are more people,” said another senior BBMP official, requesting anonymity.“We are trying to get as many hospital beds into the BBMP fold as possible at the earliest. We are also targeting hospitals with 25-50 beds. Different levels of patients have to go to different facilities, depending upon the seriousness of the particular patient,” the official added.Representatives of private hospitals said they are bound to give half of their existing capacities to the government but there were quite a few beds that were occupied by walk-in Covid-19 patients or those suffering from non-Covid ailments.“As and when they (patients) get discharged, we will give the beds to the government,” Dr Prasanna HM, the president-elect of the Private Hospitals & Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) said.He added that though there were a higher number of infected persons now, those who require hospitalisation have reduced.Experts on the subject and at least one member of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Covid-19 in Karnataka said the government has to act at the earliest to secure hospital beds from the private sector.“Non-availability (of beds) is an artificial thing and should be resolved immediately. There should not be any delay in getting the allocation from the private sector. The more we delay from the government side, the more problematic it will become,” Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist and professor at the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) said.Babu, who is also a member of TAC on Covid-19 in Karnataka, added that stricter restrictions are required to be imposed in places like Bengaluru.“Stricter regulations are definitely needed, especially to reduce the quantum of cases and its trajectory,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/almost-all-icu-beds-occupied-in-bengaluru-s-govt-hospitals-60-in-pvt-hospitals-101618427212788.html
15-04-2021||India||State records highest 1-day spike, most cases in B’luru||BengaluruBoth Karnataka and its capital city Bengaluru on Wednesday reported their highest single-day spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases since the outbreak of the pandemic, raising alarm bells over a rapidly deteriorating health crisis in the southern state.According to the state health department’s daily bulletin, Karnataka recorded its highest ever single-day total of 11,625 on Wednesday, beating its previous high of 10,913 recorded on October 9 last year, which was considered the peak of the pandemic in the state. With the new spike, the state’s active caseload jumped to 85,840. Bengaluru once again accounted for the maximum 8,155 Covid-19 cases, also the highest for the city, taking its active caseload to 63,167.While the state reported a total of 38 new deaths due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, Bengaluru accounted for 23 of them, the health bulletin added. More serious was the fact that the Covid-19 positivity rate inched closer to 10% across the state, the daily stated.While the chief minister BS Yediyurappa-led state government has ruled out a lockdown, it is firm on increasing restrictions “after the elections”, referring to the April 17 bypolls in Basavakalyan, Maski and Belagavi.Though Yediyurappa has imposed night restrictions in at least seven districts, including Bengaluru, and has cracked down on individual offenders for not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing, the government has given a free hand for the election campaigning to carry on unhindered, experts said.A large number of people have been taking part in election campaigns in the three constituencies, which, incidentally, have seen a spike after the bypolls were announced on March 17.Basavakalyan is in Bidar district, which reported 290 new infections on Wednesday, taking its active case count to 2,144. Belagavi reported 107 new infections and its active case count reached up to 661. Raichuru, under which Maski constituency falls, reported 65 new infections that took its active case count to 491.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-records-highest-1-day-spike-most-cases-in-bluru-101618427155502.html
15-04-2021||India||CBI quizzes Anil Deshmukh for 11 hours in corruption case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday questioned former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh for about 11 hours over allegations of corruption levelled against him by former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh.Responding to summons issued by CBI, Deshmukh reached the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) guest house at Santacruz (East) shortly after 10am on Wednesday. CBI officers said Deshmukh was questioned about the allegations, and his statement was recorded. They declined to give details of the statement or the line of questioning.CBI issued the summons to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader on April 12 as part of its preliminary enquiry registered on April 6, a day after the Bombay high court directed the central agency to probe “serious” allegations against Deshmukh. He stepped down from the post of home minister shortly after the court’s decision.Param Bir Singh, in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last month, alleged that Deshmukh told now suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, arrested in connection with Mukesh Ambani security threat case, to collect ₹100 crore a month from bars, restaurants, hotels, and other sources, in Mumbai.Deshmukh has consistently denied the charges.The letter came in the aftermath of an explosives-laden vehicle being found near Ambani’s house Antilia, the arrest of Vaze for allegedly planting the vehicle, the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran who was linked to the vehicle, and the removal of Singh as Mumbai’s police commissioner.The federal agency has so far questioned Deshmukh’s personal assistant Sanjeev Palande, his personal secretary Kundan Shinde, deputy commissioner of police (enforcement) Raju Bhujbal, assistant commissioner of police (social service branch) Sanjay Patil, Vaze, Param Bir Singh, and two police drivers attached to the criminal intelligence unit (CIU) of the Mumbai Police’s crime branch.CBI has also questioned some bar owners over the extortion charges||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbiquizzes-deshmukh-for-11-hours-in-corruption-case-101618426852753.html
15-04-2021||India||Plea in Mathura for ASI survey of mosque||Agra A petition filed in a local court in Mathura on Wednesday sought an archaeological survey of Choti Masjid in the Agra Fort premises to determine if Mughal rulers buried idols of Hindu god Krishna at the spot after vandalising an ancient temple that stood in Mathura.The petition, filed by an activist Shailendra Singh, cited an April 8 order by a Varanasi court that ordered an archaeological survey of the Gyanvapi Masjid complex, which abuts the Kashi Vishwanath Temple, to determine if the mosque was built by Mughal emperors after razing a Hindu temple, to justify its own basis. That order is currently being challenged in the Allahabad high court by the Gyanvapi mosque committee and the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board.Singh’s petition in the court of civil judge (senior division), Mathura, argued that a “magnificent temple” was built in Mathura by Bundela king Raja Bir Singh Dev at a cost of ₹33 lakh and it was demolished in January 1670 by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb.‘The idols of Lord Krishna were taken away and were buried under the stairs of the Choti Masjid in the Deewan-e-Khas of the Agra Fort; as such, the director of ASI [Archaeological Survey Of India] be directed to conduct scientific excavation and reinstate the idols moved,” stated the petition.The Mathura court accepted the petition and fixed May 10 as the date of hearing. ASI is also tasked with the survey at the Gyanvapi complex.Singh’s petition – as well as several pending petitions in courts across Mathura – seek the removal of the Shahi Eidgah adjacent to the Sri Krishna temple complex in Mathura, and transfer of the 13.37-acre land to the temple deity, Bhagwan Sri Krishna Virajman.On September 30, last year, a case was filed on behalf of the deity in the court of the civil judge in Mathura but was dismissed. The petitioner, Ranjana Agnihotri, filed an appeal in the court of Mathura district judge on October 12. The case is pending.Another petition was filed in the court of district judge, and three more in the court of civil judge. All petitions had common prayers.“A temple of Keshav Dev (Krishna) used to exist in a vast area of 13.37 acre in Mathura. Aurangzeb dismantled the temple and raised a structure at the same place, which is now known as Eidgah. Many of the stones having symbols of Hindu architecture were removed from the Janmabhoomi and placed in the Eidgah mosque,” said Mahendra Singh, who filed one of the petitions in the Mathura civil court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-mathura-for-asi-survey-of-mosque-101618426793370.html
15-04-2021||India||UP migrant workers head home driven by local polls, Covid fears||While the lockdown last year drove scores of migrants and their families to bus and railway stations in the Capital in search of a way home last year, many passengers and transport officials attributed the current rush at Kaushambi ISBT for buses headed towards different district in Uttar Pradesh to the panchayat elections starting in the state on Thursday. A few passengers, however, said that their return was spurred by fears of another lockdown.For the past five days, the district has been reporting more than a 100 new cases daily, with 159 cases on April 10, 155 on April 11, 187 on April 12, 199 on April 13 and 277 on April 14.An HT team, which visited the ISBT on Wednesday, saw men, women and children coming to with bags, boxes and other utility items, through the foot overbridge connecting it with Anand Vihar on the other side of the Outer Ring Road in Delhi. While some said they were travelling due to “some work at home”, many said they were going “to cast votes in the panchayat elections”.E-rickshaw driver Mukesh Kumar, who usually works outside ISBT Kaushambi, said that most of the migrants were returning to vote in elections. “Many of my passengers claim to have been told that they will not be allowed to enter their villages if they do not cast votes. That’s why many of them are leaving. A few are, however, going due to rumours of another lockdown,” he said.The first of the four phase of panchayat elections in UP, which will see voting in 18 districts, is scheduled on April 15. The results of all phases will be announced on May 2.The districts going to polls on Thursday are Ghaziabad, Ayodhya, Gorakhpur, Jhansi, Allahabad, Raebareli, Jaunpur and Rampur, among others.However, some of the passengers said that the panchayat elections were a convenient way to get back home ahead of another possible lockdown.“Labourers or daily wage earners will not rush so easily and spend their hard-earned money to go to their home towns to cast votes. Their travel and tickets have been arranged. This way, we will cast votes, and will also get a chance to stay back home. There is fear among many people about the rise in Covid cases and many are going back because of that,” said Jai Chand, from Rae Bareli district, who lives in a rented room in Palam.“The government buses charge about ₹600 to Raebareli, but private operators are making a killing by demanding up to ₹1,400 for a seat now,” said Rajesh Bisht, also from Rae Bareli.UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) officials said that the occupancy in their 52 seater buses was nearly 100%, especially for those headed to districts such as Gorakhpur, Bahraich, Lucknow, Sitapur, Gonda and Rae Bareli, among others.“There is huge rush of passengers for the past four days... During normal days, bus occupancy is about 65% which has now gone up to 100% for the past four days,” said Narendra Kumar, assistant regional manager of UPSRTC and in-charge of Kaushambi ISBT.“As per our interaction with passengers, most of them are headed home for elections or due to the start of the harvesting season of rabi crop. Rise in Covid cases and fear of any lockdown may have also impacted their travel to their hometowns,” said AK Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC.Meanwhile, a few passengers admitted that the sudden travel was prompted by rumours of yet another lockdown.Mohammad Arif (41), a driver from UP’s Bijnor, had already sent his wife and two daughters back home on Tuesday. “There are rumours that the lockdown will come into effect... Instead of getting stuck here, at least my family and I will have something to eat if we reach our home town,” said Arif, who boarded a bus on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-hundreds-of-migrant-workers-head-home-driven-by-covid-fears-local-polls-101618426673460.html
15-04-2021||India||Flag follows trade: Navy chief on China||NEW DELHI: With China making efforts to strengthen its presence in the strategic Indian Ocean Region (IOR), Indian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh on Wednesday said it was hardly surprising that China’s navy was coming and operating in the IOR as Beijing’s energy sources, markets and resources are located to the west. “As they say, flag follows trade,” Singh said during a discussion on challenges in the Indo-Pacific region at the Raisina Dialogue. “China’s navy has the wherewithal and intent, and I envisage a continued focus on their growth in the near future. They want to replicate US Navy carrier battle groups but developing carrier air wing will take time,” Singh said, responding to a question on China deploying aircraft carriers. China currently operates two aircraft carriers — CV-16 Liaoning and CV-17 Shandong. It is building a third carrier. The US believes that the Chinese footprint in the IOR will grow in the coming years. China is building a third aircraft carrier with a flat deck and its navy will be operating in the Indian Ocean in the coming years, said Admiral Phil Davidson, commander of the US Indo-Pacific Command.India is keeping tabs on China’s aggressive moves in the South China Sea and taking steps to ensure that the Chinese navy doesn’t muscle its way into the Indian Ocean where combat-ready Indian warships are carrying out round-the-clock surveillance for any unusual activity.The Chinese are undoubtedly in the IOR already, said maritime affairs expert Rear Admiral Sudarshan Shrikhande (retd).“They have come here (IOR) to stay, play and have a say. Through sustained and overlapping deployments, potentially more bases and partners; China’s multi-dimensional military power with sea power in the lead is something to think about carefully,” Shrikhande said.Aggressive Chinese naval actions and asymmetric activities undermine the rules-based order and constitute a major challenge, Davidson said. “The Indo-Pacific region is in competition between a closed and authoritarian Beijing vision and the idea of a free and open Indo-Pacific,” the US commander said. Davidson said China sought to exploit the current pandemic with increased military aggression throughout the Indo-Pacific and its intent was to undermine international law and norms. From carrying out naval drills with like-minded countries to reaching out to states in the IOR, the Indian Navy is focusing on checking China’s rising ambitions in the region and sending out a strong message that Beijing’s power play in South China Sea cannot be replicated in the Indian Ocean.The navies of India and the US recently concluded multilateral drills in the eastern IOR. France along with the Quad navies of India, the US, Japan and Australia carried out complex maritime drills to enhance interoperability among their navies from April 5 to April 7.Singh said the Quad started as a consultative grouping and has evolved and grown organically. He said India has a high degree of engagement and interoperability with the navies of the Quad countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flag-follows-trade-navy-chief-on-china-101618426615642.html
15-04-2021||India||India won’t raise climate ambition under pressure: Prakash Javadekar||India will attempt to keep its climate commitments but will not act at the behest or under pressure from developed countries, Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar said on Wednesday, underscoring the country’s prerogative to balance development goals with obligations on climate change.Javadekar was speaking at an event organised at the Embassy of France to mark French minister Jean-Yves Le Drian’s visit to India. He reiterated that India will “over achieve” its commitments, a government spokesperson later said in a clarification to his remarks.Le Drian, in his address, said countries must stop building new coal-based power plants and progressively move towards achieving carbon neutrality. Javadekar, who spoke after Le Drian’s address, offered some context. “Yes, we are suffering. We are seeing higher temperatures, unusual rain, hurricanes, frequency of such abnormal events has increased.”But, he added, it should not be forgotten that this is not a new phenomenon. “For 150 years, this has been happening because carbon emissions remain in the atmosphere for more than 150 years, so what we are suffering today was caused 150 years ago. The countries [of] EU [European Union], US and in the last 30 to 40 years China, they emitted and therefore the world is suffering, India is suffering,” he saidJavadekar underlined that historic responsibility is a very important aspect. “We cannot just forget, and we will not allow anybody to forget it. The historical emissions responsibility today of is China 28%, USA 40%; Europe 10% and India is only 3%. We are not responsible for the climate change that is happening.” He added India is a responsible nation and will do the right thing to deal with the climate crisis.Javadekar urged developed countries to deliver on finance commitments. “Where is the money? There is no money in sight. You have polluted, destroyed the world, and brought climate change. And now you are saying do not use coal. The alternative has to be cheaper than coal.”“They should make technology at an affordable cost. Climate change is not a business. Fighting climate change is our duty. The world has agreed to supply anti-AIDS drugs at a lower cost because AIDS is a disaster. We should not profit from a disaster…therefore, we will walk the talk, raise our ambition but not at the behest or [under] pressure from other countries,” the minister added.Gaurav Khare, the environment ministry spokesperson, later issued a clarification saying: “Mr Prakash Javadekar had only said that India will ‘Over Achieve’ its commitment made in Paris and not said that India will “raise its ambitions”.In his address, Le Drian referred to the objective of the 2016 Paris Agreement to limit global warming to 2°C or even 1.5°C compared to pre-industrial levels.“If we do not succeed in doing so, the consequences will be disastrous…That’s why it is absolutely indispensable that all countries increase their climate commitments by the time the COP26 [2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference] takes place in Glasgow, as required by the Paris Agreement,” Le Drian said.He said this increase in ambition must include setting new nationally determined contributions by 2030 and also long-term strategies to achieve carbon neutrality. “We must stop building new coal-based power plants and it is essential that we progressively stop this mode of electricity production at a global level.”John Kerry, the American Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, met Javadekar and Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week regarding increasing climate ambition ahead of COP26 in Glasgow this November. Kerry and Modi agreed that India and the US will work closely on the technology and finance for the deployment of 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030 to make way for achieving net-zero emissions by 2050.France is co-chair of the International Solar Alliance—an alliance of 121 countries initiated by India to promote solar energy.Ulka Kelkar, director (climate), World Resources Institute, said India has the unique dilemma of not being responsible for past climate change but shouldering the burden of the expectations of future generations and their well-being. “While a low-carbon development pathway could usher significant environmental and socio-economic benefits, it could also mean very real costs for us -- upfront capital investments that need to be made now even though the benefits accrue over several decades, depleting fossil fuel tax revenues that might affect much-needed investments in health and education, and the need to ensure a just and fair transition for our workforce, especially women.”Kelkar said partnerships with countries like France can help accelerate the technological innovation that is needed to bring down the cost of climate solutions and give momentum to action by the Indian industry on climate change.“India has demonstrated leadership on climate commitments and climate action. In an important year like 2021, it must step up and frame the evolving debate around climate ambition. It must speak for the planet by demanding that developed countries achieve net-zero emissions before 2050. It must demonstrate its commitments by stating that its aggregate (not just per capita) emissions will not exceed that of China, the EU or the US,” said Arunabha Ghosh, CEO, Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW).“It must project its domestic policies on renewables, e-mobility and energy efficiency into international dialogues. And it must set a direction of travel, but declare contingent commitments so that it can revise its decisions as technologies develop and investment becomes available. The climate ambition conversation should not be about resisting international pressure. Instead it should be a narrative that prioritises the transformation of the Indian economy,” Ghosh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-won-t-raise-climate-ambition-under-pressure-javadekar-101618426554549.html
15-04-2021||India||No country can have a veto on India’s ties: Jaishankar||New Delhi: The Indo-Pacific concept is a signal that India won’t be confined between the Malacca Strait and Gulf of Aden, and the country will work with partners such as France and Australia to ensure an open and inclusive region, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday. Participating in a virtual discussion with his Australian and French counterparts, Marise Payne and Jean-Yves Le Drian, at the Raisina Dialogue, Jaishankar said no country can have a veto on India’s participation in groupings such as the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad. Le Drian reiterated France’s legitimate role in the Indo-Pacific by pointing to the two million French inhabitants in the region, while Payne noted that the three countries have come together to work on issues such as pandemic response, vaccine distribution, and economic challenges triggered by the Covid-19 crisis. “Indo-Pacific is a clear message that India will not be constrained between the Malacca Straits and Gulf of Aden. Our interests, our influence, our activities today go way beyond,” Jaishankar said while concluding the discussion. “When we look at a larger canvas, we see Australia there, [and] France is very much a part of this canvas, historically, culturally, physically. There are a range of activities and projects on which we can all work together,” he said, adding that the three countries are comfortable working together. The coming together of India, Australia, Japan and the US as the Quad, or the creation of a trilateral by India, Australia and France, is not aimed at any country, Jaishankar said. Without naming anyone, he described the use of terms such as “Asian Nato” as a “mind game”. “The idea that somehow because we come together, there is some sort of threat or messaging to others – I think people need to get over this. Using words like Asian Nato etc, this is a sort of mind game which people are playing. I can’t have other people sort of have a veto about what I’m going to discuss, with whom I’m going to discuss,” he said. Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov had used the term “Asian Nato” in the context of emerging alliances in Asia at a joint news conference with Jaishankar in New Delhi on April 6. Hours before the virtual discussion at the Raisina Dialogue, Russian envoy Nikolay Kudashev reiterated Moscow’s criticism of the Indo-Pacific strategy, saying it was aimed at reviving Cold War-era structures. Jaishankar told the discussion, based on the theme “Crimson tide, blue geometries: New partnerships for the Indo-Pacific”, that the Indo-Pacific concept is a reflection of contemporary realities at a time when groups of countries are looking to work together because multilateralism has fallen short. “Indo-Pacific is a return to history, it reflects a more contemporary world. It is actually overcoming the Cold War, not reinforcing it,” he said. Le Drian and Payne said their countries have adopted a pragmatic approach to work with other nations such as India to cope with challenges like maritime security, illegal fishing and terror financing. “Fundamentally, the value of three nations like ours, three such strong democracies like ours [is] having the capacity to share… our responses to the pressures that are on regional multilateral institutions,” Payne said. Le Drian added that France does not operate in a military format, though free movement and security of trade in the Indo-Pacific is very important to Paris. This is the reason for France’s joint patrols with India off the Reunion Island and intelligence-sharing and maritime surveillance missions with Australia, he said. Referring to the situation in Myanmar following the February 1 military coup, Payne said Australia is working with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) to identify solutions as the increase in violence is “deeply concerning”. Australia has made changes in its development assistance programmes and military-to-military engagement with Myanmar, she said. The 27 members of the European Union have imposed sanctions against Myanmar’s junta, a travel ban and an assets freeze, Le Drian said. Jaishankar added that India is in touch with Asean to reach a common solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-country-can-have-a-veto-on-india-s-ties-jaishankar-101618426492719.html
15-04-2021||India||Production of Remdesivir to be ramped up: Govt||The Centre on Wednesday approved ramping up the production of antiviral drug remdesivir amid a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases across the country.According to the national treatment protocol, remdesivir is one of the investigational drugs approved for use in treating hospitalised Covid-19 patients. With the rising cases, the demand for the drug has also shot up.“The current total installed capacity of the seven manufacturers of Remdesivir is 38.80 lakh vials per month. Fast-track approval has been given for seven additional sites having the production capacity of 10 Lakh vials /month to six manufacturers. Another 30 lakh vials/month production is lined up. This would ramp up the production capacity for manufacturing to around 78 lakh vials/month,” said Union ministry of chemicals and fertilisers in a statement issued on Wednesday.Union minister of state for chemicals and fertilizer Mansukh Mandaviya reviewed the availability of the drug in the country with all existing manufacturers at several meetings held on Monday and Tuesday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/production-of-remdesivir-to-be-ramped-up-govt-101618426133732.html
15-04-2021||India||Rise in cases of double mutant variant in parts of Maharashtra, say Experts||MumbaiSeveral cities in Maharashtra are reporting a rising number of Covid-19 cases with the double mutant variant of Sars-Cov-2, the director of the National Centre for Disease Control said on Wednesday.“Different kinds of mutations have been found in Maharashtra, but there is definitely a rising trend of double mutant variants in several cities. This trend has not been noticed across the state,” Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh, NCDC director, said.The state, which has been reporting the highest number of cases across the country, recorded 58,952 new infections on Wednesday. A senior official from the central agency said that genome sequencing of samples collected in various cities in the state found that over 60% were infected with the double mutant variant.However, the number of samples that have been sent for genome sequencing is unclear. Genome sequencing is a process to identify the genetic makeup of the organism and study its changes.On March 24, the Union government confirmed the presence of mutations and said that a novel variant with a combination of two mutations E484Q and L452R -- now classified as B.1.617 lineage -- was found in 206 samples taken from Maharashtra since December. The majority of double mutant variants were found in the samples sent from Nagpur. Doctors across Maharashtra and other parts of the country have been noticing variation in the presentation of Covid in the second wave. “Last year, we saw the involvement of lung infections in over 70% of the cases, but this year we are seeing more and more involvement of the gut,” said Dr Om Shrivastav, infectious disease specialist and a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force. “Another alarming trend is patients getting better and then returning with more sickness. Such clinical evidence of possible mutations has been noted by many doctors,” he said. Experts have also pointed out that there is not enough data on variants and urged that states like Maharashtra send at least 5% to 10% of their samples for genome sequencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rise-in-cases-of-double-mutant-variant-in-parts-of-maharashtra-say-experts-101618426072638.html
15-04-2021||India||Covid-19 norms a far cry at third ‘Shani Snan’||Hundreds of thousands of people violated the government’s Covid-19 guidelines again as they gathered for the third “shahi snan” at the Mahakumbh in Haridwar on Wednesday, with officials saying 1.35 million devotees took a dip in the Ganga to mark the occasion, even as the country continues its alarming second wave of the infectious disease.The size of the gathering was smaller than the 3.12 million figure at the previous “shahi snan” (royal bath) and the 2.5 million expected by the mela administration, but flagrant violations of social distancing norms and mask protocol could be seen in the crowd.While some reports said earlier in the day that the Mahakumbh could be curtailed by two weeks to end after the “shahi snan” on Wednesday in view of the Covid-19 surge, officials denied that any such move was being considered, adding that the event would conclude on the planned date of April 30. “There are no such reports of ending the Mahakumbh before the designated period. We are preparing for the fourth shahi snan to be held on April 27,” mela officer Deepak Rawat said.Security personnel could be seen handing out challans to some people in the crowd over violations of the Covid-19 norms, but the majority of seers gathered to bathe in the Ganga were in violation of Covid-appropriate behaviour.Uttarakhand health secretary Amit Negi, meanwhile, pleaded before the Nainital high court to reduce the target of 50,000 RT-PCR tests in the Kumbh city every day during the Mahakumbh. Negi said the administration conducted “about 39,000 tests, both RT-PCR and rapid antigen, on the shahi snans”. He added that “it is difficult for the administration to conduct the targeted RT-PCR tests as majority of the devotees are part of floating population.”“We are generating awareness regarding wearing of masks and other Covid guidelines among all the devotees including seers. Proper arrangements were made with adequate stock of masks and hand sanitisers in the mela area,” said inspector general of the mela force, Sanjay Gunjyal. On the first day of the Mahakumbh, 149 cases were reported in the Haridwar district out the state total of 500, which rose to 594 on April 13 with a state total of 1,925.Anoop Nautiyal, a social activist who has been monitoring the pandemic situation in state, said: “The Nainital High Court has directed the administration to conduct 50,000 tests daily during the Mahakumbh. However, the average number of tests conducted in the 13 days of Mahakumbh so far is 19,195, way less than the target of 50,000.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-norms-a-far-cry-at-third-shani-snan-101618425893643.html
15-04-2021||India||High Courts to send names for 220 vacancies: Government||Admonished by the Supreme Court for delaying the appointment of judges, the central government has underscored that high courts were yet to send any names for 220 vacancies, with the oldest slot arising more than six years ago.A note, submitted in the top court by attorney general (A-G) KK Venugopal and reviewed by HT, sought to repel the blame on the government and highlighted how high courts had not made recommendations for around 53% of their total vacancies, 416.The note, which will be considered by a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, on Thursday, has highlighted that while 196 names for the 420 vacancies were pending either before the government or with the Supreme Court collegium, there were no proposals for 220 vacancies and some of the HCs had not made recommendations for over six years.Punjab and Haryana HC was yet to make recommendations for 32 vacancies whereas Allahabad HC had not sent names for 28 positions. Two other HCs which also lagged behind in sending proposals were Delhi (23) and Gujarat (21). The statistics were as on April 13.Citing the memorandum of procedure (MoP) that guides the appointment of judges in the SC and HCs, the Centre emphasised that high courts were expected to make recommendations six months prior to the occurrence of a vacancy but the high courts of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Orissa, Gujarat, Meghalaya and Sikkim had not sent names from vacancies arising from the Bar (lawyers). The oldest among these was a position that fell vacant in the Jharkhand HC on July 1, 2014.Similarly, high courts of Manipur, and Punjab and Haryana, had not made recommendations for vacancies from service (judicial officers) that was existing for five years or more with the oldest slot falling vacant in Manipur HC on October 26, 2015. By specifying the time lapsed, the government seems to be responding to its criticism by the bench, which also included justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant, about five names for appointments in the Calcutta HC that had not been cleared in the last 20 months.Similarly, one name for the Jammu and Kashmir HC has been pending for 17 months and four names for the Delhi HC, for seven months. These names were neither cleared for appointments nor sent back to the collegium for reconsideration or review, based on certain objections that the government may have, people familiar with the development said. In his note, the A-G, however, sought to turn the tables through statistics that showed that while 86 names were pending with the government at different stages, the Supreme Court collegium was still to decide on 94 names for appointments in the high courts.The government also pointed out that it was yet to receive any proposal for appointment in the Supreme Court that currently had five vacancies, with the oldest one arising in November 2019 after retirement of then CJI Ranjan Gogoi. As reported by HT on April 9, incumbent CJI Bobde’s final push for the collegium to make its first recommendation of a judge to be appointed to the Supreme Court during his 14-month tenure had fallen short, making him perhaps the first CJI in judicial history to earn this unsought for distinction. The meeting on April 8 had failed to finalise any name for appointment to the Supreme Court, in what was possibly the last such meet to be headed by Justice Bobde in his tenure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hcs-to-send-names-for-220-vacancies-govt-101618425652634.html
15-04-2021||India||Bihar seeks help from army doctors as Covid-19 cases spike||A two-member team from the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) was in Patna on Wednesday to assess the state’s preparedness to fully operationalise the Employees State Insurance (ESI) hospital at Bihta in the city for treatment of Covid-19 patients, as Bihar reported 21 deaths with 4,786 new cases — the highest in a single day so far. Patna accounted for 1,483 cases and four deaths. Among those infected were three senior IAS officers, including an officer in the rank of chief secretary, another of the home department and an IPS officer. A minister in the Nitish Kumar cabinet had also tested positive. Several senior officers in the home department, public health and engineering department, finance and the Information and Public Relations Department had also gone in for home isolation. A senior officer of the home department was admitted to the AIIMS-Patna on Wednesday. The DRDO team has agreed to extend help to the state government by providing 50 doctors to fully operationalise the 500-bed ESI hospital, said people familiar with the development in the state health department. The Bihar government had on Tuesday sought assistance from the army in providing doctors to fully operationalise the ESI hospital. In a letter to the defence secretary, Bihar’s principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit requested the defence secretary to send 50 doctors from the Armed Forces Medical Corps (AFMC) so that the ESI hospital could be utilised properly. “We will depute the requisite number of nurses and other para-medical staff and have requested the defence ministry to send 50 doctors from the armed forces so that the 500-bed hospital can be utilised properly like last year,” said Amrit. “Presently, the facilities exist but in the light of the surge in Covid-19 cases in Bihar, particularly in Patna, it is of urgent necessity to utilise the existing facilities of ESI hospital, Bihta. At present, we are using only 50 beds in this hospital with the services of a few doctors and other support from the state government,” Amrit added. Executive director, State Health Society, Manoj Kumar, said, “We will work on war-footing to operationalise the facility after a team from the DRDO visited Bihta on Wednesday and later held discussions with our principal secretary.” The 500-bed Covid Care facility at ESI Bihta was set up last year under the PM Cares Fund. The Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) will operationalise 100 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients on Thursday, Kumar said. The Patna district administration had on Wednesday earmarked 14 more private hospitals in Patna city for treatment of Covid-19 patients, increasing the bed strength by 199, said Patna district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh. With this altogether 47 private facilities, having cumulative 985 beds, have been identified in the district for treatment of Covid-19 cases, he added. The health department was also keeping tabs on oxygen generation plants in the state to ensure there was no hoarding or black-marketing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-seeks-help-from-army-doctors-as-covid-19-cases-spike-101618425353231.html
15-04-2021||India||No country can have a veto on India’s ties: S Jaishankar||The Indo-Pacific concept is a signal that India won’t be confined between the Malacca Strait and Gulf of Aden, and the country will work with partners such as France and Australia to ensure an open and inclusive region, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday.Participating in a virtual discussion with his Australian and French counterparts, Marise Payne and Jean-Yves Le Drian, at the Raisina Dialogue, Jaishankar said no country can have a veto on India’s participation in groupings such as the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad.Le Drian reiterated France’s legitimate role in the Indo-Pacific by pointing to the two million French inhabitants in the region, while Payne noted that the three countries have come together to work on issues such as pandemic response, vaccine distribution, and economic challenges triggered by the Covid-19 crisis.“Indo-Pacific is a clear message that India will not be constrained between the Malacca Strait and Gulf of Aden. Our interests, our influence, our activities today go way beyond,” Jaishankar said while concluding the discussion.“When we look at a larger canvas, we see Australia there, [and] France is very much a part of this canvas, historically, culturally, physically. There are a range of activities and projects on which we can all work together,” he said, adding that the three countries are comfortable working together.The coming together of India, Australia, Japan and the US as the Quad, or the creation of a trilateral by India, Australia and France, is not aimed at any country, Jaishankar said.Without naming anyone, he described the use of terms such as “Asian Nato” as a “mind game”.“The idea that somehow because we come together, there is some sort of threat or messaging to others – I think people need to get over this. Using words like Asian Nato etc, this is a sort of mind game which people are playing. I can’t have other people sort of have a veto about what I’m going to discuss, with whom I’m going to discuss,” he said.Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov had used the term “Asian Nato” in the context of emerging alliances in Asia at a joint news conference with Jaishankar in New Delhi on April 6. Hours before the virtual discussion at the Raisina Dialogue, Russian envoy Nikolay Kudashev reiterated Moscow’s criticism of the Indo-Pacific strategy, saying it was aimed at reviving Cold War-era structures.Jaishankar told the discussion, based on the theme “Crimson tide, blue geometries: New partnerships for the Indo-Pacific”, that the Indo-Pacific concept is a reflection of contemporary realities at a time when groups of countries are looking to work together because multilateralism has fallen short.“Indo-Pacific is a return to history, it reflects a more contemporary world. It is actually overcoming the Cold War, not reinforcing it,” he said.Le Drian and Payne said their countries have adopted a pragmatic approach to work with other nations such as India to cope with challenges like maritime security, illegal fishing and terror financing.“Fundamentally, the value of three nations like ours, three such strong democracies like ours [is] having the capacity to share… our responses to the pressures that are on regional multilateral institutions,” Payne said.Le Drian added that France does not operate in a military format, though free movement and security of trade in the Indo-Pacific is very important to Paris, he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-country-can-have-a-veto-on-india-joining-groupings-such-as-quad-jaishankar-101618412812070.html
15-04-2021||India||Russia shares independent ties with India, Pakistan: Diplomats||New Delhi: Russia has independent relations with India and Pakistan, and Moscow’s military cooperation with Islamabad is limited to the supply of equipment meant to bolster the fight against terrorism, the two top Russian diplomats in New Delhi said on Wednesday. Moscow is also committed to fulfilling all arms deals with India, including the contract for S-400 air defence systems, despite the threat of US sanctions, Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev and deputy chief of mission Roman Babushkin told a news briefing. The diplomats reiterated Russia’s concerns about the Indo-Pacific concept and the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad, with Kudashev saying the West’s Indo-Pacific strategy is aimed at reviving Cold War-era structures. The diplomats briefed the media in the aftermath of Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov’s recent visit to New Delhi to prepare the grounds for the annual India-Russia Summit to be held in the second half of the year. Unlike most visits by top Russian leaders, Lavrov did not meet the Indian Prime Minister, and he travelled to Pakistan from India. Babushkin said there is “no reason to think there are divergences or misunderstandings between Russia and India as far as Pakistan is concerned”. He added: “We have independent relations with India and Pakistan and other countries, while ties with both are based on their own merits.” All three countries are members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), and cooperate in areas such as such regional security and the fight against terror, which envisages capacity building and exercises, he said. “Russia is following its commitments, and there is a limited cooperation with Pakistan as compared to India. However, the fight against terrorism is our common agenda. So we also help Pakistan [by] providing anti-terrorism equipment and holding dedicated exercises,” Babushkin said. Russia also respects the Simla Agreement of 1972 and Lahore Declaration of 1999 that leave no scope for third party mediation in India-Pakistan affairs and “has no intention to interfere or take sides”, he added. He described the decision by India and Pakistan to adhere to the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control as “a very important step in terms of ensuring regional stability”. During a media interaction in Islamabad, Lavrov had said that Russia was ready to provide special military equipment to Pakistan to bolster the fight against terror. India has for long opposed sales of Russian military hardware to its rival Pakistan. Kudashev described military cooperation as one of the most important tracks of the India-Russia relationship, and said all arms deals were on track despite the threat of US sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (Caatsa). “Together with India, we don’t recognise bilateral sanctions as they are illegal tools of unlawful and unfair competition, pressure and even blackmail. It was clearly stated by the two foreign ministers in the course of their exchange,” Kudashev said. “With regard to the S-400 and other agreements, both sides are committed to the agreed timelines and other obligations. This contract is being successfully fulfilled,” he said, referring to the $5.4-billion deal for five S-400 systems. Kudashev said that while India is Russia’s “closest friend and trusted partner”, and both sides have convergence on a majority of global and regional issues including Afghanistan, Moscow continues to have concerns about the Indo-Pacific concept. “We just want to call the attention of our Indian partners and friends to the dangers emanating from the Western Indo-Pacific strategy aimed at revival of the Cold War-era thinking and structures,” he said. Both Kudashev and Babushkin described India as a key partner in efforts to ensure security and stability in Afghanistan, and said New Delhi will be part of discussions under the Moscow Format and eventually the “extended troika”. They said India can help in building regional consensus in efforts to find a solution in the war-torn country. In response to a question on India-China tensions linked to the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Babushkin said: “We are following the developments at the LAC, and we would encourage India and China to continue disengagement efforts in order to promote constructive and forward-looking dialogue. “This is a very important precondition for regional stability and certainly we would encourage both sides to take advantage of our common multilateral platforms. They are very much scheduled at the highest level in the course of the year, including the Brics Summit, SCO Summit and RIC Summit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-has-independent-ties-with-india-and-pakistan-say-top-russian-diplomats-101618390305310.html
15-04-2021||India||Are more people dying in India’s second Covid wave?||The most important target in dealing with any pandemic is to keep the number of people dying from the disease as low as possible. This has been repeatedly stressed by the government as the primary target of India’s handling of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.As the country’s second Covid-19 wave continues to push daily case numbers up to record levels, daily deaths have also started increasing, though currently they remain below peak levels seen in the first wave.What does this mean? Some say it shows that the second wave is not as dangerous as the first. But a deeper look at some crucial indicators for Covid-19 fatalities shows that India may be on the cusp of an alarming trend of deaths.First, a ‘base’ CFR that can serve as a comparison point Overall, of the 13,686,024 people infected across the country till Monday night, 171,108 people lost their lives to Covid-19. This places the country’s overall case fatality rate (CFR) at just a shade under 1.3%. However, in the initial months of the outbreak, a larger proportion of people were dying as doctors across the world took time to narrow down on effective treatments, and the health infrastructure was in the process of being strengthened. As a result, India’s CFR has steadily been improving – it was 3% till the end of June; it improved to 1.6% by the end of September. In the six months before the start of the second wave (from September 2020 to January 2021), only around 1.1% of cases resulted in deaths (there were 70.8 million cases and nearly 76,000 deaths). This 1.1% is a good comparison point. It is recent, and it is from a time when cases were declining.So, are more people dying in the 2nd wave? The 1.1% base CFR can be used as a yardstick to compare the death rate during India’s second wave.In order to see if the second wave has had a lower death rate, HT plotted the seven-day average of deaths (with a 14-day lag) against the seven-day average of cases since October 1, 2020, at a ratio of 0.011:1 (as the CFR since October is 1.1%). Any deviation from the 1.1% CFR would be visible in such a chart – the target would be to keep the line representing daily deaths below the line for daily cases.Also Read | India records 184,372 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours; huge spike in active casesTo be sure, all death calculations and CFRs used in this analysis have assumed a 14-day lag between cases being reported and deaths occurring. This is because a February 2020 study showed that the median time between someone testing positive for Covid and their death is around 13.8 days.We see that the death trajectory is nearly identical to the case trajectory in the second wave for new cases occurring till the first week of March. But from there on, things take a turn for the worse: deaths are rising faster than cases. This gap, if anything, appears to be getting worse by the day.After a long gap, the CFR has again started rising For a period that lasted over four months – from the start of December till the end of March – the CFR for any week remained at 1% or below. The 1%-mark, incidentally, is significant because officials from the Union government have repeatedly stressed that their eventual goal is to bring the country’s CFR for Covid-19 to 1% or below, a number that is impressive for a country this size.However, this trend did not last long. With the start of the second wave, CFR started to climb again. Accounting for the two-week lag in deaths, 1.1% of the people who got infected in the week ending March 8 ended up dying. In the two weeks that followed, the CFR was 1.2%. Then, 1.3% of the people who were infected in the week ending March 29 ended up dying.If this trend of a CFR of 1.3% continues , it would mean that India is set to touch a record number of daily deaths. In the two corresponding weeks, there have been 548,698 (for week ending April 5) and 937,428 (for week ending April 12) cases. This would mean that 1,019 people may die every day across India in the coming week, and 1,741, in the week after. India’s death toll has never been this high – at the peak of the first wave, the seven-day average of daily deaths touched 1,169 for the week ending September 16.Can any factor cause deaths to soar even further? Simply put, yes. The number of active cases – those Covid-19 patients who have tested positive and are under treatment at a given point of time – in a region is crucial in determining the load that a health care system is bearing. The higher this number, the more hospitals and doctors get burdened and the more resources such as ventilators and hospital beds get stretched.As of April 12, there are 1,264,430 active cases of Covid-19 in the country – the highest this number has ever been. This means that currently the health care system in the country is bearing a load of cases that it has never witnessed. An even more worrying trend is that this number is rising at the fastest rate ever recorded. On average, 67,951 active cases have been added to the national tally every day in the past week – the highest ever. This number has nearly doubled in a week (it was 35,214 a week ago).This means that the health care system in the country is stretched the most since the start of the outbreak, and conditions are getting worse by the day. If this trend continues, it may result in an increase to the already rising CFR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-more-people-dying-in-india-s-second-covid-wave-101618379264882.html
15-04-2021||India||CWC to virtually meet on April 17, review Covid-19 situation||The Congress party has called a meeting of its working committee on April 17 to discuss the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and the steps taken by the government to curb it. The party might also review at the meeting the economic fallout of this phase of the pandemic and the election process in the five assembly polls.The meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s top executive body, has been scheduled against the backdrop of a surging second wave of the coronavirus disease — in the seven days to Tuesday, India has added over 1.07 million new Covid-19 cases, 22% of the total cases in the world in this period.KC Venugopal, party general secretary in charge of organisation, said in a letter on Wednesday: “A meeting of the CWC will be held on Saturday, April 17, via video conferencing to discuss matters related to the second wave of Covid-19 in the country.”According to a senior Congress leader, CWC is likely to ask the government to open vaccinations for everyone. “It may also ask for removal of the current age bracket as more young people are getting affected in the second wave,” added a second Congress leader. Both asked not to be identified.Two party strategists said that the meeting could also take into account the economic situation arising out the pandemic. Index of Industrial Production (IIP) contracted by 3.6% in February signalling a weakness in the sequential economic recovery even before the beginning of second wave of Covid-19. With the increase in cases, Maharashtra, one of India’s most industrialised states, announced a lockdown while many states have opted for night curfews — steps that might impact livelihoods and jobs of hundreds and thousands of people once again.With polling in Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry over, CWC may also choose to review the election process. Both Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and leader Rahul Gandhi have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in recent days, suggesting measures to tackle the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-working-committee-to-meet-on-april-17-to-discuss-covid-situation-101618368764283.html
