22-04-2021||India||Atal Pension Yojana sees 79 lakh new additions in FY21, total subscriber base crosses over 3-crore-mark in March||Atal Pension Yojana (APY) subscribers crossed the 3-crore mark by the end of March 2021 with addition of over 79 lakh new subscribers to the scheme in 2020-21, PFRDA said on Thursday.During the financial year 2020-21, more than 79 lakh new APY subscribers joined Atal Pension Yojana (APY) leading total enrolments to over 3.02 crore as on March 31, 2021, the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) said in a release.Of the total 3.02 crore subscribers under APY, around 70 per cent of the accounts have been opened by public sector banks, while 19 per cent were sourced by regional rural banks."Pace of enrolments has been encouraging especially in the second half of 2020-21 as it took less than six months to enrol 50 lakh new APY subscribers to reach 3 crore enrolments from 2.5 crore enrolments," PFRDA said.With regard to 79.14 lakh new additions during 2020-21, SBI sourced as many as 28 per cent, equivalent to 22.07 lakh subscribers, followed by Canara Bank and Indian Bank, sourcing 5.89 lakh and 5.17 lakh subscribers, respectively.Among others, Bank of Baroda, Airtel Payment Bank, Bank of India, Central Bank of India, Punjab National Bank, Union Bank of India, Indian Overseas Bank, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, Aryavart Bank and Baroda UP Bank added between 1 and 5 lakh new APY accounts in 2020-21.PFRDA said Airtel Payment Bank, SBI, Indian Bank, Bank of India, Vidarbh Konkan Gramin Bank, Jharkhand Rajya Gramin Bank, Karnataka Gramin Vikas Bank, and Tripura Gramin Bank performed well.It added that Uttarbanga Kshetriya Gramin Bank, Asaam Gramin Vikas Bank, Bangiya Gramin Vikas Bank, Aryavart Bank and Tamilnad Mercantile Bank also did well during the year by surpassing the targets allocated to them by the Department of Financial Services, Ministry of Finance.In terms of state-wise pan-out of the scheme, over 20 lakh APY subscribers were enrolled in 5 states as on March 31, 2021.Uttar Pradesh is at the top with 45.4 lakh APY enrolments, followed by Bihar with 28.22 lakh, West Bengal with 23.92 lakh, Maharashtra with 23.17 lakh and Tamil Nadu with 22.57 lakh cumulative APY enrolments so far, PFRDA said.Other six states Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Odisha have done APY enrolments between 10 and 20 lakh by the end of March this year.Further, the regulator said the preference for a pension amount of ₹1,000 per month has increased over the past six years."Out of the total enrolments under APY, around 77 per cent subscribers have opted for ₹1,000 monthly pension amount, as on March 31, 2021, in comparison to 38 per cent subscribers who opted for ₹1,000 monthly pension amount, as on March 31, 2016," it said.PFRDA said the gender gap has also narrowed in APY subscription with increased participation of female subscribers.Share of female subscribers has been increased to 44 per cent from 37 per cent during 2016 to 2021.Further, age profile of APY subscribers suggests a trend of increasing enrolments at younger age, said the regulator.As on March 31, 2021, more than 43 per cent subscribers got enrolled are aged between 18 and 25 years, an increase from the earlier level of 29 per cent, as on March 31, 2016.PFRDA said it has taken new initiatives such as addition of new features in the APY mobile app and availability of the same in UMANG app, updation of APY FAQs, APY Subscriber Information Brochure, APY Citizen Charter which are available in 13 regional languages.These are targeted for better outreach of the APY scheme and for the benefit of APY subscribers as well as APY service providers.The authority administers two flapship pension schemes of the government -- NPS and APY.APY came into effect from June 2015, in order to create a universal social security system for all, especially the poor, under-privileged and the workers in the unorganised sector.The subscribers can get pension starting from ₹1,000 per month to ₹2,000, ₹3,000, ₹4,000 and ₹5,000 per month after the age of 60 years, depending upon their contribution during the subscription period. All in the age group of 18 to 40 years can join APY.NPS was introduced as a defined contribution based pension scheme for the union and state government employees in January 2004, replacing the old system of defined benefit based pension scheme, except for the armed forces.It was subsequently extended to all citizens of the country from May 2009 including self-employed professionals and others in the unorganised sector on a voluntary basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atal-pension-yojana-sees-79-lakh-new-additions-in-fy21-total-subscriber-base-crosses-over-3-crore-mark-in-march-101619112647309.html
22-04-2021||India||IRDAI says hospitals to provide cashless treatments to patients, including for Covid-19||The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) clarified on Thursday that hospitals are obligated to provide cashless treatment, including for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), if patients are entitled for it under their insurance policy.“There are some reports that hospitals are not granting cashless facility for treatment of Covid-19 despite policyholders being entitled for the cashless treatment under their Policy. In this regard, it is clarified that where insurers have an arrangement with the hospitals for providing cashless facility, such network hospitals are obligated to provide cashless treatment for all treatments including treatment for Covid-19,” IRDAI noted in a statement on Thursday.All the network providers (hospitals), who have signed Service Legal Agreements (SLA) with general and health insurers, have to “mandatorily” provide cashless facility for any treatment to the policyholders, including for Covid-19, the regulatory body noted further.In the event of being denied cashless treatment, the aggrieved policyholders, IRDAI said, can send a complaint to the concerned insurance company. In the release, it also provided details and email addresses of Grievance redressal officers of insurance companies.“Insurance companies have also been directed to ensure smooth availability of cashless facility with all network providers,” IRDAI added.India is currently in the grip of a second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic during which it is seeing more daily cases than it did during last year’s first wave. The country reported more than 100,000 fresh infections for the first time on April 5, topped 200,000 on April 15 and, on Thursday, the Union ministry of health family welfare (MoHFW) said there were 314,835 new cases in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day rise anywhere since the beginning of the pandemic in early 2020.There were also 2104 related deaths in the 24-hour period (till Thursday morning), a record for a single-day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irdai-says-hospitals-to-provide-cashless-treatments-to-patients-including-for-covid19-101619111789808.html
22-04-2021||India||UAE, Oman, Australia impose travel curbs on India amid massive Covid-19 surge||The United Arab Emirates (UAE), Australia and Oman have joined the list of countries that have imposed travel restrictions on India in the wake of a massive surge in Coronavirus infections, either completely barring or restricting flights from the country. On Thursday, Singapore further tightened restrictions for travellers from India, mainly to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in its crowded workers’ dormitories. Officials acknowledged that the move would impact the construction and marine sectors, which employ a large number of people from India and other South Asian countries. The National Emergency Crisis and Disaster Management Authority and the General Civil Aviation Authority of the UAE announced the temporary suspension of all flights from India and the entry of transit passengers for a period of 10 days from April 25. Cargo flights between the two sides were exempted from the ban. People who transited through India in the past 14 days will also be barred from entering the UAE and the travel ban will be reviewed after 10 days, according to the announcement. The ban will not apply to UAE nationals, diplomatic passport holders, official delegations, and “golden residency” visa holders, though they will be required to take further preventive measures such as a 10-day quarantine and a RT-PCR test at the airport. Flights between Indian cities and Dubai have been among the busiest routes even during the pandemic as the UAE is home to more than three million Indians, one of the largest concentrations of expatriates in West Asia. The UAE became the third country after the UK and Oman to bar the entry of Indian nationals even as the daily infections surged past the 300,000-mark.On Wednesday, Oman barred the entry of travellers from India, Pakistan and Bangladesh from April 24. The ban will also cover travellers who transited through any of the three South Asian countries over the past 14 days, Oman’s Supreme Committee announced. The Australian government has decided to temporarily reduce the number of flights from India by 30% after registering a spike in incoming travellers testing positive for Covid-19. People coming from high-risk countries such as India will also have to test negative for Covid-19 at least 72 hours before boarding a flight to Australia. Prime Minister Scott Morrison said the reduction will apply to government-organised repatriation flights and commercial flights. The change will take effect “in the months ahead”, he said without giving details. Authorities in Australia’s Northern Territory (NT) said there would be changes to the schedule of repatriation flights from India to Howard Springs and the requirements for travellers. “All repatriation flights not yet booked but planned for the NT for May will now be deferred until June,” chief minister Michael Gunner was quoted as saying by ABC News. “Anyone returning from India on these flights and all flights thereafter will be required to isolate for two weeks prior to departure,” he said. The move follows the Howard Springs quarantine facility dealing with the highest number of Covid-19 cases since it began handling repatriation flights last year, with most cases recorded among arrivals from India. Singapore on Thursday announced that all long-term pass holders and short-term visitors with a history of travel to India within the last 14 days wouldn’t be allowed entry into the country from April 24. This includes travellers transiting through India and those who had obtained prior approval for entry into Singapore, officials said. “We know that this major move will have an impact on our construction, marine and process sectors. And many local SMEs and contractors will be badly impacted,” Lawrence Wong, co-chair of Singapore’s Covid-19 multi-ministry task force, told a news conference. Singapore’s health ministry had on Tuesday said Covid-19 border measures would be tightened for travellers from India, who will have to stay at home for an additional seven days after the mandatory 14-day stay at dedicated facilities. The US, the UK and New Zealand have imposed fresh restrictions on travellers from India or issued advisories against travelling to India in the backdrop of a massive spike in coronavirus cases. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Japan Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga have called off planned visits to India because of the Covid-19 situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-oman-australia-impose-travel-curbs-on-india-amid-massive-covid-19-surge-101619112051201.html
22-04-2021||India||Centre to begin vaccinating people above 18 from May 1. Check which states will provide free vaccination||On May 1, India will begin the next phase of its nationwide vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) where doses will be administered to all those who are above the age of 18. In the ongoing vaccination drive, which began on January 16, all citizens above the age of 45 are being inoculated.On Day 97, total vaccinations in India crossed 13.5 crore mark on Thursday with 30 lakh vaccine doses administered till 8pm, the Union health ministry said in a statement.To encourage beneficiaries to take the dose and ensure maximum of them are vaccinated under the upcoming phase from May 1, states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Kerala have announced free of cost vaccination for their above 18 population. Other states such as Goa, Assam and Sikkim have announced free vaccination for beneficiaries between the ages of 18 and 45.Here is the list of the states which are vaccinating their residents above the age of 18 free of cost.1. Uttar Pradesh:The BJP government in Uttar Pradesh announced on Tuesday that free vaccine doses will be provided to all residents above the age of 18. The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “We have decided to vaccinate all above 18 years free of cost. The state government will take forward the vaccination programme with its own resources,” he said. Uttar Pradesh is the second worst-hit state from the Covid disease pandemic across India with record cases being reported daily.2. Chhattisgarh:Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel announced on Wednesday that the Congress-led state government will pay for the vaccinations of all beneficiaries above the age of 18 and added all possible steps will be taken to protect the lives of the residents. Baghel had also requested the Centre on Wednesday to provide adequate stock of vaccine doses.3. Bihar:Chief minister Nitish Kumar Kumar said on Wednesday that all residents above the age of 18 will be vaccinated free of cost from May 1. The state government has claimed it has been administering vaccine doses to residents from all categories in government and listed private hospitals in Bihar, according to news agency PTI.4. Kerala:Kerala will also be vaccinating residents above the age of 18 for free, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday and also requested the Centre to provide free vaccine doses to all states as several of them are suffering a financial burden.5. Madhya Pradesh:All beneficiaries in Madhya Pradesh above the age of 18 will be vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease for free, the state government said after the decision was taken during a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.6. Assam:Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma announced on Wednesday the state government will vaccinate all residents between the ages of 18-45 for free from May 1 and donations received for Covid-19 management from 2020 will be used for this purpose. “Assam will give FREE vaccines to everyone from 18-45 years. GOI is giving free vaccines for 45 +. Funds collected in Assam Arogya Nidhi last year shall be utilized for procurement of vaccines,” Sarma tweeted.7. Goa:Goa said on Thursday that it will be vaccinating all its residents between the ages of 18-45 for free. “I am pleased to convey Government approval to provide Covid vaccine doses to all populations in the age group 18-45 through the state government free of cost,” state additional secretary (health) Vikas Gaunekar said in a letter adding the state will be purchasing 500,000 Covishield doses initially.8. SikkimAll residents of Sikkim between 18-45 years will be vaccinated against the coronavirus disease for free, chief minister Prem Singh Tamang said on Wednesday adding the state government will bear the expense if the central government does not do so.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-states-to-provide-free-vaccine-doses-for-all-above-18-check-list-here-101619110524146.html
22-04-2021||India||Centre advises all its staff to get themselves vaccinated||The Centre has asked all its employees to get themselves vaccinated so as to effectively contain the spread of Covid-19, a Personnel Ministry order issued on Thursday said.It said the government has been monitoring the situation very closely, and it has been decided to vaccinate all the citizens who have attained the age of 18 years and above.Accordingly, “all central government employees are advised to get themselves vaccinated so as to effectively contain the spread of Covid- 19. Further, they may continue to follow Covid protocols, even after vaccination”, said the order issued to all the central government departments.There are estimated 48.34 lakh central government employees, according to an official data.The Personnel Ministry had earlier this month asked all central government employees of the age of 45 years and above to get themselves vaccinated.They were further advised to continue to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, even after vaccination, particularly, frequent washing of hands/ sanitisation, maintenance of social distancing and masking etc.All citizens of 18 years and above will be eligible for Covid -19 vaccine from May 1. At present, those above 45 years and above are eligible for the inoculation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-advises-all-its-staff-to-get-themselves-vaccinated-101619109713705.html
22-04-2021||India||At global climate summit, PM Modi unveils new US partnership to foster investments, ties||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday unveiled a new partnership with the US for investments and collaborations to tackle climate change and told a global summit convened by President Joe Biden that a “back to basics” approach should guide economic recovery in the post-Covid-19 era. The two-day Virtual Leaders’ Summit on Climate, the first major global initiative by Biden since he assumed office in January, is bringing together some 40 world leaders to forge solutions for climate change and resilient economic development. India is seen as key to future strategies on climate action, given its increasing consumption of fossil fuels and economic growth in recent years. Modi didn’t pledge any new goals, though he announced the new initiative with the US. He and Biden are launching the “India-US climate and clean energy agenda 2030 partnership” to “help mobilise investments, demonstrate clean technologies, and enable green collaborations”, he said. Further details of this partnership weren’t immediately available from both countries. Modi also emphasised the importance of lifestyle change in climate action. “Sustainable lifestyles and a guiding philosophy of ‘back to basics’ must be an important pillar of our economic strategy for the post-Covid era,” he said. Though people around the world are battling a global pandemic now, this leaders summit on climate is a “timely reminder that the grave threat of climate change has not disappeared,” Modi said. “In fact, climate change is a lived reality for millions around the world. Their lives and livelihoods are already facing its adverse consequences,” he added. Modi sought concrete action to combat climate change, adding such action is needed at “a high speed, on a large scale, and with a global scope”. He pointed out India is doing its part through measures such as the country’s renewable energy target of 450 GW by 2030. “Despite our development challenges, we have taken many bold steps on clean energy, energy efficiency, afforestation and bio-diversity. That is why we are among the few countries whose NDCs [nationally determined contributions] are 2-degree Celsius compatible,” he said. India has also encouraged global initiatives such as International Solar Alliance and Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure and the country’s per capita carbon footprint is 60% lower than the global average because the people’s lifestyle is rooted in sustainable traditional practices, he said. As a developing country, India welcomes partners to create templates for sustainable development that can also help other developing nations in need of affordable access to green finance and clean technologies, he added. Citing Swami Vivekananda’s call to “Arise, awake and stop not until the goal is reached”, Modi said: “Let us make this a decade of action against climate change.” Biden described climate change as “the existential crisis of our time” and announced a new goal of cutting US greenhouse gas emissions by up to 52% by 2030 as he launched the summit. ”This is the decade we must make decisions that will avoid the worst consequences of the climate crisis,” he said. The new US target is relative to 2005 levels, and the measures the Biden administration intends to put in place include boosting the fuel efficiency of vehicles, supporting carbon capture at industrial facilities and moving towards carbon pollution-free electricity.   China too is seen as crucial to all global climate action efforts in view of its energy consumption and economic growth and President Xi Jinping told the summit his country will control coal consumption in coming years and reduce fossil fuel use during 2026-30. Under the 2015 Paris climate agreement, world leaders agreed to limit global warming to below 2 degrees Celsius. Average global temperatures have increased by more than 1.1 degree Celsius since 1980, and this has been cited by experts as the cause of severe heat waves, droughts and storms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-global-climate-summit-pm-modi-unveils-new-us-partnership-to-foster-investments-ties-101619108750998.html
22-04-2021||India||Ten days before counting, Assam Congress moves candidates to a resort||Assam Congress on Thursday shifted most of its candidates who contested the recently held assembly polls to a resort on the outskirts of Guwahati—10 days ahead of counting of votes. Over 60 of the total 95 candidates of the party moved to the Dichang Resort located at Sonapur, 24 km away from Guwahati where they are likely to reside till May 2. Congress has booked 70 rooms in the resort. Some Congress leaders admitted the move was necessitated due to fear of the candidates switching sides to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Other candidates stated that it was meant for orientation and interactions to know each other. Earlier this month, two alliance partners of the Congress-led ‘Mahajot’ (grand alliance), All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), had moved most of their candidates to Congress-ruled Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh respectively. “We have to be afraid of BJP as they have in the past indulged in horse-trading in several states and formed or broken governments. We are afraid and that’s why we are taking preventive measures,” Assam Congress president Ripun Bora told journalists. Leader of Congress legislature party in the present assembly Debabrata Saikia said that the candidates were in the resort as asked by the state president to have discussions ahead of counting of votes. “What the Congress is doing is pure drama ahead of counting. They know they will lose the election and are blaming us of horse-trading. We don’t have to indulge in such activities as BJP on its own will secure majority and with our allies will reach around 85 seats,” BJP spokesperson Subhash Dutta said. In 2016, BJP had won 60 seats and formed the government with support of its allies Asom Gana Parishad (14) and Bodoland Peoples’ Front (12). The Congress had won 26 seats while AIUDF had won 13. This time, BPF has switched sides and joined the Congress led alliance. “We used to see such instances of legislators being kept holed up in resorts in other states. Now Assam is also witnessing such events. This is not good for democracy and an insult to voters,” Akhil Ranjan Dutta, professor of political science in Gauhati University said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ten-days-before-counting-assam-congress-moves-candidates-to-a-resort-101619108031792.html
22-04-2021||India||India among few countries to respect commitments to Paris agreement: Indian envoy||India’s ambassador to France, Jawed Ashraf, on Thursday said that the world cannot afford to ignore the “long term pandemic” of climate change even as it is preoccupied with coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In an opinion piece for French daily Le Figaro, Ashraf highlighted the progress made by India on the climate action front, saying the country is on course to meet, and even exceed its commitments to Paris Agreement. He opined that although the world is falling short on its commitment, there are success stories of bold and imaginative action from large as well as small countries that “should inspire us”.“India has already achieved 25% reduction in energy intensity over 2005 level, and is on its way to doing more than our commitment of 33-35% reduction in 2030,” the Indian envoy wrote.Prime Minister Narendra Modi made climate change a national mission since he took the office in 2014, the ambassador said. He further added that PM Modi’s strategy to mitigate the risk of climate change rests on four pillars, including raising national consciousness on climate change, managing the demand side for fossil fuel and electricity, and emphasising biodiversity conservation.“At the heart of India’s strategy is making clean energy reliable, accessible and affordable. That belief also guided Prime Minister Modi’s call for International Solar Alliance, launched in Paris in 2015 with France as a co-founder, which now has nearly 90 member countries,” he wrote.Ashraf underscored the importance of international partnerships, saying climate change needs the same urgency that was visible in the efforts to develop, produce and distribute Covid-19 vaccines globally at affordable prices. He also stressed that advanced economies must do more to “meet their own commitments and to help the developing world.”“That means investing heavily in technologies and making them widely available as global public goods, backed by significantly higher commitment of financial resources for the developing world,” he added.On Thursday, PM Modi announced the launch of the “India-US climate and clean energy Agenda 2030 partnership” to “mobilise investments, demonstrate clean technologies and enable green collaborations”. Addressing the virtual summit of 40 world leaders hosted by US President Joe Biden, the prime minister called for a concrete action “at a high speed, on a large scale, and with a global scope” to combat climate change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-among-few-countries-to-meet-commitments-to-paris-agreement-indian-envoy-101619106997306.html
22-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Incorrect facts, says Centre on media reports on SII vaccines||The Central government clarified on Thursday media reports that the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) had contracted its entire production of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (covid-19) to it till May 25.Also Read | Serum Institute announces Covishield price: ₹600 for pvt, ₹400 for govt hospitals“There have been some media reports suggesting that SII has contracted all its production till 25th May 2021 to the Centre, and therefore till that date state governments will not be able to procure vaccine from SII,” the Centre said in a press release on Thursday evening. “These media reports are based on incorrect facts,” the release further said.Explaining the “contract,” the government said, “A key feature of the Liberalised Pricing And Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy is that the vaccine manufacturers would supply 50% of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to the Government of India and would be free to supply the remaining 50% doses to state governments and in the other than Government of India channel. The state governments are free to purchase the vaccine doses from the vaccine manufacturers.”Therefore, it is very clear that every month out of the total CDL cleared doses available with any vaccine manufacturer, 50% doses would be available for other than Government of India channels, the release added.Amid a rapid surge in daily cases of the viral disease, the Centre on Monday announced that starting May 1, everyone who is 18 or above will be eligible to be vaccinated against Covid-19. This will be the third phase of the nationwide vaccine drive, which is the largest globally, and began on January 16. SII is manufacturing one of two vaccine jabs cleared for use in India, the Oxford University-AstraZeneca shot, which is being manufactured here as “Covishield.”Also Read | What changes from May 1 in Covid-19 vaccination drive?The other shot is called Covaxin, and has been developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited. It is India’s first, and thus far only, home-made jab against Covid-19. Both Covaxin and Covishield were granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in January. Earlier this month, the DCGI granted approval to a third shot, Russia’s Sputnik V.Also Read | India to get Russia's Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine only by end-MayAccording to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) dashboard on Thursday morning, 132,330,644 doses have been administered in the country thus far, including 2,211,344 in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-incorrect-facts-says-centre-on-media-reports-on-sii-vaccines-101619104824235.html
22-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre allows ICMR to study feasibility of vaccine delivery by drones and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre allows ICMR to conduct feasibility study to deliver Covid-19 vaccines using dronesThe Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) and Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Thursday granted conditional exemption to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting feasibility study of Covid-19 vaccine delivery using drones. Read more'There can only be one Kapil Dev, MS Dhoni and Sunil Gavaskar': VVS Laxman refuses to compare youngsters with legendsSaying that comparison with greats can only put pressure on the young cricketers, former India batsman VVS Laxman said there can only be one Kapil Dev, MS Dhoni or Sunil Gavaskar. Read moreThe Conjuring​: The Devil Made Me Do It trailer drops online, Vera Farmiga and Patrick Wilson to solve terror storyThe trailer for The Conjuring: The Devil Made Me Do It was released on Thursday and gave the audience a preview of a chilling story of terror, murder, and unknown evil. Read moreChrome for Android's new feature will help you save money: Here's how to enable itAmid multiple waves of the novel coronavirus pandemic hitting various countries around the world, one of the biggest lifesavers has been online shopping and e-commerce platforms. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-allows-icmr-to-study-feasibility-of-covid-19-vaccine-delivery-by-drones-and-all-the-latest-news-101619103889914.html
22-04-2021||India||Centre allows ICMR to conduct feasibility study to deliver Covid-19 vaccines using drones||The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) and Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Thursday granted conditional exemption to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting feasibility study of Covid-19 vaccine delivery using drones. The ICMR has partnered with IIT-Kanpur for the project.The Centre said in a release that the exemption will be valid for a period of one year or until further orders.The ICMR had filed an application in February seeking permission to conduct a feasibility study to deliver Covid-19 vaccines using drones. The government said that the medical research body will have to get clearance on its standard operating procedures (SOPs) from the DGCA.As per the release, conditional exemption has also been granted to a few entities and civic bodies to carry out study of using drones. These are: the municipal corporations of Dehradun, Haldwani, Haridwar and Rudrapur for preparation of GIS based property database and electronic tax register; the Kota and Katni divisions of West Central Railway for train accident site and maintaining safety and security of the railway assets.Drones have been very useful in providing last mile deliveries, and reaching places which are difficult to ac. In India, they have been used by authorities in some cities to keep a check at crowd when the Covid-19 pandemic spread last year.In Ghana, a delivery service Zipline has been using drones to give Covid-19 vaccines to people living in remote areas. According to a report in Forbes, Zipline has partnered with the government of Ghana to provide these vaccines which have been received as part of COVAX - a global initiative to give equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines. The initiative is supported by the World Health Organization (WHO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drones-to-deliver-covid-19-vaccines-icmr-gets-nod-for-feasibility-study-101619102334733.html
22-04-2021||India||Vaccinating everyone above 18 years of age to cost 0.36% of GDP: India Ratings||Vaccinating all citizens above the age of 18 years against Covid-19 will cost ₹67,193 crore, of which states together will incur ₹46,323 crore, India Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra) said on Thursday.As the second wave of Covid-19 sweeps the country with alarming speed and severity, the government has announced a liberalised and accelerated Phase 3 strategy of Covid-19 vaccination. Under this scheme, all persons above 18 years of age will be eligible to get Covid-19 vaccine doses from May 1."This means that the total size of the population that will now be eligible for vaccination would be 84.19 crore out of the total population of 133.26 crore," it said a note.India Ratings calculated that this "may cost ₹67,193 crore, of which the Union government will incur ₹20,870 crore and state governments together will incur ₹46,323 crore".The government has made the pricing, procurement, eligibility and administration of coronavirus vaccines flexible. While the vaccination drive will continue as before, providing free vaccination to priority populations such as healthcare workers, frontline workers and population above 45 years of age, states and Union territories have been allowed to procure additional Covid-19 vaccine doses directly from the manufacturers and open-up vaccination to people above the age of 18 years.As a result, Indian vaccine manufacturers would now be supplying 50 per cent of their production to the central government and the balance 50 per cent would be available for procurement by the state governments and the open market (private hospitals).Ind-Ra said the Union government has already spent ₹5,090 crore on procuring 21.4 crore vaccines from Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech.Assuming two doses of vaccines at ₹400 per dose for new vaccine procurement and 5 per cent wastage, the cost for the central government will come to ₹62,103 crore for 155.4 crore doses, it said.The total of the two comes to ₹67,193 crore which "works out to be just 0.36 per cent of GDP," it noted. "If we split it between the Union government and state governments, then the fiscal impact on the union budget would be 0.12 per cent of GDP and on the state budgets would 0.24 per cent of GDP".The maximum impact is likely to be on Bihar (0.60 per cent of gross state domestic product or GSDP), followed by Uttar Pradesh (0.47 per cent), Jharkhand (0.37 per cent), Manipur (0.36 per cent), Assam (0.35 per cent), Madhya Pradesh (0.30 per cent) and Odisha (0.30 per cent)."Since the antibodies generated by these vaccines are likely to last for 12-18 months, this expenditure would be a recurring expenditure on union and state budgets," it said. "However, many states such as Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh have already announced that the government will bear the cost of vaccination. Vaccinations by large corporate groups will reduce pressure on the state/central budget."Ind-Ra believes that given the magnitude of the problem and the economic cost the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic is likely to inflict on the economy, it is too small an amount."However, more than the money spent, the critical factor would be how soon the desired level of vaccination can be achieved."Therefore, the decision to allow the restricted emergency use of Russian vaccine Sputnik-V and other vaccines approved by the US, EU and WHO is another step in the right direction. This will only accelerate the vaccination effort in the country. The first batch of Sputnik V is expected to be delivered to India by April-end," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccinating-everyone-above-18-years-of-age-to-cost-0-36-of-gdp-india-ratings-101619101395868.html
22-04-2021||India||Indian double mutant strain of Covid-19 detected in Assam||Assam recorded the first instance of the Indian double mutant strain of Covid-19 on Thursday, health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma informed. The strain B.1.617 was detected in passengers who landed at the Dibrugarh airport. The state had earlier recorded the UK variant of the virus. “We have found a patient with the Indian double mutant strain of Covid-19 at Dibrugarh during tests conducted on incoming passengers. This strain spreads very fast and is more dangerous. Hence, I request the public to be more careful,” said Sarma. The minister informed that though there is an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in recent days, the state has adequate infrastructure and logistics to tackle the rise in patients. “We have adequate supply of oxygen, Remdesivir injections as well as ICU beds. If there is a huge surge in patients in coming days, there could be problems. But at present there is no scarcity,” said Sarma. On Wednesday, Assam recorded 1665 new cases and 5 Covid-19 deaths. The state has 9,048 active cases at present. In view of rising cases, the state government has made testing and seven-day home quarantine of all incoming passengers mandatory. On Thursday, Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal had an all-party meeting with leaders of most political parties in the state to discuss the present situation and take suggestions from them. “I appeal to all to strictly follow all the guidelines issued by the health department in tackling Covid-19. People have to be aware that unless we take the safety measures seriously, the situation might go out of control,” Sonowal said after the meeting. According to a state government release, leaders of all political parties appreciated the measures initiated by the state government to control the spread of the virus and assured all support as and when needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-double-mutant-strain-of-covid-19-detected-in-assam-101619101010929.html
22-04-2021||India||As Covid-19 cases surge, ITBP to reopen Sardar Patel care centre in Delhi||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) is looking to operationalise its Covid-19 centre in south Delhi's Chhatarpur. The Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre was the world's largest; it was closed down in February.People aware of the development said that the centre is expected to be operational in three days. As many as 11,657 patients were treated by the facility in seven-and-half months.On Thursday, the Union home ministry (MHA) released a letter which said that the Delhi government had requested for reopening of the facility. It also said that a deliberation took place on Thursday evening by ITBP officials with all the stakeholders.The MHA has designated ITBP as the nodal force for operating the facility."It has been decided to provide an adequate number of medical officers and para-medical staff to man 500 oxygenated beds to Sardar Patel Covid centre, Chhattarpur in Delhi," the MHA said in the letter.The home ministry also said that it has been decided to provide adequate number of medical officers and paramedical staff to man 500 oxygenated beds at the facility. The ITBP may draw required medical manpower, if needed, from other central police forces also, the MHA letter further said."The boarding and lodging arrangements for doctors and paramedical staff, including expenses, thereon will be made by Govt of NCT of Delhi," the MHA letter said.Inaugurated in July 5, 2020, the Sardar Patel centre was serving as a treatment centre for those who are asymptomatic but cannot afford home isolation.The ITBP had started the facility as an emergency measure when the country, as well as the national capital, was reeling under the impact of Covid-19 pandemic. The world's largest Covid-19 care centre admitted patients referred by 11 hospitals in Delhi, including AIIMS, Safdarjung, Medanta and Max Hospital.The number of patients being treated at the centre during the peak of the infection was 2,000.The Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre is 1,700 feet long, 700 feet wide - roughly the size of 20 football fields - and has 200 enclosures with 50 beds each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-cases-surge-itbp-to-reopen-sardar-patel-care-centre-in-delhi-101619100012448.html
22-04-2021||India||As the second Covid wave surges, how citizens are working to counter it||As India deals with the paucity of oxygen cylinders, plasma donors, food and other basic essentials during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, young citizens are working to help those in need. Hindustan Times spoke to these young change-makers to understand their struggle and contribution in flattening the curve. Vinum Gupta: Delivers home-made food to patientsVinum Gupta distributes home-made meals around Gurugram in Haryana at minimal prices. He says he and his mother decided to start the service when they could not find anyone to provide them with food while they were infected with Covid-19.“My friend’s father fell ill. By the time we took him to the hospital, he passed away due to severe damage in his lungs. After we returned home, we felt sick and tested positive for Covid-19. That is when our struggle with food started. We didn’t have any known source which could provide us with food. After recovering, my mother and I realised that there were several people facing the same problem and we decided to start our food service,” says Gupta. “My mother and I started delivering lentils, chapatis and salad at a cost of ₹100 per plate in April. We provide free delivery within a 3km radius and a nominal delivery charge if it’s farther away,” says Gupta, who has successfully served 100 meals till date. Also Read | ‘Distance makes the heart grow fonder’: Mumbai man wanting to meet girlfriend during curfew gets witty reply from policeVibha Vasuki: Supplies care packages to members of sexual minority communitiesVibha Vasuki, a lawyer from Bengaluru in Karnataka, says that like everyone, members of sexual minority communities too have been suffering the effects of the pandemic, especially due to the discrimination they face. After her family tested positive, Vasuki and her husband split duties-- from cooking food to buying medicines. She then realised that since the members of sexual minority communities are subject to discrimination, the pandemic would have worsened the situation. “There are around 100 sex workers in different collectives in Mysore and Mandya and they needed care packages and meals. I was constantly using my Instagram account to look for members of sexual minority communities who needed help. I’ve been successful in serving around 150 beneficiaries who we supply food and other sanitary essentials,” says Vasuki, who started giving out care packages through her dog Duke’s Instagram account as well.Rana Mukherjee: Helps provide food, oxygen and monetary donations to patientsRana Mukherjee, an engineer from Korba in Chattisgarh, has not just been providing patients with meals, but is constantly working towards connecting donors and providing those in need with providing oxygen cylinders to those in need. Mukherjee and his friends have also cremated bodies when needed. “We cremated two unidentified bodies during the second wave. They had been lying in the hospital unattended,” says Mukherjee. “When the pandemic began in 2020, I interacted with migrants from all around India and their losses and suffering motivated me to help. We have a list of plasma donors and collaborate with multiple home chefs to provide two meals to over 220 people everyday. We constantly receive monetary donations from our acquaintances and the families in Chhattisgarh, which has helped us serve people during these uncertain times,” says Mukherjee .Surabhi Shikha: Works to verify a repository of Covid-19 resourcesSurabhi Shikha, from Patna in Bihar, with a following of 300 people on Instagram, has created a long list of verified resources for Covid-19 patients. “Since we live in this echo chamber where lots of info is being shared, we tend to feel that there’s enough resources. However, not a lot of people who are actually going through illness are aware that such initiatives are available,” says Shikha. “Both my parents are doctors in Patna and I’m watching the battlefield from the closest seat, so this is my little effort to do whatever I can to help. I research the contacts, and call vendors to confirm their inventory. It’s helpful that there are other people like me who are out there working on similar initiatives. I’m on the constant lookout for what’s being shared across different cities,” says Shikha, who spends around four or five hours of her day verifying sources and has successfully created a guide for all the requirements a Covid-19 patient might need.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-the-second-covid-wave-surges-how-citizens-are-working-to-counter-it-101619099270629.html
22-04-2021||India||Covid: UAE to ban all flights from India for 10 days starting April 25||The United Arab Emirates (UAE) announced on Thursday that it will stop all its flights from India for a period of 10 days starting April 25 (Sunday) due to the massive rise in India’s caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The UAE is known to be the busiest route for all international flights from India.Sharing a statement, the UAE said arrival passengers from India through other countries are not allowed to enter unless they were staying for 14 days in those countries.However, the departure and cargo flights between UAE and India will continue to operate. UAE citizens, diplomatic delegations, official delegations and flights of businessmen are the categories which are exempted from this restriction.Ten-day quarantine will be mandatory for the above mentioned categories. They will have to undergo RT-PCR test on the day of arrival, day 4 and on day 8, the statement said. The test results will only be accepted from authorised labs which generate a QR code, it further said.Also Read| UK, US, Hong Kong and Singapore tighten travel curbs on India amid Covid-19 surgeThe UAE is the latest to impose strict travel restrictions on India this week due to Covid-19. The UK, France and Hong Kong have also announced similar restrictions as a precautionary measure.Several other countries such as the United States (US), Singapore and New Zealand have also imposed fresh travel restrictions on all travellers coming from India due to the daily spike in its cases and deaths.Also Read| Air India drops UK flights from April 24-30 amid Covid-19 curbs. Check detailsThe US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) advised all American citizens to avoid travelling to India even if they have been administered vaccine doses. The CDC has currently placed India among ‘level 4’ countries, or those with ‘very high’ level of cases. New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on April 8 that the country had temporarily suspended entry of all passengers from India including its own citizens for 14 days.India’s Covid-19 caseload is nearing the 16 million mark of which 184,657 have died and 13,454,880 while the active cases are over 2.29 million. On Thursday, the country saw the highest single-day spike across the world after 314,000 cases were reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/emirates-to-stop-flights-between-dubai-and-india-for-10-days-from-april-25-101619098294757.html
22-04-2021||India||Rajnath Singh speaks to Indonesian defence minister, assures support to trace missing submarine||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday spoke to his Indonesian counterpart Gen Prabowo Subianto and assured him of India's "full support" to Indonesia in tracing a missing submarine with 53 people on board.The Indian Navy has already sent a deep submergence rescue vessel (DSRV) to support the Indonesian Navy's effort to trace the submarine that went missing on Wednesday during military exercise around the Bali Strait."Spoke to the Defence Minister of Indonesia, General Prabowo Subianto over the phone and shared my pain over the news of missing submarine Nanggala and its crew members. India is extending its full support to the ongoing Indonesian rescue efforts," Singh tweeted.Singh said India is always committed to assist its strategic partners during times of need and that Gen Subianto has acknowledged and appreciated India's support to his country."I have already directed the @indiannavy to move its Deep Submergence Rescue Vessel (DSRV) to Indonesia. I have also tasked the Indian Air Force to see the feasibility of induction of the DSRV intervention system by air," he said.Earlier, Indian Navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said India is among a few countries globally which are capable of undertaking search and rescue of a disabled submarine through a DSRV.He said the Indian Navy's DSRV system can locate any submarine at a depth of 1,000 metres utilising its state of the art side scan sonar (SSS) and remotely operated vehicle (ROV)."After the submarine is successfully located, another sub module of DSRV- the submarine rescue vehicle (SRV) - mates with the submarine to rescue the trapped personnel. The SRV can also be used to provide emergency supplies to the submarine," he said.Under the framework of comprehensive strategic partnership between India and Indonesia, the two navies share a strong partnership of operational cooperation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-speaks-to-indonesian-defence-minister-assures-support-to-trace-missing-submarine-101619096869036.html
22-04-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir doctor asks social groups to prepare for 2nd Covid-19 wave||Baramulla government medical hospital superintendent raised an alarm on Thursday, asking social organisations and religious groups to prepare to deal with the possibility of the second Covid-19 wave overwhelming the health infrastructure in Jammu and Kashmir, as witnessed in pockets of states such as Maharashtra and Delhi. His post on social media created a flutter and received backing from a few other prominent personalities at a time when senior officials have said there was no need to panic.“All Masjid / Mohalla committees should arrange oxygen facilities in their respective mohallas instead of other community requirements this time. A disastrous wave is on its way. This little time should be used to build these small domiciliary facilities which will help the system from overloading,” Syed Masood, superintendent Government Medical College (GMC) hospital Baramulla wrote on social media on Thursday. The post was widely shared and evoked a response from some organisations who said they were following up on the advice.There are dozens of voluntary organisations supplying oxygen concentrators and other equipment to the needy across the UT, especially in Srinagar. Mudasir Naqashbandi, an advocate who runs Khidmat Foundation has been arranging oxygen for Covid patients. He claims there is a “worst kind of shortage of concentrators” in north Kashmir claiming the demand has increased “abruptly”. “We are appealing to people to help us in purchasing new oxygen concentrators, we don’t want a condition [as seen in] other places... in Kashmir. [Other places are] facing shortage of oxygen and we can’t afford to lose our people due to oxygen supply.”On Wednesday at least 22 Covid patients died in a municipality-run hospital in Maharashtra’s Nashik due to leakage of oxygen . Several hospitals in Delhi and Maharashtra have raised alarm over oxygen supplies reaching critical levels presenting a life-threatening risk to patients.“We still have days... we can plug the gaps in the system. The government and people should take this very seriously, otherwise we could also land in trouble like other states of the country, where patients are dying for want of oxygen,” said a senior doctor posted at government medical college (GMC) Srinagar, who didn’t wish to be named.With 2,204 fresh cases, Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday again reported the highest ever daily count of infections since the outbreak. The number of cases recorded in the first 20 days of April in the second wave this year reached 21,482 – the second highest after September, 2020, when the first wave peaked. Total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the UT has reached 152,442. Three deaths in Kashmir and 10 in Jammu were reported on Wednesday, taking the total death to 2,084, health officials said. This is the highest daily death count in the UT since the first week of October.Last week, medical superintendent, GMC Anantnag, Dr Iqbal said his hospital was left with no vacant ICU beds for Covid patients. The GMC Anantnag caters to the entire south Kashmir. On Tuesday, director SKIMS (Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences) AG Ahangar claimed Remdesivir injection- used to treat severe cases- was running short for the past two days.However, on Tuesday, financial commissioner, health Atal Dulloo ruled out a shortage of any medicine including Remdesivir and assured that there were sufficient beds and oxygen across the UT. On the same day Jammu and Kashmir’s top pulmonologist Dr Javaid Malik said the UT was better prepared than last year, however, he also stressed the need to develop health infrastructure in “a big way” across the union territory to meet the “future” emergencies.Another senior government official in the valley, divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole, said not even 30% of the 1,500 Covid beds available in level 1 and level 2 health facilities in the UT were occupied. Another official, who didn’t wish to be named, said six wards at the government-run Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) hospital in Srinagar were designated as Covid wards, similarly, more than 100 beds at the Covid centre created at the indoor stadium at Baramulla have been made operational and more beds have been designated for treatment of Covid-19 patients at the SKIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-doctor-asks-social-groups-to-prepare-for-2nd-covid-19-wave-101619097951547.html
22-04-2021||India||'Mortality much higher': Doctor who highlighted horrors of 2nd Covid wave||A doctor who highlighted the horrors of working during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, has now said that the second wave of the infection is deadlier than the first one. Dr Saandhra Sebastian appealed to the people to follow precautions to keep themselves safe during these testing times."Since March 30, the Covid-19 caseload has been very high. It is very difficult to handle the sheer number of cases. Such a high number of cases are actually putting a burden on the healthcare system," Dr Sebastian said during a an interaction with Humans Of Bombay on Instagram."We are having to refuse patients, saying we do not have oxygen beds or ICU beds. The mortality this time is higher, much higher," the doctor added.A post shared by Humans of Bombay (@officialhumansofbombay)Dr Sebastian's post last week where she shared the plight of healthcare workers at Covid-19 hospitals and the disturbing episodes they witness as people break down when told about the condition of their family members had gone viral on social media.Today, during the Instagram interaction, the young doctor talked about the precautions to be followed if someone is isolating at home after testing positive for Covid-19."After you test positive, maintain your diet and proper hydration. If you are having fever, take paracetamol as and when there are spikes. If you have fever throughout the day, you can take paracetamol thrice a day. Keep taking Vitamin C and zinc once daily. If you have sore throat or chest congestion, take levocetirizine before you go to bed," said Dr Sebastian.She also said that it's only a speculation that the Sars-CoV-2 virus - which causes Covid-19 - is airborne.When asked about breathing exercises, the doctor said that if a patient is feeling shortness of breath, it means the disease has turned moderate from mild. So it's better to get yourself hospitalised."Take Vitamin C tablets even if you don't have Covid. Healthcare workers like us, who are engaged in duties, are also asked to take Vitamin C daily. If Vitamin C level goes down, the capacity of the body to fight infection is impaired," said the Delhi-based anesthesiology resident.The doctor also informed that she completed her Covid duty on April 18 and is presently under quarantine.In her Instragram post on April 14, Dr Sebastian gave a glimpse of the past two weeks of her life.“I've been telling people that their 22-year-old son has died, lying to patients, telling them theek ho jaoge (you will getter better), when I know to my bones vo theek nhi honge… (they won’t getter better), hearing breathless women crying allah allah in anguish all night,” she said in the long post.She also urged people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and wear mask when they go out.India recorded the world's highest daily tally of 314,835 new Covid-19 infections on Thursday as a second wave of the pandemic raised new fears about the ability of crumbling health services to cope.Health officials across northern and western India including the capital, New Delhi, said they were in crisis, with most hospitals full and running out of oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mortality-much-higher-doctor-who-highlighted-horrors-at-2nd-covid-wave-101619096851577.html
22-04-2021||India||As Covid cases and deaths rise in Chhattisgarh, BJP blames govt mismanagement||With 193 deaths and 14,519 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported in Chhattisgarh on Wednesday, the opposition party in state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that the state is suffering from lack of testing kits and hospital beds due to mismanagement. Raipur is the worst-hit city with 17,981 cases recorded in the last seven days, followed by Durg which recorded 10,381 cases recorded in the same period. On Wednesday, Raipur recorded 3,081 cases and 68 deaths due to Covid-19, which suggest the government has failed to contain the surge of Covid-19 in the state. “Although the number of fresh cases in Raipur has gone down from about 5,000 to 3,000, the number of deaths is not decreasing. In the last one week, 470 people died in government and private hospitals. The main reason is people from neighbouring district come to Raipur for treatment. Now the cases in rural districts of the state are increasing, which is a major concern,” said a health official. Also Read | People above 18 will get free Covid vaccine in state: Chhattisgarh CM BaghelMeanwhile, Raipur and other affected districts of the state are suffering from the lack of hospital beds. “ I had to wait around 24 hours for a ventilator bed in Raipur for my mother and at last with the help of some volunteers , I got a bed in a private hospital ,” said Naveet Verma, who himself is battling Covid-19 for last few days. On Wednesday, the health department served a notice to seven laboratories for the delay in timely update of Covid-19 test figures on the ICMR portal. “The infection rate has increased four times in Chhattisgarh in the last four weeks. We are trying to increase the testing in the state and presently we are conducting around 13,000 RT-PCR tests per day. We are also trying to increase the number of testing labs from 8 to 17. The number of deaths has increased because patients are reaching the hospital very late,” said health minister TS Singhdeo, talking to media. The minister also said that there is no crunch in oxygen supply but there is a lack of ICU beds, and the department is working to fix that. “Deaths are more worrying because the rate is more than one per cent. This because the infection is more in the state ... We hope it will come down in next seven days,” Singhdeo said. Meanwhile, former chief minister and senior BJP leader Raman Singh alleged that people in the state are suffering due to lack of testing as well as oxygen and ICU beds. “Testing has stopped in the whole state because testing kits are not available. People are not tested in rural areas. In urban areas, people are getting beds... This is apathy and negligence of state government,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-cases-and-deaths-rise-in-chhattisgarh-bjp-blames-govt-mismanagement-101619096691724.html
22-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel writes to PM Modi, seeks details on supply, prices of vaccines||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking immediate information on the availability and cost of vaccines to be provided to the state as part of the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive due to begin on May 1, according to officials.The chief minister in his letter said that in perspective of the Centre’s decision of allowing everyone above 18 years of age to get vaccinated against Covid-19, the state government has decided to arrange free of cost vaccines for its people in addition to the vaccines available by the Government of India. Stating that there are only a few days left for commencement of the third phase of the vaccination drive, Baghel said it is necessary to prepare a detailed action plan before organising a vaccination drive at such a huge scale. Baghel also sought information regarding the number of vaccines to be provided monthly to the state by the Centre, approximate number of vaccines to be provided to the state monthly by the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech and the cost of vaccines provided to the Centre and states by SII and Bharat Biotech. The chief minister further wrote that it is expected that the cost of vaccines should be uniform for the Centre as well as states. Since, Covaxin has been developed with assistance from the Government of India therefore, Bharat Biotech should supply its vaccines at lesser rates compared to the one by Serum Institute. He said a uniform price of vaccines would be justified as both the state and the Centre earn revenue from tax payers money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-details-on-supply-prices-of-vaccines-101619096690433.html
22-04-2021||India||'Timely reminder of grave threat': PM Modi tells Leaders’ Summit on Climate||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said the Leaders’ Summit on Climate is a timely reminder that the grave threat posed by climate change has not disappeared even as humanity battles coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Speaking at the two-day virtual summit, the prime minister highlighted that climate change is a lived reality for millions around the world, and their lives and livelihoods are already facing adverse consequences."To combat climate change, concrete action is needed. We need such action at a high speed on a large scale and with a global scope. We, in India, are doing our part. Our ambitious renewable energy target of 450 gigawatts by 2030 shows our commitment," said PM Modi.The prime minister announced that he and US President Joe Biden are launching the “India-US climate and clean energy Agenda 2030 partnership” to create templates of sustainable development. He said the two countries will help mobilise investments, demonstrate clean technologies, and enable green collaborations.Highlighting India’s lower per capita carbon footprint as compared to the global average, Modi argued that the lifestyle of Indians “rooted in sustainable traditional practices” has helped the cause. He emphasised the importance of “lifestyle change in climate action”."Despite our development challenges, we have taken many bold steps on clean energy, energy efficiency, afforestation and biodiversity. That's why we are among the few countries whose indices are 2-degree celsius compatible," he added.The summit is being hosted by the US president who earlier committed to reducing the country's greenhouse gas emissions by 50%-52% below its 2005 emissions levels. Opening the Leaders' Summit on Climate, Biden laid out his vision for a greener economy with a focus on more for the blue-collar workers."That's where we're headed as a nation, and that's what we can do if we take action to build an economy that's not only more prosperous but healthier, fairer and cleaner for the entire planet," Biden said."These steps will set America's economy to net-zero emissions by no later than 2050," he added.The Leaders’ Summit on Climate is one of several major climate-related events in the run-up to COP-26, a global event scheduled for November 2021. Biden had invited 40 global leaders including Chinese President Xi Jinping, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/timely-reminder-of-grave-threat-pm-modi-tells-leaders-summit-on-climate-101619095660767.html
22-04-2021||India||SC seeks plan on measures to face national health emergency||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre to present before it a national plan on Friday elaborating the measures it has adopted and proposes to take to face the national emergency while taking a suo moto (on its own) cognisance of the crisis triggered by the second Covid-19 wave. The surge in infections has led to a shortage of hospital beds and crucial supplies such as medical oxygen and medicines.A Chief Justice of India SA Bobde-led bench asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to remain present in the court with the plan as it said the court will monitor the steps being taken by the Centre to ensure sufficient and equitable supply of medical oxygen and medicines across the country. The bench appointed senior advocate Harish Salve as amicus curiae to assist the court in the matter. It asked him to provide suggestions after examining the Centre’s plan.The bench, which also includes justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, pointed out that at least six high courts were hearing issues related to the preparedness of the states and the Centre to deal with the crisis.Also Read | All you need to know about CJI-designate Ramana“They are exercising jurisdiction in the best interest, but it is creating confusion and diversion of resources because of their priorities. One high court thinks there is a priority for one group and some for another. So, we as the Supreme Court, wish to take suo moto cognisance of certain issues,” Bobde told Mehta.The bench listed out its focus areas – supply of medical oxygen, essential medicines, method and manner of vaccination, and the power of a court to order a lockdown to check the pandemic spread.The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed an order of the Allahabad high court for virtually locking down five worst-hit districts of Uttar Pradesh. On the issue of lockdown, Bobde on Thursday observed that this authority should be with the state government. “We want to keep the power to declare lockdown with states. It cannot be a judicial decision. We will, for the moment, issue notice to the Centre on these four issues,” said Bobde while asking for the national plan on Friday, which happens to be his last working day before he retires.When Mehta asked if the Centre was still required to make submissions before the high courts after the top court’s cognisance, Bhat said that the government should go ahead and adduce its national plan before high courts. Bhat said the idea was not to supersede high court orders at this moment. Bobde said it was perhaps a better idea for the Supreme Court to hear everything together and the matters before the high courts could be transferred to it.Mehta said the Centre will for now inform the high courts about the pendency of the matter before the Supreme Court.Salve, who was present in the court on behalf of Vedanta with a request for reopening its Sterlite Copper plant in Tamil Nadu’sThoothukudi to produce and supply oxygen for Covid-19 patients, said people were dying every day. “We want this permission only for starting the oxygen plant. And we will supply it free of cost. Give us the permission today and we can start producing it in 5-6 days.”The plant was shut down in May 2018 after 13 civilians were shot dead in the anti-Sterlite protests in Thoothukudi. The Madras high court in August 2020 rejected Vedanta’s petition to reopen the plant, citing environmental concerns. The Supreme Court has also rejected requests to reopen the plant for a trial run.Salve said Vedanta was pleading only for making the oxygen plant in Thoothukudi functional so that it could provide thousands of tonnes of oxygen for medical purposes.Mehta cited the dire need for medical oxygen and added the Centre was augmenting its supply from all possible sources. “Let Vedanta operate its plant only for the purpose of producing oxygen and this will be diverted only for medical purposes. Sooner the plant starts functioning, better for the country.”Senior advocate CS Vaidyanathan, who represented the Tamil Nadu government, said there was a “trust deficit” with Vedanta. He added the violations for which the plant was shut could not be ignored. The state government opposed any urgent hearing of Vedanta’s application.Bobde questioned the Tamil Nadu government’s attitude. “What is this attitude? You are not manufacturing it [oxygen] and you will be getting it free of cost for your medical emergencies. We will make sure they follow all environmental norms, but we do not appreciate your attitude. This is a national emergency. Do not throw spokes like this,” Bobde told Vaidyanathan, while fixing the hearing into the matter on Friday.Mehta said between protecting human life and the environment, they must lean toward protecting human lives.Oxygen is a critical medical intervention against Covid-19, which causes respiratory distress in some cases. The pandemic has accelerated the global demand for it. The need for oxygen has increased to 1.1 million cylinders in low to middle-income countries alone, according to the World Health Organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-plan-on-measures-to-face-national-health-emergency-101619094650902.html
22-04-2021||India||Centre to add nearly 800 ICU beds to govt hospitals in Delhi: Satyendar Jain||In some relief for national Capital Delhi, state health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday that Central government hospitals will add 800 more intensive care unit beds “soon.” There are 4,684 ICU beds in the city, of which only 18 are still vacant as of last evening, according to the government’s Delhi Corona app. “Yes, there is a shortage of ICU beds. We have requested the Centre to increase the number of beds in their hospitals to 7,000. Currently, there are 2,000 beds in Central government hospitals. The Centre will increase 700 to 800 ICU beds soon,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain.He added that more beds will be available in the city as soon as the oxygen crisis is sorted out. “There is a shortage of oxygen for the last three days; yesterday the Centre increased Delhi’s allocation from 378 MT to 480 MT. There is no oxygen production in Delhi; the supply comes from the big plants of other states. But there was a crisis yesterday as some states were stopping the vehicles (carrying oxygen). The situation is not comfortable yet. Once the oxygen crisis ends, we can add a lot of beds,” he said. On Wednesday, the minister had said that preparations were going on to convert Burari ground into a 1,000-bed Covid-19 facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-add-nearly-800-icu-beds-to-govt-hospitals-in-delhi-satyendar-jain-101619093930294.html
22-04-2021||India||Congress blames BJP for ‘deliberately enabling’ Covid crisis in Gujarat||Congress on Thursday lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for “deliberately enabling” the rise of Covid-19 cases in Gujarat and “creating a huge medical crisis in the state”.In a press conference chaired by All India Congress Committee (AICC) Gujarat in-charge Rajeev Satav, Congress blamed the BJP government for creating a crisis in Gujarat by conducting the cricket matches at Narendra Modi Stadium despite the imminent threat of the virus spreading in the state.Congress MLAs Paresh Dhanani and Amit Chavda were also a part of the conference that was held via video.“There is a crisis in the state. First, they conducted the Namaste Trump event and got thousands infected, and later they held cricket matches amid rising cases. Today there is hardly any oxygen bed available in the state, 14 districts don’t even have a CT scan or RT-PCR test available. It’s a government-made disaster in the state which is being showcased as the crown Gujarat Model all around the country,” Satav said.Also Read | Top central govt official steps in to ensure smoother interstate oxygen movementHitting out at the state in-charge of BJP, Satav said that if the government in its affidavit to Gujarat high court agreed that there was a severe shortage of the remdesivir in the state, how were there 10,000 remdesivir injections in the possession of its state president and other BJP leaders.MLA Paresh Dhanani from Amreli, Gujarat, also blamed the BJP for creating an artificial shortage of remdesivir in the state.“They stockpiled the remdesivir at the time of a medical emergency and created a shortage only to showcase themselves later as messiahs by distributing the hoarded medicine,” Dhanani said.Earlier, Dhanani had also filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Gujarat high court for “illegal and unauthorised distribution of remdesivir injection” at the BJP’s Surat office.Blaming the state government for mismanagement and the home minister and Prime Minister for ignoring their home constituencies, Satav added that the state government was acting insensitively.“The government recently said that there was no shortage of hospital beds and patients were being too choosy about hospitals, it’s very insensitive on their part. There is no oxygen in the state, ventilators are unavailable. Our leaders have written over 387 letters to BJP, but there has hardly been any response. It is horrific that a state which has a double-engine government with BJP at the Centre cannot get access to basic healthcare,” Satav said.Amit Chavda, the Congress MLA from Anklav consistency, also slammed the state government for their mismanagement of the situation. Chavda accused the state government of masking the actual Covid-19 figures in the state.“If we go by the figures of the state government, the total number of infected people in the state is not over 87,000, which accounts for just 0.5% of the total population. Is the situation of healthcare infrastructure so bad that it could not even stand a medical emergency of just 0.5% of its population?” Chavda questioned, adding that for the first time in the history of Gujarat so many people had died because of the irresponsibility of the state government.Meanwhile, BJP called the allegations “baseless and politically motivated”.Speaking to Hindustan Times, BJP’s national spokesperson Syed Zafar Islam said that BJP leaders were committed to serving the people in any crisis and the allegations levelled by Congress were not just meant to degrade BJP’s spirit of service but to hide their own incapacities.Reacting on whether stationing these medicines at party offices was right given the acute shortage in hospitals, Zafar said that the government was committed to lending the medical supply to the hospitals and by distributing the medicines from party offices, BJP was just assisting those who could not procure them outside hospitals.“There is a shortage issue and the work is being done to make the medicines available in bulk. However, distribution of medicines from the party offices does not qualify as hoarding and does not affect any supply of hospitals. It’s just an attempt to increase the availability of the medicines to people and help them,” Zafar said.India has reported over 300,000 Covid-19 cases and 2,104 deaths in the last 24 hours. This is the highest increase in the daily infections and deaths since the pandemic broke out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-blames-bjp-for-deliberately-enabling-covid-crisis-in-gujarat-101619093750284.html
22-04-2021||India||Former MP deputy chief minister’s son arrested for killing brother with family||Former deputy chief minister of united Madhya Pradesh, Pyarelal Kanwar’s son, daughter-in-law, and five-year-old granddaughter were found murdered at their residence in Chhattisgarh’s Korba district on Wednesday morning, said police.Kanwar’s son Harish (45), his wife Sumitra (30) and daughter Aashi Kanwar (5) were killed by sharp-edged weapons, police said. Later, five persons, including Harish’s elder brother Harbhajan, Harbhajan’s wife Dhankuwar, brother in law Parmeshwar with his two aides—Ramprasad and Surendra, were arrested on the suspicion of plotting and executing the murder of their kin.Police said the killings were done over a monetary dispute in the family. A minor was also named in the case. Initial investigations suggest Harish was more influential of the two brothers and controlled the family’s finances, leading to Harbhajan developing a grudge against him, police said.“A scrutiny of the murder spot suggested violence possibly triggered by deep rage against the victim. They were also signs of struggle before the murder,” said Korba police chief, SP (superintendent of police) Abhishek Meena.CCTV footage showed Harbhajan, his wife and two daughters stepped out of the house, purportedly for a walk, around 4.15 am, and within minutes, two unidentified masked persons entered the house.“The killers didn’t kill Harish’s mother, which appeared strange. We later found that some time after the murders, Harbhajan’s brother-in-law Parmeshwar was admitted to a hospital on the same day. When we quizzed him, we got even more suspicious. Upon scrutiny of his phone, we found some messages sent to Harbhjan’s daughter, following which we detained him,” said the SP.Police said, Parmeshwar later confessed that he and his aide Ramprasad were waiting near the house since 4am and they entered the house after receiving a message from Harbhajan’s daughter and killed the trio.After his arrest, Parmeshwar told police that “monetary transactions between him and Harish” led to the murder, said the SP. Police are investigating the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-mp-deputy-chief-minister-s-son-arrested-for-killing-brother-with-family-101619093390182.html
22-04-2021||India||PM Modi cancels visit to Bengal on Friday, to hold review meetings on Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Thursday he will not address poll rallies in West Bengal on Friday, and will instead chair high-level meetings in Delhi over the worsening situation of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country.“Tomorrow, will be chairing high-level meetings to review the prevailing Covid-19 situation. Due to that, I would not be going to West Bengal,” PM Modi tweeted on Thursday evening.Tomorrow, will be chairing high-level meetings to review the prevailing COVID-19 situation. Due to that, I would not be going to West Bengal.PM Modi's schedule includes an internal review meeting over the Covid-19 related situation in the country at 9am, followed by an interaction with chief ministers of "high-burden" states at 10am. At 12:30pm, he will hold a virtual conference with leading oxygen manufacturers in the country.Prime Minister Modi's announcement comes on a day the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said that in the last 24 hours, India registered 314,835 new coronavirus cases, which includes a record 2104 single-day fatalities due to the viral disease. This was the first time the country saw more than 300,000 fresh infections, the highest single-day rise in cases anywhere in the world since the beginning of the pandemic in early 2020.Also Read | India reports world's highest single-day spike with 3.14 lakh new Covid-19 casesIndia is currently in the grip of a deadly second wave of the infection, registering record number of new cases everyday, more than even during the first wave last year. In fact, there have been more than 100,000 daily cases since April 5, which was the first time the said mark was topped. On April 15, more than 200,000 infections were detected in the country for the first time.Also on Thursday, PM Modi chaired a high-level meeting to review the state of oxygen supply amid complaints of shortage from hospitals in various parts of the country.Also Read | Centre to add nearly 800 ICU beds to govt hospitals in Delhi: Satyendar JainDue to the surge in Covid-19 cases, political parties in West Bengal, where eight-phased assembly elections are currently underway, have announced steps to ensure social distancing in their respective rallies. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has already announced the suspension of his rallies. On Thursday, the eastern state voted in the sixth round of polling, with the final two rounds scheduled to take place on April 26 and 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-pm-modi-cancels-visit-to-bengal-on-friday-will-hold-high-level-meet-101619092974387.html
22-04-2021||India||Woman accused of orchestrating solar scam arrested in Kerala||The Kerala police on Thursday arrested Saritha S Nair, who allegedly floated a fake solar energy company along with her husband, Biju Radhakrishnan, and cheated investors, for repeatedly ignoring summons of a local court in Kozhikode. The court earlier cancelled the couple’s bail and pulled up the police for not arresting them.The scam surfaced in 2013 after the couple floated the fictitious solar energy company called Team Solar and cheated many by seeking investments with the promise of making them business partners or offering to install solar power units. They allegedly flaunted their “high connections” to attract gullible investors.Kozhikode businessman Abdul Majeed filed a case against the couple in 2012 accusing them of taking ₹42.70 lakh from him for a franchise of their company besides installing solar panels in his office and house. But neither the contract was executed, nor the money refunded, the complainant said.Also Read | Kerala enforces more curbs as Covid-19 cases rise alarmingly, clamps night curfewThe couple is facing over 40 cases. They have been convicted in four and were out on bail. Oommen Chandy, the then chief minister of Kerala, sacked two of his private secretaries and the state public relations director for their alleged involvement in the scam.Nair later accused Congress leaders, including Chandy, of sexually harassing her. The Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala handed over this case to the Central Bureau of Investigation two months back but the agency is yet to take it up.A police complaint was also filed last year against Nair for allegedly accepting money to help some people get government jobs. Nair also tried to contest the 2019 Lok Sabha elections against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Wayanad, but her nomination papers were rejected as she had been convicted in two solar scam cases. In November, the Supreme Court rejected her plea challenging Gandhi’s election and fined her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-accused-of-orchestrating-solar-scam-arrested-in-kerala-101619091830125.html
22-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Ensure compliance of MHA order on oxygen, Delhi HC to Govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Ensure compliance with MHA order on oxygen supply': Delhi high court tells CentreMore hospitals in Delhi moved the high court on Thursday, pleading the replenishment of oxygen so that they can continue providing care to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients. The fresh one to approach the high court is Saroj Super Specialty in Rohini. Read moreOdisha logs new single-day high, says Covid 2nd wave may peak by May 1st weekThe Odisha government on Wednesday hoped that the second wave of Covid-19 in the state will start ebbing after peaking between the end of April and first week of May even as the state hit a new record of 6,164 cases in a single day. Read more‘Patients will die’: Delhi doctor breaks down on oxygen crisis in hospitalsAs several hospitals in Delhi report shortage of medical oxygen, Sunil Saggar, CEO of Shanti Mukand Hospital, broke down in an interview with news agency ANI, saying that only two hours of oxygen was left in his hospital due to which “patients may die”. Read moreUS pledges to halve its emissions by 2030 in renewed climate fightThe Biden administration on Thursday pledged to slash US greenhouse gas emissions by 50%-52% from 2005 levels by 2030, a new target it hopes will spur other big emitter countries to raise their ambition to combat climate change. Read moreSearching for Sheela movie review: Ma Anand Sheela gets Dharma treatment in Netflix's directorless documentaryOnly in Incredible India can nationwide protests be mounted against fictional characters, while an actual convicted felon gets the Dharma treatment. Read moreShruti Haasan on her unproductivity, anxiety and mental health woes amid CovidThe coronavirus pandemic took over the world, ravaging lives and livelihoods, more than a year ago, and while many of us in India were under the impression that the worst of the life-threatening outbreak was behind us with the first wave, the second wave of Covid-19 hit our country a lot harder than anticipated with record number of deaths and cases being recorded. Read moreMicrosoft makes over 50 games free to play without Xbox Live GoldMicrosoft is making over 50 games free to play on Xbox without an Xbox Live Gold membership. Now all Xbox players will be able to play these online multiplayer games for free. The party chat feature for these free-to-play games will also not require Xbox Live Gold membership. Read moreProblems compound for faltering KKR in IPL 2021After opening their campaign with an impressive victory, things haven’t gone according to plan for the Kolkata Knight Riders who have now lost their last three IPL matches. Read moreEarth Day 2021: Ratan Tata’s message of gratitude for eco-warriors wins heartsOn the occasion of Earth Day, business tycoon Ratan Tata has shared a heartening post praising the young innovators and volunteers conserving the environment. Read moreWatch| Vaccine pricing row: Mamata Banerjee & Sonia Gandhi lash out at PM Modi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ensure-compliance-of-mha-order-on-oxygen-delhi-hc-to-govt-101619090537118.html
22-04-2021||India||UP records highest single-day spike of 34,379 Covid-19 cases, 195 deaths||A record single-day spike of 34,379 Covid-19 cases and 195 fatalities pushed Uttar Pradesh's infection tally to 9,76,765 and the death toll due to the disease to 10,541, the state government said on Thursday.As many as 16,514 patients recovered from the disease in the state in a span of 24 hours, taking the total count of recoveries to 7,06,414, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said here.On Wednesday, the state registered 33,214 cases of the viral disease and 187 deaths.Uttar Pradesh now has 2,59,810 active cases of the infection, of which over two lakh are in-home isolation, Prasad said.Earlier, at a review meeting here, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials to make oxygen concentrators available to districts from where demands have come and sought support of the Centre for its availability, an official statement said.The chief minister termed the death of any person in the state unfortunate, and directed the officials to give due honour to the aggrieved families and ensure cremations follow Covid-19 protocols.Adityanath further said the availability of essential medicines and oxygen was satisfactory, and asked the officials to keep an eye on the situation."There is no shortage of tankers/cylinders but keeping in mind the changing situation, additional tankers and cylinders should be arranged, and it should be ensured that there is no black-marketing of oxygen and other medicines," he added.The process of setting up oxygen plants in private medical colleges should be done fast, the chief minister said.He directed officials to ensure transparency in allotment of beds in hospitals, and asked them to arrange transport facilities for migrant labourers and also to see that they are kept in quarantine centres for at least seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-34-379-covid-19-cases-195-deaths-101619090556436.html
22-04-2021||India||PM Modi holds meeting on oxygen issue, tells officials to work on increasing production||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday chaired a high-level meeting to review the oxygen supply across India and discussed the ways to boost its availability, according to a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).The meeting, which was attended by principal secretary to the Prime Minister PK Mishra, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, home secretary Ajay Bhalla and officials of Niti Aayog and other ministries, comes in the backdrop of states and Union territories reporting severe shortage of oxygen amid the spiking cases and deaths of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).During the meeting, Modi highlighted the importance to work rapidly on three aspects which are- increasing the production of oxygen, increasing its speed and distribution and utilising innovative ways to provide oxygen support to health facilities, the statement said.The officials told the Prime Minister an elaborate exercise is being carried out in coordination with states in order to identify their demands of the gas and ensure supplies accordingly and how these supplies were steadily increasing.Also Read| Ensure no restriction in supply of oxygen for Covid-19 patients: MHA to states“Against the present demand from 20 states of 6,785 MT/ day of Liquid Medical Oxygen, Government of India has from 21st April, allocated 6,822 MT/ day to these states,” the statement added.Modi also ordered the officials to make sure the supplies to states happen in a smooth manner and there is a need to fix responsibility with the local administration in the case of any obstruction. He stressed the fact that state governments should come down heavily on hoarding of oxygen.The Centre is undertaking various steps to rapidly increase the availability of cryogenic tankers through conversion of nitrogen and argon tanks, import and airlifting of tankers as well as manufacturing them, the statement said.In a separate order, the Union home ministry said on Thursday there will be no restriction in the movement of oxygen and added the supply cannot be limited to a specific state or Union territory.Also Read| Kejriwal speaks to Khattar on oxygen supply, assured of full supportThe order comes after the Supreme Court took a suo motu cognisance of the prevailing pandemic situation in India regarding several points apart from oxygen supply such as supplies of essential drugs, vaccination etc and asked the Centre to present a national plan on all these areas.India on Thursday reported the world’s highest single day spike with over 314,000 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to nearly 16 million. The death toll has climbed to 184,657 after 2,104 more people succumbed to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-review-meet-pm-modi-gives-three-suggestions-to-boost-oxygen-availability-101619089393800.html
22-04-2021||India||Odisha logs new single-day high, says Covid 2nd wave may peak by May 1st week||The Odisha government on Wednesday hoped that the second wave of Covid-19 in the state will start ebbing after peaking between the end of April and first week of May even as the state hit a new record of 6,164 cases in a single day. One of the top most medical officers, however, ruled out any crisis, saying the state was well prepared.“The peak has already started in Maharashtra while Delhi and other states might see the climax by last week of April and in some states, it will (be) extended to May. In Odisha too, the peak might come between the end of April and first week of May. After that, the cases will decrease naturally at the same pace they are rising now,” said Dr CBK Mohanty, director of medical education and training.Dr Mohanty’s prediction coincides with the state reporting a record 6,164 new cases in a 24 hour period, taking the active Covid cases to 30,927. The previous single-day spike of 4,851 cases was recorded on April 21. Currently, with 14.34 test positivity rate (TPR) reported on Thursday and reproductive number (R0) at 2.39, officials said cases were doubling every five days while the TPR was doubling every 6 days.TPR is the ratio of tests performed to cases confirmed and the R0 or the reproductive number is an indication of the transmissibility of a virus, representing the average number of new infections generated by an infectious person. For R0 > 1, the number infected is likely to increase, and for R0 < 1, transmission is likely to die out.Renowned microbiologist Dr TM Mohapatra, who earlier worked with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), also agreed that the peak may come by the end of May first week or early second week. “In Odisha, the infections came from neighbouring Chhattisgarh and now migrant workers from Maharashtra and Delhi would bring more infections. I would not be surprised if the daily surge reaches 10,000 a day,” he said.Mohapatra however said Odisha may not be finding all its infected persons due to poor ratio of RT-PCR tests to the total number of tests done. “ICMR says states should conduct 70% of the tests through RT-PCR while in Odisha it is barely touching 40 per cent.”Dr Mohanty however said Odisha was prepared for the challenge presented by the second wave. “There is no shortage of oxygen stock for the infected in Odisha so far. Among the available beds at 70 dedicated Covid care hospitals in the state, only 26% general beds have been used. Similarly, only 14.18% intensive care units and 10% ventilators, respectively are in use now,” he said.Mohanty said Odisha has adequate medical oxygen suppliers which can meet the requirement easily. “During the first wave, the consumption of oxygen was 28 to 30 metric tonnes per day in the state. We do not see any shortage of oxygen supply,” he said.The All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Bhubaneswar decided to temporarily close its walk-in OPD services from April 26 in view of the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases among many of its staffers. The hospital however said day care services, radiotherapy, dialysis, trauma and emergency, life-saving surgery and immunization for old registered patients would continue.Meanwhile, members of local chamber of commerce, lawyers’ association, private bus union and leaders of various political parties in Raighar block of Nabarangpur district unanimously declared a five-day local shutdown on their own. Raighar chamber of commerce president Prasanta Panigrahi said the shutdown was announced since the block shares borders with Covid hotspot Chhattisgarh.Panigrahi said during the shutdown, all government and private institutions will remain closed. In the bordering Chandahandi block too, locals have closed markets in a bid to stem the spread of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-logs-new-single-day-high-says-covid-2nd-wave-may-peak-by-may-1st-week-101619089490270.html
22-04-2021||India||Registration for Amarnath Yatra temporarily suspended due to Covid-19||In view of evolving Covid-19 situation, registration for Amarnath Yatra is being temporarily suspended, said Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board on Thursday.The board further said that the situation is being constantly monitored and it will be reopened once the situation is improved.Online registrations for this year's Amarnath Yatra commenced on April 15.This year's 56 day-yatra will commence simultaneously on both routes from June 28 and culminate on Raksha Bandhan, August 22.Nitishwar Kumar, Chief Executive Officer, Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board had earlier informed that the intending yatri shall have to visit the official website for registration. The yatri will then be guided for the steps to be followed."They will have to fill up his details in the online application form and attach his photograph and the Compulsory Health Certificate (CHC)," said the CEO.He said that for ensuring against fraudulent health certificates, only such certificates which are issued by doctors/medical institutes authorised by the concerned state government/UT administrations shall be accepted for the online registration.The CEO further informed that persons under the age of 13 years or above the age of 75 years and ladies who are more than six weeks pregnant would not be registered for this year's yatra.For Yatra 2021, only those health certificates which have been issued after March 15 shall be valid.The CEO informed that the yatris shall be able to download the yatra permits after their applications have been duly processed. The yatris will have to carry their original Photo ID and CHC with them during the yatra.Kumar further stressed that for ensuring effective security arrangements along the difficult tracks, only those yatris who are in possession of a yatra permit which is valid for a specified date and route will be allowed to proceed beyond the base camps, and cross the entry gates at Domel and Chandanwari.The yatris who propose to travel by helicopter do not require registration as their helicopter tickets shall suffice for this purpose. However, they shall be required to produce the Compulsory Health Certificate,(CHC) in the prescribed format issued by an authorised doctor, before they are allowed to travel by helicopter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/registration-for-amarnath-yatra-temporarily-suspended-due-to-covid19-101619089135424.html
22-04-2021||India||Offered India not-for-profit price for Covid-19 vaccine; to supply through govt contracts: Pfizer||Global pharma major Pfizer on Thursday said it has offered a not-for-profit price for its vaccine for the government immunisation programme in India and it remains committed to continuing engagement with the government to make the vaccine available in the country. The company also said during the pandemic phase it will supply the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 mRNA vaccine only through government contracts. "Pfizer remains committed to continuing our engagement with the Government towards making the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine available for use in the government's immunization programme in the country", a Pfizer spokesperson said in an email response to PTI. As stated earlier, during this pandemic phase, Pfizer will prioritise supporting governments in their immunisation programmes and supply the Covid-19 vaccine only through government contracts based on agreements with respective government authorities and following regulatory authorisation or approvals, the statement added. The company, however, did not reveal the 'not-for-profit' price that it has suggested to the government. The company is committed to work for equitable and affordable access for its vaccine across the world, the Pfizer spokesperson said. "... in all our agreements Pfizer has adopted a distinct pricing structure for high, middle, and low/lower-middle-income countries consistent with our commitment to work towards equitable and affordable access for our Covid-19 vaccine for people around the world," the statement said. "For India, Pfizer has offered a not-for-profit price for its vaccine for the government immunization program", it added without revealing the price. The union government on Monday announced that everyone above 18 years of age would be eligible to get vaccinated against Covid-19 from May 1 as it liberalised the vaccination drive to allow states, private hospitals and industrial establishments to procure the vaccine doses directly from manufacturers. Under the third phase of the national vaccination drive commencing next month, the vaccine manufacturers would supply 50 per cent of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to the central government and would be free to supply the remaining 50 per cent doses to state governments and in the open markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/offered-india-not-for-profit-price-for-covid-19-vaccine-pfizer-101619088261344.html
22-04-2021||India||Top central govt official steps in to ensure smoother interstate oxygen movement||The Union home ministry has stepped in to ease the medical oxygen supply crisis reported from several regions this week, with top officials directly intervening in specific instances in which tankers were restricted by one state from going to another, a top officials told HT.The problem has been in focus since Tuesday night after some hospitals in Delhi ran out of supply or received replenishments with minutes to spare, prompting the state government to repeatedly raise the issue. Delhi has no large scale manufacturing of its own and has had to rely on Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.“There were some issues with regard to the [oxygen] shortage, but we are sorting it out. During the day, some plants see some problems, but we are on it,” said Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla. “Whatever allotment has been made to states should be allowed to go.” Also Read | Covid-19 peddled as an excuse to stop protests against agri laws: Farmer leadersBhalla said the Centre is trying to reiterate a September 18, 2020, order that said no restrictions shall be imposed on oxygen manufacturers and suppliers to limit the supplies only to the hospitals of the state where they are located.The second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak has sparked shortages of hospital beds and other crucial supplies such as oxygen and medicines. Oxygen is a critical medical intervention against Covid-19, which causes respiratory distress in some cases. The pandemic has accelerated the global demand for it. The need for oxygen has increased to 1.1 million cylinders in low to middle-income countries alone, according to the World Health Organisation.All previous daily records were broken in India as it reported 315,909 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. The country also reported the most single-day infections globally ever.All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers Association head Saket Tiku said Bhalla had to intervene in several cases as authorities in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh were among those disallowing free inter-state movement of oxygen.“Air Liquide [a manufacturer] is reporting that their trucks are lined up in Panipat to bring oxygen to Delhi, but a police team has reached and is not allowing the trucks to move,” said Tiku. Another manufacturer, Linde, has also sent a similar complaint to a control room in Delhi earlier.In its message, Linde said a senior drugs inspector reached its Faridabad plant with her team on Wednesday and was not allowing supplies to go to Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR). It added they were told the supply will go to only Haryana. “We supply 70 tpd of Medical Oxygen to all major government and private hospitals at Delhi-NCR which includes all the covid hospitals. Looking forward for your support to remove the restriction immediately to avoid any fatality,” said the message from Linde.Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said he has no information of any such developments. But central government officials, who have mapped the oxygen needs nationally, are worried.“If people get parochial about oxygen, how will we manage,” said a member of an empowered group formed to deal with the situation. The group is meeting every two hours to assess the situation.Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said at a press conference on Wednesday that it had to ask for Centre’s help on two occasions, when supply trucks were stuck in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh between Tuesday and Wednesday. “If we have to keep chasing each truck and ask Centre to intervene, then it’s not a very good situation,” he told reporters on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-central-govt-official-steps-in-to-ensure-smoother-interstate-oxygen-movement-101619087089916.html
22-04-2021||India||Himachal CM urges elected representatives to ensure welfare, well-being of people during Covid-19 pandemic||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday urged the elected representatives of Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) to ensure the welfare and wellbeing of the people of his or her area amid Covid-19 pandemic."It is the duty of any elected representative to ensure welfare and wellbeing of the people of his or her area. The coronavirus pandemic this time was not only spreading at a faster pace, but was also more fatal. Number of cases and deaths during the last about two months have increased at a rapid pace," the Chief Minister said in an statement.During a virtual address to the elected representatives of ULBs in Shimla, the Chief Minister asked them to remain in constant contact with the family members of the Covid-19 patients in home isolation in their areas so that they do not face any difficulty and also get proper medical counselling and treatment."Peoples' participation in checking spread of pandemic and helping them in distress that was visible last year was missing this time. The elected representatives of Urban Local Bodies to come forward to help the needy at the time of distress," the Chief Minister said.He also emphasised that steps must be taken to ensure that migrant labourers do not face any inconvenience and were motivated to stay back."The representatives must come forward to motivate the people to get themselves vaccinated. Old people and those with disabilities must be helped to reach vaccination centres, so that they could be vaccinated," Thakur added."Steps must be taken to keep a better vigil on industrial areas of the State so that the migrant labourers do not get infected. Regular sanitization must be carried out in the towns and municipalities and steps should be taken to ensure that not more than fifty people attend any social functions," he said further here in the statement.The Health Department should provide information regarding Covid-19 positive patients to the councilors so that they could contact the family members of the Covid-19 positive patients. He said that the councilors at their own level also must keep an eye on any covid-19 patient in their areas.Thakur said that as many as 250 deaths have been reported in last two months only.The state government has taken some stringent steps to check the spread of this virus."The government has imposed restrictions on visit of devotees to the major temple in the state and from today only Puja would be allowed in these temples.It has also announced that all the offices would remain close on Saturday and Sunday. Buses would ply with 50 per cent seat capacity and only 50 people have been permitted in all religious, social and other gatherings," Thakur said at the event.Various dignitaries including Mayor Municipal Corporation Dharamshala, Mandi, Solan Poonam, Shimla also present during the virtual meet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-cm-urges-elected-representatives-to-ensure-welfare-well-being-of-people-during-covid-19-pandemic-101619086136392.html
22-04-2021||India||Former Jammu and Kashmir minister dies of Covid-19||A former Jammu and Kashmir minister and veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Thakur Puran Singh succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday while being shifted to Chandigarh for treatment from Rajouri district, said a state official.Around 85 years in age, Puran Singh was unwell for quite some time and had recently returned from Haridwar after attending a religious congregation. He will be cremated as per the laid down Covid-19 standard operating procedures (SoPs), the officer added. “He was being taken to Chandigarh for treatment but died enroute,” he said. The official said that the leader’s body was brought to the Government Medical College Hospital, Rajouri, where further arrangements for cremation were being made as per the protocols.Singh was a resident of Kewal Badhal in Rajouri’s Kotranka subdivision and was considered a prominent Pahari leader of the region. The veteran leader joined the BJP in 2014. “He won as an independent and was a minister of state in the PDP-Congress government in 2002. In 2014, he joined the BJP and was a member of the state executive committee,” said Raina. Jammu and Kashmir was a state of the Indian union before August 5, 2019, when its special status under Article 370 was revoked by the parliament and it was divided into two union territories. Raina said the local people had lost a prominent Pahari leader, who always fought for their rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-jammu-and-kashmir-minister-dies-of-covid19-101619086670252.html
22-04-2021||India||'Please help!': Covid tragedy spills onto social media in India||These days, social media posts in India are no longer about cheeky photos, funny memes or political jokes. Instead, frantic calls to save lives are flooding Twitter and Instagram as the latest wave of coronavirus cases and deaths overwhelm the nation’s hospitals and crematoriums.On Bharath Pottekkat’s Instagram feed, one message screams “Mumbai please help! Lungs damaged due to pneumonia infection. In need of ICU bed.” Another reads “Plasma urgently required for treatment of Covid patient in Max Hospital, Delhi.” More follow. “Urgently needed Tocilizumab injection. Please DM if you know of stock in and around Mumbai.”New appeals land with every refresh. “My brain can’t handle the social media overload,” said Pottekkat, a 20-year-old Delhi law student. “I can’t process what I’m reading. I feel numb.”Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and Telegram are all inundated with messages from distraught family members and friends begging for everything from hospital beds to medicines, CT scans, doorstep Covid tests, and even food for the elderly in quarantine.The desperate pleas, hoping someone will respond with a speedy remedy, offer a peek into the unfolding tragedy buffeting a country of 1.3 billion people that now has the world’s fastest-growing Covid-19 caseload. The messages also reveal the panic and disarray amid shortages of drugs, intensive-care beds and medical oxygen.Highlighting the grim situation, India on Thursday reported a record 2,104 new Covid-19 deaths, and an unprecedented 314,835 fresh cases — the world’s highest daily tally. Total infections of almost 16 million is the second-highest in the world. Despite being home to the world’s biggest vaccine maker, the country is struggling to provide enough shots. Large festivals and elections that led to mass gatherings, and lower vigilance around masks and social distancing have contributed to the resurgence.The surge has forced both India’s financial and political capitals — Mumbai and New Delhi — to impose restrictions on movement, with the latter mandating a six-day strict lockdown starting April 20. Maharashtra state, home to Mumbai, tightened curbs starting Thursday.Read more: Modi Under Fire for Campaigning as India Reels From Virus Deaths One particular Instagram post rattled Pottekkat. A woman at her mother’s bedside described an apocalyptic scene at a hospital in the northern city of Lucknow, where people got into a scuffle to lay their hands on a fresh batch of oxygen cylinders that just arrived. Separately, a hospital chain in New Delhi approached a court to help secure the critical gas.Barkha Dutt, a journalist, pointed out the shortage of crematoriums around the country, tweeting pictures of a cremation ground in Surat, a city in the western state of Gujarat.Nowhere is the desperation more evident than in the social media feed of Ranjan Pai, the billionaire owner and co-founder of Manipal Education & Medical Group, which runs the country’s second-largest hospital chain -- the TPG and Temasek-backed Manipal Health Enterprises Pvt. Pai is deluged with DMs from hundreds of people, mostly strangers, asking him for ICU beds, oxygen supply and Covid drugs. The 7,000 beds in his 27-hospital chain are full.“We were caught off-guard,” Pai said. “No country is equipped to handle a surge this fast and this severe.”In February, only 4% of Manipal’s beds were taken by coronavirus patients. A few weeks later, that number has climbed to 65%, the rest already occupied by emergency cardiac, oncology and other patients. Pai’s hospitals, doctors and administrators are stretched to the limit, he said.India’s stocks and the rupee have taken a hit on concern the latest surge and curbs will pummel the $2.9 trillion economy that was just recovering from a rare recession last year. The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex is down almost 8% from its Feb. 15 record, while the rupee is approaching an all-time low.Read Andy Mukherjee’s column: How a Covid Spike Sucked the Oxygen Out of India The collapse of the country’s decrepit public health system is evident in the gut-wrenching photos on social media of multiple Covid patients sharing a single hospital bed, a line of ambulances outside a hospital in Mumbai, and people dying as they wait for oxygen. Government helplines are broken. Thousands of social media forwards plead for the antiviral drug Remdesivir, and many more seek donor plasma.There’s however a bright side to this mayhem. Responders from students to technology professionals, non-profit organizations and even Bollywood actors like Sonu Sood are rallying to supply meals, circulate information on availability of hospital beds or Remdesivir. They’ve amplified voices of those in need of emergency help. Total strangers are volunteering to bring supplies and food to patients’ doorsteps.Those who put together crowd-sourced, authentic information on social media are today’s heroes in the current situation, said Vikas Chawla, co-founder of Chennai-headquartered digital agency, Social Beat.“It takes just a few people to step forward and make it happen,” Chawla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/please-help-covid-tragedy-spills-onto-social-media-in-india-101619085959256.html
22-04-2021||India||Ensure no restriction in supply of oxygen for Covid-19 patients: MHA to states||The Centre on Thursday said there will be no restriction on the movement of medical oxygen and stressed that the supply cannot be limited to any particular state."No restrictions shall be imposed on oxygen manufacturers and suppliers to limit the oxygen supplies only to hospitals of the state or Union territory in which they are located," the order read.Earlier in the day, some hospitals in Delhi moved the high court, pleading the replenishment of oxygen so that they can continue providing care to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients.The order issued by the ministry of home affairs also instructed that no authority shall attach the oxygen-carrying vehicles passing through any district for making supplies specific to any particular district.The government also banned the supply of oxygen for industrial purposes till further orders are issued. "Supply of oxygen for industrial purposes, except those exempted by the government, is prohibited with effect from 22nd April, 2021, and till further orders," it said.The order highlighted that medical oxygen is an essential public health commodity and any impediment in its supplies has the potential to critically impact the management of patients suffering from coronavirus disease in other parts of the country.The order came soon after the Supreme Court took a suo motu cognisance of the present Covid-19 situation of the country, including oxygen and essential drugs supply, and asked the Centre to present a national plan on Covid-19 management.ALSO READ: Situation with medical oxygen in Delhi not comfortable, Satyendar Jain warnsThe Centre announced on Wednesday evening that it was increasing the quota of oxygen in eight states, including Delhi, in view of the sudden spike in demand due to an exponential rise in the number of Covid-19 patients admitted in hospitals.As India saw 314,835 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 2,104 fatalities in the last 24 hours, the highest spike in the world on a single day, the oxygen crisis precipitated by the second wave appeared to intensify with complaints of shortage from several states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-no-restriction-in-supply-of-oxygen-for-covid-19-patients-mha-to-states-101619085172813.html
22-04-2021||India||India to get Russia's Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine only by end-May||India will start receiving Russia's Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine by end-May, its local distributor Dr. Reddy's Laboratories told Reuters on Thursday, a later than expected schedule that could slow the country's immunisation drive."We are targeting to have the first batches imported by (fiscal) Q1, and are trying our best to have them by end-May," a Dr. Reddy’s spokesman told Reuters."Sputnik is going to be made in India in a few months. We expect the India-made vaccine to start being available from the second quarter of the fiscal (year)."India's ambassador to Moscow said last week deliveries of Sputnik V to the country were expected to begin this month, the TASS news agency reported.India recorded the world's highest daily tally of 314,835 new Covid-19 infections on Thursday as a second wave of the pandemic raised new fears about the ability of crumbling health services to cope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-get-russia-s-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-only-by-endmay-101619084661025.html
22-04-2021||India||Vedanta seeks to reopen Tuticorin unit for oxygen output. SC agrees to hear plea||The Supreme Court on Thursday termed the Covid-19 situation as almost a "national emergency" while agreeing to hear Vedanta's plea for opening of its Sterlite copper unit at Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu on the ground that it would produce thousand tonnes of oxygen and give it free of cost to treat patients.A bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde was unimpressed with the objection of Tamil Nadu government which initially sought hearing of Vedanta's plea on Monday and opposed its opening on various grounds including that it has been rejected by the apex court earlier."We understand all this. We will ensure compliance of all environmental norms by the plant and its oxygen producing facility would be allowed to operate. We are on the oxygen plant," the bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, said when senior advocate C S Vaidyanathan for Tamil Nadu objected to the plea of the company."There is almost a national emergency and you (Tamil Nadu) don't put spokes in the solution. We will hear it (plea of Vedanta) tomorrow," the bench said in the hearing conducted through video conferencing."The country is in dire need of oxygen and the Centre is augmenting oxygen from whichever source. Vedanta wants to make its plant operational, but let Vedanta only make it operational to manufacture oxygen for health purposes," Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said.“Between protecting environment and protecting human life, we must lean in favour of protecting human life,” Mehta said.Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Vedanta, sought urgent hearing of the plea during the day itself and said people are dying on daily basis and we can produce and supply oxygen to treat Covid patients."We can start in five to six days if you give a go ahead today. The company can manufacture tonnes of oxygen there everyday and is ready to supply them free of cost," Salve said.The Tamil Nadu government, however referred to the records and said no oxygen production can be started by the company before two to four weeks.The bench would hear the interim application on Friday.The copper unit was closed after a May 23, 2018 order by the Tamil Nadu pollution control board following violent protests against the unit which left 13 people dead in police firing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vedanta-seeks-to-reopen-tuticorin-unit-for-oxygen-output-sc-agrees-to-hear-plea-101619083876233.html
22-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh Police dismiss Maoists’ claim of drone strike in 2 Bastar villages||Chhattisgarh Police have rubbished the Maoists’ claim that two villages in the insurgency-hit Bastar region were attacked on Monday with drones operated by the security forces.The chief of police in Bastar region said the Maoists were making “baseless” allegations out of “confusion and fear”. He added that the security forces operate within the legal framework with the single objective of protecting life and property of the native population.“It is the Maoist cadres who have taken away the lives of thousands of innocent civilians by using Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) and explosive materials. They haven’t spared even children, women and animals during their desperate attempts to harm the security forces using IEDs,” said Sunderaj P, the inspector general (IG) of Bastar range.Maoist leader Vikalp earlier released a press note and some photographs alleging a drone strike injured some animals in two villages. “The drone strike was conducted (by) security forces in Bottalanka and Palagudem villages. The strike shows the real face of the central and the state government,” the note said.However, the Bastar IG said it were the Maoists, who triggered an IED blast in Narayanpur on Wednesday, seriously injuring one Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) officer and also killing a cow in the process.“The [Maoists] don’t have any moral authority to level such baseless allegations against the security forces. It is high time they stopped unleashing cruelty against innocent tribals of Bastar and let the native population lead a peaceful life,” Sunderaj said.Maoists have also abducted an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of state police in Bastar region’s Bijapur district, officials said on Thursday.Earlier on March 31, they ambushed 22 security personnel and injured 31 others, during a combing operation along the Sukma-Bijapur border. They also abducted Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, a commando with the Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) elite CoBRA force. He was released a few days later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-police-dismiss-maoists-claim-of-drone-strike-in-2-bastar-villages-101619083610020.html
22-04-2021||India||J&K to have STF to screen cases of govt employees posing threat to security||The Jammu and Kashmir administration will be setting up a special task force (STF) to identify government employees who could be a threat to the nation’s security and such people will then be terminated from service.While the order is a routine one, it has drawn sharp reaction across the Union Territory, with people criticising the administration for focusing on security amid a raging pandemic which has seen J&K clock its highest-ever daily surge.As per Wednesday night’s order of the general administration department, the task force will be headed by additional director general of police, Criminal Investigation Department, and have four other member, and it will screen the cases of employees suspected of activities requiring action under the proviso (C) of Article 311(2) of the Constitution of India.Also Read | With 2,204 cases, J&K clocks highest ever daily surge, againThe task force will then “compile records of such employees, when ever necessary and refer it to the committee,” reads the order signed by Manoj Kumar, commissioner secretary to J&K government.The committee that the STF will refer cases to was set up by the government in 2020. It is headed by J&K chief secretary and administrative secretary, home department, director general of police, administrative secretary, general administration department, additional director general of police, CID and administrative secretary department of law, justice and parliamentary affairs as its members. “The STF headed by ADGP, CID has also been empowered to engage with other members of Terror Monitoring Group(TMG) for identifying such other employees, as necessary,” reads the order.Lawer and social activist Habeel Iqbal posted on Twitter, “J&K Government constitutes Special Task Force. No. Not to deal with #COVIDEmergency2021 But to hunt down employees who work against the security of State. What priorities !People’s Democratic Party also posted on Twitter, “Ironic! When dealing with pandemic needs whole of the government approach, it seems to be busy with thought policing, choreographing normalcy junkets and focusing on information blockade.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-to-have-stf-to-screen-cases-of-govt-employees-posing-threat-to-security-101619083129641.html
22-04-2021||India||Nashik: Oxygen tank that leaked was activated just 3 weeks ago||The tank from which liquid oxygen leaked at a civic-run hospital in Nashik, killing 22 Covid-19 patients, was operationalised just 21 days before the incident, an official said on Thursday.The incident occurred on Wednesday afternoon when the patients, who were either on ventilator or oxygen support, suffocated to death after their oxygen supply stopped suddenly because of a malfunction in the main storage at Dr Zakir Hussain Hospital in Maharashtra's Nashik city.The police registered an FIR on Thursday against unidentified persons under Indian Penal Code Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) following a complaint by a senior inspector of Bhadrakali police station, Nashik Police Commissioner Deepak Pandey said."The oxygen tank, having a storage capacity of 13 KL, was operationalised on March 31," another police official said quoting information provided by the hospital's superintendent.White fumes engulfed the area after the leakage, said the official who was present at the spot.He said the police also got to know that the oxygen tank belonged to (Vadodara-based) Inoxcva company and was taken on rent for 10 years from Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation (a Japanese company which supplies industrial gases like oxygen and nitrogen to a wide range of industries).Patients were being provided oxygen from the round white-coloured tank, installed in the hospital premises, via a pipeline, he said.According to the official, the leakage occurred when oxygen was being filled into the tank from a tanker.He said the oxygen leakage started around 12.20 pm. An employee managing the tanker present at the spot and the hospital administration staff tried to stop the leakage.Later, the hospital administration called an engineer who rectified the malfunctioning and the leakage was stopped between 1.45 pm and 2 pm, the official said."The patients died due to disruption of the oxygen supply following leakage from the tank," he said.It happened because of "negligence and carelessness" on part of some people who were yet to be identified, he said.Accordingly, an FIR has been registered against unidentified persons, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nashik-oxygen-tank-that-leaked-was-activated-just-3-weeks-ago-101619082582352.html
22-04-2021||India||Covid vaccine for 18 years and above: Registration on CoWin from April 28, no walk-ins allowed | All you need to know||Registration for the third phase of vaccination against Covid-19 for those between the age groups of 18 and 45 years will begin on April 28, the government said on Thursday through its citizen engagement platform @MyGovIndia. There will be no walk-in registration for this age group of people, the tweet said. Registration through the Aarogya Setu app will also start on April 28.Earlier in the day, reports quoting the chief of the National Health Authority, RS Sharma, said the registration would be opened within two days.Don’t get misguided by rumours/news stating that registration for vaccination of 18+ citizens to start from 24th April 2021! The registrations will start on the #CoWIN platform and Aarogya Setu App from 28th April 2021 onwards. Stay informed, stay safe! #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/i2SwCyRgFYHere is all you need to know before registering yourself for vaccination in the third phase:> Like the first and the second phase, registration would be done through the cowin.gov.in website and Aarogya Setu mobile app.> Co-Win mobile application available for download in the play store is only for administrators, not for beneficiaries.> Unlike phase 1 and phase 2, where walk-ins were allowed, in this phase, there will no walk-in registration. What does this mean? All appointments have to be booked in advance through the Co-Win website or the Aarogya Setu app. A person between the age group of 18 and 44 will not be allowed to walk in a vaccination facility and get registered.CoWin app set for revamp as pvt hospitals, states allowed to buy vaccines> But as the vaccination drive for phase one and phase two will go on simultaneously, senior citizens will have still have the walk-in facility unless specified otherwise.> In the previous phases, one person was allowed to book an appointment for another 4 people. But as mentioned by MyGovIndia, only self-registration is allowed in phase 3.> All appointments have to be made in advance, as there is no walk-in facility.> Once you register on or after April 28, the appointments will be slotted starting from May 1 onwards.Vaccine priceIn central government hospitals, vaccination will remain free for everyone. In state government and private hospitals, people will have to pay for their vaccine doses, depending on the open market price of the vaccines. For example, Covishield (the oxford-Astrazeneca) vaccine will be available at ₹400 to states and ₹600 to private hospitals, per dose. Bharat Biotech has not yet announced Covaxin's price.As announced in Centre's 'Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 strategy of the National Covid-19 Vaccination Programme', this new pricing are only for the third phase. For people above the age of 45 years, vaccination at private hospitals will still cost ₹250. There might be a change in the price only when the government places fresh purchase order.Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Sikkim, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala have announced free vaccination in this phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccine-for-18-registration-on-cowin-from-april-28-no-walk-ins-allowed-101619080680724.html
22-04-2021||India||BKU leader Tikait wants vaccine centres, says protest sites are farmers’ homes||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait denied reports that farmer leaders protesting for over five months at various borders in Delhi violated social distancing protocols enforced by the government in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic at an Iftar celebration recently.“Those who attended the gathering sat at a distance from one another. The government has permitted gatherings of up to 50 people. In this case there were 22-35 people. Nobody shook hands,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. He was speaking in response to a video of an Iftar party organised by farmers’ leaders doing rounds in social media.Speaking on the ongoing protests Tikait said that farmers are at their homes. “Farmers are pretty much at their home. Where will we ask them to go? Is Covid-19 spreading from here? We have been living here for the last five months and it is our home now.”Tikait further said that several farmers are struggling with getting the second dose of the vaccine. The leader added that vaccine officers were requested to camp at the protest sites. Haryana minister Anil Vij said that the government will consult farmer leaders for carrying out vaccinations and tests at protest sites. “Officers of the state health department will meet today (Thursday) with farmers protesting at Haryana borders regarding their testing and vaccination. The department will begin their work if the leaders agree.”Dr NK Arora, the chairman of National Technical Advisory Group of Immunisation (NTAGI), on April 14 said that mass agitations could transform into ‘super spreader’ events, highlighting that the farmers’ agitation should come to a halt. Several experts also attribute the sudden rise in cases to people letting their guard down after winter season when cases reduced and also to religious events and political events like elections.Farmers have been protesting for the last five months against the he Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and continue to stress that these laws will benefit private companies in the agricultural sector and adversely affect their incomes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bku-leader-tikait-wants-vaccine-centres-says-protest-sites-are-farmers-homes-101619080540314.html
22-04-2021||India||Sonia writes to PM; seeks uniform price for Covid-19 vaccines||Congress president Sonia Gandhi wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, asking how “the Government of India can permit such brazen profiteering from people’s misery?”, a day after Serum Institute of India released its differential Covid-19 vaccine’s price list for the Centre, states and private hospital.Gandhi demanded a re-evaluation of the Centre’s modified vaccination policy and a uniform price for vaccines.After many states asked the Union government to decentralise the vaccination process and lift the age cap to allow them to inoculate more people, the Centre announced all adults will be eligible for vaccine and doses can be sold via the market from May 1.Also watch | Vaccine pricing row: Mamata Banerjee & Sonia Gandhi lash out at PM Modi﻿﻿The decision, taken during a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, makes India one of the first countries to allow all adults to get the vaccine, although people under the age of 45 will only be able to receive doses once private sales begin or if state governments procure stocks for distribution to these age groups.Also Read | Need solutions, not festivals or hollow speeches: Rahul Gandhi targets PM ModiIn her letter to PM, Gandhi referred to the Serum Institute of India’s rate list -- Rs150 per dose for the Centre but ₹400 for state government and ₹600 for private hospitals -- and said, “This means that citizens will be compelled to pay these high rates to be vaccinated. This will also bleed the finances of state governments.”“In these unprecedented times, how can the Government of India permit such brazen profiteering from people’s misery? At a time when medical resources are scarce, hospital beds are unavailable, oxygen supply and availability of essential medicine is dwindling rapidly, why is your Government allowing a policy that reeks of such insensitivity,” she said.Earlier, the Congress had demanded the formula of “one nation, one price” for vaccines.“..how can the same vaccine manufactured by the same company have three different prices?” Gandhi questioned, claiming no rationale or justification in this “arbitrary distinction”.She alleged that the Union government has abdicated its responsibility to provide free vaccination for people in the age group of 18 to 45 years and “this is complete abandonment of the Government’s responsibility towards our youth.”She reiterated that the allocation to state governments should be “transparent and equitable, in line with the spirit of cooperative federalism.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-writes-to-pm-seeks-uniform-price-for-covid-vaccines-101619078629406.html
22-04-2021||India||Supreme Court asks Centre for national plan on oxygen supply, vaccination as Covid-19 crisis reaches peak||The Supreme Court on Thursday took a suo motu cognisance of the present Covid-19 situation of the country, including oxygen and essential drugs supply, vaccination, lockdown etc., and asked the Centre to present a national plan on Covid-19 management, covering all these issues. The apex court will take up the matter for hearing again on Friday.Noting that at least six high courts are hearing matters pertaining to Covid-19 management, Chief Justice of India SA Bobde said this is creating some confusion and diversion. The CJI said the apex court wants to issue notice for a national plan which includes four issues: supply of oxygen, supply of essential drugs, the method and manner of vaccination and the power to declare lockdowns.‘Heavens won’t fall’: Court upbraids Centre on Delhi hospitals’ SOS for oxygen"We as a court wish to take suo motu cognisance of certain issues. We find that there are 6 High Courts -Delhi, Bombay, Sikkim, Madhya Pradesh, Calcutta and Allahabad. They are exercising jurisdiction in their best interest. We appreciate that. But it is creating confusion and diversion of resources," the CJI said.The development comes ahead of the Delhi high court's hearing of a case related to the oxygen supply in the hospitals of the Capital, scheduled at 3pm. Hearing a petition filed by Max Healthcare on Wednesday, the Delhi high court questioned why the Centre is not diverting oxygen from petroleum and steel industries for medical exigencies when corporates are doing that."We don't care, beg, borrow, steal or requisition new plants if you want," said the judges asking the Centre to ensure oxygen supply for Covid-19 treatment.Since February, the Covid-19 situation in the country has been worsening steadily. On Thursday, India recorded 3.14 lakh new infections, which is the highest daily rise recorded in any country. Shortage of beds, oxygen has made the situation more precarious and many states have announced lockdowns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-nudges-centre-for-national-plan-on-oxygen-supply-vaccination-as-covid-19-crisis-reaches-peak-101619076183198.html
22-04-2021||India||Heavy rains in Kashmir since Wednesday night, more predicted for next 24 hours||Heavy rains lashed parts of Kashmir since Wednesday night in line with the weather department’s forecast for heavy showers in the Valley for two days. Rains began in parts of the Valley last night, however, its intensity increased, especially in north Kashmir areas on Thursday morning.The fresh rainfall has led to a drop in the temperature by 10 to 12 degrees Celsius in the Valley.The director of the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional center, Sonum Lotus said it could also rain in Jammu this afternoon. “The weather is cloudy in the Jammu region and (it) could rain in the afternoon at many places.” He added that after April 23, Friday, the weather will largely remain dry till the end of this month.He said the weather in Ladakh was clear except in the Drass and Zojila axis, which received light snowfall in some areas, likely to increase as the day progresses.After a relatively hot February, March remained cold and rainy with intermittent precipitation across Jammu and Kashmir. Although February saw a number of snow-spells, it also witnessed an abrupt increase in maximum temperatures. On February 22, Srinagar recorded 18.6°C while Kupwara recorded a high of 20.5°C.The night temperature in Srinagar was 8.6°C on Wednesday while the tourist resort of Gulmarg was the coldest at minus 0.5 °C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-in-kashmir-since-wednesday-night-more-predicted-for-next-24-hours-101619075390447.html
22-04-2021||India||Need solutions, not festivals or hollow speeches: Rahul Gandhi targets PM Modi||On Thursday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that the pandemic is not the only crisis in India, the central government’s anti-people policies are the real problem. Gandhi’s criticism of the Narendra Modi government’s handling of the biggest health challenge India has ever seen came on the day the country reported the world’s highest daily spike in Covid-19 cases. The Congress leader tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this week and has been quarantining at home since then.Though his official Twitter handle, the Wayanad MP targeted the Prime Minister over his 18-minute address to the nation on Tuesday, calling it a “hollow speech”. He demanded solutions to the crisis which has claimed over 100,000 lives.“I am quarantined at home and I continue to see tragic stories being reported from across the country. India has not just been hit by the coronavirus crisis but has been battered by the anti-people policies of the government,” he tweeted in Hindi.Also Watch | ‘PM Modi wants country to handle Covid while he gives speeches’: CongressHe added, “The country needs solutions, not festivals or hollow speeches.”The country reported 314,835 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, which is the highest single-day spike globally. According to data from the health ministry, the overall number of cases in the country is 15,930,965.The health ministry said that 2,104 Covid-19 -related deaths took place in the country in the last 24 hours. This is the second consecutive day that India reported over 2,000 deaths in a single day. On Wednesday, 2,023 deaths were reported, which was the highest single-day death toll so far.Since the Prime Minister’s address on Tuesday, several Congress leaders have slammed Modi for his inaction. Congress questioned the government on why it failed to anticipate the second wave of Covid-19 infections. On Wednesday, it alleged that Modi has “turned India from a vaccine leader to a vaccine beggar”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-solutions-not-festivals-or-hollow-speeches-rahul-gandhi-targets-pm-modi-101619075209595.html
22-04-2021||India||'Quarantining at home and...': Rahul Gandhi says India is facing double crisis||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the country fighting its worst battle against the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, reporting the highest number of daily cases recorded ever in the world needs concrete solutions and not "false celebrations" or "hollow speeches".The crisis of the country is not just corona, but the anti-people policies of the Centre, the leader said, adding that while he is quarantining at home, the flow of sad news is continuous. In a jibe at PM Modi's Tika Utsav which, the Centre claimed, has provided speed to the ongoing vaccination drive, Rahul Gandhi said the present situation does not need these 'false celebrations'.घर पर क्वॉरंटीन हूँ और लगातार दुखद समाचार आ रहे हैं।भारत में संकट सिर्फ़ कोरोना नहीं, केंद्र सरकार की जन विरोधी नीतियाँ हैं।झूठे उत्सव व खोखले भाषण नहीं, देश को समाधान दो!On Thursday, India's daily Covid-19 cases hit a record high with over 3.16 lakh new infections, which is the highest-ever recorded in any country.'For a few industrialists': Rahul Gandhi compares vaccine policy with note banWhile the Centre is expanding its vaccine drive to strengthen its fight against the raging pandemic, Rahul Gandhi has said that the Centre's vaccine policy is like demonetisation, which will subject common people to a lot of monetary and health stress while a few industrialists will benefit.As the number of patients requiring serious medical attention is increasing in the country, an acute shortage of oxygen is being reported from states. Blaming the Centre's flawed policy for this, Rahul Gandhi said India lacks a covid strategy. "Exporting oxygen and vaccines when our own people are dying is nothing short of a crime," he said.Though Rahul Gandhi and the Congress had been pitching for the expansion of the vaccination programme instead of limiting it to only 45 years and above, it has slammed Centre's decision to make it available in the open market where vaccine makers can decide the price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quarantining-at-home-and-rahul-gandhi-says-india-is-facing-double-crisis-101619074759638.html
22-04-2021||India||India has administered over 132mn vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 132 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Wednesday evening, the day the country surged past the US in most cases on a single day and also the highest seven-day case trajectory in any country during the pandemic.In all, 132,240,352 vaccine doses have been given in the country till now, Wednesday. This includes 9,219,080 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 5,851,361 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 11,628,882 frontline workers have had their first dose while 5,932,541 have got their second dose too.Also Read | Covid-19 surge: Capital on the brinkIn the 45-59-year age group, 44,389,584 people have got their first dose and another 1,628,837 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 47,844,204 people have been administered their first dose while 5,745,863 have had their second dose as well.As many as 2,121,042 vaccine doses were given on Wednesday till 8pm, as per the provisional report. Of this, 1,435,858 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 685,184 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.India witnessed the world’s highest single-day spike with 314,835 new cases and 2,104 fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to the latest data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-132mn-vaccine-doses-till-now-101619074189734.html
22-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Fresh guidelines issued for passengers travelling to Dubai from India||Several airlines have issued fresh guidelines for passengers travelling from India to Dubai. The move comes amid rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India, due to which the US, UK and Hong Kong have released advisories for their citizens, asking them to avoid travelling to or from the country.India on Thursday recorded 314,835 new cases of Covid-19. With this, the total infection tally went up to 15,930,965. As many as 2,104 people died of the virus in the country in 24 hours, pushing the toll to 184,657, according to the health ministry dashboard.The UAE, however, has not imposed severe restrictions on travelers from the country. Indigo, SpiceJet, Vistara and Air India Express shared the fresh guidelines on their respective Twitter accounts.Here is all you need to know if you are planning to travel to the UAE:1. Passengers will have to produce a negative RT-PCR test report issued not more than 48 hours from departure of their flights. 2. The RT-PCR test report showing that the passenger is not Covid-19 must be in Arabic or English. It should be issued from a certified lab at the original point of destination, where the passenger is travelling from.3. The test report must have a QR code. Those not carrying a report with a QR code will not be allowed to travel.4. Children under the age of 12 do not have to produce a negative RT-PCR test result.5. The advisory is effective from Thursday, April 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-fresh-guidelines-issued-for-passengers-travelling-to-dubai-from-india-101619071423799.html
22-04-2021||India||Maoists abduct cop in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar: Officials||An assistant sub-inspector ( ASI) of Chhattisgarh Police was abducted by Maoists in Bijapur district of Bastar region, officials said on Thursday. The ASI, Murali Tati, is currently posted in Jagdalpur, and had gone home to Palnar village in Bijapur when he was abducted by Maoists, they said. “Tati joined as assistant constable and was engaged in some of most important anti-naxal operations in Bijapur . He has been on the hit-list of Maoists for a long time,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity. Inspector General of Police, Bastar range, Sunderaj P said, “We are getting reliable information that he is safe somewhere near Palnar. Security forces are trying to trace his exact location and bring him back safely. Family members and villagers are also making all possible efforts in this regard.” On April 3, Maoists abducted a commando of Central Reserve Police Force’s elite CoBRA unit after an encounter in which 22 security personnel were killed. The commando was later released by Maoists on April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-abduct-cop-in-chhattisgarh-s-bastar-officials-101619072389057.html
22-04-2021||India||As 'free Fabiflu' promise draws flak, Gautam Gambhir attacks back||Delhi's BJP MP Gautam Gambhir attacked his detractors on social media and said distributing a few hundred Fabiflu strips for free does not amount to hoarding. Without naming the AAP, the cricketer-turned-politician said this should not come across hoarding at a time while Remdesivir has been allowed to be black marketed and hospital beds in Delhi have been sold for ₹5 to 10 lakh.On Wednesday, Gautam Gambhir took to Twitter and said people of East Delhi can get 'Fabiflu' free from his office, situated at Jagriti Enclave. He asked people to carry their Aadhaar card and prescription where they have been suggested this anti-viral drug.Those who allowed Remdesivir to be black marketed at more than 30 thousand a vial & hospital beds to be sold for 5-10 Lakh in Delhi are concerned that a few hundred Fabiflu strips are being given for FREE to the poor. That’s their understanding of “Hoarding” #HumanLivesMatterThe tweet drew flak as people on Twitter pointed out that Gautam Gambhir hoarded the drug amid an acute shortage of it in the Capital and instead of distributing it free from his office, he should give it to some hospitals.This is the reason why Remdisivir, fabiflu & other critical medicines are out of market. BJP leaders are hoarding these medicines. We have seen this in Gujarat also. Such leaders must be booked. https://t.co/aNnCmz7PqHIs this not criminal? An MP hoarding medicines and giving it as per his wishes. Why should he not give them to the hospital? .@LtGovDelhi .@CMODelhi https://t.co/QzpTeZkr1G"This is the reason why Remdisivir, Fabiflu and other critical medicines are out of the market. BJP leaders are hoarding these medicines. We have seen this in Gujarat also. Such leaders must be booked," AAP leader Rajesh Sharma tweeted.AAP MLA Somnath Bharti asked whether this act of hoarding the medicine and giving it "as per his wishes" was not criminal. "Why should he not give them to the hospital?" he said.Congress leader Pawan Khera raised the question of whether this is legal and how his MP office could procure so much of 'Fabiflu' at a time when hospitals are under a shortage.In the face of the attack, BJP leader Baijayant Jay Panda supported Gautam Gambhir and said those who are attacking him for arranging free medicines "betray the nervousness of the parties with whom they are associated."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-free-fabiflu-promise-draws-flak-gautam-gambhir-attacks-back-101619070959803.html
22-04-2021||India||People above 18 will get free Covid vaccine in state: Chhattisgarh CM Baghel||Chhattisgarh will provide free Covid vaccine to all its adult population, said chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Wednesday. “The state government will pay for corona vaccination for people over 18 years of age. We will take all possible steps to protect the lives of our citizens,” he said, as per a press note issued by the public relations department. The chief minister added that the Centre has been requested for adequate stocks of vaccines. Also Read | Amid spike in Covid-19 cases, lockdown in Chhattisgarh’s Raipur extended till April 26“Chhattisgarh ranks fourth in the entire country in giving the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to the age group above 45 years and fifth in vaccinating 60+ age group. Total 88% healthcare workers, and 92% frontline workers have been given the first dose of vaccine. A total of 5,1 25, 640 corona vaccine doses have been used so far in Chhattisgarh,” the note said. Meanwhile, the state on Tuesday made Covid testing mandatory for all those arriving in the state via air, road, or rail. The decision followed the state recording over 225,000 Covid-19 cases and 1,993 deaths in the last one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-above-18-will-get-free-covid-vaccine-in-state-chhattisgarh-cm-baghel-101619069388969.html
22-04-2021||India||Investigation into WhatsApp's new privacy policy won't stop, rules Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Thursday dismissed the plea by WhatsApp and Facebook challenging the decision of the Competition Commission of India (CCI) to investigate the new privacy policy of the intermediary. Saying that there is no merit in the plea, Justice Navin Chawla refused to pass any order stopping the investigation.Justice Navin Chawla said that though it would have been "prudent" for the CCI to wait for the outcome of the petitions against the privacy policy in the Supreme Court and the Delhi high court but not doing so would not make its investigation order "perverse" or "wanting of jurisdiction".The CCI on March 24 ordered a probe into the new privacy policy of Whatsapp, which has to be completed within two months. Both Facebook and WhatsApp challenged the order and in their separate pleas, filed through advocate Tejas Karia, contended that since the issue of WhatsApp’s privacy policy was before the Supreme Court, the CCI did not need to order the probe.CCI contended that social media intermediary WhatsApp’s new privacy policy would lead to excessive data collection and “stalking” of consumers for targeted advertising to bring in more users. In January, after facing flak for its new update which requires users to agree to share their business account data with Facebook, WhatsApp postponed the rollout of the policy from February 8 to May 15. CCI took a suo moto cognisance of the matter and ordered a thorough and detailed investigation to ascertain "the full extent, scope and impact of data sharing through involuntary consent of users"."...the Commission is of prima facie opinion that the 'take-it-or-leave-it' nature of privacy policy and terms of service of WhatsApp and the information sharing stipulations mentioned therein, merit a detailed investigation in view of the market position and market power enjoyed by WhatsApp," CCI's order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/investigation-into-whatsapp-s-new-privacy-policy-won-t-stop-rules-delhi-hc-101619069175322.html
22-04-2021||India||Safeguards must against power of provisional attachment under GST laws: SC||The Supreme Court has called the power to order provisional attachment of properties under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) law “draconian in nature”, stressing that such orders cannot be left to the “unguided subjective discretion” of the authorities. A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah emphasised that every order of provisional attachment must comply with the procedural safeguards and requirement laid down under the GST law concerned. “The power to order a provisional attachment of the property of the taxable person including a bank account is draconian in nature and the conditions which are prescribed by the statute for a valid exercise of the power must be strictly fulfilled,” said the bench in its verdict on Tuesday. It pointed out that the consequence of a provisional attachment is serious since it displaces the person whose property is attached from dealing with the property, and where a bank account is attached, it prevents the person from operating the account. Therefore, the court said, before passing an order of provisional attachment, it is necessary to adhere to the twin conditions: first, allowing the assessee to submit objections to the order of attachment on the ground that the property was or is not liable for attachment and second, give him opportunity to be heard before the order. According to the bench, the dual procedural safeguards demand strict compliance and an order cannot be passed by simply stating that attachment is necessary for the purpose of protecting the interest of the government revenue without showing a proximate and live nexus to achieving this objective. The bench was dealing with an appeal by M/s Radha Krishna Industries against the Himachal Pradesh high court’s order of January 1, 2021 dismissing its writ petition against provisional attachment of its properties under the Himachal Pradesh Goods and Service Tax Act, 2017 for tax liability of ₹5.03 crore. Senior advocate Puneet Bali, appearing for the petitioner, had complained that his client was not given any opportunity of being heard before the coercive order and that the authorities invoked this power without giving substantial reasons. The top court accepted Bali’s plea while noting that there were similar provisions in statutes passed by different state governments and hence, it was required to be clarified that any order of provisional attachment must comply with both substantive and procedural, embodied in the statute and the rules because the anticipatory attachment is contemplated pending a final demand or liability. “The exercise of unguided discretion cannot be permissible because it will leave citizens and their legitimate business activities to the peril of arbitrary power. Each of these ingredients must be strictly applied before a provisional attachment on the property of an assesses can be levied,” it held. The court maintained that the commissioner should pass such orders only when a provisional attachment is necessary for the purpose of protecting the interest of the government revenue and there were cogent and speaking reasons to do so. In the present case, the bench set aside the order of provisional attachment after holding it violative of the statutory provisions and procedural safeguards. After the pronouncement of the judgment, justice Chandrachud told Bali: “We hope and expect that our judgment guides GST authorities in all states in these matters.” Commenting on the verdict, advocate Ayush Jindal told HT: “By entering into an interpretative journey of unravelling the substantive and procedural content of the power of provisional attachment, the Supreme Court shuns the current practice of extortion by the department while applying the draconian provisions under the Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/safeguards-must-against-power-of-provisional-attachment-under-gst-laws-sc-101619067888872.html
22-04-2021||India||PM Modi condoles demise of CPI-M leader Sitaram Yechury's eldest son||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday expressed his condolences on the "tragic and untimely demise" of the older son of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M) leader Sitaram Yechury."Condolences to Shri Sitaram Yechury Ji and his family on the tragic and untimely demise of his son, Ashish. Om Shanti," he tweeted.Condolences to Shri Sitaram Yechury Ji and his family on the tragic and untimely demise of his son, Ashish. Om Shanti.Taking to Twitter, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan also condoled the death of Ashish Yechury."Dear Com. @SitaramYechury, our deepest condolences on the loss of Ashish. Our thoughts are with you and your family during this difficult time," tweeted Kerala CM.Dear Com. @SitaramYechury, our deepest condolences on the loss of Ashish. Our thoughts are with you and your family during this difficult time. https://t.co/iraYm2f9CgThe older son of CPI-M leader Sitaram Yechury - Ashish Yechury passed away earlier today due to Covid-19."It is with great sadness that I have to inform that I lost my elder son, Ashish Yechury to Covid-19 this morning. I want to thank all those who gave us hope and who treated him - doctors, nurses, frontline health workers, sanitation workers and innumerable others who stood by us," Yechury tweeted.This comes amid the devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic that is being witnessed across the country.Over 3 lakh fresh Covid-19 cases and 2,104 new deaths were reported in India on Thursday, a record-high since the pandemic broke out last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-demise-of-cpi-m-leader-sitaram-yechury-s-eldest-son-101619066246579.html
22-04-2021||India||India reports world's highest single-day spike with 3.14 lakh new Covid-19 cases||India witnessed the world's highest single-day spike with 314,835 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 2,104 fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to the latest data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday morning.The total infection tally has topped 15.9 million while the active Covid-19 caseload stands at 2291428.The alarming numbers of single-day cases as well as the fatalities smashed all previous record of coronavirus cases in India since the disease struck the country in January last year.The number of infections detected are a result of 16,51,711 samples test in the last 24 hours, according to the government data.Meanwhile, the oxygen crisis precipitated by the second wave appeared to intensify with complaints of shortage from several states, including Maharashtra where tragedy struck when 24 patients on ventilator support suffocated to death due to leakage in an oxygen storage tank.ALSO READ: HC tells Centre to ensure supply on hospital’s appealThe Centre announced on Wednesday evening that it was increasing the quota of oxygen in eight states, including Delhi, in view of the sudden spike in demand due to an exponential rise in the number of Covid-19 patients admitted in hospitals.The government also sought to quell the panic by presenting a slew of statistics to show the severity and virulence in the ongoing second wave of the contagion are about the same as the first one. He said 8.07 per cent of cases reported in the first wave were between the age group of 10-20 years, while in this time it is 8.50 per cent.Meanwhile, India administered over 132 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Wednesday evening while government announced that the inoculation programme will be made available for all citizens above the age of 18 years from May 1 onwards. ALSO READ: Can you get Covid infection after vaccination? Bharat Biotech chairman explainsTo boost the confidence among the people and encourage them to get vaccinated against coronavirus, the Centre said that the breakthrough infection rate after taking the first and the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccines approved in India remained low for both Covaxin and Covishield vaccines. However, top doctors, including Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS Delhi, Dr Devi Shetty, chairman of Narayana Health, and Dr Naresh Trehan, chairman, of Medanta, held an interactive meet on Wednesday, where they said vaccine does not prevent from getting the coronavirus infection and advised everyone to maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour even after being vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-world-s-highest-single-day-spike-with-3-14-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-101619062515833.html
22-04-2021||India||'Not a different price': What Adar Poonawalla says on Covishield price row||After Pune's Serum Institute of India announced the open-market price of its vaccine against Covid-19, Covishield, CEO Adar Poonawalla clarified that there has been no differentiation between the Central government and the state governments in pricing, news agency PTI reported quoting CNBC-TV18. Both the Centre and the state governments will have to pay ₹400 per dose of the vaccine for new contracts, Poonawalla clarified.Several opposition leaders questioned why state governments will have to pay ₹400 per dose, while the Centre procured those doses at ₹150."Is there anyone who is a citizen of a state who is not a citizen of India? So why is vaccine priced ₹150 for Centre and ₹400 for state?" Trinamool MP Mahua Moitra tweeted.Is there anyone who is a citizen of a state who is not a citizen of India? So why is vaccine priced ₹150 for Centre and ₹400 for state ?"The differential pricing for vaccines between Union & State Governments is discriminatory and defeats the objective of universal vaccination. Urge @PMOIndia to ensure common vaccine prices for all," tweeted DMK president MK Stalin.The differential pricing for vaccines between Union & State Governments is discriminatory and defeats the objective of universal vaccination.Urge @PMOIndia to ensure common vaccine prices for all.States must also receive Central funding to procure vaccines as per their needs. pic.twitter.com/sRiNmKWIJlClarifying, Poonawalla said the ₹150 per dose was for the earlier contracts which was fixed without even knowing if the vaccine will work and was a "risk-sharing" price that was agreed for a limited amount of quantities, PTI reported."Now that the vaccine is licensed and is showing good efficacy, we have now announced, based on the new policy of the government, these prices," he said.From May 1, everyone above the age of 18 years will be considered eligible for getting vaccinated against Covid-19. Vaccine makers have been allowed to supply 50 per cent of their monthly released dose to state governments and in the open market, for which they will have to transparently make an advance declaration of the price.Serum Institute has fixed the price for governments at ₹400 and for private hospitals at ₹600, per dose.Several states, including Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, have announced free vaccines for those who are above 18 years."How many persons between 18 and 44 years can afford to pay ₹400 per dose? Will the beneficiary be burdened with the cost? How many states would be willing to pay the price of the vaccine and subsidise the people?" Congress leader P Chidambaram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-different-price-what-adar-poonawalla-says-on-covishield-price-row-101619061629781.html
22-04-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorm likely over western Himalayas till Friday||There is likely to be widespread rain and thunderstorms over the western Himalayan region till Friday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).A Western Disturbance as a cyclonic circulation is lying over Jammu and Kashmir and neighbourhood. Another Western Disturbance is lying as a trough (area of low pressure). The induced cyclonic circulation is lying over Punjab and neighbourhood.Also Read | Monsoon 2021: The good and bad newsDue to these systems, scattered to widespread rainfall, snowfall or thunderstorm is likely over western Himalayan region during April 21 to 23. Scattered rainfall or thunderstorm is also likely over adjoining plains of northwest India during the same period. Heavy rainfall is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.A north-south trough (area of low pressure) is running from North Interior Karnataka to south Tamil Nadu and a cyclonic circulation is lying over south Tamil Nadu and neighbourhood in lower tropospheric levels. Under its influence, widespread rainfall/thunderstorm is likely over South Peninsular India during next 4-5 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorm-likely-over-western-himalayas-till-friday-101619060688395.html
22-04-2021||India||CPI-M leader Sitaram Yechury's son dies of Covid-19 in Gurgaon||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Thursday said his elder son Ashish died of Covid-19 in the morning.Ashish, who would have turned 35 on June 9, was recovering well at Gurgaon’s Medanta Hospital, people close to the family added, describing his sudden death at 5.30 am after a two-week battle with the disease as a shock.It is with great sadness that I have to inform that I lost my elder son, Ashish Yechury to COVID-19 this morning. I want to thank all those who gave us hope and who treated him - doctors, nurses, frontline health workers, sanitation workers and innumerable others who stood by us."It is with great sadness that I have to inform that I lost my elder son, Ashish Yechury to Covid-19 this morning. I want to thank all those who gave us hope and who treated him - doctors, nurses, frontline health workers, sanitation workers and innumerable others who stood by us," Yechury said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpim-leader-sitaram-yechury-s-son-dies-of-covid-19-in-gurgaon-101619060054679.html
22-04-2021||India||When should a Covid-19 patient seek hospital admission? Take 6-minute walk test, says doctor||As hospitals are running out of beds with a sharp spike in the number of people Covid-19 patients requiring medical admission, doctors are urging people to not panic if the RT-PCR test comes positive and not to seek hospital admission when not required. Most of the Covid-19 positive patients get cured under home treatment, a video message posted by the citizen engagement platform of the government of India said based on the suggestions of Dr CS Pramesh, director, Tata Memorial Hospital.Apart from good nutrition, loads of fluid, yoga, pranayam, covid-positive patients must track their fever and oxygen level. For an accurate understanding of the oxygen level, taking a six-minute walk test is being suggested where a patient has to oxygen reading before and after six-minute of walking in their isolation rooms. This test can be taken 2-3 times in a day, the video message said. If these readings are normal, then there is no need for the hospital admission.Watch this video to know when one should seek admission in a hospital when found COVID-19 positive. #IndiaFightsCorona @MoHFW_INDIA @PMOIndia @PIB_India @MIB_India @drharshvardhan @cspramesh (2/2) pic.twitter.com/aodHAC34LAHospital admission is needed if> the baseline saturation on Oximeter is below 94 per cent> there is a 4 per cent or more fluctuation in oxygen level before and after 6 minutes of walkingIn such cases when the oxygen level is below 94 per cent, one should lie face down on their belly to improve the oxygen level in blood.Regarding medication, if a patient does not have any other symptom than fever, then only paracetamol is required.AIIMS director Dr Ramdeep Guleria has said more than 85 per cent of the covid patients will recover without any specific treatment. "Oxygen is a treatment, it is like a drug. There is no data that shows that this will be of any help to the patients and is, therefore, ill-advised," he said adding that healthy individuals with oxygen saturation in the range of 93-94 per cent do not need to take high-flow oxygen to maintain the optimum saturation level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-a-covid-19-patient-seek-hospital-admission-take-6-minute-walk-test-says-doctor-101619057006376.html
22-04-2021||India||Padma awardee and Islamic scholar Maulana Wahiduddin Khan dies at 96||Islamic scholar Maulana Wahiduddin Khan died on Wednesday after testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) recently. He was 96.Khan was admitted to Delhi's Apollo Hospital on April 12 after being tested positive for the infection, news agency PTI reported quoting family sources.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled his death and said the scholar would be remembered for his "insightful knowledge" on theology and spirituality."Saddened by the passing away of Maulana Wahiduddin Khan. He will be remembered for his insightful knowledge on matters of theology and spirituality. He was also passionate about community service and social empowerment. Condolences to his family and countless well-wishers. RIP," the PM tweeted.Saddened by the passing away of Maulana Wahiduddin Khan. He will be remembered for his insightful knowledge on matters of theology and spirituality. He was also passionate about community service and social empowerment. Condolences to his family and countless well-wishers. RIP.In January this year, the government had announced that Khan would be awarded the Padma Vibhushan, the country's second-highest civilian award. In 2000, he was awarded the Padma Bhushan, the third-highest civilian award.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/padma-awardee-and-islamic-scholar-maulana-wahiduddin-khan-dies-at-96-101619054101435.html
22-04-2021||India||Covid-19 second wave soars to record high||The seven-day average of new cases in India now stands at 264,838 – higher even than America’s third wave, which peaked at 255,961 cases a day for the week ending January 11. This means that India’s outbreak is now the largest ever recorded in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-second-wave-soars-to-record-high-101619042254050.html
22-04-2021||India||World’s worst outbreak||With 315,909 new cases of Covid-19 in India on Wednesday, the country broke not only all its previous daily records, but also earned the grim distinction of reporting the most single-day infections in any country ever.After Wednesday’s tally, the seven-day average of new cases in the country now stands at 264,838 a day – higher even than America’s third wave, which peaked at 255,961 cases a day for the week ending January 11. This means that India is not only the largest outbreak in the world right now, but also the largest outbreak ever recorded in the world.A total of 2,102 people lost their lives to the viral disease across India on Wednesday, also the single-day record for the country, as the relentless expansion of the outbreak under the second wave continued to spark shortages of hospital beds and other crucial supplies such as oxygen and medicines.Till Wednesday, 15,924,697 confirmed Covid-19 infections and 184,693 deaths have now been reported across the country, according to HT’s dashboard.The previous record for most cases in a single day anywhere in the world was set when the US, which is the world’s worst-hit country with 32.5 million cases and 582,000 deaths, reported 307,581 new cases on January 8, 2021, according to global case data tallied by worldometers.info.The most worrying factor right now remains how fast daily cases are continuing to grow, and how the trajectory is exhibiting no clear signs of approaching a peak still.The country’s daily case tally crossed the 100,000 mark for the first time on April 6 when 115,320 new infections were reported. It just took another nine days for the daily case tally to breach the 200,000 mark for the first time (there were 216,913 new cases on April 15). From there, it took only six days to cross the 300,000 mark.The daily case trajectory has now grown 62% in the last week. If this rate of case increase continues, then the country is on the pace to be reporting an average of half a million cases every day in as little as 10 days, shows data.The average positivity rate – the proportion of tests that return positive for Covid-19 – has now soared to 17% in the past week, the highest ever recorded in the country. This number, which is a crucial statistic that shows how prevalent the virus is in society, is rising still – on Tuesday (the latest data for which national testing numbers are available) 18% of tests came back positive.The trend is similar in most of the country – weekly average positivity rate is rising in all of India’s 20 most populous states, despite the testing rate being the highest ever maintained. On average, 1.5 million samples have been tested every day in the country, the highest ever.In Chhattisgarh, which reported 14,519 cases and 193 deaths on Wednesday, nearly one out of every three tests (29.8%) has come back positive in the past week – the highest in the country — and has gone up 2.8 percentage points from the week before. Delhi (24,638 cases and 249 deaths on Wednesday) has seen the biggest increase in average positivity rate in the past seven days – it went from 11% on April 14 to 26.3% in the last week. In Maharashtra, the country’s worst-hit state with 67,468 cases and 568 deaths on Wednesday, on average a quarter (24.9%) of tests have come back positive. It is similar in Madhya Pradesh, where 23.1% of all tests have come back positive (up 7 percentage points in the last week). In Andhra Pradesh, average positivity rate has risen 8.9 percentage points (from 10.2% to 19.1%), while in West Bengal and Haryana it has gone up over 7 percentage points (from 11.1% to 18.1%, and from 10.8% to 18.5%, respectively) in the past week.The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that the average positivity of an area should ideally remain below 5% if the region is testing adequately.“Of the 740 districts in the country, the Covid-19 positivity rate is more than 15% in 146 districts. These regions are a cause for concern for both the Union government as well the respective state governments as the local health care system is facing the strain of rising cases. We have held detailed discussions with the local governments to narrow down on a strategy to ... stop the chain of transmission there,” said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan during the health ministry’s weekly Covid-19 press briefing on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worlds-worst-outbreak-101619041796105.html
22-04-2021||India||Air India cancels UK flights for a week||Amid a sharp spike in coronavirus infections, Air India on Wednesday said it was cancelling flights to and from the UK for a week starting April 24 after the latter added India to its travel “red list”. The national carrier will, however, operate one flight each from New Delhi and Mumbai in the period.In a statement, Air India said, “Passengers who were to travel between India and UK may note that in view of recent restrictions announced by the UK, flights from or to the UK stand cancelled from April 24 to April 30.”“Between April 24 to April 30, we are in the process to schedule once a week flight to the United Kingdom from Delhi and Mumbai,” it added.Further updates on rescheduling, refunds and waivers will be informed later, the carrier said.The UK on Monday added India to its travel “red list” on a precautionary basis after reporting 103 cases of a coronavirus variant first identified in India, Britain health minister Matt Hancock said. The British High Commission in India said the decision was made to help prevent the spread of the variants of concern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-cancels-uk-flights-for-a-week-101619040554512.html
22-04-2021||India||PM Modi’s address at climate summit today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address world leaders on the opening day of a virtual summit hosted by US President Joe Biden on the climate crisis on Thursday, officials said.Biden will on Thursday and Friday welcome 40 leaders for a virtual Earth Day summit as adversaries China and Russia confirmed participation in the two-day event, and the European Union and Britain locked in far-reaching carbon reductions.Officials aware of the matter said Biden will pledge to cut US greenhouse gas emissions at least in half by 2030.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-address-at-climate-summit-today-101619040330542.html
22-04-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||For weeks, Hindustan Times has, every time it has managed to lay its hands on it (data is as difficult to find as oil), published the status of vaccine distribution across states. This is managed by the Union government, and, I must confess, I cannot understand the basis on which vaccines are distributed.It is clearly not population. Uttar Pradesh, the most populous state in the country, received just about the same amount of vaccines as Rajasthan (till the evening of April 18), and just around 500,000 more doses than Gujarat, states with roughly a third of its population.Bihar, with a population that is approximately 1.7 times Rajasthan and Gujarat’s (separately) received just around half the number of vaccines they did.The generous allocations to the two western states also indicates that it is likely not active cases that is the criteria. According to the government’s own data from last week, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu are the states with the most active cases — in that order. Yet Chhattisgarh, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu have all received fewer vaccines than Bihar, which, if the data is to be believed, has won the fight against Covid-19. They have also received much fewer vaccines than Madhya Pradesh.The government’s note on the Phase 3 of its vaccine drive hints at a definite methodology — “on the criteria of extent of infection (number of active Covid cases) and performance (speed of administration)” and warns that “wastage” will “affect the criteria” — but stops short of spelling it out.I am sure there is a transparent and dynamic methodology, based on objective criteria on the allocation of vaccines — it’s just that we don’t know what it is.Reports over the past few days have suggested a similar issue with the allocation of medical oxygen. The Delhi government has complained that oxygen meant for it is being diverted to Uttar Pradesh. Now Tamil Nadu has joined the chorus, saying oxygen meant for it was diverted to some other southern states. Again, I’m sure there is a transparent and dynamic methodology that is the basis for this allocation — and again, it’s just that we don’t know what it is.It’s important to publicise these methodologies. People may disagree with them, but debate and discussion can only make them better. It’s even more important to do so because half the vaccines made in India (the policy is silent on the imports on this front) will have to be supplied to the Central Drugs Laboratory from May 1, when the country enters Phase 3 of its vaccine drive. The Union government will then distribute these to the states — and because Phase 3 is certain to be messy, at least in the initial weeks, may be even months, it makes sense to share details of the basis on which this will be done. Assuming the two local manufacturers of vaccines manage to increase their capacities to the levels they want to by June, this means the Union government will have between 50 million and 60 million doses to share with the states. In addition, the states, depending on their ability (and capacity) to strike deals with vaccine makers, will have access to another 50 to 60 million doses of these two vaccines.There is still some confusion on Bharat Biotech’s exact capacity, but there’s congruence between the two latest statements, one from the Department of Science and Technology, and another from the company itself, putting the number at 60-70 million doses a month by July-August and 700 million doses a year, respectively. DST’s statement also speaks of a more ambitious 100 million doses a month capacity by September. So, at least from August, there will be more vaccines available (although the 50% share for states and the open market could reduce some more because of contractual export commitments that both Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India have).Then there are the imports — Dr Reddy’s has said its first imports of the Sputnik V vaccine will land in May, but has steered clear of putting a number to this. Local manufacturing of Sputnik V should have started by now, but not too many details of this have been forthcoming (either from the companies or the government) adding to the asymmetry of information on the availability of vaccines.It’s important to fill these data gaps — a congruent, fair, vaccine policy is impossible without doing so.Everyone should have themselves vaccinated but not everyone will. The government, last-mile public health workers, the media, non-governmental organisations, and educational institutions, should all work to break this reluctance, which, at least in the next several months when supplies lag, will actually work to India’s advantage. But eventually, everyone should get vaccinated; no one is safe till everyone is. The government can also help by addressing all concerns regarding vaccines (its response to the Brazilian drug regulator’s criticism of Bharat Biotech’s manufacturing practices has been inadequate) and by being transparent about adverse effects, including deaths. It’s move, on Wednesday, to release data that showed that just 0.02% people who received one dose of the Covishield vaccine, and 0.03% of those that received both doses subsequently tested positive for Covid-19, is just the kind of reassurance India needs. The numbers are an equally reassuring 0.04% and 0.04% in the case of Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19what-you-need-to-know-today-101619039156466.html
22-04-2021||India||Lack of trucks, road blockades hinder supply of oxygen||A lack of cryogenic trucks, interstate road blockades, and troubles faced by staff in reaching factories are making the shortage of medical oxygen worse, officials and company representatives said, detailing a wide variety of factors that has now brought the state governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana into a confrontation even as the Capital’s hospitals struggle to treat patients.Suppliers, district officials, and police personnel have been scrambling to ease some of these bottlenecks; even as higher authorities accused counterparts in other states of deliberately holding up supplies and putting lives at risk.“The Delhi government made frantic calls to at least a dozen transporters having cryogenic tankers and other such vehicles, but found little luck,” according to a person aware of the crisis, who asked not to be named.Several hospitals and at least six transporters HT spoke to on Wednesday, too, said there was a major scramble for tankers in the Capital for transportation of oxygen. At least one transporter and one hospital said vehicles were intercepted and supplies disrupted.“Yes, we did get a call from the Delhi government 3-4 days ago. But, by then Madhya Pradesh had already booked all our cryogenic tankers and they are operating in that state. The MP administration had intercepted our tankers that had left from Faridabad when it was on its way to be filled at Rourkela. Since then, it is with them and they are making the payments timely,” said KK Yadav, a transporter in Faridabad.Max Healthcare Institute on Wednesday wrote to health minister Satyendar Jain saying the tanker scheduled to arrive at its facility in Shalimar Bagh was diverted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).“Yesterday night, the oxygen supply to the hospital was disrupted as an oxygen tanker from M/s Inox on its way to refill the oxygen tanks at Max hospital, Shalimar Bagh was diverted to AIIMS. This led to a situation where the hospital’s oxygen tanks ran dry. Thus, we had a critical situation at the hospital and had to manage the patients on oxygen cylinders... This seriously jeopardised the safety of the 250 Covid patients admitted under our care and can lead to a very serious situation,” read the letter written by the health care firm.The crisis came into focus after one key hospital, GTB, received replenishments with mere minutes to spare on Tuesday night, and a similar crisis was averted at the last minute on Wednesday when vehicles from a Haryana-based company were let through to bring much-needed refills to four Delhi hospitals.Officials at Inox Air Product limited, which supplies around 20% of the city’s oxygen requirement, said its trucks were taking 2-3 hours extra because of diversions owing to farmers’ protest at Ghazipur and Singhu borders.“Our tankers, particularly those coming from Uttar Pradesh, are having to travel 10-15 kilometres extra to enter Delhi due to closure of the Ghazipur border. This may not be much for a car, but for heavy vehicles like ours, it can cause a delay of several hours due to speed and traffic constraints,” said an official of the company, asking not to be named.Linde India Limited, another oxygen supplier to Delhi, said the company is optimising its production and supply according to the demand. “The delivery of medical oxygen from our Faridabad plant to hospitals outside Haryana was disrupted for about 4-5 hours on April 21, 2021 around midday, as a result of certain restrictions from the local government officials. The issue has since been resolved and delivery of medical oxygen to the affected hospitals has resumed,” it said in a statement.Delhi Police officers said that movement of oxygen tankers was hindered due to the blockade of the routes, but there were no complaints of any attempts by farmer groups to disallow the tankers.On Wednesday morning, Delhi Police escorted an oxygen tanker stranded at the Kundli Border, near Singhu. “The tanker was meant for Jaipur Golden Hospital in Delhi. We coordinated with Kundli Police to establish a green corridor to escort the tanker to Delhi in the next few minutes,” said Rajiv Ranjan, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north).Siddharth Rastogi, executive director (sales) of MVS Engineering Pvt. Ltd, a manufacturer of medical oxygen production systems, said the company is also having to provide shelter to half its staff at its manufacturing plant in Okhla Industrial Area because the rest of the workers have not yet received their e-passes from Delhi’s district administrations.“The problem we are experiencing in big cities is that because of this massive demand for oxygen, cities like Delhi are consuming oxygen at a rate of three times their usual consumption. This means that the demand-supply is skewed massively. Furthermore, the deliveries are getting affected due to many staffers of the oxygen supply companies getting affected by Covid,” said Rastogi.Rastogi also said: “In many oxygen manufacturing companies that are doing bulk supply as liquid oxygen or in cylinders, there are cases where they also don’t have drivers to deliver”.(With inputs from Shiv Sunny)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lack-of-trucks-road-blockades-hinder-supply-of-oxygen-101619038361495.html
22-04-2021||India||Quota of oxygen raised but shortfall persists||The Union government on Wednesday increased Delhi’s quota of medical oxygen from 378MT to 480MT per day, even as deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia urged the Centre to ensure that allocated quantities reach the Capital on time after several trucks were held up in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.The move to increase Delhi’s quota came after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government sought at least 700MT per day in order to meet demand in hospitals that has surged due to a flood of Covid-19 patients.“Central government has increased Delhi’s quota of oxygen. We are very grateful to the Centre for this,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet. An official of the government, who asked not to be named, later said this capacity was enhanced to 480MT a day.“There will be still a shortfall of 220MT per day which we will have to make up for by ensuring proper demand-side management and plugging oxygen consumption wastage. In times of utmost crisis oxygen is diverted from low-demand hospitals to high-demand ones, but that is supposed to be the last resort,” this person added.According to the updated allocation schedule, oxygen will be supplied by at least five vendors from plants in Kalinga Nagar, Panipat, Rourkela, Roorkee, West Bengal, Bhiwadi, Barotiwala, Ghaziabad, Surajpur, Kashipur, Modinagar and Selakui.Earlier, Sisodia held a press conference and urged the centre to intervene, in particular citing incidents that took place on Tuesday night and Wednesday afternoon when supply trucks were held up in Uttar Pradesh’s Modinagar and Haryana’s Faridabad.“Today, an official in Faridabad stopped some trucks from leaving for hospitals in Delhi and other regions. After interventions, these vehicles were allowed to go. Similar problem happened last night, when we had to seek the intervention of a senior Union minister to get trucks freed from a plant near Modinagar. If we have to chase every single truck and ask Centre to intervene, then it’s not a good situation,” Sisodia said, saying the crisis should not turn into “a fight between states”.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan indicated the government had intervened, saying during the weekly press briefing of the central government on Wednesday: “When you deal with such a huge challenge, at times there is panic and confusion. The onus and responsibility is on the Union and state governments to work together and respond quickly,” he said.Sisodia said hospitals in Delhi are facing a major shortage for the past 4-5 days now with the demand going up significantly and states not allowing supplies from units in their jurisdictions.The Haryana government denied allegations that it was not allowing vendors to supply oxygen to other states and refuted Sisodia’s statements. ‘’No supply has been stopped to Delhi, this is not true,’’ Haryana’s chief secretary said.Faridabad deputy commissioner Garima Mittal, who was named by some hospitals for having impeded the supplies, denied the allegations. Officials in UP did not respond to requests for comment, but an official claimed that no trucks were halted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quota-of-oxygen-raised-but-shortfall-persists-101619038151171.html
22-04-2021||India||President, PM express grief over loss of lives in Nashik oxygen tank leak||Condolences poured in from various quarters over the loss of lives in the Nashik hospital oxygen leakage incident on Wednesday.“I am deeply distressed by the unfortunate incident of patients dying due to gas leak in Nashik, Maharashtra. My deepest condolences to the families who lost their loved ones in this incident. I wish all other patients a quick recovery,” President Ram Nath Kovind said on Twitter.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also expressed grief over the incident.“The tragedy at a hospital in Nashik because of oxygen tank leakage is heart-wrenching. Anguished by the loss of lives due to it. Condolences to the bereaved families in this sad hour,” Modi tweeted.Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari released a statement: “I was deeply anguished to know about the death of innocent Covid-19 patients in the unfortunate incident of Oxygen tanker leakage at the Dr Zakir Hussain Hospital in Nashik. I convey my condolences to the next of those who lost their lives and wish speedy recovery to the affected persons.”Condoling the death of Covid-19 patients, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday urged the Maharashtra government to provide all assistance to the affected.“The news of patients’ death at Nashik’s Zakir Hussain Hospital is extremely tragic. My heartfelt condolences to the aggrieved families. I appeal to the state government and party workers to provide all possible assistance,” Gandhi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-pm-express-grief-over-loss-of-lives-in-nashik-oxygen-tank-leak-101619035272658.html
22-04-2021||India||Bengal sets aside ₹100 crore for universal vaccination, to begin from May 5||The West Bengal government has set aside ₹100 crore for universal vaccination scheduled to take off on May 5, soon after the election results are declared, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday. Banerjee also said that she would write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over vaccination pricing. “We have allocated ₹100 crore, which could be used to immediately purchase vaccines for the universal vaccination program. Till date we have administered 93 lakh doses. We will also urge the Centre to immediately supply us with another one crore doses. Then we can go for purchasing from the market,” she said. The chief minister said that the universal vaccination program would take off from May 5. Assembly elections are going on in West Bengal and counting is scheduled on May 2. “Vaccines, which were sold to the Centre for ₹150, will now be sold to states for ₹400 to private hospitals for ₹600. There should not be any discrimination. In times of an emergency do you help people or do business? For this the Centre should also take a decision without leaving it entirely on the people,” Banerjee said while adding that she would write to the Prime Minister. On Monday, the Centre had opened the Covid-19 vaccination for everyone above the age of 18. There are more than 7.34 crore registered voters in West Bengal (persons who are more than 18 years and above). The Serum Institute of India released the prices of Covishield vaccines on Wednesday and had said in a media statement that considering the global vaccine prices, “We are ensuring that our vaccines are affordable in comparison to any other vaccines in the world.” “Some people are testing positive even after taking two doses of vaccines. The infection is however mild in such cases. At least 1.1% people who have received both the vaccine doses have tested positive in Kolkata,” said Banerjee. With beds running out the state administration has directed government and private hospitals not to block any beds with patients whose condition is not critical. Also, hospitals have been directed to coordinate among themselves so that a critically ill patient could be referred to another hospital in case one hospital has no vacancy. Patients have been divided into three categories – A, B and C with A-category being the most critical patients who needs immediate hospitalization. “There is a shortage of oxygen. We are keeping a close watch on the market so that there is no black marketing and hoarding,” she said. Banerjee, however, ruled out the possibility of another lockdown in the immediate future saying that it affects people adversely. “I am not thinking about lockdown. People were badly hit by lockdown last year. I would urge everyone to stay alert and wear masks. But I won’t tell people to stop work and stay at home. I don’t think there is any immediate need of another lockdown,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-sets-aside-rs-100-crore-for-universal-vaccination-to-begin-from-may-5-101619035305224.html
22-04-2021||India||Kerala enforces more curbs as Covid-19 cases rise alarmingly, clamps night curfew||With Covid-19 cases soaring alarmingly the Kerala government on Wednesday decided to impose strict restrictions over the weekend and clamped night curfew for two weeks to contain the surge. The state recorded the highest single day tally on Wednesday with 22,414 cases clocking a high test positivity rate of 18.41 per cent.Talking to the media, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who attended office after two weeks, said the second wave was really serious and the government will do everything possible to save lives. He said the state has enough stock of oxygen, ICU beds and ventilators but vaccine shortage was acute.“We did exceptionally well during the first wave and contained the mortality rate effectively (it is still below 0.4), we will overcome the second wave also,” he said. Earlier in the day he chaired a high-level meeting in the state capital to review the situation. During the weekend, only emergency services will be allowed and private firms have been asked to implement work from home on an urgent basis, he said.This is the first time the state has crossed 20,000 daily cases. With 22 fatalities, the death toll also went up to 5,000. Ernakulam district topped the list with 3980 cases. Active cases in the state rose to 1,35, 631, the CM said.In view of the mounting cases the state has also updated its quarantine and isolation guidelines. Once tested positive a doctor’s recommendation is necessary for the patient for hospitalization and this will ease pressure and lessen crowd in hospitals. Even after discharge from the hospital the patient will have to avoid travel and interaction with others at least for a week.Civic bodies have also begun virus control measures after a brief lull. Police have also raised fines for offenders. Similarly tuition classes are not permitted till further notice and local bodies will have to ensure that people don’t crowd vaccination centres.The CM said vaccine shortage was acute in the state and he has written a letter to the Prime Minister in this connection. He also criticised the Union government’s new vaccination policy and requested the PM ensure free supply. But the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has accused the CM of creating panic by repeatedly highlighting shortage of doses.BJP state president K Surendran said the CM’s letter was unnecessary and ill-timed after the Centre assured enough supply to the state in a couple of days. He said panic created by the government has led to fights at some vaccination centres. In Kottayam and Alappuzha people have clashed with health officials and others over delay.Surendran said the CM had promised last December that the LDF government will distribute vaccine to the people free of cost and it will also try to set up a vaccine production facility in the state. “It is not proper for the CM to make such false promises. In the last two months vaccine distribution was under control. It is wrong on the part of the state government to blame the Centre for the shoddy supply arrangement,” he said adding the CM was unnecessarily blaming the Union government.Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan has also criticised the state government. “It is not proper for rulers to create panic. Instead of creating panic the government should have intervened to dispel unnecessary fear. The state will be getting 6.5 lakh doses in a couple of days,” he said. He said many recipients of the vaccine were not even registered and their influx created a shortage.But the ruling CPI (M) ridiculed the minister. “It is his habit to criticise the state government for everything. He has again challenged people of the state,” said party secretary A Vijayaraghavan. Earlier in the letter the CM highlighted the additional financial burden faced by the state due to the pandemic and noted that it was imperative to provide vaccine free of cost and he questioned the move to procure it from the market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-enforces-more-curbs-as-covid-19-cases-rise-alarmingly-clamps-night-curfew-101619034527475.html
22-04-2021||India||Covaxin phase 3 interim trial reveals 78% efficacy||The second interim Phase 3 analysis of the first make-in-India Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Covaxin, has shown 78% efficacy, its maker Bharat Biotech announced on Wednesday.The company first released its preliminary Phase 3 analysis results in March, showing 81% efficacy based on 43 cases. In this round, a vaccine efficacy of 78% was recorded against mild, moderate, and severe symptoms of Covid-19 based on 127 cases.The efficacy against asymptomatic Covid-19 infections was 70%, suggesting decreased transmission in Covaxin recipients, the analysis showed. The efficacy against severe Covid-19 disease was 100%, along with a reduction in the number of hospitalisations. “[The vaccine’s] efficacy against Sars-CoV-2 has been established. Covaxin has demonstrated an excellent safety record in human clinical trials and in emergency-use... The efficacy data against severe Covid-19 and asymptomatic infections is highly significant, as this helps reduce hospitalisations and disease transmission, respectively,” said Krishna Ella, chairman and managing editor, Bharat Biotech.“The tireless efforts of our scientists at ICMR and BBIL have resulted in a truly effective international vaccine of the highest standards and efficacy. I am also happy to note that Covaxin works well against most variants of Sars-CoV-2. These findings together consolidate the position of our indigenous vaccine in the global vaccine landscape,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Bharat Biotech has co-developed Covaxin with ICMR.ICMR said: “Covaxin neutralises against multiple variants of Sars-Cov-2, and effectively neutralises the double mutant strain as well.” Safety and efficacy results from the final analysis will be available in June, and the final report will be submitted to a peer-reviewed publication. Based on the achievement of the success criteria, placebo recipients have now become eligible to receive two doses of the vaccine.A total of 25,800 participants, between the ages of 18 and 98 (including 10% over the age of 60), were enrolled in the Phase 3 study. The analysis was conducted 14 days after the second dose. Covaxin was developed with seed strains received from the National Institute of Virology, and the Phase 3 clinical trial was co-funded by ICMR, making it a public-private partnership effort towards public health.“Covaxin’s evidence-based development has proved its suitability for global access, with excellent efficacy results against symptomatic, asymptomatic, and severe disease. The interest from countries worldwide has quietly validated our efforts,” said Suchitra Ella, joint managing director, Bharat Biotech.“For a respiratory vaccine, 78% efficacy is good,” Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology department, AIIMS, Delhi, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-phase-3-interim-trial-reveals-78-efficacy-101619033123671.html
22-04-2021||India||CoWin app set for revamp as pvt hospitals, states allowed to buy vaccines||The CoWIN mobile application is set for a revamp as the government allows private hospitals and state governments to directly procure vaccines, and makes people above the age of 18 eligible for the jab, officials familiar with the matter said, asserting that certificates will continue to be issued by the central government to ensure that a database is maintained.“A consolidated database of how many people have so far been vaccinated has to be maintained,” said an official familiar with the matter. “The central government will be the only authority issuing the vaccination certificates.”According to government data, so far, 60,599 government vaccination sites and 6,549 private vaccination sites are integrated with the CoWIN app. Once the new system is rolled out, more hospitals will be integrated with the application system to provide citizens easy access to availability of vaccines. “The government is also trying to provide data with reference to availability of remdesivir and oxygen on the application. The number of vaccination sites is expected to rise with the change in policy.”A second person said that switching the age of registration from 45 to 18 would be easy in a technical sense, but the more onerous task would be integrating the APIs (application programming interface) of CoWIN with the hospitals. “A hospital can choose whether to use the CoWIN app for registration or have a separate process, the idea is to ensure that a majority is onboarded to maintain a central database,” the second official said on condition of anonymity.The official added that in case the hospital does not wish to integrate with the registration process, it will have to integrate APIs at the certificate level.As far as registrations are concerned, the application can tackle the user load as it is scalable, the first official said. On Wednesday, 1,057,349 people registered for vaccination on the application. The app also provides the option of taking the second dose in a different state, city, in case a person is travelling.Once the integration is complete, prices of the vaccines, which can also be decided by the makers according to the new policy, will also be made available on the mobile application, along with the slots.Serum Institute of India on Wednesday fixed the price of Covishield vaccine at ₹400 for government hospitals and ₹600 for private hospitals. “The ultimate bottleneck will be availability of vaccines,” the second official said. “The makers are working to scale up availability, and there should be a clearer estimate available within the week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowin-app-set-for-revamp-as-pvt-hospitals-states-allowed-to-buy-vaccines-101619032724258.html
22-04-2021||India||Pokhriyal, Adhir, Tharoor test positive for Covid||Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, and Congress leaders Shashi Tharoor and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.Making the announcement on Twitter, the Union minister said, “This is to inform you all that I have tested Covid positive today. I am taking medication and treatment as per the advice of my doctors. Request all those who have come in my contact recently to be observant, and get themselves tested.”Chowdhury, the Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, said he will continue to campaign for the West Bengal assembly polls through virtual events. The sixth phase of the state polls is due on Thursday. “I have been tested Covid positive, requesting all who came in contact with me for the last 7 days must comply with covid protocols, I will be continuing my campaign through the virtual platform,” the West Bengal Pradesh Congress president said on Twitter.Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished him a speedy recovery. “Praying for the well-being and swift recovery of Adhir Da,” the PM tweeted.Congress MP from Thiruvananthapuram, Shashi Tharoor also confirmed that he has tested positive for the viral disease. “Hoping to deal with it in a “positive” frame of mind, with rest, steam & plenty of fluids,” he posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pokhriyal-adhir-tharoor-test-positive-for-covid-101619032584432.html
22-04-2021||India||4 more states to give free vaccines to all adults||Four states announced on Wednesday that they will provide vaccines to all people between 18 and 45 free of cost, potentially boosting the country’s inoculation drive that will open to all adults from May 1 amid a devastating surge in coronavirus infections.Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala said they will bear the costs of vaccination for all adults. On Tuesday, Uttar Pradesh and Assam had decided to administer the vaccine without charge. At present, every person above the age of 45 years is eligible for a vaccine shot. It is free at government facilities and costs ₹250 per dose at private centres. On Monday, the central government had opened up the vaccination drive to all adults and said that state governments could procure shots directly from manufacturers, who could give 50% of jabs to private hospitals and states.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said the expenses to vaccinate everyone above 18 will be borne by the state government and urged the Centre to ensure availability of adequate number of vaccines.“We will take all possible steps to protect our citizens’ lives. Request central government to ensure availability of adequate number of vaccines,” the chief minister posted on Twitter.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced the vaccine would be offered to all adults free of cost.“A detailed guidelines of the government of India will be issued later, but the people above the age of 18 will be vaccinated for free in Madhya Pradesh,” he told reporters in Bhopal. Bihar followed suit. “The state government will provide free vaccination to 18 years and above people,” chief minister Nitish Kumar tweeted. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said: “Vaccines will be provided free of cost for everyone in Kerala. We had announced free vaccines in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-more-states-to-give-free-vaccines-to-all-adults-101619032271791.html
22-04-2021||India||‘Watch next few days’: Sitharaman’s advice to India INC||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday lauded the industry for its forbearance amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic but asked them to wait and watch for the next few days to correctly assess the situation even as the government takes policy measures to protect both lives and livelihoods.“I would request the industry to watch the next few days a bit more carefully, and then assess for yourself what this quarter is going to be like,” she said while addressing the national executive committee members of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci) virtually.She assured the industry that the government is determined to contain the pandemic with a five-fold strategy — test, track, treat, Covid-19 protocols and vaccination. The government, along with the industry, will assess the situation and take appropriate measures to sustain the growth momentum, she said.The raging second wave of Covid-19 infections in India is threatening to derail the gradual recovery the economy achieved in the last one year, according to the trajectory of the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI). Experts believe that the worst is yet to come as more states resort to restrictions to prevent the surge in infections from overwhelming medical infrastructure.A 68-day nationwide lockdown from March 25 last year led to a 24.4% contraction of the economy in the first quarter of 2020-21. The economy shrank by 7.3% in the second quarter, before expanding by 0.4% in the three months ended December 31. Overall, the economy is expected to contract by 8% in 2020-21.Addressing another virtual gathering of over 150 businessmen at the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Sitharaman emphasised the need is to adopt micro containment strategy in dealing with the second surge of the pandemic as the country has important tools such as vaccines and medicines.She assured seamless supply of oxygen to states through measures such as round-the-clock working of the oxygen filling stations, allowing containers for nitrogen and argon to be used for oxygen and import of medical oxygen. She was replying to CII president Uday Kotak’s suggestions to ramp up vaccination and ensure adequate supplies of oxygen, medicines and beds to contain the spread of pandemic.Speaking at Ficci, Sitharaman said the supply of oxygen has been very neatly mapped and new permissions have been given particularly for the hard stressed 12 states — Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. “The government has exempted all inter-state movement of oxygen tankers, exempted from registration and permits, they can operate round the clock, and cylinder filling plants are operating 24 hours to fill the gaps with necessary safeguards,” she said.Sitharaman said the government initiatives would help to ramp up capacity of producing remdesivir, a vital anti-viral drug, from 3.6 million vials per month to 7.8 million vials per month. The government on Tuesday allowed duty-free import of the drug and its raw materials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-next-few-days-sitharaman-s-advice-to-india-inc-101619032365376.html
22-04-2021||India||Japan PM calls off visit to India, Philippines due to critical covid situation||Japan Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga has cancelled a planned visit to India and the Philippines later this month because of the Covid-19 situation, people familiar with the developments said on Wednesday.A 2+2 meeting of the defence and foreign ministers of India and Japan, which was to be held in Tokyo later this week, has also been called off, the people said on condition of anonymity.Though both countries were keen on the visit going ahead, a decision was made to call off the trip following consultations on Tuesday because of the Covid-19 situation on both sides, the people said. India recorded about 295,000 new infections on Tuesday – the biggest daily increase reported in any country – while Japan is grappling with a resurgence of infections.Neither India nor Japan had formally announced the visit, but Suga was expected to travel to New Delhi in late April or early May to boost bilateral cooperation, especially in the Indo-Pacific, in the face of China’s growing aggression and assertiveness across the region.The visit would have set the stage for the first in-person meeting between Suga and Modi, who had developed a close relationship with former Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe.Suga was expected to discuss cooperation in a wide range of areas, ranging from maritime security to development of resilient supply chains and joint projects in third countries, during the visit. India and Japan have also been working closely within the framework of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, and Suga and his India counterpart Narendra Modi participated in the first leaders’ summit of the grouping last month. Japan is set to provide financing to ramp up the production of Covid-19 vaccines in India for distribution to developing countries in the Indo-Pacific. Japan, along with the US, has taken the lead in enhancing cooperation through the Quad, which also includes Australia, to ensure a rules-based order and freedom of navigation in the South and East China Sea. Japan has also backed India’s call for the restoration of the status quo on the Line of Actual Control amid the dragging military standoff with China. The cancellation of Suga’s visit follows British Prime Minister Boris Johnson calling off a trip to New Delhi on April 25. Modi has also cancelled a planned visit to Portugal next month for the India-European Union Summit. Johnson and Modi will hold a virtual meeting on April 26 and the India-EU Summit too will be held in a virtual format. There are no plans as of now for a virtual meeting between the Indian and Japanese premiers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/japan-pm-calls-off-visit-to-india-philippines-due-to-critical-covid-situation-101619032364768.html
22-04-2021||India||IAF chief flags off 4 Rafale jets||New Delhi: Indian Air Force (IAF) chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Wednesday flagged off four Rafale fighter jets from Merignac-Bordeaux airbase in France to India, officials familiar with the development said. This is the fifth ferry of Rafale jets from France to India and their arrival will take the total number of French-origin fighters in the IAF inventory to 18. “Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on an official tour to France lauds pilots & sees off the next batch of Rafales on a non-stop flight to India with mid-air refueling by French Air force & UAE. Thanks France esp FASF (French Air and Space Force) & French Industry for timely delivery & pilot training on schedule despite covid,” the Indian embassy in France said on Twitter. Bhadauria reached France on a five-day official visit on Monday. The fighters are expected to land at an Indian airbase late Wednesday night. India ordered 36 warplanes from France (equivalent of two squadrons) in September 2016 for ₹59,000 crore under a government-to-government deal. The arrival of four jets will enable the completion of the first squadron of these fighters in Ambala and set the stage for raising the second squadron at Hasimara in West Bengal. All the 36 planes are likely to join the IAF’s fighter fleet by the year-end. Bhadauria, who visited the Rafale conversion training centre in France on Wednesday, said: “The Centre has provided world-class training and it is because of the level and quality of training that we were able to operationalise the aircraft quickly. It is to the credit of the French industry that despite the Covid restrictions, they were able to meet the training requirements in time, and deliver all the aircraft so far more or less in time.” He said some planes were delivered ahead of time. “This has really contributed to the overall combat potential of IAF. I would like to thank the French government, French air force and the industry,” he said.IAF has operated the fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on high alert amid a border standoff with China and where both sides are negotiating disengagement of troops at friction points along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). India’s Rafale jets are equipped with modern weapons such as the Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, Mica multi-mission air-to-air missiles, Scalp deep-strike cruise missiles and the Hammer smart weapon. India-specific enhancements on the jets include cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases such as Leh, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, jammers and towed decoys to ward off incoming missiles. The twin-engine jet is capable of carrying out a variety of missions -- ground and sea attack, air defence and air superiority, reconnaissance, and nuclear strike deterrence. It can carry more than nine tonnes of weapons on 14 hard points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chief-flags-off-4-rafale-jets-101619032304162.html
22-04-2021||India||Very few infected after 2nd dose of Covid vaccine: Centre||A minuscule fraction of people contracted Covid-19 in India after being vaccinated, the central government announced on Wednesday, aiming to boost public confidence in the efficacy of the inoculation drive that is crucial to fighting a devastating surge in infections ravaging the country.Government experts cited official data to say that between two and four people per 10,000 vaccinated persons contracted the infection after getting the shots. They attributed this tiny number to the large number of healthcare professionals and frontline workers -- who were immunised in the first phase of the drive -- who work in conditions with a high risk of exposure to the virus.The phenomenon of getting infected after vaccination is called breakthrough infection.The government said a total of 11 million beneficiaries received Covaxin, the two-dose shot manufactured by Bharat Biotech and developed in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) .Out of this, 9.3 million people received one shot and 4,208 were infected afterwards -- or 0.04%. Around 1.7 million people received both shots and 695 were infected later, again around 0.04%, announced ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava.For Covishield -- the two-dose jab developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and manufactured by Serum Institute of India -- approximately 100 million people received the first dose and 17,145 were infected later, or around 0.02%. And, 15 million people received both doses and only 5014 were infected afterwards, or around .03%.“So this is a very, very, very small number. Only 2 to 4 per 10,000 breakthrough infections have occurred, which is a very small number,” Bhargava said.He attributed even this tiny fraction of breakthrough infections to frontline and healthcare workers and the current second wave that has swamped the country.“This is because healthcare and frontline workers who were the first to be vaccinated and they are prone to more occupational exposure and, therefore, this is the number. And this is a very very small number and not at all worrisome, and vaccination should continue. The second point is this current highly transmissible second wave may also contribute, a little bit, very miniscule, otherwise this may have been even zero per cent,” he added.Experts said the very small number were important to show that the vaccines were effective and dispel any hesitancy and misinformation around the inoculation drive.“If you look at the numbers then it clearly shows it is a relatively small number. Also, given that respiratory vaccines do not have 100% efficacy,” said Jacob John, former virology, head, Christian Medical College (CMC) Vellore, Tamil Nadu.The second wave is spreading at a great rate, with at least 146 districts currently showing a case positivity rate of at least 15%. The case positivity rate -- a ratio of positive cases to total tests, and a measure of the scale of the outbreak in a region -- should ideally remain under 5%, say experts.Comparative data between the two Covid-19 waves shared by the Centre also showed more children under the age of 10 and elderly above 80 were dying due to the infection in the current wave.So far this year, 0.3% children below 10 have succumbed to the viral infection, which was 0.2% in the previous wave last year. More elderly patients are also dying, with data showing 9.8% mortality among 80 and above this year as compared to 7.8% last year. This percentage is also high for those between 70 and 80, with 22.16% deaths as compared to 19.99% last year. The other age categories show more or less similar trends.“Elderly obviously are more prone to developing serious disease but this time the number of children who are getting infected is higher. Transmissibility this time seems quite high,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology department, All India institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/very-few-infected-after-2nd-dose-of-covid-vaccinecentre-101619032244117.html
22-04-2021||India||Delhi HC verdict likely today on FB, WhatsApp pleas||The Delhi high court is likely to pronounce verdict on Thursday on pleas by Facebook and WhatsApp challenging competition regulator CCI’s order directing a probe into the latter’s new privacy policy.Justice Navin Chawla had on April 13 reserved judgement on the two separate petitions by Facebook and WhatsApp.While reserving its decision, the court had observed that the CCI order does not reflect an investigation into abuse of dominant position and rather appears to be concerned with privacy issues. The observation came in response to the CCI’s stand that it was not examining the alleged violation of individuals’ privacy which was being looked into by the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-verdict-likely-today-on-fb-whatsapp-pleas-101619031908295.html
22-04-2021||India||B’desh seeks speedy delivery of vaccines||New Delhi The Bangladesh government has requested its Indian counterpart to expedite the delivery of about 500,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines to ensure the rollout of the immunisation programme in the neighbouring country isn’t affected, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday. The matter was raised by the Bangladesh high commission in New Delhi and authorities in Dhaka over the past few days against the backdrop of concerns among Bangladeshi authorities about the delay in supply of doses that were contracted from Serum Institute of India (SII), the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. There was no official response from Indian officials on the matter. The Indian side said recently that exports of Covid-19 vaccines will be rolled out in a phased manner and delivery schedules will be calibrated in sync with domestic requirements. However, concerns have grown in several countries that have signed commercial agreements with SII as India’s domestic vaccine needs have increased significantly following a massive spike in infections and the government’s plans to open up the vaccination drive to everyone above the age of 18 from May 1. The people said the Bangladeshi side was solely dependent on vaccine supplies from India after it opted not to procure Chinese-made doses despite offers from Beijing. Any prolonged delay in the delivery of doses by SII could hit the rollout of the vaccination drive in Bangladesh, the people said. Bangladeshi authorities are also looking at the possibility of acquiring the Sputnik V vaccine developed by Russia, the people added. India has so far supplied 3.3 million doses of Covishield as grants to Bangladesh, while the country received another seven million doses as commercial supplies. The supplies began in January and the last delivery – 100,000 doses provided as a grant – was made on April 2. Bangladesh signed a commercial contract with SII last year to buy 30 million doses, and under the terms of the deal, the country should receive five million doses a month between January and June. The Nepal government too is awaiting the delivery of a million doses of Covishield contracted from SII. Nepal foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali had raised the delay in delivery of the doses during a phone conversation with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on April 9. People familiar with developments in Kathmandu said there had been no word from the Indian side regarding the delivery of the shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bdesh-seeks-speedy-delivery-of-vaccines-101619031944200.html
22-04-2021||India||SII: Covishield at ₹400 to states, ₹600 to pvt hospitals||Covishield will be available to state governments at the rate of ₹400 per dose and at ₹600 per dose to private hospitals, Serum Institute of India announced on Wednesday, becoming the first company to disclose the pricing under the new, open-market mechanism for coronavirus vaccinations from next month.The Union government has allowed 50% of the vaccines manufactured in India to be sold separately, which can be used to administer doses to all adults from May 1. At present, only people above the age of 45 are eligible for the vaccines as part of the Centre’s vaccination programme.“For the next two months, we will address the limited capacity by scaling up the vaccine production. Going ahead, 50% of our capacities will be served to the Government of India’s vaccination program, and the remaining 50% of the capacity will be for the state governments and private hospitals,” said Serum Institute of India in a statement.SII locally manufactures the Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine AZD1222 under the brand name Covishield. It is one of the two make-in-India vaccines approved for restricted emergency use – the other being Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.In an interview to TV channel CNBC-TV 18, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said the company will start signing contracts with private hospitals within a couple of weeks, and hopes to fulfil the contracts by the third or fourth week of May.It is likely that this is when people between the age of 18 and 45 will be able to get the first of the doses in these age groups.“Serum Institute of India (SII), welcomes the recent announcement made by Government of India’s Ministry of Health and Finance Ministry to accelerate India’s vaccination drive. The promising directives will help to scale- up vaccine production, and allow state governments, private hospitals, and vaccination centers to procure vaccines directly,” the statement further read.According to the company, it is ensuring that India’s vaccines are affordable in comparison to any other vaccines in the world, considering the global vaccine prices.Globally, American vaccines in open market currently cost about ₹1500 per dose, Russian and Chinese vaccines cost around ₹750 per dose.The company also expressed its inability to meet with the demands of individual corporate houses given the supply constraints.“Furthermore, owing to the complexity, and urgency of the situation it is challenging to supply it independently to each corporate entity. We would urge all corporate and private individuals to access the vaccines through the state facilitated machinery and private health systems. After 4-5 months, the vaccines will be made available in retail and free trade,” the statement read.SII’s current Covishield production capacity is about 60 million doses a month, and it is looking at ramping it up to more than a 100 million doses a month by July.Union government officials said on Wednesday that vaccine manufacturers will have to declare rates before May 1. “On the basis of these rates, state hospitals, private hospitals can procure doses. It doesn’t mean vaccines will be available at chemist shops,” said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan.The official added that beginning May 1, private hospitals will have to procure their vaccines exclusively through these channels. “They won’t be given separately. Pricing will be monitored,” he said.Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said the country expects more capacity to be added by August. “Discussions are on with other makers. Biological E’s trials are over, after that they will go phase 3. They have major capacity – of over 70 mn a year. We believe by August, it will be available,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-covishield-at-400-to-states-600-to-pvt-hospitals-101619031824067.html
22-04-2021||India||Christian Michel seeks bail on basis of UN report that said his detention was arbitrary||Christian Michel, the alleged middleman in the AgustaWestland VVIP helicopter deal, has sought bail in cases registered against him by the CBI and Enforcement Directorate on the grounds that a UN panel had ruled that his detention was arbitrary. The bail application is expected to be listed for hearing in the court of special judge Arvind Kumar on Thursday, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Michel, a British national, has been held in India since December 2018 after being extradited from the United Arab Emirates (UAE). He is currently in Delhi’s Tihar Jail. He was living in Dubai when India sought his extradition for involvement in alleged irregularities in the 2010 deal to acquire 12 AgustaWestland helicopters worth 556.2 million euros for the transportation of VVIPs. At the time, Michel was a middleman and an external consultant for a subsidiary of AgustaWestland. He has denied all the charges levelled against him. Michel’s application for unconditional bail hinges on the report of the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (WGAD), which operates under the office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. In its findings released in Geneva last month, WGAD concluded Michel’s detention was arbitrary and violated the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. WGAD was scathing in its evaluation of the handling of Michel’s case by the governments of the UAE and India and said both countries should “accord him an enforceable right to compensation and other reparations, in accordance with international law”. Indian officials haven’t formally reacted to WGAD’s findings but even before the formal release of the report, the external affairs ministry said the group’s conclusions were based on “limited information, biased allegations from an unidentified source and on an inaccurate understanding of India’s criminal justice system”. Michel’s bail application, filed on Tuesday, noted that he had spent two years and four months in custody in India and another 50 days in Dubai during his extradition proceedings and that he had undergone “almost 600 hours of custodial interrogation” by the CBI and ED. The application said others arrested in the same case had also been granted bail. The application further said Michel will be available to join “any future investigation and trial, as and when required, and has never sought to evade the process of law”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/christian-michel-seeks-bail-on-basis-of-un-report-that-said-his-detention-was-arbitrary-101619031644562.html
22-04-2021||India||Three ONGC employees abducted in Assam; ULFA-I role suspected||Three employees of state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) were abducted by suspected insurgents from a rig site inside a tea estate in Assam’s Sivasagar district on Wednesday.“Initial investigation suggests that nearly five armed people came and took away the ONGC employees from the site. The modus operandi makes us suspect that it is the handiwork of insurgents,” said Amitabh Sinha, police superintendent, Sivasagar.Two of the abducted employees are junior engineer assistants (production) the third one is a junior technician (production). They were allegedly abducted in an ONGC ambulance, which was recovered later close to the Assam-Nagaland border.Also Read | Assam announces fresh curbs as Covid-19 cases surge“Our efforts are underway to trace and rescue the abducted employees. We are taking help of various agencies as well as Nagaland police since it is likely that they were taken to the neighbouring state,” said Sinha.Officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) could be responsible for the abduction.“3 ONGC employees, 2 junior engineer assistants (production) and a junior technician (production) have been abducted by unknown armed miscreants in the early hours of April 21. The abduction took place on a rig site of ONGC in Lakwa field of Sivasagar district,” ONGC tweeted.“The abducted employees were taken by the miscreants in an operational vehicle belonging to ONGC. Later the vehicle was found abandoned near Nimonagarh jungles close to the Assam-Nagaland border. A complaint has been lodged by ONGC with the local police.”In December last year, ULFA-I abducted two employees of a private company from a drilling location in Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh. Both of them were released earlier this month after over 100 days in captivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-ongc-employees-abducted-in-assam-ulfa-i-role-suspected-101618985682627.html
22-04-2021||NA||Covid-19 Highlights: Jharkhand reports 5,041 new Covid-19 cases, 62 deaths||India continues to fight against the spread of Covid-19 as several regions continue to report high caseloads. Capital city Delhi, financial hub Mumbai and several other cities have implemented lockdown-like measures in a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked people to remain vigilant in the wake of the second wave and asked state governments to use lockdown as a last resort when it comes to controlling Covid-19 cases. Hospitals in several states of India which are experiencing high caseloads saw shortages of medical oxygen along with ICU beds. India on Wednesday recorded the highest single-day death toll since the onset of the pandemic.Brazil which has struggled to contain the spread of coronavirus will buy another 100 million doses of Pfizer Inc's Covid-19 vaccines. Wartorn Yemen decided to begin a vaccination drive in government controlled areas. Italy approved Johnson & Johnson coronavirus vaccine for people over the age of 60 years.Follow all the updates here:Chhattisgarh reports 14,519 fresh Covid-19 casesChhattisgarh reports 14,519 fresh Covid-19 cases, 15,940 discharges, and 183 deaths in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 1,22,751Death toll: 6,467Jharkhand reports 5,041 new Covid-19 cases, 62 deathsJharkhand reported 5,041 new Covid-19 cases, 62 deaths and 2331 discharges on April 20Total cases: 1,77,356Total recoveries: 1,39,921Active cases: 35,826Death toll: 1,609Delhi reports over 24,000 new Covid-19 cases, 249 deaths in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 24,638 new #COVID19 cases, 24,600 recoveries and 249 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 9,30,179Total recoveries: 8,31,928Death toll: 12,887Active cases: 85,364 pic.twitter.com/smFs09su4zDelhi logs 24,638 new Covid-19 cases and 249 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the capital city's tally to 930,179 cases and 12,887 deaths, reports ANI.Maharashtra government announces complete lockdown, SOPs issuedMaharashtra government imposes complete lockdown in state after surge in Covid-19 cases and SOPs have been issued.Travel by public or private transport allowed only for essential services, medical reasons or vaccination. Maximum attendance at weddings capped at 25 people. Government and private offices allowed to function at 15 per cent attendance. Only those private offices in the essential services or exempted categories.Punjab reports 4,970 new Covid-19 cases, 69 deaths in last 24 hoursPunjab reports 4,970 new #COVID19 cases, 69 deaths and 2,727 recoveries in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 3,14,269Total recoveries: 2,67,289Death toll: 8,114Active cases: 38,866 pic.twitter.com/lyYUhTxzvuWith 4,970 new Covid-19 cases and 69 deaths in the last 24 hours, Punjab's cases tally reached 314,269 and death toll climbed to 8,114, reports ANI.Maharashtra records highest ever 568 Covid-19 fatalities, daily tally further rises to 67,468With 67,468 new Covid-19 cases and 568 deaths, Maharashtra's cases tally 4,027,827 and death toll climbed to 61,911.As many as 272,744 tests were conducted on the day and so far 24,614,480 tests have been conducted.Congress' Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury tests positive for Covid-19I have been tested covid positive, requesting all who came in contact with me for last 7 days must comply with covid protocols, I will be continuing my campaign through virtual platform, I do suggest and request all to take utmost care to keep away covid from your lives.Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury tested positive for Covid-19 and decided to campaign through virtual platform for the remaining phases of West Bengal Assembly election.Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tests positive for Covid-19After waiting two days for a test appointment and another day & a half for the results, I finally have confirmation: I’m #Covid positive. Hoping to deal with it in a “positive” frame of mind, with rest, steam & plenty of fluids. My sister& 85 year old mother are in the same boat.Congress leader and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor tests positive for Covid-19.Kerala CM says states already burdened by Covid-19, asks centre to provide vaccines for freeThe state governments have been asked to buy vaccines. But states are already going through a financial burden because of COVID-19. Instead of pushing states to further economic crisis, the Centre should give vaccines to the states for free: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan pic.twitter.com/DngXWfg9y3Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the states have already been financially burdened because of the Covid-19 pandemic and asked for the Centre to provide free vaccines, reports ANI.Delhi CM thanks centre for increasing oxygen quotaCentral govt has increased Delhi’s quota of oxygen. We r very grateful to centre for this.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal thanked the central government for increasing the city's oxygen quota.Mumbai reports 7,684 new Covid-19 cases, 62 deaths in last 24 hoursMumbai reports 7,684 new #COVID19 cases, 6,790 recoveries and 62 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 6,01,590Total recoveries: 5,03,053Death toll: 12,501Active cases: 84,743 pic.twitter.com/EfWDm1xo5dMumbai reported 7,684 new Covid-19 cases and 62 deaths in last 24 hours. Cases tally reached 601,590 and death toll reached 12,501, reports ANI.Karnataka reports over 23,000 new Covid-19 cases, 116 deathsToday's Media Bulletin 21/04/2021Please click on the link below to view bulletinhttps://t.co/lwS1W2SpM2@mla_sudhakar @DVSadanandGowda @ShobhaBJP @PCMohanMP @Tejasvi_Surya @CTRavi_BJP @kiranshaw @WFRising @citizenkamran @BangaloreBuzz @RCBTweets @NammaKarnataka_ pic.twitter.com/XapOnZxaRQKarnataka reported 23,558 new Covid-19 cases and 116 deaths taking the cases tally to 1,222,202 and death toll to 13,762.Andhra Pradesh logs 9,716 new Covid-19 cases and 38 deaths in last 24 hoursAndhra Pradesh reports 9,716 new #COVID19 cases, 38 deaths and 3,359 recoveries in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 9,86,703Death toll: 7,510Active cases: 60,208 Total recoveries: 9,18,985 pic.twitter.com/vLxWnoPPmOAndhra Pradesh reported 9,716 new Covid-19 cases as the tally reached 986,703. Also, 38 new deaths pushed the death toll to 7,510, reports ANI.Nagpur reports 7,229 new Covid-19 cases, 98 deaths in last 24 hoursMaharashtra: Nagpur district reports 7,229 new #COVID19 cases, 7,266 recoveries and 98 deaths in the last 24 hours Total cases: 3,43,589Total recoveries: 2,65,457Active cases: 71,557Death toll: 6,575With 7,229 new Covid-19 cases and 98 deaths in the last 24 hours, Nagpur's cases tally reached 343,589 and death toll climbed to 6,575, reports ANI.Uttarakhand reports 4,807 new Covid-19 cases, 34 deaths in last 24 hoursUttarakhand reports 4,807 new #COVID19 cases, 894 recoveries and 34 fatalities in the last 24 hours, case tally at 1,34,012 pic.twitter.com/Qo18SanBCSUttarakhand reported 4,807 and 34 fatalities in the last 24 hours as the cases tally reached 134,012, reports ANI.Night curfew between 10pm and 6am imposed in GoaNight curfew imposed in Goa from 10pm (to 6am) tonightCasinos, restaurants and bars, cinema halls allowed to operate at 50 per cent capacity pic.twitter.com/4YfWR5fCPJGoa government imposes night curfew between 10pm and 6am with casinos, restaurants and bars, cinema halls allowed to operate at 50 per cent capacity, reports ANI. Not more than 4 per 10,000 people get re-infected with Covid-19 after taking vaccine dose#IndiaFightsCorona:📍Post Vaccination break through infection (As on 20th April, 2021).- DG, @ICMRDELHI #We4Vaccine #LargestVaccinationDrive #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/xMNpyfxyBbThe Union health ministry said that the breakthrough infection rate after vaccination for Covid-19 in India remained low for both the vaccines - Covishield and Covaxin - approved in India. Tripura government imposes 10pm to 5am night curfew in Agartala municipal corporation areaTripura govt imposes night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am in #Agartala Municipal Corporation area from tomorrow for indefinite period: notification. #COVID19Tripura government imposes 10pm to 5am night curfew in Agartala municipal corporation starting April 22 for an indefinite period, reports PTI. Chhattisgarh government to bear cost of Covid-19 vaccination in state, asks centre to ensure supplies#COVID19 | Expenses, to vaccinate all aged above 18 years in Chhattisgarh, will be borne by state govt. We will take all possible steps to protect our citizens' lives. Request central govt to ensure availability of adequate number of vaccines: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel pic.twitter.com/ByhXVDaPwSChhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has said that his government would bear the cost of the Covid-19 vaccination for people in the state and asked the centre to ensure availability of supplies, reports ANI. Tope asks doctors to use Remdesivir wiselyAs per today's demand, we have sufficient Remdesivir, only challenge is that of distribution. So I appeal to doctors to use Oxygen & Remdesivir properly. Maharashtra is currently producing 1250 tons of liquid oxygen, it'll be used for 100% medical use only: Maharashtra Health Min pic.twitter.com/FsriZtt1oWMaharashtra health minister Tope while assuring that the state has enough stock of Remdesivir advised doctors to use the drug wisely. Haryana minister says Delhi govt looting its oxygen quotaWe are being forced to give our oxygen to Delhi. First, we’ll complete our needs, then give to others. Yesterday, one of our O2 tankers was looted by Delhi Govt that was going to Faridabad. From now, I've ordered police protection for all tankers: Haryana Health Min Anil Vij pic.twitter.com/mJ7GPmGTqmHaryana health minister Anil Vij said that Haryana will fulfil its own needs and then look towards addressing Delhi's needs. He alleges Delhi government is looting oxygen allotted for the state. Aurangabad sees 1,337 new cases and 37 deathsMaharashtra's Auranagabad district reported 1,337 fresh Covid-19 cases pushing the state's tally to 111,830. The death toll in the district is 2,217. Covishield to cost ₹400 at govt hospitalsSII said that Covishield will cost ₹400 per dose in govt hospitals and ₹600 per dose in private hospitals. The Pune-based pharmaceutical company in a release Japanese PM calls off India visitPrime Minister Yoshihide Suga has called off a planned visit to India and the Philippines, government sources said Wednesday, apparently due to a resurgence of coronavirus infections in Japan: Japanese media (File photo) pic.twitter.com/O2heIyPLMUYoshihide Suga called off his visit due to Covid-19 resurgence in Japan, people familiar with the development told news agency ANI. Hero Motocorps halts production temporarilyHero MotoCorp has halted production at all its plants temporarily due to surge in Covid-19 cases. Singapore to check entry of IndiansSingapore as a precautionary measure against Covid-19 mutant variants will grant fewer entry approvals from India. Read more here. Former Indian captain MS Dhoni's parents test positive for Covid-19Parents of cricketer MS Dhoni have been admitted here at the hospital after testing positive for #COVID19. Their oxygen level is stable: Pulse Superspeciality Hospital, Ranchi, JharkhandFormer Indian skipper MS Dhoni's parents tested positive for Covid-19. Oxygen cylinders stolen in Madhya PradeshMP: Oxygen cylinders looted by some people at Damoh District Hospital last night. District Collector says, "We've been told that as soon as Oxygen truck came, people looted cylinders even when the hospital has adequate Oxygen supply. We're identifying these people & filing cases" pic.twitter.com/K0D2wh6UwCMiscreants in Madhya Pradesh's Damoh stole oxygen cylinders from a truck, news agency ANI reported. India records 2,023 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 295,041 fresh cases in the last 24 hours and reported a record-high death toll of 2023 fresh fatalities. Priyanka Gandhi targets UP govt over rise in cases, testsWhy did they not ramp up? Why the antigen tests? To lower their numbers? Even today reports are coming that private labs are being told to stop the testing. Why? What is important - people's lives or your numbers and the image of your govt?: Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra pic.twitter.com/OJsxcjA2qfPriyanka Gandhi in an interview to ANI targeted the government in Uttar Pradesh and said that the government should not have depended on antigen tests. She said the govt in UP failed to give importance to people's lives. Read more here. Apex court adjourns regular hearing matters on ThursdayRegular Courts and Registrars Courts shall not sit from 22nd April onwards till further orders and a separate circular is being issued with respect to the sitting of courts: Supreme Court of IndiaThe Supreme Court on Wednesday said that due to Covid-19 lists of miscellaneous matters and regular hearing matters will be adjourned. Delhi Police ensure strict enforcement of Covid lockdownDelhi: Police personnel check vehicles and IDs of people who are commuting amid the 6-day lockdown imposed in the national capital in the wake of the #COVID19 pandemic. Visuals from Connaught Place. The lockdown will continue till 5 am of 26th April. pic.twitter.com/AxqRWUExkPDelhi Police officials were seen strictly enforcing curfew restrictions as they checked cars and people's IDs. Valley officials gear up to battle Covid-19 second waveOfficials in Jammu and Kashmir expressed concern as the Union Territory recorded a rapid rise in Covid-19 cases in the second wave. Financial commissioner of health and medical education of Jammu and Kashmir Atal Duloo said that the administration has set up three Cobas Machines to speed up the testing process. Pune's medical services report increase in Covid-19 related callsAmid a surge in COVID cases, call flow increases at Maharashtra Emergency Medical Services in PuneWe take 9,000-10,000 calls per day, including COVID emergencies & others. Panic has increased now. Call flow revolves more around COVID: Control Room Manager (20.04)#Maharashtra pic.twitter.com/nDuMvODhPoA control room manager from Maharashtra Emergency Medical Services says that they receive 9,000-10,000 calls per day but the number of Covid-19 related calls have increased lately. Pune remains one of the worst-affected districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-live-italy-approves-j-j-vaccine-for-people-over-age-of-60-years-101618966980688.html
