23-04-2021||India||French energy major makes final offer to India to build 6 nuclear reactors in Maharashtra||French energy major EDF on Friday said it has made a final offer to the Nuclear Power Corporation of India (NPCIL) on building six nuclear reactors at Jaitapur in Maharashtra, setting the stage for discussions on a framework agreement. Describing the development as a “major step forward” for the Jaitapur civil nuclear project, French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain said: “The French energy company EDF has submitted [its] final offer to build six EPR reactors in Maharashtra. This would be the largest power plant in the world and it would provide safe, reliable sustainable energy to up to seven crore households.” The binding techno-commercial offer to supply engineering studies and equipment for building six European pressurised water reactors (EPR) was made by EDF on Thursday, and it will “enable discussions aimed at converging towards a binding framework agreement in the coming months”, the French embassy said in a statement. The final offer is a follow-up to the Industrial Way Forward Agreement signed by the two sides in March 2018 in New Delhi and to non-binding proposal submitted by EDF at the end of 2018. EDF’s final offer includes the detailed technical configuration of the reactors, taking into account information provided by NPCIL on the Jaitapur site conditions and the joint work done by the two organisations, and the associated commercial terms and conditions for supplying engineering studies and equipment for six reactors, the statement said. The French firm will guarantee the performance of each of the reactors under specific conditions and for a predefined period of time, and also offer training for NPCIL’s operating teams. NPCIL will be responsible for construction and commissioning of the reactors and for obtaining all necessary permits and consents in India, including the certification of the EPR technology by the Indian safety regulator. Lenain said in keeping with the “Make in India” initiative, more than 200 Indian companies have been identified to work on the nuclear power project. EDF will also launch a pre-feasibility study along with the International Institute of Nuclear Energy (I2EN) and Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI) for establishing a centre of excellence in India to train engineers and technicians and to support the development of the necessary set of skills for the project. The project is expected to create around 2,700 permanent jobs and generate economic benefits for the French nuclear industry over its entire duration of about 15 years. The Jaitapur project, with an installed capacity of 9.6 GWe, will be the most powerful energy plant in the world and generate up to 75 TWh a year. This will cover the annual consumption of 70 million households while avoiding the emission of 80 million tons of CO2 a year. “This key milestone has been achieved thanks to the trust-based relationship built over time with our Indian partner, and the excellent collaboration and continuous efforts of the EDF and NPCIL teams,” said EDF Group’s chief executive Jean Bernard Levy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-energy-major-makes-final-offer-to-india-to-build-6-nuclear-reactors-in-maharashtra-101619201097187.html
23-04-2021||India||Oxygen Express with 7 tankers reaches Maharashtra, brings relief amid Covid rise||The first Oxygen Express carrying seven tankers filled with liquid medical oxygen from Visakhapatnam reached Maharashtra on Friday.The train arrived at Nagpur at 8.10 pm, bringing some relief to the state which is reeling under a surge in coronavirus cases and shortages of medical oxygen.Three of the seven tankers will be unloaded at Nagpur station and remaining will be unloaded at Nasik Road station."Oxygen Express is expected to reach Nasik Road station in the morning tomorrow," Shivaji Sutar, chief central railway spokesperson said.The train departed from Visakhapatnam on Thursday night.The flat-wagon goods train had left for Visakhapatnam from Kalamboli near Mumbai on April 19, around 8 pm.After more than 50 hours' journey, it reached the destination, passing through Vapi, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhusawal, Akole, Nagpur, Gondia, Raipur and Titagarh.Last Sunday, the Railways had announced it will run "Oxygen Express" trains over the next few days to transport liquid medical oxygen and oxygen cylinders across the country.Empty tankers will be loaded with medical oxygen from Visakhapatnam, Jamshedpur, Rourkela and Bokaro, it had said.Amid spiralling coronavirus cases in the country, the demand for medical oxygen has gone through the roof.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-express-reaches-maharashtra-101619197963602.html
23-04-2021||India||Amit Shah reviews oxygen supply; asks states to create corridors for oxygen vehicles||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Friday asked all states and union territories to provide adequate security to oxygen transporting vehicles and to make provisions for exclusive corridors for such transportation, treating these vehicles like ambulances. A review meeting was taken by home minister Amit Shah during which he directed an expert group to optimize and rationalize the allocation of oxygen to various states and UTs, keeping in view the active cases and to reduce time for movement of medical oxygen. The ministry had, on Thursday, passed an order under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 directing states to make sure there is no hindrance in the supply of oxygen transporting vehicles. Within hours, the Delhi high court directed to ensure adequate security to the lorries transporting oxygen and its non-obstruction on the way as well as creation of a special corridor for immediate transportation. In his letter to states/UTs on Friday, Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla pointed out that the Delhi High Court “has further directed that non-compliance of its order will invite action for contempt of court and also invite criminal and penal action under DM Act and under the Indian Penal Code (IPC)”. “In view of the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases and resultant increasing demand of medical oxygen across the country, Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah has reviewed the situation and directed various measures to augment the supply of oxygen for medical purposes. Accordingly, an Expert Group is optimizing and rationalising the allocation of oxygen to various States and UTs, keeping in view the active cases and to reduce time for movement of medical oxygen,” said a statement by MHA. MHA has further written to states/UTs, to direct District Collectors/ Deputy Commissioners to list all the plants situated in their district, in which different types of oxygen is generated, along with the installed capacity, the statement added. “They should also take action to revive those plants, which are lying closed. These efforts will ensure ready availability of oxygen at the district level, besides supply of medical oxygen from usual channels,” the ministry said. The Indian Air Force has already started transporting empty tankers after delivery of oxygen to destination state/UT to oxygen producing locations to reduce movement time. The MHA is coordinating lifting of high capacity tankers from abroad, such as Singapore and UAE by Indian Air Force (IAF) transport planes. Further, Ministry of Railways is running special trains carrying oxygen tankers across the country for faster movement. MHA and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare are in regular touch with the states and UTs for promoting optimal use of medical oxygen and undertake periodic audits to ensure there is no wastage of medical oxygen and essential medicines, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-reviews-oxygen-supply-asks-states-to-create-corridors-for-oxygen-vehicles-101619197557073.html
23-04-2021||India||Cadila Healthcare starts producing Covid-19 vaccine candidate||India's Cadila Healthcare has started producing its potential Covid-19 vaccine for which it will seek emergency use authorisation in May or June, its managing director told Reuters, with an aim to make up to 240 million doses a year.Government officials have said they are eagerly waiting for Cadila to seek approval for ZyCoV-D soon, as a record rise in coronavirus infections have led to a public health disaster in the world's most populous country after China.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here "We have just started producing doses," Sharvil Patel said in a Microsoft Teams interview on Friday. "But it is not meaningfully large."He said the aim was to produce 10 million doses a month starting June, taking the in-house annual capacity to 120 million. The rest of the production, as required, will mainly come from third-party producers."We are already talking with two other manufacturers. We will slowly add more manufacturers," Patel said.Its DNA plasmid product - which involves the injection of a small part of the virus's genetic code (DNA or RNA) to stimulate immune response in the recipient - is currently meant to be given in three doses but the company is also doing trials on a two-dose regimen, he said.ZyCoV-D's success is crucial for India, the country with the world's biggest vaccine making capacity.It exported more than 66 million vaccines before supplies ran tight for its own people as demand surged. The immunisation drive will expand from May 1 though domestic vaccine output will not increase for more than a month.India is currently using the AstraZeneca shot and homegrown Covaxin. It has also approved Russia's Sputnik V and has urged Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson to provide it with vaccines. All those shots will be imported, at least initially.Patel said unlike some other drugmakers hit by US curbs on exports of vaccine raw material, Cadila was sourcing its ingredients domestically."We did anticipate those challenges," he said. "Everything for us is done in India. Our supply chain is secure. We don’t have any issues for the next 14-15 months."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cadila-healthcare-starts-producing-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-101619194931148.html
23-04-2021||India||Amit Shah tells states to treat vehicles carrying oxygen like ambulances||Union home minister Amit Shah reviewed the state of oxygen availability on Friday as many states have been reporting its shortage amid rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In a letter to all states and Union territories, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) told them to make provisions for exclusive corridors for transportation of oxygen tankers. “MHA has written to all States and UTs...to provide adequate security to oxygen transporting vehicles and to make provisions for exclusive corridors for such transportation, treating these vehicles like ambulances,” the home ministry said in a statement.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereThe move comes at a time when several states and UTs across the country, especially Delhi, are reporting an acute scarcity of oxygen for Covid-19 patients. Social media is flooded with posts seeking help for patients whose oxygen levels are dropping and they are unable to find beds with oxygen in hospitals.The home ministry also said that following the April 18 order diverting oxygen for industrial use for Covid-19 patients, the supply of medical oxygen has gone up. “Steps are being taken to further reduce consumption of industrial oxygen by industries, which will augment the supply of oxygen for medical purpose,” it added.Amit Shah’s ministry also told states to direct district collectors, deputy Commissioners to list all the plants situated in their district, in which different types of oxygen are generated, along with the installed capacity. The states were also asked to take action to revive the oxygen plants that are lying closed. “These efforts will ensure ready availability of oxygen at the district level, besides supply of medical oxygen from usual channels,” the ministry said.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a virtual meeting with chief ministers of 11 worst-affected states and told them to ensure there are no barriers in the transportation of oxygen tankers. “He urged the states to check hoarding and black marketing of oxygen and medicines. The PM said that every state should ensure that no oxygen tanker, whether it is meant for any state, is stopped or gets stranded,” his office said in a statement.The Prime Minister also urged all states to work collectively in the battle against the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and assured that if the nation battles as a collective power, there won’t be any scarcity of resources.Meanwhile, the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) is importing 23 mobile oxygen generation plants from Germany, which will arrive within a week, to address the oxygen crisis, people familiar with the development told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-tells-states-to-treat-vehicles-carrying-oxygen-like-ambulances-101619193579167.html
23-04-2021||India||India to airlift critical search system to locate missing Indonesian submarine||India is set to fly critical search equipment to Indonesia on Saturday to locate a submarine that went missing on April 21 with a crew of 53 personnel, people familiar with the development said. The submarine Nanggala went missing in the waters north of Bali on Wednesday.“Intervention system of the second deep submergence rescue vessel (DSRV) will be airlifted to Indonesia by the Indian Air Force on Saturday. This system can be used to locate the submarine,” said one of the officials cited above. The Indian Navy on Thursday dispatched a DSRV by sea to help the Indonesian Navy with its search and rescue efforts. The Indian DSRV, being ferried by offshore supply vessel Sabarmati, could take almost a week to reach the location which is 2,500 nautical miles away. The Indonesian Navy said on Thursday that the missing German-built submarine has enough oxygen for 72 hours during a power blackout. Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday asked the IAF to examine the feasibility of induction of the DSRV intervention system by air. The Indian Navy’s DSRV system can locate a submarine up to 1,000 metres underwater. The Indian Navy inducted its first DSRV in 2018 and the second one the following year. The vessels were delivered under a £193-million contract awarded to JFD, a leading underwater capability provider, in March 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-airlift-critical-search-system-to-locate-missing-indonesian-submarine-101619193957705.html
23-04-2021||India||Maharashtra govt orders fire, oxygen audits for all hospitals||The Maharashtra government on Friday directed the district administrations to conduct oxygen and fire audits at all hospitals in the state.These directives from Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte come in the backdrop of the oxygen leak incident at a state- run hospital in Nashik, in which 22 Covid-19 patients lost their lives and the fire at a hospital in Virar, where 13 patients were killed.Speaking at a virtual meet, the chief secretary said oxygen tankers have been given the status of ambulances and transportation of the life-saving gas has to be under police security.The virtual meeting was attended by district collectors, divisional commissioners, police commissioners, superintendents of police and senior bureaucrats.Kunte said all hospitals should undertake preventive measures to ensure that incidents of fire do not reoccur.Apart from fire audits, oxygen audits should also be conducted, he said."Under the oxygen audit, they should examine if patients are given oxygen in a scientific manner and if the task force's recommendations to prevent wastage are being followed," the official said, adding that measures should be taken to check leakage of oxygen.Each district should have an oxygen concentrator to reduce dependence on cylinders and liquid oxygen, the chief secretary said.Oxygen plants on PSA technology should be set up, he said.Of the oxygen tankers arriving from Vishakhapatnam, four tankers will be sent to Nagpur and Nashik, Kunte added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-orders-fire-oxygen-audits-for-all-hospitals-101619193163971.html
23-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Govt sets up control room to monitor trade, essentials delivery amid curbs and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt sets up control room to monitor trade, essentials delivery amid Covid curbsThe Centre has set up a control room to monitor issues related to internal trade, manufacturing and the delivery of essential commodities to citizens amid curbs put in place by state governments to tackle the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Union ministry of commerce and industry said on Friday. Read moreUttarakhand to give free Covid-19 jabs to all above 18, will bear cost of ₹400 croreThe Uttarakhand government has decided to provide free Covid-19 vaccines to all residents above 18 years of age. Read more'Utilise full potential': PM Modi in meeting to review supply of medical oxygenPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday oxygen manufacturers need to utilise their full potential to meet the demand of medical oxygen in the coming days, saying there is a need to increase the availability of cylinders as well as to upgrade the logistical facilities for its transportation. Read more'Starts like a million-dollar baby but goes down rapidly': Gautam Gambhir slams RR captain Sanju Samson's inconsistencySanju Samson’s dry run in IPL 2021 after his majestic hundred in Rajasthan Royals’ opening game against Punjab Kings, has frustrated even his great admirer Gautam Gambhir. Read moreXiaomi launches its flagship 75-inch QLED TV for ₹1,19,999: Specs and availabilityAlongside the Mi 11 Ultra, the Mi 11X and the Mi 11X Pro, Xiaomi also announced the 75-inch Mi QLED TV today that comes with the Quantum Dot Technology. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor stuns on magazine cover dressed in bridal attire, has a message for fansActor Janhvi Kapoor has shared her pictures dressed in a bridal attire posing for a magazine. Taking to Instagram, she posted a series of photos. She also had a message for her fans. Read moreWatch | 'Won’t Return': How migrants are leaving Mumbai again fearing full lockdown||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-govt-sets-up-control-room-to-monitor-trade-essentials-delivery-amid-covid-curbs-and-all-the-latest-news-101619190962611.html
23-04-2021||India||Centre installs DRDO-Tata Sons oxygen generation plants at state-run hospitals||The Centre has decided to immediately install DRDO-Tata Sons oxygen generation plants at various state-run hospitals like AIIMS, NIC Jhajjar, Safdarjung, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital among others, which shall have a capacity to generate 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute.The decision was taken at a high level meeting chaired by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan as he reviewed the status of oxygen availability at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here and various other central government hospitals, and the steps being taken for timely augmenting the supply.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here He also reviewed the preparedness of the central government hospitals in the national capital--Safdarjung Hospital, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital, Lady Hardinge Medical College (LHMC) and AIIMS--for clinical management of severe COVID-19 patients, a health ministry statement said.The minister directed the officials concerned to expedite installation of five Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plants at all locations in Delhi hospitals, it said.He also directed the state-run hospitals to be prepared with expansion plans for providing timely treatment to coronavirus patients in the days to come."A decision was taken to install DRDO-Tata Sons oxygen generation plants at AIIMS, NIC Jhajjar, Safdarjung, LHMC and Dr RML Hospital immediately. These plants shall have a capacity to generate 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute," the statement stated.Vardhan noted that the country is passing through the second Covid-19 wave. Most of the states and Union territories (UTs) are reporting a very high number of daily cases and the daily mortality has also increased, he said.The Union government has been leading the fight against Covid-19 through a 'whole of government' and 'whole of society' approach. The hospital infrastructure has been substantially ramped up through various proactive decisions taken by the government in collaboration with the states/UTs.In view of the unprecedented surge in the number of daily cases, the requirement of oxygen-supported and ICU beds in addition to adequate oxygen supply along with medicines and trained manpower has increased manifold, the statement quoted Vardhan as saying.The health minister also reviewed in detail beds availability, including oxygen supported and ICU-ventilator beds.Meanwhile, the central government hospitals talked about the immediate steps taken for augmenting the beds availability to cater to the immediate needs of Covid-19 patients."The Union minister directed all the hospitals to urgently start work on the augmentation plans through fabricated hospitals, repurposing non-COVID beds (such that the healthcare services are not unduly and adversely impacted), conversion of buildings/blocks and wards in the existing premises into dedicated COVID facilities," the statement said.It was also informed that Safdarjung Hospital was augmenting the bed availability with 172 more COVID beds (total being 391). With this, the Super Specialty Block at the hospital will be fully converted to a specialty block for only coronavirus patients. Also, 46 beds (including 32 ICU beds) are being added with the help of the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR).Dr RML Hospital stated that it is converting non-Covid buildings for dedicated Covid treatment facilities. This step shall provide 200 additional beds for the Covid affected.In LHMC, 240 more beds are being created by CSIR which shall become operationalised soon, the statement said.Shekhar Mande, secretary, DSIR & Director General, CSIR assured that all support is being provided to strengthen and expedite the ongoing efforts, it said.AIIMS director Randeep Guleria outlined the expansion plans for adding more beds in other wards/blocks such as the Burns and Plastic Surgery Centre, NCI Jhajjar, Dr R P Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences and the geriatric wards. The total capacity shall be enhanced to more than 1,000 beds for only Covid-19 patients, according to the statement.Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan underlined the measures taken by the government to resolve and streamline logistic issues related to transport of oxygen supply from manufacturing sources to hospitals.He also talked about the 24X7 Control Room of the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) that is working to resolve all transportation-related issues of Delhi for smooth supply of oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-installs-drdo-tata-sons-oxygen-generation-plants-at-state-run-hospitals-101619190147838.html
23-04-2021||India||Govt sets up control room to monitor trade, essentials delivery amid Covid curbs||The Centre has set up a control room to monitor issues related to internal trade, manufacturing and the delivery of essential commodities to citizens amid curbs put in place by state governments to tackle the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Union ministry of commerce and industry said on Friday. “Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade(DPIIT), Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India has decided to monitor the status of transportation and delivery of goods, manufacturing, delivery of essential commodities to common man and the difficulties being faced by various stakeholders due to current restrictions imposed by various States/UTs,” the commerce ministry said in a statement.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The move comes against the backdrop of full or partial lockdown-like restrictions and other curbs announced by states to arrest the pace at which Covid-19 cases are increasing and the health infrastructure is gradually collapsing.Delhi is witnessing a six-day lockdown that ends on April 26 morning. Covid-19 cases in the city have reached 956,348 with 26,169 infections recorded in a single day, according to data released by the government on Thursday. Soon after the lockdown announcement, scores of migrants were seen rushing to railway stations and bus stops to return to their home states fearing an extension of the curbs.In Maharashtra, lockdown-like restrictions, almost one on the lines of the one in place last year, was imposed from Thursday. The western state has been breaking records in the daily surge of Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra reported 67,013 cases on Thursday taking the state’s tally past 4,094,800.In case any manufacturing, transportation, distribution, wholesale, or e-commerce companies face any difficulties in transportation and distribution of goods, they can contact the control room over the phone ((011) 23062383, 23062975) or email (dpiit-controlroom@gov.in). The phone numbers will remain operational from 8am till 10pm, the commerce ministry said.Reeling under the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, India is currently reporting more than 300,000 cases daily. For the past two days, the country has recorded the highest single-day increase in Covid-19 cases in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-sets-up-control-room-to-monitor-trade-essentials-delivery-amid-covid-curbs-101619188867095.html
23-04-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh announces night curfew from 10pm to 5am from Saturday to curb Covid-19 spread||Night curfew will be clamped across Andhra Pradesh from Saturday in a bid to curb the virulent spread of coronavirus as the state crossed the one million mark in total cases. "The night curfew will be in force daily from 10 pm to 5 am. Only essential and emergency services, like medical and health, milk supply, will be allowed," deputy chief Minister (health) A K K Srinivas (Nani) told reporters after a high- level Covid review meeting, chaired by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy. "We had an extensive discussion with the Chief Minister on the steps to check the spread of coronavirus as the cases are peaking again. Night curfew was one option, along with intensive vaccination," Nani said. The deputy CM said the government has also decided to provide Covid vaccine free of cost to all above the age of 18 years. There are an estimated 2.04 crore people in the 18-45 age group in the state. Sources said the vaccine drive for this group alone could cost the state at least ₹818 crore to ₹900 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-announces-night-curfew-from-10pm-to-5am-from-saturday-to-curb-covid-19-spread-101619188175655.html
23-04-2021||India||UK variant could be behind current Covid-19 surge in Delhi, says NCDC chief||The current wave of the coronavirus pandemic in Delhi could have been fuelled by the UK variant as its prevalence in genomes sequenced nearly doubled from the second to the last week of March, Sujeet Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control, said on Friday.Speaking at a webinar, 'Genome Sequencing of SARS-CoV-19', Singh said the UK variant of coronavirus is also dominant in Punjab.In Delhi, there are primarily two types of variants -- B.1.617 and the UK strain -- found in the genome sequenced samples, the NCDC director said.The B.1.617 variant of coronavirus is also known as the double mutant strain.The UK variant was found in 28 per cent of samples in the second week of March. In the last week of the month, 50 per cent of samples had this variant, Singh said."If we try to co-relate, the surge we are observing in Delhi, it directly co-relates to the type of variant which we are observing," he said.So far, Singh said, 15,133 samples have been sequenced by INSACOG, a consortium formed in December last year to increase viral genomic surveillance in order to understand the spread of the coronavirus in a rapid and robust manner.This was also after the UK, South African and Brazilian strains, which have a higher rate of transmission, emerged.Singh said in Maharashtra, the B.1.617 variant was found in proportions of over 50 per cent in many cities.The NCDC is one of the 10 laboratories involved in the genome sequencing of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-variant-could-be-behind-current-covid-19-surge-in-delhi-says-ncdc-chief-101619185835920.html
23-04-2021||India||Uttarakhand to give free Covid jabs to all above 18||The Uttarakhand government has decided to provide free Covid-19 vaccines to all residents above 18 years of age. The state government will bear the full cost of the vaccination drive estimated to be around ₹400 crore, said chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Friday in Dehradun. Rawat shared the information during a virtual press meet which he addressed from his residence in the capital. Citing the Centre’s decision to open the vaccination for every citizen above 18 years of age from May 1, Rawat said, “After the Centre’s move, we have decided to provide it free of cost to about 50 lakh of our residents falling in the age group of 18-45 from the first week of May.” “The total cost behind the vaccination drive would be about ₹400 crore which is a significant amount but would be borne solely by the Uttarakhand government,” Rawat said. He said, “The decision also includes vaccination for the above mentioned category in private hospitals also.” “We have already held a meeting with private hospitals on Thursday in which we have assured them of every possible help regarding ventilators and oxygen supply. In vaccination also, we will provide all possible help,” he said adding, “Right now our foremost priority is to fight this pandemic in our state with all possible resources available with us.” Earlier on Friday, the state government also held a meeting to ensure “unhindered” power supply to all oxygen manufacturing plants in the state during which it directed the authorities concerned to ensure proper power line maintenance for the oxygen power plants. It also directed the power department to immediately attend to any breakdown in the power lines leading to the oxygen plants along with ensuring required equipment for line maintenance. The state government in order to increase testing also shared the contact numbers of private Covid-19 testing laboratories in Dehradun who could collect samples from home. Private pathology laboratory Dr Lal Path Lab will be collecting samples from homes for RT-PCR testing with their laboratories in Connaught Place- 9627888836, Turner Road- 9760082031, Shimla Bypass- 7037853696, Nehru Colony- 9997266222, DAV College-639871485, Ballupur Chowk- 8630984970 and Doiwala-7895041062 Amid the spike in Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand on Friday reported 4,339 new cases taking the total active cases in the state to 29,949. On the same day, 49 new deaths were also reported which is the highest in the state since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. The total Covid-19 cases in the state are 1,42,349 of which 1,07,450 have been treated. The total death toll in the state stands at 2021. Uttarakhand on Monday also vaccinated 62,872 people with total 14.91 lakh people given the first dose while 3.22 lakh having received both the doses. Currently, there are three oxygen manufacturing plants operational in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-give-free-covid-19-jabs-to-all-above-18-will-bear-cost-of-rs-400-crore-101619185016632.html
23-04-2021||India||'Utilise full potential': PM Modi in meeting to review supply of medical oxygen||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday oxygen manufacturers need to utilise their full potential to meet the demand of medical oxygen in the coming days, saying there is a need to increase the availability of cylinders as well as to upgrade the logistical facilities for its transportation. PM Modi made the remarks during his virtual meeting with the country's leading oxygen manufacturers to address the crisis unfolding in hospitals across India due to the shortage of gas for Covid-19 patients. The meeting comes amid concerns flagged by some states on supply of the life-saving gas running short with a number of hospitals, including premier ones, sending out an SOS.“PM Modi said this time is not only to deal with the challenges, but also to provide solutions in a very short time. PM Modi stressed on the need to maintain good co-ordination between the government and the oxygen producers,” a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said.The statement said that PM Modi praised the manufactures for increasing their production in the last few weeks and acknowledged the several steps taken to increase the production of liquid oxygen. PM Modi also thanked the industry for diverting industrial oxygen to meet medical requirements in the country."PM Modi noted that there is a need to increase the availability of oxygen cylinders as well as upgrade the logistics facilities for transportation of oxygen. He urged the industry to utilize tankers meant to transport other gases for oxygen supply," the PMO statement said.The government is working on effective use of the Indian Railways and Indian Air Force (IAF) to ensure timely availability of tankers at the production centre as soon as possible to meet the requirements of oxygen by Indian states, the statement added. "PM Modi remarked that the government, the states, the industry and the transporters, and all the hospitals need to come together and work in unison. The better the synergy and coordination, the easier it will be able to deal with this challenge," the statement read.The meeting was attended by Reliance Industries Limited chairperson Mukesh Ambani, managing director of Air Water Jamshedpur Noriyo Shibuya, Naveen Jindal of Jindal Steel and Power, Rajesh Kumar Sharaf (NOL), M Banerjee of LINDE, Sajjan Jindal of JSW, SAIL' chairperson Soma Mondal, Dilip Oommen of AMNS and Siddharth Jain of INOX.Amid a severe shortage of oxygen across the country amid rising Covid-19 cases, steelmaker Jindal Steel & Power Ltd (JSPL) on Thursday announced that more than 500 tonnes of liquid oxygen is available at its Angul plant in Odisha. "We have more than 500 tons of liquid oxygen readily available at our Angul plant. Apart from this, we can provide 100 tonnes/day to any government that needs it. We will continue to support the nation in all possible ways in this war against the pandemic. Jai Hind," JSPL chairperson Naveen Jindal said in a tweet on Thursday.Hospitals in Delhi have been sending out SOS messages about the escalating "oxygen emergency". Twenty-five of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital’s "sickest" Covid-19 patients died in 24 hours and the lives of 60 more hung in precarious balance, officials said on Friday morning as the scramble for oxygen got increasingly more frantic in hospitals across the national capital.India on Friday recorded more than 314,000 lakh new coronavirus cases, the highest-ever single-day count in any country, as many hospitals grappled with limited oxygen supply, prompting the Centre to issue strict directives to states and Union territories to ensure uninterrupted production and supply of medical oxygen and its transport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/utilise-full-potential-pm-modi-in-meeting-to-review-supply-of-medical-oxygen-101619182439877.html
23-04-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee says would’ve taken part in PM Modi’s Covid-19 meet ‘had I been invited’||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday said she would have participated in the meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the chief ministers of states with the highest burden of Covid-19 cases, had she been invited.Addressing a press conference here, Banerjee said she heard that Friday's meeting on the Covid situation was meant for the worst-hit states, and hence she was not told about it.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Chairing a meeting on the Covid-19 situation with chief ministers of 11 states and Union Territories with the maximum Covid-19 cases, Modi called for working together to fight the pandemic with collective power.The Trinamool Congress supremo alleged that the Centre's "inept handling has led to the present situation"."On March 7, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said COVID is on its way out. It means that the central government had no inkling about the impending crisis. It did not act on the recommendations of the World Health Organization to ramp up the stock of oxygen," she asserted.Alleging that Gujarat got 60 per cent of free vaccines, while other states received a little, she said, "We have nothing to say against one of the worst-hit states, but there should be a uniform policy."She said the Centre could have arranged for free vaccination for every citizen of the country by spending around ₹20,000 crore but it did not."When you (BJP leaders) have spent lakhs of rupees to book hotels, guest houses, charter flights and choppers and offered cash to voters to capture Bengal and hatch a conspiracy to win the elections here, could you not spend ₹20,000 crore for the health of every Indian?" she asked.Banerjee said the state will now procure additional 5,000 oxygen cylinders for hospital use.The CM said the Centre has adopted a "step-motherly attitude" towards West Bengal in allocating oxygen cylinders.Banerjee alleged that the BJP was disrupting the polling by involving central forces."Seven of my polling agents were kidnapped yesterday at Jagaddal to disrupt free and fair voting. Nothing was done. Security forces were influenced to open fire in another area," she claimed.Asserting that her party was ready to extend all cooperation to the Election Commission, Banerjee said, "I have cancelled today's public meetings after the EC issued fresh directives on Thursday."Noting that the Covid safety norms were being flouted in West Bengal during campaigning, the Election Commission banned roadshows and vehicle rallies in the state with immediate effect and said no public meeting having more than 500 people would be allowed."The EC always issues orders late in the evening, perhaps keeping in mind the itinerary of the PM. But, we are quick to abide by the norms as we work for the interest of people," she claimed.Six rounds of the eight-phased assembly elections in West Bengal have already taken place, and the remaining two will be held on April 26 and 29.The CM reaffirmed that the Election Commission should have conducted the assembly polls in five phases by clubbing the last three phases into one and said that "the poll panel acted at the behest of the BJP."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-says-would-ve-taken-part-in-pm-modi-s-covid-19-meet-had-i-been-invited-101619182604092.html
23-04-2021||India||IAF puts more aircraft on standby for Covid-19 relief||Pitching in to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian Air Force has deployed five types of aircraft to ferry essential items to different parts of the country. The IAF has carried out several sorties to airlift oxygen containers, cylinders, essential medicines and equipment required for setting up and sustaining Covid hospitals and facilities to deal with the surge in infections, the defence ministry said on Friday.Aircraft have also been kept on standby to cater to additional workload.“The IAF transport aircraft and helicopters have been pressed into service for carrying out these tasks. These include C-17, C-130J, IL-76, An-32 and Avro. Chinook and Mi-17 helicopters are on standby,” the ministry said in a statement, adding that tasks undertaken so far include airlift of doctors and nursing staff from Kochi, Mumbai, Vizag and Bangalore to Delhi. Transport planes and choppers are on standby for being deployed at short notice, it said.The IAF on Thursday airlifted three oxygen containers from Hindon to Panagarh in West Bengal where these will be filled up and supplied to different centres for Covid-19 relief. It also moved oxygen containers from Begumpet to Bhubaneswar on Friday. Once filled, the containers will be carried to Covid Centres by rail or road.“The C-17 and IL-76 aircraft of IAF have started airlifting big empty oxygen tankers from their place of use to the filling stations across the country to speed up the distribution of much needed oxygen. In addition to this, the aircraft have transported large quantity of load comprising bio-safety cabinets and autoclave machines for setting up of an additional Covid facility at Leh,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-puts-more-aircraft-on-standby-for-covid-19-relief-101619182916489.html
23-04-2021||India||CJIs should have longer tenure, says attorney general KK Venugopal||Bidding farewell to the outgoing Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, attorney general KK Venugopal said on Friday said CJIs should have a minimum tenure of three years so that long-standing reforms can be made, reported Live Law. "It is a sad occasion. I feel the tenure of Chief Justice of India should be of a minimum three years so as to ensure that long-standing reforms can be made,” Venugopal said.Vikas Singh, the president of the Supreme Court Bar Association, expressed concern over the retiring age of 65 and said a constitutional amendment should be brought to increase the retirement age of judges. Singh said 65 is no age to retire, reported news agency PTI.CJI Bobde took the oath as the 47th CJI in November 2019 and is leaving after a term of nearly 18 months—from November 18, 2019, to April 23, 2021. His tenure included several key judgments, including the long-drawn verdict on the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. The CJI said he was retiring with satisfaction that he did his best. “I leave with the satisfaction that I did my best. I hand over the baton to Justice NV Ramana (the 48th CJI), who will I am sure will very ably lead the court,” Bobde said as he bid adieu.Also read| Saw hills...and even guns: Outgoing CJI Bobde recalls virtual court experience“I leave this court with happiness, goodwill with very fond memories of wonderful arguments, excellent presentation, good behaviour, commitment to the cause of justice from not only the bar but all connected with it,” the CJI said.Venugopal also spoke about the role played by the outgoing CJI during the unprecedented coronavirus pandemic that forced the court to work virtually. Commending CJI Bobde’s work during the year of the pandemic, Venugopal said, “In March 2020 the world was suffering from Covid-19. The Supreme Court also had to take a call and the bar thought the court will close down. But then CJI Bobde rose to the occasion and started virtual hearing and almost 50,000 cases have been disposed of. It's a great achievement.”The tenure of the 48th CJI Justice NV Ramana will be till August 26, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cjis-should-have-longer-tenure-says-attorney-general-kk-venugopal-101619182507282.html
23-04-2021||India||Centre to extend services of SSC doctors in military to cater to Covid-19 cases||The government has decided to extend the services of short-service commission (SSC) doctors serving in the military to cater to the rising number of coronavirus cases. The defence ministry on Friday announced that it is extending the tenure of SSC doctors in the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) till December 31, 2021 “to tide over the current surge in medical services.” “This will augment the strength of AFMS by 238 more doctors,” said an official statement. While hospitals run by the armed forces are primarily meant for soldiers, ex-servicemen and their dependents, the military has opened the doors of its medical facilities to civilians in some parts of the country depending on the availability of beds. The armed forces and allied organisations are playing an important role in the fight against Covid-19 --- they have set up hospitals, helped ramp up oxygen production, airlifted medical staff and oxygen containers and are liaising with state governments to help them deal with the rising number of daily cases. On April 20, defence minister Rajnath Singh carried out an extensive review of the preparedness of the armed forces and other organisations to deal with the surge in Covid-19 infections across the country. At that meeting, Singh asked the military to explore the possibility of utilising the services of vaccinated retired military personnel to help the civil administration and state governments to deal with the grim situation. The armed forces and other stakeholders have been given the go-ahead to buy medicines and other critical items using their emergency powers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-extend-services-of-ssc-doctors-in-military-to-cater-to-covid-19-cases-101619181836269.html
23-04-2021||India||Work as one nation to ensure no scarcity: Modi to CMs amid surge in Covid cases||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday urged all states to come together and work as one nation to ensure there is no scarcity of resources needed to check the second Covid-19 wave, which has led to a shortage of hospital beds, medical oxygen, and medicines in the country.In his meeting with chief ministers of 11 worst-hit states, Modi stressed India was able to fight the first wave of the pandemic due to “collective power, united effort, and strategy’’. He added they would have to again tackle the challenge in a similar manner as the coronavirus was now impacting both tier two and tier three cities. “Every state should ensure that no oxygen tanker, whether it is meant for any state, is stopped or gets stranded,’’ said Modi.The direction came a day after Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia blamed police forces of two neighbouring states--Haryana and Uttar Pradesh--for blocking oxygen supplies to the national capital. Several hospitals have issued distress messages about their dwindling oxygen supply this week. The Centre on Thursday invoked the Disaster Management Act to ensure unrestricted inter-state supply of oxygen.Oxygen is a critical medical intervention against Covid-19, which causes respiratory distress in some cases. The pandemic has accelerated the global demand for it. Also Read | Chhattisgarh, Punjab CMs request PM Modi to bring parity in vaccine pricesModi, who has this week held four meetings to address the oxygen shortage, suggested a coordination committee to track its delivery to hospitals and a crackdown on hoarding and black marketing of critical supplies. “There is a continuous effort to increase oxygen supply. All the concerned departments and ministries of the government are also working together. Industrial oxygen has also been diverted to meet immediate requirements,’’ he said.Modi assured the states that the Centre was there to support them. He added the Union health ministry was monitoring the situation closely. Modi said the railways and the Indian Air Force have been roped in to cut down the transportation time of oxygen.Modi was seen reprimanding Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for going live with his part of the interaction with the prime minister. “This is a violation of our tradition, our protocol. It is not proper for the chief minister to telecast such internal meetings live. We should always maintain protocol.’’ Kejriwal immediately apologised. “Sir, we will keep it in mind for the future. If I have said and spoken too harshly, if I have made some mistakes, I apologise to you.”Also Watch | ‘Where is PM CARES money?’ Mamata Banerjee attacks Modi govt over Covid crisisKejriwal earlier spoke about his helplessness and having had sleepless nights due to the paucity of oxygen. “My phone keeps ringing. Some hospitals say they have only two hours of oxygen...,’’ he told Modi. “I have called some central ministers. They initially helped a lot but now they are also tired. If Delhi does not have an oxygen factory, will Delhi’s 20 million people be deprived of any oxygen? Who shall I speak to if... our hospitals start running out of oxygen? We cannot leave our people to die?’’Kejriwal requested Modi to call chief ministers of the states and ask them not to stop the oxygen supply. “One call from you will solve everything. I cannot sleep at night thinking about our people. We would not be able to forgive ourselves if something happens.’’Modi also urged states to continue with the Covid-19 vaccination programme in an urgent manner.The Centre on Monday heeded calls for wider access to Covid-19 vaccination and announced all adults will become eligible for coronavirus vaccine, which can be sold in the market from May 1. People under 45 will only be able to receive doses once private sales begin or if state governments procure stocks for distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/work-as-one-nation-to-ensure-no-scarcity-modi-to-cms-amid-surge-in-covid-cases-101619179556872.html
23-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Free food for 800 million poor in May, June and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt to provide free food to 800 million poor in May, JuneThe Centre said on Friday the government will provide 5 kilogram of free food grains to millions of poor covered under the National Food Security Act, 2013, “due to economic disruptions caused by the Covid-19 outbreak in the country” for the months of May and June under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana.Read more.‘Won’t be any scarcity of resources if we work as one nation’: PM Modi tells CMs at Covid meetPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday told chief ministers of states and Union territories hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic to ensure there are no hindrances in the transportation of oxygen tankers as several regions across the country reported a shortage in the supply for Covid-19 patients.Read more. No instructions, says Kejriwal’s office as it ‘regrets’ live appeal to PM ModiDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office on Friday issued a clarification after a row erupted over his address during the review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, telecast live for some time, during which the Aam Aadmi Party (leader) raised alarm about “a big tragedy" that could happen because of the oxygen shortage in hospitals during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.Read more. 'Will people of Delhi not get oxygen if...': Kejriwal asks PM Modi in Covid-19 meetFacing a grim crisis of saving lives with top hospitals in Delhi reporting an acute shortage of oxygen, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday raised the challenge in a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Read more. Shravan Rathore's son says parents tested Covid-19 positive after Kumbh Mela visit: 'Never expected such tough times'Music composer duo Nadeem-Shravan's Shravan Rathore died on Thursday of complications related to Covid-19. Now, Shravan's son Sanjeev has revealed that Shravan had tested positive after visiting the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar with his wife.Read more. Video of ‘high-definition views’ of Earth as seen from ISS goes viralAre you someone who loves seeing the videos showcasing the beauty of our Blue Planet captured from the outer space? Then here is a video which will make you very happy. Shared on official Instagram page of International Space Station (ISS), the video will make you say “Wow,” repeatedly.Read more. Xiaomi Mi 11X Pro, Mi 11X launched in India: Check specs, priceXiaomi on Friday launched the Mi 11X series in India alongside the Mi 11 Ultra. The new smartphone series features Mi 11X Pro and Mi 11X. The new Mi phones come with the Snapdragon 888 processor, 120Hz AMOLED display, 108-megapixel camera, and more.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-free-food-for-800-million-poor-in-may-june-and-all-the-latest-news-101619177351318.html
23-04-2021||India||Centre diverting oxygen supply to UP, depriving Bengal, alleges Mamata||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Friday that the Union government is depriving her state of its quota of medical oxygen by diverting the supply to Uttar Pradesh. Addressing journalists in Kolkata, Banerjee alleged discrimination even in vaccine distribution, claiming that while Gujarat has been given enough vaccine doses to cover 60% of the population, other states are not being allotted more than 15% -20%. “SAIL [Steel Authority of India] used to supply oxygen to West Bengal. Yesterday, there was an instruction (from the Centre) that SAIL would now supply the same oxygen to Uttar Pradesh. Is Bengal a beggar? When it comes to elections, they (BJP) want to capture Bengal but when it comes to oxygen supply, they are diverting it to other states,” Banerjee told reporters, adding that she has already written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard. The West Bengal government has procured 5,000 cylinders of oxygen and diverted them to Covid-19 hospitals to meet the acute demand, she said, adding that “negotiations are on with one source to arrange for more cylinders”.On distribution of vaccine among states, Banerjee said, “Gujarat has been given vaccines to cover 60% of its population, while other states have been given not more than 15% – 20%. In Gujarat, vaccination is being done at (BJP) party offices. We have asked for more vaccines and have urged the Centre to fix a rate.” Also Read | Dissatisfied with measures for polls amid Covid surge: Calcutta HC raps ECIThe Centre has opened Covid-19 vaccination for everyone above the age of 18 from May 1, allowing vaccine-makers to sell in the open market in India at a pre-decided rate. Banerjee said that as per a rough estimate, the Centre would need around ₹20,000 crore to vaccinate the entire population of India. “They have collected lakhs of crores of rupees in PM-Cares Fund. Can’t they give this money? How much is being spent to build a new Parliament building or a statue? And this is a question of life and death. All it takes is a second to decide,” said Banerjee, while attacking the Centre over its alleged failure tackle the second wave of corona.“It is unfortunate that the BJP, in a bid to capture Bengal, pushed not just the state but the entire country into a crisis. It is total negligence,” she added. The BJP hit back at the chief minister over her allegations. “The outgoing chief minister has been attacking the Prime Minister. Misleading statements are being made. Unfortunately, the state has not come up with any plan to fight Covid in the last three months. The state should inform the Centre of its requirement. But it hasn’t been done. The ruling party is doing politics during a crisis just to scare and confuse the people,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in the state.“We really have doubts. The Centre would never do this – depriving one state to benefit another. Instead of making such allegations, the CM should cooperate in times of crisis,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, vice president of BJP’s unit in West Bengal. A senior official of SAIL said, “We have a stock of around 2,000 tons of liquid medical oxygen at our two plants at Durgapur Steel Plant and IISCO Steel Plant. It can be provided as per requirement.”Later in the day, a statement released by the state government said that on April 21, the Centre allotted 200 MT of oxygen from different plants in West Bengal to outside the state. “As per the current patient load and rising trend of infections, it is expected that the consumption level of oxygen in the state will radically rise to roughly 450 MT per day in the next couple of weeks. Hence, present allocation of liquid oxygen to outside West Bengal will jeopardise the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The state government has accordingly requested the Centre to consider the need of the state and not to divert the medical oxygen available in the state to elsewhere,” the statement said.Meanwhile, the state reported 11,948 fresh cases on Thursday and has around 65,000 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-diverting-oxygen-supply-to-up-depriving-bengal-mamata-101619176196084.html
23-04-2021||India||Govt to provide free food to 800 million in May, June under PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana||The Centre said on Friday the government will provide 5 kilogram of free food grains to millions of poor covered under the National Food Security Act, 2013, “due to economic disruptions caused by the Covid-19 outbreak in the country” for the months of May and June under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana.This will be “over and above NFSA foodgrains for next two months i.e. May and June 2021 on the same pattern as the earlier “Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PM-GKAY)”, it added. “Under this special scheme (PMGKAY), around 80 Crore NFSA beneficiaries covered under both categories of NFSA, namely Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and Priority Householders (PHH), will be provided with an additional quota of free-of-cost foodgrains (Rice/Wheat) at a scale of 5 Kg per person per month, over and above their regular monthly entitlements under NFSA. Government of India will bear all expenditure of over ₹26,000 Crore on account of food subsidy and Central assistance to states/UTs on account of intrastate transportation etc,” it added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi stressed that it is important that the poor of the country have nutritional support when the country is facing the second wave of coronavirus pandemic.Also read: As India gasps for oxygen, PM Modi tells CMs to check hoarding, black marketingThe free food grains distribution scheme under the Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana was extended in June for five months till November 2020 with an additional estimated outlay of ₹90,000 crore. The extension of the scheme was announced by the Prime Minister last year when the country was entering the ‘unlock’ phase from the nationwide lockdown imposed to curtail the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and to support the poor affected by the halt in the economic activities.The scheme has been rolled out again for the next two months as the country’s healthcare infrastructure has reached its capacity and several states have taken steps like complete lockdown, night curfew to contain the spread of the disease. The scheme comes as such measures affecting the economic activities of the country and the pandemic will cause a huge burden on the poor of the country.India on Friday reported 332,730 cases of coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours—the highest since the pandemic broke last year—taking the tally to over 16.2 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-provide-free-food-to-800-million-in-may-june-under-pm-garib-kalyan-anna-yojana-101619174442565.html
23-04-2021||India||‘Won’t be any scarcity of resources if we work as one nation’: PM Modi tells CMs at Covid meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday told chief ministers of states and Union territories hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic to ensure there are no hindrances in the transportation of oxygen tankers as several regions across the country reported a shortage in the supply for Covid-19 patients. “He urged the states to check hoarding and black marketing of oxygen and medicines. The PM said that every state should ensure that no oxygen tanker, whether it is meant for any state, is stopped or gets stranded,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a statement.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 herePM Modi’s remarks came at a high-level meeting on the Covid-19 situation with chief ministers of 11 states and Union territories that have reported the maximum number of cases lately. The crucial meeting, the third with CMs in the last five weeks, comes at a time when many states are reporting a lack of health infrastructure to meet the requirements amid a massive increase in Covid-19 cases.As the states flagged a shortage of oxygen and medicines for Covid-19 patients, PM Modi said that continuous efforts are on to increase the supply. “All the concerned departments and ministries of the government are also working together. Industrial oxygen has also been diverted to meet immediate requirements,” the Prime Minister said, according to his office.During the meeting, PM Modi urged the states to set up a high-level coordination committee to carry oxygen to different hospitals of the state. This committee should ensure that as soon as there is an allotment of oxygen from the Centre, it can deliver oxygen as per requirement in different hospitals of the state immediately.PM Modi also stated that the government is working on all possible options to reduce the travel time and turnaround time of oxygen tankers. “For this, railways has started Oxygen Express. Empty Oxygen tankers are also being transported by the Air Force to reduce one-way travel time,” according to PM’s office.Prime Minister urged all states to work together to fight the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and assured that if the nation battles as a collective power, there won’t e any scarcity of resources. “He said the biggest basis of India’s success during the first wave of the pandemic was our united efforts and united strategy and reiterated that we will have to address this challenge in the same way,” his office said.PM Modi reiterated the need to scale up testing along with upgrading resources. He also remarked that India’s vaccination programme should not slow down in the current situation.On Friday, India registered over 300,000 Covid-19 cases, the world's highest daily tally for the second day in a row, which take the total infection tally to 16,263,695. The toll due to the viral disease is also on the rise with 2263 deaths in the last 24 hours taking the total number of fatalities to 186,920.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-no-oxygen-tanker-is-stopped-stranded-pm-modi-tells-cms-at-covid-meet-101619173926308.html
23-04-2021||India||Military importing oxygen generation plants from Germany||The Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) is importing mobile oxygen generation plants to address the oxygen crisis precipitated by the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), people familiar with the development said on Friday. The AFMS is importing 23 mobile oxygen generation plants from Germany, and these will arrive within a week, said one of the officials cited above. “These plants will be deployed in AFMS hospitals catering to Covid patients,” he said. Each plant can produce 2,400 litres of oxygen per hour. “At this rate, it can cater to 20-25 patients round the clock. The advantage of these plants is that they are easily portable,” the official said.The military and other wings of the defence ministry have been ordered to respond on war footing to fight the outbreak that has so far claimed nearly 185,000 lives, as reported by Hindustan Times. From setting up Covid hospitals to ramping up oxygen production and airlifting of medical staff and oxygen containers to liaising with state governments to help them deal with the rising number of daily cases, the armed forces, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) are working overtime for Covid-19 relief. The DRDO is among the organisations that are at the forefront of fighting the second deadly wave of Covid-19 that has ripped through the country. A new Covid hospital set up by the DRDO in Ahmedabad will be functional from Saturday. The hospital has been readied in less than 10 days. Also Read | Western Command to set up Covid care facility in ChandigarhThe Dhanvantri Covid Hospital has a capacity of 900 beds, including 150 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, said a second official. The remaining 750 beds also have provision for oxygen, he added. The DRDO has set up the facility in collaboration with Gujarat government. It has so far set up or is in the process of setting up state-of-the-art Covid hospitals in six cities to treat more than 3,100 critical patients. The DRDO has set up a 500-bed hospital in Delhi and converted an ESIC hospital into a 500-bed Covid facility in Patna. In addition, hospitals with 450 beds in Lucknow and 750 beds in Varanasi are expected to be functional soon. A sixth Covid hospital is being readied in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur. The Indian Air Force on Thursday airlifted three empty oxygen containers from Hindon to Panagarh in West Bengal where these will be filled up and supplied to different centres for Covid relief. The IAF used its C-17 and Il-76 heavy-lift aircraft to move the containers. Also, it moved empty oxygen containers from Begumpet to Bhubaneswar on Friday. Once filled, the containers will be carried to Covid centres by rail or road. The IAF has deployed its aircraft for airlifting medical personnel, oxygen containers, oxygen cylinders, trolleys and essential medicines to places where they are needed, as reported by HT. The DRDO has also stepped in to address the oxygen crisis precipitated by the second wave of the disease. It has transferred oxygen generation technology to the industry, which has now started providing oxygen plants to state governments and hospitals. The Uttar Pradesh government, for instance, has ordered five such plants from Coimbatore-based Trident Pneumatics. The technology transferred to the industry is based on the onboard oxygen generation technology developed for Tejas light combat aircraft. The oxygen generation plants can produce 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute. The DPSUs are also making arrangements to buy oxygen plants for the production and supply of oxygen cylinders at a swift pace. Technology developed by the DRDO for a supplemental oxygen delivery system for soldiers posted in high-altitude areas has also been transferred to the industry, and it will soon be available in the market for use by Covid patients. Also Watch | Amid rise in cases, DRDO reopens Covid hospital in national capitalThe armed forces and other wings of the defence ministry can play an important role in the fight against Covid-19, said Lieutenant General BK Chopra (retd), a former directed general of AFMS said on Thursday. “They have the manpower, resources and discipline to provide relief in these hard times. The military especially has a culture of quick response, be it enemy action or natural catastrophes. It can do a lot to alleviate the sufferings of our countrymen during the pandemic too,” Chopra said. On April 20, defence minister Rajnath Singh carried out an extensive review of the preparedness of the armed forces and other allied organisations to deal with the surge in Covid infections across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-importing-oxygen-generation-plants-from-germany-101619173136230.html
23-04-2021||India||India's Cadila gets approval to repurpose Hepatitis C drug for Covid-19||India's Cadila Healthcare Ltd has received restricted emergency use approval from local regulators to use a Hepatitis C drug as a treatment for moderate Covid-19 in adults, the drugmaker said on Friday.The approval follows promising results from a late-stage study of the drug, and comes in the middle of a massive wave of Covid-19 cases in India, which has overwhelmed its health system and left many hospitals short of critical oxygen supplies.Cadila said patients given its therapy in clinical trials had shown lesser need for supplemental oxygen, which is given to seriously ill Covid-19 patients to increase its supply in the blood and lungs.About 91% of patients treated with the drug, branded Virafin, tested negative for Covid-19 in standard RT-PCR tests by day seven, compared to nearly 79% who were given the standard of care, the company said earlier this month."The fact that we are able to offer a therapy which significantly reduces viral load when given early on can help in better disease management," Cadila Managing Director Sharvil Patel said. "It comes at a much-needed time for patients."India reported the world's highest daily tally of coronavirus infections for a second day on Friday, surpassing 330,000 new cases.Cadila's drug, known as Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b, was originally approved for liver disease Hepatitis C and launched in India 10 years ago. It is being repurposed to treat Covid-19.The company's shares reversed course following the news, and were last up 3.2% at 570 rupees in afternoon trading on the National Stock Exchange.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-cadila-gets-approval-to-repurpose-hepatitis-c-drug-for-covid19-101619171912735.html
23-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh, Punjab CMs request PM Modi to bring parity in vaccine prices||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide vaccine doses to states at the same rates as procured by the Centre. At the Covid-19 review meet with PM Modi on Friday, he also urged the Centre to provide an action plan to make vaccines available to the states which will soon begin vaccination of people above the age of 18.“Please provide vaccine doses to the states at the same rate as it is procured by the Centre. Also provide an action plan for those states for who will vaccinate people above the age of 18 years starting May 1,” Chhattisgarh chief minister Baghel told PM Modi.Similar concerns were expressed by Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh at the meeting. He asked the Prime Minister to ensure a proper system of vaccine allocation by May 1 while parity should be maintained in vaccine pricing between states and the Centre. He also asked PM Modi to ensure a regular and adequate supply of Remdisivir and Tocilizumab and medical oxygen, urging the PM to allow the State Disaster Response Funds for vaccination.PM Modi asked chief ministers present at the meeting to ensure that oxygen supplies headed towards a state are not being stopped. “Every state should ensure that no oxygen tanker, whether it is meant for any state, is stopped or gets stranded. Urge the states to set up a high-level coordination committee to carry oxygen to different hospitals of the state,” the Prime Minister told the chief ministers, according to a statement released by the Prime Minister’s Office. He also asked the chief ministers to ensure there is no hoarding of oxygen or essential medicines.Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a review meeting with chief ministers of states and Union Territories which are badly affected by Covid-19. Chief ministers Arvind Kejriwal, Uddhav Thackeray, Ashok Gehlot, BS Yediyurappa, Pinarayi Vijayan, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Vijay Rupani, Captain Amarinder Singh, Yogi Adityanath and Bhupesh Baghel attended the meeting. This is the third meeting between the chief ministers and the Prime Minister in the last five weeks. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also held a review meeting with leading oxygen manufacturers to discuss the issue of oxygen shortage in the country after the meeting with chief ministers as several worst-hit regions, state capitals and districts saw deaths due to lack of oxygen as well as ICU beds and drugs like Remdesivir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-punjab-cms-request-pm-modi-to-bring-parity-in-vaccine-prices-101619171297626.html
23-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Pak’s Edhi Foundation offers to send 50 ambulances to help India||Pakistan’s Edhi Foundation, renowned for its humanitarian relief work, on Friday offered to send a fleet of 50 ambulances to India to assist efforts to cope with a massive surge in Coronavirus infections that has swamped health services in several cities. The offer was conveyed in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi by Faisal Edhi, the director of Edhi Foundation and the son of late Abdul Sattar Edhi, the founder of the organisation. “We are very sorry to hear about the exceptionally heavy impact that the pandemic has had on your country, where a tremendous number of people are suffering immensely. As a neighbouring friend, we sympathise with you greatly and during this strenuous time, we would like to extend our help in the form of fleet of 50 ambulances along with our services to assist you in addressing, and further circumventing, the current health conditions,” said the letter, which was sent to the Indian mission in Islamabad. Speaking over phone from Karachi, Faisal Edhi told Hindustan Times that the organisation made the offer after witnessing the hardship being faced by Indian people in news reports. “The people are suffering and this affected us. We have dealt with Covid-19 cases across Pakistan and we have the experience of operating in such situations. That’s why we offered our services,” he said. Also Read | Covid-19: Canada suspends flights from India, Pakistan for 30 days“If permission is given by the Indian side, we are mentally and physically prepared to go across and do whatever we can to help. We will fully cooperate with the Indian authorities and are prepared to operate in any city they allow us to operate in,” he added. The Edhi Foundation said in its letter that it wished to extend full support to Indian authorities without causing any inconvenience and would arrange all supplies that would be needed by any of its teams allowed to operate across the border. “We are not seeking any assistance from the Indian side for our operations. We will carry our own food, fuel and other supplies and our team will include emergency medical technicians, drivers and support staff,” Faisal Edhi said. Given the strained ties between the two countries, observers said it was unlikely that the Edhi Foundation’s offer would be accepted. Asked about this matter, Faisal Edhi replied: “We have made the offer and are fully prepared to help by operating wherever the Indian authorities want us to assist. We will cooperate fully with the local administrations and police departments.” The Edhi Foundation’s ambulance services across Pakistan are known for being more efficient than state-run services and often reach the site of accidents or terror attacks before government ambulances. The foundation also operates orphanages, hospitals, homes for the elderly, graveyards, langars or free kitchens. The foundation has often assisted Indian fishermen held in Pakistani jails, especially in Karachi, and facilitated their repatriation. Abdul Sattar Edhi, who died in 2016, and his wife Bilquis played key roles in looking after Geeta, the deaf Indian woman who accidentally strayed across the border when she was nine. Bilquis personally cared for Geeta till she was repatriated in 2015. Earlier this year, Geeta was reunited with her family at Parbhani in Maharastra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-pak-s-edhi-foundation-offers-to-send-50-ambulances-to-help-india-101619170915996.html
23-04-2021||India||Centre says Arvind Kejriwal used PM Modi conference with CMs on Covid-19 to play politics: Report||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal used the Covid-review conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a platform to play politics, government sources informed on Friday, adding that his speech was not meant for solutions but to evade responsibility."(He) chose to spread lies on vaccine prices despite knowing that the Centre does not keep one vaccine dose with itself and shares with states only," sources told ANI.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here They further said that Kejriwal raised the point of airlifting oxygen but was unaware that it was already being done.He spoke about Oxygen express by Railways but Railway sources say that he has not communicated anything about it to Railways.Government sources added, "Kejriwal has descended to a new low. For the first time, the private conversations of the Prime Minister's meeting with Chief Ministers were televised. His entire speech was not meant for any solution but for playing politics and evade responsibility."Kejriwal raised the issue of huge shortage of oxygen in Delhi."Will people of Delhi not get oxygen if there is no oxygen-producing plant here? Please suggest whom should I speak to in Central Govt when an oxygen tanker destined for Delhi is stopped in another state? Delhi chief minister said.Amid an unprecedented Covid situation in the country, Prime Minister Narendra called a meeting with chief ministers of states with high burden of coronavirus cases.Union home minister Amit Shah, Union railway minister Piyush Goyal, Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, and officials of the Health Minister were present at the meeting along with the chief ministers of the various states.The country is currently witnessing a lethal second Covid-19 wave, with many hospitals in states, facing acute oxygen shortages.As many as 2,263 deaths and 3,32,730 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the country in the last 24 hours - the highest single-day spike since the pandemic broke out last year.This is the second consecutive day that the country has reported over 3 lakh cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-says-arvind-kejriwal-used-pm-modi-conference-with-cms-on-covid-19-to-play-politics-report-101619169549407.html
23-04-2021||India||Shortage, shortcoming and short-sightedness: Cong slams govt’s Covid strategy||The Congress on Friday again hit out at the government over its handling of the second Covid-19 wave, saying “shortage, shortcoming and short-sightedness” define its approach to it, while demanding “vaccine neutrality”.“The priorities of the Prime Minister [Narendra Modi] and [Union] home minister [Amit Shah] reflect that they have entirely become inefficient, incompetent, and indifferent towards the Covid-19 crisis,” said Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi. He urged venerable institutions to realise that their primary job is to protect the lives of the country’s citizens and not the government’s reputation.Singhvi questioned the differential pricing of vaccines and the failure of the government to provide better Covid infrastructure. He accused the government of “under-reporting cases of infections and deaths” and attacked it for exporting resources crucial in the fight against the virus.Also Read | ‘Government of India, this is on you’: Rahul Gandhi on oxygen crisisSinghvi said India has exported over 60 million doses of vaccines, 1.1 million Remdesivir injections, 9300 MT of oxygen, and 20 million testing kits. He blamed the government for the shortage of crucial resources needed to fight the pandemic.Singhvi called the Supreme Court’s suo motu cognisance over the Covid crisis a day earlier “uncalled for and wrong”. “It is wrong because it is not suo motu ameliorative but a reaction to palliative High Court orders.” Singhvi added the Supreme Court is not equipped to deal with local issues. He questioned the need for discharging the high courts of their duties.Bharatiya Janata Party leader Gaurav Bhatia hit back saying the Congress destroyed institutions when in power and discredits them in opposition. “All institutions are doing their best to save precious human lives. The Congress is indulging in cheap and petty politics. The nation has given up on Congress and its leadership. The citizens of Congress-ruled states like Maharashtra...are also looking towards Narendra Modi for support and relief. We will work tirelessly to help all citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shortage-shortcoming-and-short-sightedness-cong-slams-govt-s-covid-strategy-101619169596249.html
23-04-2021||India||Employers allegedly burn 12-yr-old domestic help to death in Assam; 2 arrested||Two people have been arrested in Assam’s Nagaon district for allegedly burning their 12-year-old domestic help. “We got initial information from the [employers]...that she [domestic help] had died by suicide. ...after initial investigation, our team found the claim to be suspicious,” said police superintendent Gaurav Abhijit Dilip. “It appears she had been burnt. We also came to know the girl who was just 12 was employed as domestic help. We have arrested two persons...Prakash Borthakur and his son, Nayanmoni Borthakur. Further investigations are underway.”Also Read | 8 states to provide free vaccine doses for all above 18. Check list herePolice said the girl’s body has been sent for post-mortem. Purported photos of the girl’s body circulated on social media show it in a kneeling position with the head on the ground. A plastic jar and a matchbox can also be seen in the pictures. HT could not independently verify their authenticity.The girl had been employed as domestic help for five years in violation of the law that prohibits employing children under 14. Her employers allegedly poured kerosene after she requested them to allow her to go home.In a tweet, Assam police chief Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta said: “As per her employer, the girl committed suicide. However, after initial inspection, it is suspected that she was murdered and then burnt. She was also underage to be working as a domestic help. Therefore, two accused were taken to custody immediately. Investigation is on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/employers-allegedly-burn-12-yr-old-domestic-help-to-death-in-assam-2-arrested-101619167615659.html
23-04-2021||India||Saw hills...and even guns: Outgoing CJI Bobde recalls virtual court experience||Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, sitting for the last time on a bench in the Supreme Court before he demits office on Saturday, recalled his virtual court experience of a tour of the lawyers’ chambers while he heard arguments through video-conferencing for most part of his 14-month tenure. “There are many disadvantages of hearings through video-conferencing but that was the need of the hour. But hearing you (lawyers) in virtual mode has made me feel like taking a tour of your chambers without physically visiting them. I can recognise the statue behind the attorney general, the jaguar chair of Mr Vikas Singh, Lord Ganesha idol from the solicitor general’s office which is not on his desk today,” quipped justice Bobde. He added that as lawyers appeared before his court, he could see the hills behind a few; painting and sculptures behind some others and even guns and pistols in the background of some advocates. “It (video-conferencing) has its own advantage. I’m happy we all have been in it together and we will come out of it together too,” said the outgoing CJI, who shared the bench with CJI-designate NV Ramana and justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The Supreme Court began hearing of cases through video-conferencing in March 2020 after the imposition of lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, and it continues till today. Also Read | All you need to know about CJI-designate RamanaAttorney general KK Venugopal, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, president of the Supreme Court Bar Association Vikas Singh and president of the Supreme Court Advocates on Record Association Shivaji M Jadhav were present during the proceedings to bid adieu to justice Bobde. Justice Bobde said he had “mixed feelings” sitting for the last time on what is a called a ceremonial bench and he was not able to say much because he perhaps had to a lot to say. “All I can say is that I leave this court with happiness, with goodwill, with very fond memories of wonderful arguments, excellent presentation, good behaviour and a great commitment to the cause of justice not only from my learned colleagues but also from the bar and everyone associated,” he expressed. The outgoing CJI ended his address by saying: “I did my best. I don’t know how it came across but I am happy about what I could do. I hand over the baton to justice Ramana who, I am certain, will very ably lead the court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saw-hills-and-even-guns-outgoing-cji-bobde-recalls-virtual-court-experience-101619165695894.html
23-04-2021||India||Hearing in SC's suo moto cognisance case on Covid-19 deferred to April 27||The Supreme Court on Friday deferred the hearing into a suo moto congnisance case on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis to April 27. The top court will on Tuesday also examine the judicial power of High Courts to declare lockdowns in view of the pandemic and issues related to oxygen supply, drug supply and vaccine policy.Hearing the case, a three-judge bench of the Court, headed by CJI SA Bobde, criticised senior advocates for suggesting that the apex court had restrained high courts from hearing petitions on Covid-19 management.Meanwhile, a day after senior advocate Harish Salve was appointed as an amicus curiae in the matter, he recused in the wake of comments regarding a 'conflict of interest' resulting from his relationship with the CJI. Accepting his decision to recuse, the CJI said, "I did not know our Bar is divided among industries we appear for. Please allow me to recuse with all humility. I appeared for Vedanta since I was informed ten minutes before mentioning...I don't want any side show. The language of the narrative now is very different."On Thursday, the CJI said that at least six High Courts are considering cases related to pandemic management. "We as a court wish to take suo motu cognizance of certain issues. We find that there are 6 High Courts -Delhi, Bombay, Sikkim, Madhya Pradesh, Calcutta and Allahabad-. They are exercising jurisdiction in best interest. We appreciate that. But it is creating confusion and diversion of resources", CJI Bobde told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-s-suo-moto-cognisance-case-on-covid-19-deferred-to-april-27-101619158251641.html
23-04-2021||India||Is RT-PCR test giving false negative reports because of mutants? Expert answers||Amid rising Covid-19 tests, a long wait for RT-PCR tests and the results, concerns over false negative reports are being expressed. It is being speculated that because of the new mutant strains, RT-PCR tests are coming negative, even when a person is actually positive and has symptoms of the infection.Allaying such fears, Dr Anurag Agarwal, director of the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics confirmed that while it is possible that a covid positive person may test negative in an RT-PCR test, double mutant strain is not the reason."Double mutant was sequenced through PCR positive. So it is not possible that the mutant escapes the RT-PCR test. Then we could not have sequenced it," Dr Agarwal said in a video, tweeted by the Union health ministry.#Unite2FightCorona RT- PCR tests giving false negative reports due to mutants? Listen to Dr Anurag Agrawal, Director, @FollowDbtNibmg, Professor @iiscbangalore speak on this issue.https://t.co/IA7EhNMe8w@PMOIndia @drharshvardhan @AshwiniKChoubey @PIB_India @mygovindia"All possible sequences in the world are being checked regularly and there is no strain which can escape the double gene testing," he said.What people should remember is that PCR has a sensitivity of 70 per cent. "The load of the virus in one's mouth and nose remains the highest a day before the symptoms start showing. Then the virus load gradually decreases. If people get tested late after 7 to 8 days, it is possible to get a negative test report because the virus may have travelled inside the body," he said.Health ministry advises proning at home for Covid-19 patients with breathing troubles | All you need to knowTests coming negative despite symptoms being present is not new and not because of any new strain. This was the case since the beginning, that if delays testing, the test results may come negative, Dr Agarwal said.RT-PCR (Reverse transcription- Polymerase chain reaction) tests are considered the gold standard in the detection of Covid-19 and that is why the Centre is asking all states to increase the percentage of RT-PCR testing, but its sensitivity is not beyond 70 per cent if all tests being done are taken into account.Double mutant is a new strain formed by two mutated strains. In India, its presence has been found in many states, including Maharashtra and Delhi. E484Q and L452R strains have formed the double mutant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-rt-pcr-test-giving-false-negative-reports-because-of-mutants-expert-answers-101619164458667.html
23-04-2021||India||Nestle apologises for ‘factual error’ on KitKat wrapper pointed out by Manipur||FMCG major Nestle India on Friday apologised for the “factual error” on the wrapper of its KitKat chocolate that syas Keibul Lamjao National Park is in Meghalaya. The park is in Manipur, as was pointed out by the forest department of Manipur.Apart from its apology, Nestle India responded by announcing two new packs celebrating the beautiful locations.“While we stay at home,the KitKat travel break packs were aimed at bringing a smile in these tough times by celebrating beautiful locations.We got it wrong with the location of one of the packs celebrating wildlife and we sincerely apologise for this unintentional error,” Nestle India spokesperson said. “We are launching two new packs as soon as possible to bring to light the beauty of these destinations.These packs celebrate Keibul Lamjao National Park,Manipur and Balpakram National Park,Meghalaya.We thank you for your understanding and support.”Manipur’s principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) AK Joshi had pointed out the error in a letter.Keibul Lamjao National Park, the only floating national park in the world, is located in the Bishnupur district of Manipur.Also Read | PM conducts high-level review meeting with CMs of worst Covid-affected statesJoshi also pointed out the picture on the wrapper is that of Red Panda (Ailurus fulgens), which is not found in the park. “This appears to be an irresponsible act on the part of your marketing team. These kinds of basic errors are not expected from a prestigious & reputed company of your standard,” he wrote.“I trust that you will deal with this issue at the earliest possible. I also hope that you will take necessary precautions to prevent such incidents in the future.”People for Animals (PFA) Manipur said Nestle products will be boycotted if the company does not rectify the misrepresentation.“We take such factual errors very seriously [as they will] mislead the people across the globe about the park,” said L Biswajeet Meitei, managing trustee, PFA, in a statement on Thursday. He added Panda’s picture on the chocolate cover makes things more confusing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-forest-dept-writes-to-nestle-over-factual-error-on-chocolate-wrapper-101619164315575.html
23-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Over 135 million vaccine doses administered in India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm on Friday (April 23, 2021). Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India has administered over 135 million vaccine doses till nowIndia had administered over 135 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Thursday evening even as the country registered a new single-day record, forcing the Supreme Court to call it a “national emergency”. Read MorePM conducts high-level review meeting with CMs of worst Covid-affected statesPrime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with chief ministers of states and Union Territories which reported a high number of Covid-19 cases on Friday. The meeting comes at a time when the nation is reporting more than three lakh cases for the past week and is also reporting a high number of fatalities. Read MoreAntilia bomb scare, Hiran murder case: Another Mumbai Police officer arrestedThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested one more Mumbai Police officer in connection with the Antilia bomb scare and Thane trader Mansukh Hiran’s murder case. Read MoreAt least 13 Covid-19 patients killed in fire at ICU of Maharashtra hospitalAt least 13 Covid patients died in a fire at the ICU unit of a hospital in Maharashtra's Palghar. The blaze broke out on the second floor of four-storey Vijay Vallabh Hospital at Virar. Watch hereBandish Bandits actor Amit Mistry dies of cardiac arrest, Kubbra Sait, Jacqueline Fernandez pay tributeBandish Bandits and Kya Kehna actor Amit Mistry has died. The news of demise was confirmed by actor Kubbra Sait on Twitter. Read MoreMI5 reveals ‘secret to successful spying’ in first Insta post. Share goes viralMI5, United Kingdom's domestic counter-intelligence and security agency, has recently joined Instagram and their first post on ‘secret to successful spying’ has prompted people to share various reactions. They also shared a picture that gives a glimpse inside the agency’s London headquarters. Read More'He has got class and ability': Gavaskar identifies batsman who could play for India 'sooner rather than later'Royal Challengers Bangalore mauled Rajasthan Royals on Thursday to win their fourth straight game of Indian Premier League 2021. RCB restricted RR to a total of 177 runs after an impressive performance from Indian seamers Mohammed Siraj and Harshal Patel. But the real star of the show was Devdutt Padikkal, who slammed his maiden IPL ton against RR at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-over-135-million-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101619162679415.html
23-04-2021||India||'Will people of Delhi not get oxygen if...': Kejriwal asks PM Modi in Covid-19 meet||Facing a grim crisis of saving lives with top hospitals in Delhi reporting an acute shortage of oxygen, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday raised the challenge in a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Delhi CM raised the issue in a meeting PM Modi held on Friday with chief ministers of 10 states with the most number of Covid-19 cases. The meeting via video conferencing comes on the day India saw more than 3 lakh Covid-19 cases."There is a huge shortage of oxygen in Delhi. Will people of Delhi not get oxygen if there is no oxygen-producing plant here?" Kejriwal said, reported news agency ANI.Raising the issue of problems faced during transportation of oxygen tankers, Kejriwal said, "Please suggest whom should I speak to in Central Govt when an oxygen tanker destined for Delhi is stopped in another state."Delhi on Thursday reported more than 26,000 new cases and 306 deaths, or about one fatality every five minutes, the fastest since the pandemic began.Delhi's Max hospital chain on Friday informed that it is suspending any new patient admissions in all the hospitals in Delhi-NCR till oxygen supplies get stabilize, but later withdrew the order after it received the oxygen supply.An Oxygen carrying vehicle has reached Max Hospital, Saket after the hospital sent an SOS to the Delhi government , says DCP South.DCP also informed that another Oxygen carrying vehicle has reached Max Smart Hospital.On Friday morning, Healthcare provider Max Healthcare informed that it is suspending any new patient admissions in all the hospitals in Delhi-NCR till oxygen supplies get stabilize.India's top private hospital in the national capital Sir Ganga Ram on Wednesday announced an oxygen shortage with 58 patients awaiting treatment and 35 waiting outside the hospital for admission.The crisis was compounded by similar reports emerging from other parts of the national capital where hospitals are racing against time with their oxygen quota.Sisodia said that the Delhi government has talked to the Centre to get the oxygen tanker that was stuck at a plant in Faridabad.Medical oxygen and beds have become scarce, with major hospitals putting up notices saying they have no room for any more patients and police being deployed to secure oxygen supplies.Max Healthcare, which runs a network of hospitals in northern and western India posted an appeal on Twitter on Friday for emergency supplies of oxygen at its facility in Delhi."We regret to inform that we are suspending any new patient admissions in all our hospitals in Delhi ... till oxygen supplies stabilise," the company said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-people-of-delhi-not-get-oxygen-if-kejriwal-asks-pm-modi-in-covid-19-meet-101619160299060.html
23-04-2021||India||PM conducts high-level review meeting with CMs of worst Covid-affected states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with chief ministers of states and Union Territories which reported a high number of Covid-19 cases on Friday. The meeting comes at a time when the nation is reporting more than three lakh cases for the past week and is also reporting a high number of fatalities.The meeting was attended by Union home minister Amit Shah, NITI Aayog health member VK Paul, union ministers Piyush Goyal and Harsh Vardhan chief ministers Arvind Kejriwal, Uddhav Thackeray, Ashok Gehlot, BS Yediyurappa, Pinarayi Vijayan, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Vijay Rupani and Bhupesh Baghel. Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal also attended the meeting. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee could not attend the meeting. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay represented West Bengal at the meeting, according to a news report by PTI. Delhi, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Punjab are among the states and Union Territories which are contributing to the daily caseload, according to health ministry. Delhi, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka have all reported their highest single-day surges since the onset of the pandemic during the second wave. Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur and Bengaluru Urban are also among the worst-affected districts in the country. The Prime Minister is also scheduled to hold a meeting with oxygen manufacturers as several hospitals in several worst-affected states and major cities continue to clamour for oxygen. Desperate appeals for oxygen were sounded by Delhi's two major hospitals as they raced against time to save the lives of the patients afflicted with Covid-19. Oxygen shortage has affected hospitals in Capital city Delhi, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka along with the rest of the country leading to widespread fear and concern among people whose friends and relatives have been diagnosed with Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-conducts-high-level-review-meeting-with-cms-of-worst-affected-states-101619161035359.html
23-04-2021||India||Corona fears: Delhi Police move SC to handcuff accused instead of holding hands||The Delhi Police have approached the Supreme Court, requesting it to let policemen handcuff the arrested persons and undertrials in order to minimise the exposure to Covid-19 due to holding of hands. The application cites the previous directions issued by the top court in a spate of judgments, starting 1980, against handcuffing of the accused persons as a matter of protection of human rights of citizens as against actions by the police. At the same time, the Supreme Court has said that the police or jail authorities can seek permission for the same if there were certain extraordinary reasons, including the fact that accused or undertrials were “high-risk prisoners”. Seeking a relaxation of the directions issued by it, the Delhi Police plea has been moved in a pending suo motu (on its own) matter on management of Covid-19 that was registered last year by the apex court, and cites the crisis triggered by the second Covid-19 wave. An urgent listing application has been filed by the Delhi Police in the Supreme Court requesting it to relax the directions issued by the apex court prohibiting handcuffing of arrested persons and other undertrial prisoners till the time the pandemic subsides so as to ensure safe transit while they are being escorted. Also Read | ‘National emergency’: SC calls crisis triggered by 2nd Covid-19 waveThe application, filed earlier this week, has stated that the transit of undertrial prisoners between jail and courts as also transit of accused persons by holding their hands will expose both the prisoner as well as the police to the Covid-19 virus. Since it would also be difficult to ensure social distancing, the police contended, it would increase the possibility of infection. “Even if the police personnel wear gloves, it will not give sufficient grip to hold the prisoner/accused, even in that event they have to move in close proximity and cannot ensure social distancing norms. Therefore, if they are handcuffed, the police personnel escorting them can hold them from a distance, thereby ensuring safe distancing,” added the plea. Pointing out that several Delhi Police personnel have already lost their lives due to coronavirus and this also put their families at risk, the application said, “this Hon’ble Court may consider balancing the right to dignity of the undertrial prisoner/accused and the life and safety of both prisoner/accused and police personnel who accompany them during transit between jail/police station to courts and help reducing the risk of infection from spreading.” The top court is yet to fix a date for hearing this plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corona-fears-delhi-police-move-sc-to-handcuff-accused-instead-of-holding-hands-101619160475739.html
23-04-2021||India||India has administered over 135 million vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 135 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Thursday evening even as the country registered a new single-day record, forcing the Supreme Court to call it a “national emergency”.In all, 135,346,729 vaccine doses have been given in the country till now, Thursday. This includes 9,241,384 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 5,903,368 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 11,727,708 frontline workers have had their first dose while 6,073,622 have got their second dose too.Also Read | Several long-term effects of Covid-19 point to massive health burden: StudyIn the 45-59-year age group, 45,510,426 people have got their first dose and another 1,891,160 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 48,501,906 people have been administered their first dose while 6,497,155 have had their second dose as well.As many as 3,016,085 vaccine doses were given on Thursday till 8pm, as per the provisional report. Of this, 1,435,858 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 685,184 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.On Friday, India reported over 300,000 cases again, clocking 332,730 cases in the last 24 hours. With this, India’s trend of registering the world’s highest daily tally continues, pushing the country’s total infection count to 16,263,695 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-135-million-vaccine-doses-till-now-101619159455624.html
23-04-2021||India||Congress seeks uniform vaccination rate, BJP free inoculation in Rajasthan||Congress leader Sachin Pilot has expressed concern about the management of vaccines and oxygen amid rising Covid-19 cases while underlining the need for saving lives as the country is reporting record infections daily. He called for vaccinating people in time and added future generations will not forgive them if needy patients do not get life-saving oxygen and medicines such as Remdesivir.Pilot, a former Rajasthan deputy chief minister, questioned different Covid-19 vaccine rates for the Centre, the states and private hospitals. “By fixing three prices of the same vaccine, the government of India has put the public in great difficulty. It is a very bizarre decision that the same vaccine will be supplied to the central government for ₹150, state governments for ₹400 and private hospitals for ₹600. One nation, one vaccine, one rate is the needed to control the hoarding and black marketing of the vaccine,” he said on Thursday.Also Read | Residents vaccinated against Covid-19 in Jodhpur mark their homes with postersChief minister Ashok Gehlot earlier called on the Centre to provide free Covid-19 vaccines to all.Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Rajendra Rathore asked Gehlot to think about vaccinating all eligible people seriously instead of indulging in rhetoric against the Centre. “The governments of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have decided to administer free corona vaccine to people above 18... when will you announce [the same]?” State BJP chief Satish Poonia echoed Rathore and said there should be no politics over the vaccination.Independent lawmaker Sanyam Lodha, who is considered as pro-Gehlot, asked Rathore to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi through 25 Rajasthan BJP members of Parliament why were 60 million vaccine doses exported. He questioned why is not the Covid-19 vaccine available for states at ₹150.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-seeks-uniform-vaccination-rate-bjp-free-inoculation-in-rajasthan-101619159395397.html
23-04-2021||India||'Not national news': Maharashtra minister Rajesh Tope on Virar hospital fire which killed 13||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said the fire tragedy at the Vijay Vallabh Hospital in Virar which killed 13 Covid-19 patients is not national news. The minister's statement comes shortly after a fire broke out in the intensive care unit on the second floor of the four-storeyed hospital in the early hours of Friday, in which five women and eight men died.Stating that the action will be taken on the state government level, Tope said, "This is not national news. The state government is taking all steps to help the patients and their relatives." The minister said that the government has announced an ex gratia of ₹5 lakh to the next of kin of those who lost their lives and the municipal corporation will add another ₹5 lakh to the ex gratia announced."We have announced probe and the report will be submitted in ten days. We will take strict action against those who are responsible for not doing compliance with mandatory fire, electrical and structural audit," Tope said. Earlier in the day, Tope called the incident unfortunate in a tweet and said, "The fire incident at Virar based Vijay Vallabh Hospital's ICU section has claimed 13 lives. It is a very unfortunate and painful incident. CM Thackeray has ordered in-depth inquiry into this accident." Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday announced financial assistance of ₹five lakh each to the families of 13 Covid-19 patients who died in the blaze. A statement from the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said those who suffered serious injuries in the incident will be given ₹one lakh compensation each.There were 90 patients in the hospital, 18 of them in the ICU, when the fire broke out after a blast in the AC unit, an official has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-national-news-maharashtra-minister-rajesh-tope-on-virar-hospital-fire-which-killed-13-101619155620834.html
23-04-2021||India||'Government of India, this is on you': Rahul Gandhi on oxygen crisis amid Covid-19 surge||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday slammed the central government and said that the accountability is on the Government of India for the current crisis over oxygen shortage and lack of ICU beds. "Corona can cause a fall in oxygen level but it is the oxygen shortage and lack of ICU beds which is causing many deaths," he said, adding, "Government of India, this is on you." His statements come on the day India registered over 3 lakh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases for the second day in a row, clocking 332,730 cases in the last 24 hours.Taking to his official Twitter handle on this day, Rahul Gandhi said, "Corona can cause a fall in oxygen level but it’s #OxygenShortage & lack of ICU beds which is causing many deaths. GOI, this is on you." The deadlier, more infectious second Covid-19 wave currently sweeping through India is crushing its already overburdened health infrastructure and frontline medical workers.Corona can cause a fall in oxygen level but it’s #OxygenShortage & lack of ICU beds which is causing many deaths.GOI, this is on you.Several hospitals in the national capital, Delhi, are running out of medical oxygen supplies, with as many as twenty-five Covid-19 patients dying over the last 24 hours at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in the city. Although the hospital refused to say whether or not the deaths were because of oxygen shortage, several other hospitals in the national capital issued distress messages about their dwindling oxygen supply on Thursday. Congress has been attacking the government over its alleged mismanagement of the Covid-19 situation in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-of-india-this-is-on-you-rahul-gandhi-on-oxygen-crisis-amid-covid-19-surge-101619154398680.html
23-04-2021||India||NIA arrests Mumbai Police inspector Sunil Mane in Antilia security scare case||The National Investigation Agency, which is probing the Antilia bomb scare incident, on Friday arrested Mumbai police officer Sunil Mane, who was called for interrogation on Thursday night. After Sachin Vaze, who is now suspended, and Riyaz Kazi, Mane is the third officer of the Mumbai Police to be arrested in the high-profile security threat case.According to reports, the 1995-batch Maharashtra police service officer was placed under arrest late on Thursday night following hours of interrogation.On February 25, an explosive-laden SUV was found parked near Ambani residence Antilia. Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran who claimed that the car belonged to him and was stolen before the incident was found dead in February. Hiran's wife accused Mumbai police inspector Sachin Vaze of pressuring Hiran to get arrested in the case. After taking Vaze in custody, the NIA arrested his associate Riyaz Kazi, on charges of destroying evidence. Kazi has also been accused of being involved in the conspiracy along with Vaze, NIA said.Reports said Kazi was seen entering a number plates shop in Vikhroli where he spoke with the owner. He was also seen taking away a digital video recorder and a computer from the shop. CCTV footage also showed him collecting CCTV footage from Vaze's housing complex in Thane.The case took a different turn after Sachin Vaze accused Maharashtra's former home minister Anil Deshmukh of extortion. In his letter to the invetigating agency, Vaze wrote the former home minister asked him to collect monet from bars and restaurants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-mumbai-police-inspector-sunil-mane-in-antilia-security-scare-case-101619154632708.html
23-04-2021||India||DRDO’s 900-bed Covid facility to be inaugurated in Ahmedabad today||A new hospital set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in Ahmedabad to deal with the rising number of coronavirus infections will be inaugurated this evening, officials familiar with the development said on Friday.It will begin operations on Saturday. The hospital has been readied in less than 10 days.The Dhanvantri Covid Hospital will have a capacity of 900 beds including 150 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, said an official. The remaining 750 beds also have provision for oxygen, he added. The DRDO has set up the facility in collaboration with the Gujarat government.Union home minister Amit Shah and chief minister Vijay Rupani will inaugurate the hospital.The DRDO is among the defence ministry organisations at the forefront of fighting the second wave of Covid-19. It has so far or is in the process of setting up state-of-the-art Covid hospitals in six cities to treat over 3,100 critical patients, as reported by HT on Friday. The DRDO has set up a 500-bed hospital in Delhi and converted an ESIC hospital into a 500-bed Covid facility in Patna. In addition, hospitals with 450 beds in Lucknow and 750 beds in Varanasi are expected to be functional soon. A sixth Covid hospital is being readied in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur.The DRDO has also stepped in to address the oxygen crisis precipitated by the second wave of the disease. It has transferred oxygen generation technology to the industry, which has now started providing oxygen plants to state governments and hospitals. Also Watch | Amid rise in cases, DRDO reopens Covid hospital in national capitalThe Uttar Pradesh government has ordered five such plants from Coimbatore-based Trident Pneumatics.The technology transferred to the industry is based on the onboard oxygen generation technology developed for Tejas light combat aircraft. The oxygen generation plants can produce 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute.Technology developed by the DRDO for a supplemental oxygen delivery system for soldiers posted in high-altitude areas has also been transferred to the industry, and it will soon be available in the market for use by Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdos-900-bed-covid-facility-to-be-inaugurated-in-ahmedabad-today-101619154956497.html
23-04-2021||India||Canada stops passenger flights from India amid rising Covid-19 cases||Canada prohibited all commercial and private passenger flights from India for 30 days starting Thursday night, hours after the UAE, Australia, and Oman on Thursday joined the list of countries to impose travel restrictions on the country. The UK, France, Hong Kong, the US, Singapore, and New Zealand earlier announced similar measures and either completely barred or restricted flights from India amid a record surge in daily Covid-19 infections.The Canadian move was precipitated by increasing pressure on the government to act after several cases of the double mutant originating in India were reported in Canada. There were also demands from provincial governments to ban flights from India at the earliest. Canada informed New Delhi of the decision prior to making the announcement, people aware of the matter said.Flights from India were barred along with that from Pakistan. Transport Canada, the ministry responsible for aviation, issued a notice to airmen saying: “...suspend all commercial and private passenger flights from India and Pakistan for 30 days, effective 23:30 EDT April 22, 2021.”In a statement, Transport Canada said these measures will help manage the elevated risk of imported cases of Covid-19 and variants of concern into Canada during a time of increasing pressure on the country’s health care.Passengers from India, who arrive through a third country, will have to provide a pre-departure negative coronavirus test result from the last port before continuing their journey.Also Read | Canadian PM Justin Trudeau keen to take AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccineThe Canadian announcement came hours after the UAE announced the temporary suspension of all flights from India and the entry of transit passengers for 10 days from April 25. People, who transited through India in the past 14 days, will also be barred from entering the UAE. The travel ban will be reviewed after 10 days.Singapore on Thursday further tightened restrictions for travellers from India. On Wednesday, Oman barred the entry of travellers from India. Australia has temporarily reduced the number of flights from India by 30%.Canada’s health minister Patty Hadju said, “Throughout this pandemic, we have adapted our response to emerging science with one goal in mind: protecting Canadians. This is what we are doing again today. We have established some of the strongest border measures in the world, to test, screen, and quarantine incoming travellers.”Earlier, during the course of briefing linked to this announcement, she pointed out that while passengers from India accounted for about 20% of those traveling into Canada, they comprise nearly 50% of positive tests on arrival.Till now, Canada has had a system wherein passengers flying in have to have a negative RT-PCR test prior to departure and are tested again on arrival and have to quarantine in a designated hotel till the results of tests are available. They also have to self-isolate for two weeks from the time of arrival.Bill Blair, the minister of public safety and emergency preparedness, said, “These new measures complement those we already have in place and will play a critical role in controlling COVID-19 and variants of concern.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canada-stops-passenger-flights-from-india-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-101619154355201.html
23-04-2021||India||Virar hospital fire: PM Modi announces ex gratia, Uddhav Thackeray orders probe||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday approved an ex gratia of ₹2 lakh each for the next of kin of those who lost their lives in a fire at a covid hospital at Virar in Maharashtra's Palghar. Those who are seriously injured will be given ₹50,000 from Prime Minister's National Relief Fund, the PMO said.Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered a probe into the fire which killed 13 Covid-19 patients admitted to the private-owned Vijay Vallabh Covid Care Hospital. A statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said that Thackeray spoke to the district authorities on learning about the fire incident."Give priority to douse the fire completely and ensure the treatment of the remaining patients is not hampered," the statement quoting the chief minister said. It will be probed whether the fire safety measures were being followed in the hospital."The fire incident at Virar based Vijay Vallabh Hospital's ICU section has claimed 13 lives. It is a very unfortunate and painful incident. CM Thackeray has ordered an in-depth inquiry into this accident," Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said.The Maharashtra government has also announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh to the families of those who lost lives and ₹1 lakh to the injured. "This is a big accident. Those found responsible won't be spared," minister Eknath Shinde said.Reacting to the tragic incident, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wrote on Telegram, "Tragic news has been received from Vijay Vallabh COVID centre in Virar about the death of patients due to a fire. My deepest condolences to the families of the victims."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virar-hospital-fire-pm-modi-announces-ex-gratia-uddhav-thackeray-orders-probe-101619153360079.html
23-04-2021||India||Indian Air Force ferries oxygen containers for Covid-19 relief||The Indian Air Force on Thursday airlifted three empty oxygen containers to Panagarh in West Bengal where these will be filled up and supplied to different centres for Covid relief at a time when the country is reeling under the pandemic, an IAF official said. The IAF used its C-17 and Il-76 heavy-lift aircraft to move the containers, he said. The IAF also ferried Covid testing set-up to Leh.As reported by Hindustan Times, the IAF has deployed its aircraft for airlifting medical personnel, oxygen containers, oxygen cylinders, trolleys and essential medicines to places where they are needed.Doctors and nursing staff have been airlifted from Kochi, Mumbai, Vizag and Bengaluru for setting up of the DRDO hospital at Delhi. Oxygen containers of the DRDO have also been airlifted from Bengaluru for Covid centres in Delhi.With India reeling under an unprecedented public health emergency, its hospitals stretched thin by a staggering number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and deaths being attributed to scarcity of beds, oxygen and medicines, the military and other wings of the defence ministry have been ordered to respond on war footing to fight the outbreak that has so far claimed nearly 185,000 lives.From setting up Covid hospitals to ramping up oxygen production and airlifting of medical staff and oxygen containers to liaising with state governments to help them deal with the rising number of daily cases, the armed forces, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) are working overtime for Covid-19 relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-ferries-oxygen-containers-for-covid-19-relief-101619153815584.html
23-04-2021||India||'This home is vaccinated' posters put up at Jodhpur houses where residents got both doses of Covid-19 vaccine||In a bid to spread awareness regarding vaccination, Jodhpur Municipal Corporation (North) has started an initiative to encourage people by pasting posters stating "this house is vaccinated" at houses where people have received both their Covid-19 vaccine doses.The first-of-its-kind initiative which has been taken by the municipal body here sends a positive message among people regarding coronavirus vaccine and appreciate those, by pasting poster outside their houses, who already get themselves vaccinated."As per the direction of Mayor and with the help of the medical team, an initiative has been taken to appreciate those whose entire family has been vaccinated for the coronavirus. Under this initiative, we paste a poster stating that this house is vaccinated," Rohitashva Tomar, Commissioner of North Municipal Corporation told reporters on Thursday.He further said that in order to remove the misconception and getting people encouraged regarding the vaccine, the municipal body here in Jodhpur sends a positive message to society."The purpose of the initiative is to encourage people who have not yet got themselves vaccinated for the virus. Earlier we used to mark the houses as having Covid-19 positive cases. But this step has a positive approach. I urge people to get themselves vaccinated," the Commissioner said, while the Mayor of the city Kunti Deora Parihar said that we are pasting posters on houses where people aged above 45-years are living and they all got themselves vaccinated for the coronavirus."With this step, people will get encouraged and come to the vaccination centres to get themselves inoculated. From May 1, people above 18 years will be eligible for the vaccine," She said.The third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in India will begin from May 1 and will include those above 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/residents-vaccinated-against-covid-19-in-jodhpur-mark-their-homes-with-posters-101619149791405.html
23-04-2021||India||When to use Remdesivir, Tocilizumab? When to do HRCT chest? Govt issues clinical guidance for Covid-19 treatment||Classifying active Covid-19 patients into three broad groups of mild, moderate and severe, the Union health ministry has issued fresh clinical guidance for the management of adult Covid-19 patients, underlying which patients need which medication and what should not be done in a specific situation.Ivermectin or HCQClarifying that this is based on low certainty of evidence, the guideline said that Tab Ivermectin (200 mcg/kg once a day for 3 days) may be given to patients who have mild symptoms and are being treated at home.An alternative to Ivermectin is Tab HCQ (400 mg BD 1 day f/b 400 mg OD for 4 days) unless contraindicated.For these mild patients, inhalational Budesonide (given via Metered dose inhaler/ Dry powder inhaler) at a dose of 800 mcg BD for 5 days) may be given if symptoms (fever and/or cough) are persistent beyond 5 days of disease onset.#IndiaFightsCorona:📢 Latest Clinical Guidance for Management of Adult #COVID19 Patients‼️For more details: https://t.co/GXFhozHWVN#Unite2FightCorona #StaySafe pic.twitter.com/N64dUuATtiMethylprednisoloneCoovid-19 patients admitted in hospital with moderate symptoms with oxygen level between 90 per cent to 93 per cent on room air can be given injection Methylprednisolone 0.5 to 1 mg/kg in 2 divided doses (or an equivalent dose of dexamethasone) usually for a duration of 5 to 10 daysSerial CXR, HRCT chest can be done on these patients only if there is worsening.Remdesivir (EUA)Remdesivir (EUA) may be considered only in patients with moderate to severe disease, requiring supplemental oxygen and who are within 10 days of the onset of symptoms. Patients who are not on oxygen support or are in home settings should not be recommended Remdesivir.Recommended dose: 200 mg IV on day 1 f/b 100 mg IV OD for next 4 days.Tocilizumab (off-label)A severe Covid-19 patient admitted in ICU can be given this medication within 24 to 48 hours of the admission if the inflammatory markers are significantly raised if there is no improvement despite the use of steroids and only if there is no active bacterial/fungal/tubercular infection.Recommended single dose: 4 to 6 mg/kg (400 mg in 60kg adult) in 100 ml NS over 1 hour.Convalescent plasma (off label)This may be considered only within seven days of the onset of the symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-to-use-remdesivir-tocilizumab-when-to-do-hrct-chest-govt-issues-clinical-guidance-for-covid-19-treatment-101619148803989.html
23-04-2021||India||India registers over 3 lakh Covid-19 cases, world's highest daily tally for second day in row||India on Friday reported over 3 lakh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases for the second day in a row, clocking 332,730 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard at 9:15am on this day. With this, India's trend of registering the world's highest daily tally continues, pushing the country's total infection count to 16,263,695 cases. As many as 2,263 people also died of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, mounting the coronavirus death toll to 186,920. India is currently dealing with a deadlier, more infectious second Covid-19 wave that sweeps through the nation, crushing its health infrastructure and overburdened frontline medical workers.Also Read: AIIMS Delhi faces staff shortage, stops contact tracing of healthcare workers exposed to Covid-19India has repeatedly shattered records for Covid-19 infections and deaths over the past few weeks, stoking fears that the central government may be forced to implement another country-wide lockdown to curb the spread. Yesterday, India had recorded as many as 314,835 new cases in a span of 24 hours, the first time that the country surpassed the three-lakh mark in its daily spike. In Delhi alone, where hospitals are running out of medical oxygen supplies, the daily rise registered on Thursday was over 26,000. As many as 306 new deaths were reported in the national capital, forcing several to turn to makeshift facilities for laying their dead to rest as bodies piled up at encumbered crematoriums and burial grounds.Ten states, including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, and Gujarat, account for 75% of all the new cases registered in a day, the health ministry informed a day ago. On the vaccination front, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 13.53 crore, of which over 30 lakh were administered in the last 24 hours. As many as 274,445,653 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till April 22, with 1,740,550 samples tested on Thursday itself.Also Read: Maharashtra Covid tally over 4 mn; 5 districts report highest growth in a weekIndia is currently the second-worst Covid-19 affected nation in the world, lagging only the US. While the US caseload is twice as high its death toll is three times what India has reported. The surge in Asia’s third-largest economy puts at risk not only its fragile economic recovery but also the global fight against the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-over-3-lakh-covid-19-cases-for-second-day-in-row-101619146140668.html
23-04-2021||India||Willing to talk to India about what it needs to fight Covid pandemic: China||China on Friday said it was willing to talk to India about what it needs to fight the massive surge in coronavirus cases, a day after offering to help New Delhi with necessary support and help.India reported 314,835 new coronavirus cases on Thursday (for the preceding 24 hours), the highest single-day tally recorded anywhere in the world since the pandemic started last year. India’s death toll from the disease rose 2,104 in the same time period.The spike in Covid-19 cases has put medical infrastructure under severe strain with hospitals in parts of India running out of essential medical supplies including oxygen.Responding to a query from Hindustan Times about what kind of assistance Beijing was ready to offer to New Delhi, the Chinese foreign ministry said it was ready to talk to India about what it needs.“China is willing to communicate (on) specific matters with India according to its needs,” the ministry said in a one-line statement in Mandarin to HT.It could not be ascertained if Beijing had officially conveyed to New Delhi its intention to extend help in fighting the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India.Also Read | Rafale weaponry prompts China, Pak to alter defence postureOn Thursday, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin had said that Beijing was aware that the epidemic in India had become severe, and that there was a temporary shortage of necessary materials for epidemic prevention.Wang was responding to a question from Chinese official media at the regular ministry briefing about what action China was taking in view of the spreading epidemic in India.“China is willing to provide the necessary support and help,” Wang had said, without giving details of what such assistance might consist of.“The novel coronavirus is a common enemy of all mankind, and the global community needs to unite as one to fight against epidemics,” he told the briefing.Last year, India was among the countries to help Beijing with medical supplies during the time the Covid-19 outbreak was at its most severe in China.India had provided 15 tonnes of medical supplies comprising masks, gloves, and emergency medical equipment at a cost of about ₹2.11 crore to China at the time.In a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha in March, 2020, external affairs minister of state V Muraleedharan had said the medical supplies included 100,000 surgical masks, 500,000 pairs of surgical gloves, 75 pieces of infusion pumps, 30 pieces of enteral feeding pumps, 21 pieces of defibrillator and 4,000 pieces of N-95 masks.The supplies, flown to China in an India Air Force’s C-17 special flight, were handed over to the Hubei charity federation in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, the first epicentre of the pandemic where the virus had emerged in early December, 2019.In February, 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had written to President Xi Jinping extending India’s assistance to fight the coronavirus outbreak.Speaking at a press conference soon after, Chinese ambassador to India Sun Weidong had appreciated the support and solidarity that India had extended to China in its fight against the novel coronavirus.China had returned the favour in April, dispatching dozens of aircraft with Covid-19-related medical supplies when the first wave of the pandemic became severe in India.India-bound flights had taken off from Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Xi’an and Hong Kong, carrying 390 tonnes of medical supplies, including RT-PCR test kits, Rapid Antibody test kits and personal protection equipment.Soon after, however, ties between India and China had plunged to its worst in decades following military friction along the disputed border in eastern Ladakh. Nearly a year later, the two countries are still grappling to completely defuse the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/willing-to-talk-to-india-about-what-it-needs-to-fight-covid-pandemic-says-china-101619149555199.html
23-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: AIIMS Delhi stops contact tracing of exposed medics||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.AIIMS Delhi faces staff shortage, stops contact tracing of exposed medicsThe All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi informed on Thursday that the hospital is discontinuing the practice of risk assessment and contact tracing of healthcare workers exposed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the wake of insufficient resources and shortages of staff to do so amid the pandemic, according to a notice shared by news agency ANI. Read more.Health ministry advises proning for Covid patients with breathing troublesCovid-19 patients who are being treated at home can practise proning if they are having breathing discomfort, the Union health ministry has said, releasing a detailed document explaining what proning is and how it helps in improving oxygenation. Read more.13 Covid patients killed in fire at ICU of Maharashtra hospitalAt least 13 patients lost their lives after a fire raged in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of private-owned Vijay Vallabh Covid Care hospital in Maharashtra’s Virar (W) on Friday at around 3:15 am. A short circuit in the air conditioning unit of the hospital is said to be the preliminary cause of the fire according to people aware to the development in Vasai Virar civic fire brigade. Read more.Covid-19: PM Modi to address rally virtually in Bengal due to surgePrime Minister Narendra Modi will address an election rally virtually on Friday as the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to affect the nation. PM Modi is also scheduled to chair a series of high-level meetings to review the nation’s condition in the wake of the prevailing situation of the pandemic. Read more.'Tell me that after you get to the first one': Kohli reveals conversation when Padikkal was nearing centuryRoyal Challengers Bangalore captain Virat Kohli had nothing but encouraging and positive words for his teammate Devdutt Padikkal, who on Thursday, slammed his maiden IPL century. Padikkal and Kohli stitched an unbeaten 181-run partnership as RCB gunned down the 178-run target set by Rajasthan Royals in Match 16 of IPL 2021 in Mumbai. Read more.Manoj Bajpayee birthday interview; 'Doesn't feel right to celebrate at a time when people around you are suffering'Actor Manoj Bajpayee, who turns 52 on Friday, has no plans to celebrate this year, given the coronavirus pandemic and the havoc it has created all around. However, he did take some time out to talk about some of his recent projects, his love for Neeraj Pandey and his work, and his own recent fight against coronavirus. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-aiims-delhi-stops-contact-tracing-of-exposed-medics-101619148261736.html
23-04-2021||India||Oxygen crises in MP, hospitals put up banners of unavailability||Hospitals in Madhya Pradesh are struggling with oxygen shortage as its demand continues to grow with rising Covid-19 infections in the state, which had over 84,957 active cases of the disease on Thursday.Aurbindo Hospital, one of Indore’s biggest, put up a board saying it did not have any oxygen. Similar, banners were seen at other private hospitals in Indore as well as Bhopal.Hitesh Sharma, a doctor at a private hospital in Bhopal, said they were left with oxygen on Thursday that lasted for just two hours. “The government provided two cylinders only that helped manage overnight. Now we do not have any oxygen on Friday. There are 32 patients on oxygen support at our hospital and we need oxygen immediately.”A video purportedly showing the family of a Covid-19 patient requesting Union minister Prahlad Patel for oxygen in Damoh went viral. Patel is heard scolding them and saying he would slap a man complaining about of unavailability of oxygen.Despite repeated attempt, Patel could not be contacted for comments. Mukesh Kumar, whose mother is admitted to a hospital in Damoh, said she got oxygen just for 15 minutes on Thursday. “Her saturation level was going down, but hospital administration is not providing oxygen due to shortage.”A health department official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said 405 metric tonnes of oxygen is being supplied to Madhya Pradesh. “But for 19,172 oxygen and Intensive Care Unit beds, [the state needs] 441 metric tonne oxygen. ...Madhya Pradesh requires 553 metric tonne oxygen as the number of cases is increasing very fast.”Also Read | 12,384 new Covid-19 cases take MP’s tally across 450,000-markThe second Covid-19 wave has sparked shortages of hospital beds and other crucial supplies such as oxygen and medicines across the country. Oxygen is a critical medical intervention against Covid-19, which causes respiratory distress in some cases. The pandemic has accelerated the global demand for it. The need for oxygen has increased to 1.1 million cylinders in low to middle-income countries alone, according to the World Health Organisation.Minister Vishwas Sarang said four oxygen plants are being set up. “Bharat Oman Refineries, Bina, will provide oxygen for 10,00 beds hospital being constructed in Bina for Covid-19 patients of Sagar and Vidisha.”Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said they were improving the facilities. “But it is necessary to break the chain. If positive cases increase further, the facilities will fail.” He said they are starting a campaign called Yog se Nirog (healthy with yoga) for Covid 19 patients under home isolation. “A yoga teacher will deal with 10 patients. We will try to enhance the mental strength of patients through this campaign.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-crises-in-mp-hospitals-put-up-banners-of-unavailability-101619148655156.html
23-04-2021||India||Reliance to roll out its own Covid-19 vaccination programme for staff on May 1||Reliance Industries Limited will roll out its own coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination programme, R-Surakshaa, for all eligible employees, a letter released by CEO Mukesh Ambani and Nita Ambani read. "The Covid-positive caseload may rise further over the next several weeks before we begin to see a downward curve. We must be even more vigilant now and uncompromising in observing the strictest measures of safety, precaution and hygiene," the letter added. The R-Surakshaa programme will be effective from May 1. "We urge you to avail your shot at safety without any delay and encourage your eligible family members to do the same," the Ambanis wrote.Reliance will roll out our own vaccination programme, R-Surakshaa, across locations for all our employees and eligible family members above the age of 18 years, effective May 1: Reliance Industries Limited pic.twitter.com/bh2U9Atb5RSharing their action plan to tackle the virus for the next three months, they urged those employees not affected by Covid-19 to support their peers who have been infected in case they need time off. "Our priority remains the safety and health of our people. Do everything possible to uphold this principle and safeguard members of your team and their families," the letter read.The announcement comes as India registered the world's highest single-day tally for the second day in a row. As many as 332,730 fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded on Friday and the total infection count went up to 16,263,695. The number of people who died of the disease in 24 hours went up to 2,263, pushing the total toll to 186,920.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reliance-to-roll-out-its-own-vaccination-programme-for-staff-on-may-1-101619147540121.html
23-04-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid tally over 4 mn; 5 districts report highest growth in a week||Maharashtra recorded 67,013 new cases on Thursday, taking its total tally to over 4 million. Five districts have emerged as areas of concern with respect to the case fatality ratio (CFR: the ratio of deaths per 100 cases), and the test positivity rate (TPR: number of positive cases per 100 tests) is worrisome in at least three of the districts where the data is available.Also Read | Covid-19: PM Modi to address rally virtually in Bengal due to surgeFrom April 15-21, when Maharashtra recorded its highest seven-day average in both cases as well as fatalities, the CFR of five districts posed the most concern. Of them, Ahmednagar recorded the highest at 1.4%, followed by Nagpur (0.95%), Mumbai (0.64%), Nashik (0.62%), and Pune (0.33%). The TPR, however, was the highest in Nagpur at 34%, while Pune recorded that of 26.64% and Mumbai posted 17.21% in the same period. Nashik and Ahmednagar did not reveal their number of tests.Statewide, the average daily cases touched 64,238, while daily deaths averaged 443 – highest ever in the pandemic in the country – in the same time period. The state’s TPR averaged 24.81%. The CFR was 0.69% in the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-tally-over-4mn-5-districts-report-highest-growth-in-a-week-101619146734810.html
23-04-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms likely over western Himalayas till Saturday||Rain and thunderstorms are likely to affect the western Himalayan region till Saturday, according to India Meteorological Department.Under the influence of a fresh active Western Disturbance, widespread rainfall or snowfall with isolated thunderstorm or gusty winds is likely over the western Himalayan region (Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand) during April 22 to 24.Scattered rainfall with isolated thunderstorm or gusty winds is also very likely over adjoining plains of northwest India during the same period.Also Read | Monsoon 2021: The good and bad newsA north-south trough (area of low pressure) runs from south Madhya Maharashtra to south Tamil Nadu and a cyclonic circulation is lying over south Tamil Nadu and neighbourhood in lower tropospheric levels. Under their influence, isolated to scattered rainfall or thunderstorms are very likely over south Peninsular India during the next 4-5 days. Heavy rainfall is also likely over south interior Karnataka till today and over Kerala and Mahe during April 22 to 24. Heat wave conditions are unlikely over the country during the next 4-5 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-likely-over-western-himalayas-till-saturday-101619145774797.html
23-04-2021||India||Health ministry advises proning at home for Covid-19 patients with breathing troubles | All you need to know||Covid-19 patients who are being treated at home can practise proning if they are having breathing discomfort, the Union health ministry has said, releasing a detailed document explaining what proning is and how it helps in improving oxygenation. As the number of Covid-19 patients in the country is increasing rapidly, the hospitals are under stress. Doctors have advised self-monitoring of the oxygen level to understand whether there is a need for hospitalisation. In case, a patient feels discomfort in breathing, a symptom of the infection, they can lie face down, the guideline says.What is proning?Lying face down is known as proning which is a medically accepted position to improve comfort and oxygenation, the health ministry said. If the oxygen level drops below 94, a patient in home isolation can lie on their belly as the position improves ventilation, keeps the alveolar units open.#Unite2FightCoronaProning as an aid to help you breathe better during #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/FCr59v1ASTWhat do you need for proning?About four to five pillows are needed for proning — one has to be placed below the neck, while one or two can be placed below the chest through upper thighs and two pillows can be placed below the shins.One needs to change the lying position every 30 minutes from lying on the belly to lie on each side and then sitting up before going back to the first position of lying face down.When not to do proningThe ministry has listed four conditions when proning should be avoided.> Pregnancy> Deep venous thrombosis (treated in less than 48 hours)> Major cardiac conditions> Unstable spine, femur or pelvic fractures.Other checklists to keep in mind while self-proning> It should not be done for an hour after meals.> Proning should be done when it feels tolerable.> One may prone for up to 16 hours a day, in multiple cycles.> Keep track of any pressure or injuries during proning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-advises-proning-for-covid-patients-with-breathing-troubles-101619142731982.html
23-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Puducherry under complete 4-day lockdown from today||The Puducherry administration imposed a complete lockdown in the union territory (UT) in view of the surge in cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The lockdown will be in place from 10pm on Friday to 5am on April 26, the territorial government announced on Tuesday. A night curfew from 10pm to 5am is already in place in the UT. "A total lockdown will be observed in the whole of the Union Territory from 10 PM on April 23 to 5 AM on April 26 as part of the measures to contain spread of the virus in Puducherry," a release from the office of Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe lockdown comes in the backdrop of the UT registering 987 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 50,580. The number of active cases in the union territory stood at 5,923. Four more people died of the virus, pushing the death toll to 726.Here is all you need to know about the lockdown:(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-puducherry-under-complete-4-day-lockdown-from-today-101619141562122.html
23-04-2021||India||Steps taken to resolve the crisis||MHA has directed states and UTs to ensure the following:• No restriction on movement of medical oxygen between states•No restrictions of oxygen manufacturers or suppliers to supply only hospitals in the state/UT where they are located.•Free movement of oxygen-carrying vehicles into all cities and towns•No authority must attach oxygen vehicles passing through their state/district to make specific supplies in their area•Supply of oxygen for industrial purposes halted from Thursday, till further orders24*7 control room in Delhi: DDMA sets up 24*7 control room to redress grievances, complaints from city hospitals within 30 minutes||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/steps-taken-to-resolve-the-crisis-101619129473112.html
23-04-2021||India||How hospitals scrambled for oxygen||The Delhi government estimated the city will need around 700 MT of oxygen a day due to the increase in patients. On Wednesday, the Centre increased Delhi's oxygen quota to 480 MT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-hospitals-scrambled-for-oxygen-101619129166036.html
23-04-2021||India||'National emergency': SC calls crisis triggered by 2nd Covid-19 wave||The Supreme Court on Thursday called the crisis triggered by the second Covid-19 wave a “national emergency” as it initiated a public interest litigation on its own, and asked the Centre to present before it on Friday a national plan to combat the crisis that has now made India the worst hot spot of the entire global pandemic.“The situation in various parts of the country is grim. There seems to be a sudden surge in the number of Covid patients and mortality,” said the bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, while taking a suo motu cognisance of the surge in infections, which have led to a shortage of hospital beds and crucial supplies such as medical oxygen and medicines.The order said its focus areas at this time were the supply of medical oxygen, essential medicines, the method and manner of vaccination, and the declaration of lockdowns to check the spread of the disease.Issuing the notices to the Union and state governments, it asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to remain present in the court with the national plan on availability and distribution of essential supplies and services. The bench, which also includes justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, appointed senior advocate Harish Salve as amicus curiae to assist the court.A day after India saw the world’s biggest one-day jump in Covid-19 cases ever, the country again broke all records as 332,394 new infections and 2,255 deaths were reported on Thursday, both new single-day records.The ferocious second wave of infections has overwhelmed hospitals and crematoriums across the country and has led to frantic cries for help on social media as patients throughout the country struggled to arrange for beds, key medical supplies such as oxygen and medicines.Pointing out that at least six high courts were hearing issues related to the preparedness of the states and the Centre to deal with the crisis, the bench also issued notices to the petitioners before the high courts, asking why uniform orders should not be passed by the Supreme Court.“The high courts have passed certain orders which may have the effect of accelerating and prioritising the services to a certain set of people and slowing down the availability of these resources to certain other groups whether the groups are local, regional or otherwise,” recorded the court in its order, while telling Mehta that these orders were also creating confusion and diversion of resources because of different priorities.“Prima facie, we are inclined to take the view that the distribution of these essential services and supplies must be done in an even-handed manner according to the advice of the health authorities which undoubtedly take into account relevant factors like severity, susceptibility, the number of people affected and the local availability of resources,” the court recorded in its four-page order.On the issue of lockdowns, the CJI, whose bench had on Tuesday stayed an order of the Allahabad high court for virtually locking down five worst-hit districts of Uttar Pradesh, observed that this authority should be with the state government. “We want to keep the power to declare lockdown with states. It cannot be a judicial decision,” he remarked.In its order, the apex court also asked the Union government to apprise it of existence or requirement of a coordinating body that could consider allocation of the resources in a consultative manner with the involvement of concerned states and Union territories in addition to providing logistical support for transportation and distribution of essential medicines, oxygen and other resources.The bench further asked the Centre to consider the declaration of essential medicines and medical equipment required for treatment of Covid-19 as “essential commodities” under the law.When Mehta asked if the Centre was still required to make submissions before the high courts after the top court’s cognisance, justice Bhat said that the central government should go ahead and adduce its national plan before high courts since the idea was not to supersede high court orders at this moment. However, the CJI was of the opinion that it was perhaps a better idea for the Supreme Court to hear everything together and the matters before the high courts could be transferred to it.During the hearing, the bench had observed that it will issue a notice only to the Centre at the moment. But the written order released in the evening mentioned notices to all the states as well as the petitioners before the high courts.Experts questioned this move.Senior counsel and former additional solicitor general Indira Jaising, however, questioned why justice Bobde put the matter before himself on Friday when he knew that he will not be able to deal with it after one hearing because he is demitting office.“No one had complained about any high court order. So who was the aggrieved party? Can high court orders be bypassed without being challenged? If the Delhi high court had not stepped in at a late-night hearing on Wednesday, many more lives would have been lost,” she told HT, referring to the high court’s order on a Max hospital plea urgently seeking medical oxygen.Former attorney general and senior lawyer Mukul Rohatgi also termed the suo motu registration of the case as “ill-conceived”.“In Covid times, the apex court is hardly functioning when you have just two-three benches sitting there off late. On the other hand, high courts have been doing a great job. They should not be stultified. Proactive high court benches across the nation should rather get a pat on their back for holding courts at all times and rising to the occasion. In any case, this issue should have been left to the new CJI who takes over on Saturday, just a day later.”Salve, who was present in the court on behalf of Vedanta with a request for reopening its Sterlite Copper plant in Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi to produce and supply oxygen for Covid-19 patients, said people were dying every day. “We want this permission only for starting the oxygen plant. And we will supply it free of cost. Give us the permission today and we can start producing it in 5-6 days.”The plant was shut down in May 2018 after 13 civilians were shot dead in the anti-Sterlite protests in Thoothukudi. The Madras high court in August 2020 rejected Vedanta’s petition to reopen the plant, citing environmental concerns. The Supreme Court has also rejected requests to reopen the plant for a trial run.Salve said Vedanta was pleading only for making the oxygen plant in Thoothukudi functional so that it could provide thousands of tonnes of oxygen for medical purposes.Mehta cited the dire need for medical oxygen and added that the Centre was augmenting its supply from all possible sources. “Let Vedanta operate its plant only for the purpose of producing oxygen and this will be diverted only for medical purposes. Sooner the plant starts functioning, better for the country.”Senior advocate CS Vaidyanathan, who represented the Tamil Nadu government, said there was a “trust deficit” with Vedanta. He added the violations for which the plant was shut could not be ignored. The state government opposed any urgent hearing of Vedanta’s application.Justice Bobde questioned the Tamil Nadu government’s attitude. “What is this attitude? You are not manufacturing it [oxygen] and you will be getting it free of cost for your medical emergencies. We will make sure they follow all environmental norms, but we do not appreciate your attitude. This is a national emergency. Do not throw spokes like this,” the CJI told Vaidyanathan, while fixing the hearing into the matter on Friday.Mehta said between protecting human life and the environment, they must lean toward protecting human lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-emergency-sc-calls-crisis-triggered-by-2nd-covid-19-wave-101619127828993.html
23-04-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 tally 330k+; Delhi 1-day toll 306||A day after India became the world’s worst Covid-19 hot spot ever, the country again broke all previous records on Thursday, adding 332,394 new cases and 2,255 new deaths amid a massive second wave of infections that has continued to exceed all global peaks and overwhelmed the nation’s health care system.Till Thursday night, 16,257,091 people are confirmed to have been infected with the disease in the country, of which 186,948 lost their lives.The seven-day average of new cases in the country now stands at 264,838 infections a day. This means that the country, on average, is currently reporting nearly thrice as many cases as it was during the absolute worst of the first wave – India’s first wave of cases peaked at 93,617 for the week ending September 16, 2020, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. On average, 1,800 people have lost their lives to the disease in the country every day in the last week. In the same period, nearly two million people (1,969,347) have been infected in the country.The positivity rate – the proportion of tests that are positive for Covid-19 – continued to soar, with nearly one out of every five samples tested across the country returning positive.Delhi, meanwhile, lodged a record 306 deaths due to the disease and registered 26,169 new cases with an alarmingly high positivity rate of 36.2%, the highest ever recorded since the start of the pandemic in March last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid19-tally-330k-delhi-1-day-toll-306-101619127176748.html
23-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Cost of vaccinating the 18-44 population||On April 19, the Union government announced that vaccinations will open for everyone above the age of 18. While the Centre is providing free vaccination to those about 45, it indicated that people in the 18-44 age group will either have to get them from state governments or buy them from private hospitals. This means that unless state governments decide to supply the vaccines free of cost, people will have to pay to get them. So far, seven state governments have declared that they will provide free vaccines. To be sure, the Centre will continue to acquire vaccines, which may be used to vaccinate the 45-plus population or to supply to state governments.1) So, how much will it cost to vaccinate India’s entire population between 18 and 44 years of age?More clarity is needed on the procurement process and other important details. But answering this question requires clarity on the cost of vaccines. So far, only one of the vaccine manufacturers, Serum Institute of India (SII), which is making the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine (Covidshield in India) has declared its price – ₹400 per dose for state governments and ₹600 per dose for supply to private hospitals. Other vaccines, which include Covaxin made by Bharat Biotech, and those that will be imported or their Indian-made versions will be rolled out, could change the price in the days to come. Taking the SII price as the benchmark for now, vaccination people between 18 and 44 years of age could range anywhere between ₹47,500 crore to ₹71,500 crore, depending on whether the SII vaccine is procured at ?400 per dose or ?600 dose. Where does this number come from? The total population of 18-44-year-old age-group in India is expected to be 594.6 million, according to the report of the government’s Technical Group on Population Projections. This report also gives the statewise break-up of the 18-44 population. This number, when multiplied by ?800 or ₹1200 (for two doses of Covidshield) gives the total cost of ₹47,566 crore or ₹7,1349 crore. Uttar Pradesh, the state with the largest population of 18-44 year olds will have to spend between ₹7,970 crore to ₹11,960 crore for vaccinations. For smaller states such as Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand this number will be in the range of ₹400- ₹625 crore respectively.2) What will be the possible fiscal burden on states?The absolute cost of vaccination, while it is important, does not tell us about the fiscal burden on the states. In order to calculate this, it is useful to look at the vaccine cost (at ₹800 for two doses) as a share of the total spending of states. An HT analysis shows that the fiscal burden of vaccination, defined as cost of vaccination as a share of total budgeted spending of states, will vary in a big way across states. Among 21 states for which data is available in the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy’s (CMIE) database and population projection report, Bihar will face the highest burden – 1.8% of total state spending in 2021-22. This number is the lowest in Himachal Pradesh, where the burden will be just 0.54% of the budgeted state spending. All state budget numbers are 2021-22 budget estimates except for Punjab and Andhra Pradesh where 2020-21 numbers have been used. The total cost of vaccination in India assuming everybody in the 18-44 age-groups was to use the state government supply would be ₹47,565.8 crore, or 26% of the total health spending of the states in 2020-21 as per CMIE data.To be sure, the net cost per person for different governments will likely be lower than these estimates because some people might take the private route for vaccinating themselves and it is possible that some state governments ask some sections of the population to foot the bill for vaccination in part or full.3) What is the affordability of vaccines in open market?Since India does not release income data for its workers, the best way to answer this question is to use earnings estimates given in the latest Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) data. These are 2018-19 figures, but HT has not adjusted them for inflation, given the uncertainty about the adverse impact of the pandemic on employment and earnings. According to PLFS, there were 356 million workers in India in 2018-19 in the current weekly status, or the status of employment during the week preceding the survey. Wage data is available only for this status. PLFS classifies workers into four categories: regular wage/salaried, self-employed, casual workers, and casual workers employed in public works such as MGNREGS. Among these four, regular wage salaried workers had the highest incomes, while the casual workers engaged in public works (about 1% of workers) had the lowest incomes. 22% of Indian workers are casual workers other than public works, who earn an average of ₹8,340 per month.4) What does thismean for vaccine affordability?It is to be expected that an earning member in a household might have to buy vaccines for more than one person in the household, as every member in the 18-44 year age-group might not be employed. According to PLFS, the work force participation rate in the 18-44 year age-group was 51.6% in 2018-19. This means that 48.4% of the population in this age-group is not working. An HT analysis of unit level PLFS data can help in finding out the actual burden of vaccinating people in the 18-44 year age-group by calculating the number of 18-44 year olds in that household and total household earnings irrespective of the age of the earning member. This exercise shows that an average Indian household will end up spending 24% of its monthly incomes on vaccinating its 18-44 members if it was to spend ₹1,200 for both doses. This headline number varies greatly across income class and states. For the bottom 20% of households, this burden will be 43% of their monthly incomes. For the top 20%, this number will be 12% of the household monthly income. The financial burden, as is to be expected, will be significantly higher in rural areas (31%) compared to urban areas (16%).As in the case of the fiscal burden, the private cost of vaccinations will also burden households differently across states. Replicating the analysis used above at the state level, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Odisha, and Jharkhand will have the highest burden while household in richer states will face a smaller burden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cost-of-vaccinating-the-18-44-population-101619125907373.html
23-04-2021||India||India, US announce clean energy initiative||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday announced the launch of a joint climate and clean energy initiative with the United States to “mobilise investments, demonstrate clean technologies and enable green collaborations” in India that could also “create templates of sustainable development” for other developing countries.PM Modi, speaking at the Leaders Summit on Climate convened by US President Joe Biden on Thursday, did not announce any changes or upgrades to commitments under the Paris Agreement but underlined that India was already doing its part and that the country’s per capita carbon emissions are 60% lower than the global average.President Biden opened the summit with an ambitious pledge to cut the US’s greenhouse gases in half by the year 2030 and called upon other nations to “set higher climate ambitions” that will create jobs at home, advance innovative technologies and help countries vulnerable to the impact of climate change”.“We in India are doing our part. Our ambitious renewable energy target of 450 GW by 2030 shows our commitment. Despite our development challenges, we have taken many bold steps on clean energy, energy efficiency, afforestation and biodiversity. We are among few countries whose NDCs (nationally determined contribution, under the Paris climate deal) are 2 degree C compatible,” PM Modi said in an address to over 40 other world leaders who participated in the two-day summit called by Biden.“President Biden and I are launching the India-US Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 partnership. We will help mobilise investment, demonstrate clean technologies and enable green collaborations,” Modi added.No details were available yet on the India-US initiative, but on a visit to India last month, Biden’s special envoy on climate, John Kerry, said that “huge investments” will be forthcoming in India by the US and other countries in return for “some changes by India”.Earlier this month, Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar underscored India’s prerogative to balance development goals with obligations on climate change, saying that the country will attempt to keep its climate commitments but will not act at the behest or under pressure from developed countries.According to a White House statement, Biden’s move to upgrade the country’s NDCs on Thursday will steer the world towards achieving the Paris agreement goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius.The Climate Action Tracker, however, said that the US will need to do even more. Instead of the revised aim to to cut 50-52% in national emissions, it will need to shave off at least 57-63% emissions below 2005 levels by 2030 and provide support to other countries to meet the Paris climate goals.Following the US’s announcement, independent experts said it is time for all countries, including India, to scale up action against climate crisis.“President Biden’s upgraded NDC is a game changer. For too long the US has not put out an aggressive emissions reduction target. All countries could benchmark their lack of progress against the US... We think its time for all countries including India to upgrade action. As per the Climate Action Tracker, India’s NDC is 2 degree C compliant but not 1.5 degree C target compliant. We should ramp up action for our own good,” said Sunita Narain, director general, Centre for Science and Environment.“The new US climate target is a step in the right direction: all major economies should be shifting towards cutting their emissions at least 50% by 2030,” tweeted Laurence Tubiana, CEO European Climate Foundation and one of the architects of the Paris agreement.“The new NDC target that the US submitted today aims to reduce its GHG emissions by 50-52% below 2005 levels. Since the US’ emissions grew between 1990 and 2005, this new target roughly amounts to a 43-45% reduction below its 1990 emissions or its 2020 emissions. This is a step in the right direction, particularly when combined with its commitment to net-zero GHG emissions by 2050. Unlike the UK and EU, however, the US's pledge is not yet enshrined in law. But it has the potential to spur technological innovation,” said Ulka Kelkar, director, climate programme, World Resources Institute.In its Biennial Update Report to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) submitted in February, India said it has progressively decoupled economic growth from greenhouse gas emissions and it was on track to meet its voluntary declaration to reduce emission intensity of GDP by 20-25% from 2005 levels by 2020. The report, however, also noted that India’s reliance on coal will continue to meet the country’s energy needs.On Thursday, President Xi Jinping reiterated that China’s carbon emissions will peak before 2030 and the country will achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. Xi also emphasised on “the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities”, which argues for long-time polluters such as developed countries to do more to fight climate crisis.Some experts agree. "Biden administration's new climate target goes further than its previous commitment yet remains far from its 'fair share' of action. As the world’s biggest historical emitter, the US has a huge responsibility to the communities most affected by a crisis they did the least to cause," said Harjeet Singh, ActionAid’s global lead on climate.Japan Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga too announced that Japan aims to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 and that it will cut its emissions by 46% over 2013 levels by 2030. The United Kingdom too led with a target of cutting emissions by 78% by 2035 compared to 1990 levels.At the summit meant to signal the US’s return to the high chair after the Trump administration pulled out of the Paris agreement, Prime Minister Modi cited India as an example and called for more attention to “lifestyle changes” as a way to combat global warming. “India’s per capita carbon footprint is 60% lower than the global average. It is because our lifestyle is still rooted in sustainable traditional practices,” he said, adding that “back-to-basics” must be an important pillar of economic strategy for the post-Covid era.The summit, termed by Biden as a milestone leading up to the United Nations Climate Change Conference 2021 in Glasgow this November, was also attended by UN secretary general Antonio Guterres, Germany’s Angela Merkel, France’s Emmanuel Macron and Russia’s Vladimir Putin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-announce-clean-energy-initiative-101619125714314.html
23-04-2021||India||Cong leader AK Walia dies of Covid-19 at 72||Senior Congress leader and former Delhi health minister Dr AK Walia died of Covid-19 on Thursday morning. The 72-year-old doctor-politician is credited for playing a crucial role in improving the health care and urban development infrastructure, especially in parts of east Delhi.Party members remember him as soft-spoken, humble, and always ready to help those in need. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi wrote to Walia’s brother, BK Ahluwalia, on the demise of veteran Congress leader. “His unwavering commitment to public service and contribution towards transforming Delhi will be remembered... his spirit of generosity, and willingness to go beyond his call of duty to help people in need will be missed,” wrote Gandhi in the letter, which was shared on a social networking site by Delhi Congress president Anil Chaudhary.A four-time MLA from Laxmi Nagar, and minister in all the three terms of the Sheila Dikshit government, Walia held multiple portfolios, including health, urban development, and power.Former Union minister Ajay Maken tweeted, “We lost Dr AK Walia last night. He was the architect of development in Trans Yamuna area of Delhi. As health minister he laid the foundation for series of govt hospitals in Delhi... his untimely death is a great loss for Delhi.”Senior Congress leader Haroon Yusuf said that Walia was invested in improving the government health infra.His own nursing home, Walia Nursing Home in east Delhi, is a landmark in health infrastructure in east Delhi, said two other Congress leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-leader-ak-walia-dies-of-covid-19-at-72-101619122922556.html
23-04-2021||India||Cops get nod to obtain Sidhu’s voice sample||A Delhi court on Thursday allowed city police to obtain the voice sample of actor-activist Deep Sidhu, accused in connection with the violence at Red Fort on Republic Day.Metropolitan magistrate Sahil Gupta allowed the application in which the police claimed that in order to authenticate the voice of the accused in several videos (Facebook live, TV interviews, etc), it was necessary to match his voice with the ones in the video clippings.While allowing the police plea, the court termed as “premature” the arguments made by the counsel for the accused that the application lacked any concrete detail, saying that the manner in which the investigation is to be done is the prerogative of the investigating agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-get-nod-to-obtain-sidhu-s-voice-sample-101619122246847.html
23-04-2021||India||Thieves steal ₹1.92 lakh from office inside Kannur central jail in Kerala||In a major embarrassment for law-enforcement agencies, burglars stole ₹1.92 lakh from the Freedom Food Factory office inside the Kannur central jail complex. The robbery was discovered by the jail authorities on Thursday morning.According to initial reports, the money proceeds from the sale of jail chapattis and other dishes was kept on a table and burglars reportedly entered the room after breaking two locks. Interestingly, the room was situated just 20 metres away from the main gate which was manned by a special police team called Thunder Bolts.Jail authorities suspect that it was carried out by some inmates who were aware of the money kept inside the room. Finger print experts and forensic officials have visited the spot and all inmates linked to the jail canteen and cafeteria will be questioned. “Since the investigation is on we can’t divulge more. But it turned out to be a big embarrassment,” a senior official, who did not want to be named, admitted.Many jails in the state make tasty cuisine including chappati with chicken curry, biryani, Kerala porotta and many other dishes. Since rates are very economical there is a big demand for food from the jail called, Freedom Food Factory. In Thiruvananthapuram jail, the department runs an AC freedom cafe and fuel filling station also. Viyyur central jail in Thrissur launched a successful online delivery system with the help of food major Swiggy two years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thieves-steal-rs-1-92-lakh-from-office-inside-kannur-central-jail-in-kerala-101619121892061.html
23-04-2021||India||Sonia demands uniform price for Covid vaccines||Congress president Sonia Gandhi wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday questioning how the government could allow “brazen profiteering from people’s misery” as she demanded a re-evaluation of the Centre’s modified vaccination policy and a uniform price for vaccines.She referred to the Serum Institute of India (SII)’s Covishield rate list— ₹150 per vaccine dose for the Centre, but ₹400 for state governments and ₹600 for private hospitals. “This means that citizens will be compelled to pay these high rates to be vaccinated. This will also bleed the finances of state governments,” Gandhi said in her letter.The SII on Wednesday became the first company to disclose the pricing under the new, open-market mechanism for coronavirus vaccinations from next month.Gandhi questioned how the same vaccine manufactured by SII could have three different prices. She added there was no rationale or justification to this “arbitrary distinction”.“At a time when medical resources are scarce, hospital beds are unavailable, oxygen supply and availability of essential medicine is dwindling rapidly, why is your Government allowing a policy that reeks of such insensitivity,” she said.Gandhi accused the government of abdicating its responsibility of providing free vaccination to people in the age group of 18 to 45. “This is [a] complete abandonment of the Government’s responsibility towards our youth.” She reiterated the allocation to state governments should be “transparent and equitable, in line with the spirit of cooperative federalism”.The Centre on Monday announced all adults will be eligible for vaccination and doses can be sold in the market from May 1 as it heeded calls for wider access as India grapples with a surge of Covid-19 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-demands-uniform-price-for-covid-vaccines-101619121376498.html
23-04-2021||India||14 held for abduction of 3 ONGC employees in Assam, ULFA-I role confirmed||The police in Assam’s Sivasagar arrested 14 people on Thursday in connection with the abduction of three employees of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC). Police officials confirmed the role of the banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) in the abductions. Search operations are underway in neighbouring Nagaland where the abducted persons are believed to have been kept. “Till Thursday evening we have arrested 14 people on suspicion of their involvement in the abductions. Further investigations are underway,” said Amitabh Sinha, superintendent of police, Sivasagar. The three employees were abducted from a work over rig site inside the Lakwa tea estate in the early hours of Wednesday. The abducted employees are Ritul Saikia, Mohini Mohan Gogoi (both junior engineer assistants) and Alakesh Saikia (junior technician)—all of them belong to Assam. According to the police, 5 armed persons came to the rig site in an ONGC ambulance and abducted the 3 employees at gunpoint. The ambulance was recovered later close to the Assam-Nagaland border, around 11 km away. “It is now confirmed that ULFA-I was responsible for the abductions. The police are not yet aware of any ransom demand made by the outfit for the release of the abducted persons,” said Singha. “We suspect the abducted persons were taken to Nagaland. A search operation with involvement of different agencies is underway at present in Nagaland to rescue the ONGC employees,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-held-for-abduction-of-3-ongc-employees-in-assam-ulfa-i-role-confirmed-101619120332070.html
23-04-2021||India||Finalise complaints against officials within 3 months: CVC to ministries||The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has written to all Union ministries and departments under them to finalise complaints against government officers within three months so that vigilance clearances are not held up indefinitely.The apex body, in a communication sent on Monday, said it had observed from proposals received by the commission for vigilance clearances that complaints against employees often stay on their vigilance profiles without any further movement.“This has led to a situation where the vigilance clearance is being delayed or denied for no fault of the employee,” the CVC order said. It asked the ministries and departments to take such complaints against employees to their “logical conclusion” within three months of the date of receipt of the complaint.“Logical conclusion here implies that the decision shall be taken by the organisation to either file the complaint, or register a vigilance case for further investigation, or register a non-vigilance administrative action case for further investigation,” the CVC order said.“As a pilot, to begin with, the backlog complaints received till December 31, 2020 shall be disposed of according to the guidelines issued in this circular and compliance reported by May 31, 2021,” the order added.At the end of the third month from the date of receipt of a complaint, and after deciding the course of action, a copy of the complaint shall be made available to the employee concerned within 15 days through speed post, it said. If the name of the employee is not explicitly mentioned, a copy of the complaint will be made available to the staff concerned at the stage of registration of a vigilance or non-vigilance case, the order further said.Subsequently, if a decision has been made to take up the matter as a vigilance case, the organisation concerned shall send its inquiry report to the commission or Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) seeking advice within three months of registration of such a case, it added.Lauding the directive, former ONGC chairman R S Sharma said: “These investigations drag on for months, sometimes years and at the time of empanelment of an officer, these are brought out to deny promotion or other due benefits. Delay in completing these investigations leads to harassment. The CVC directive is appreciable. It is in the interest of natural justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finalise-complaints-against-officials-within-3-months-cvc-to-ministries-101619119276568.html
23-04-2021||India||Ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply: Centre to states, UTs||The Centre on Thursday invoked the Disaster Management Act and directed the states and Union territories to ensure uninterrupted production and supply of medical oxygen and its transport along interstate borders, amid reports of several states stopping supply vehicles from travelling to other areas.The order, issued by Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, said the district magistrates, deputy superintendent of police and deputy commissioner of police of the district concerned will be personally liable in case there is any violation.Section 56 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which is in force since March 12 last year when the first wave of the coronavirus disease had begun in India, says that any officer refusing to or failing to implement the directions issued by the authority may face imprisonment of one year along with fine.Asserting that supply of medical oxygen cannot be limited to one state or district, the order said availability of adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen is an important pre-requisite for managing moderate and severe cases of Covid-19 and with increasing cases, the medical oxygen supply will need to keep pace with the requirements of the states and Union territories.Bhalla directed there should be no restriction on the movement of medical oxygen between the states and transport authorities shall be instructed to accordingly allow free interstate movement of vehicles carrying oxygen.He further instructed that no authority shall attach oxygen-carrying vehicles passing through any district for making supplies specific to any particular district. Subsequently, it asked states to make sure there are no restrictions imposed on oxygen manufacturers and suppliers to limit the supplies only to hospitals of the respective state.“There shall be free movement of oxygen carrying vehicles into the cities, without any restriction of timings, while also enabling inter-city supply without any restriction,” the order said.The Centre has already prohibited supply of oxygen for industrial purposes, except those (nine specified industries) exempted by the government beginning Thursday.The order highlighted that medical oxygen is an essential public health commodity and any impediment in its supplies has the potential to critically impact the management of patients suffering from coronavirus disease in other parts of the country.The Centre announced on Wednesday evening that it was increasing the quota of oxygen in eight states, including Delhi, in view of the sudden spike in demand due to an exponential rise in the number of Covid-19 patients admitted in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-uninterrupted-oxygen-supply-centre-to-states-uts-101619119311243.html
23-04-2021||India||UAE, Australia, Oman ban travel from India||New Delhi The United Arab Emirates (UAE), Australia and Oman on Thursday joined the list of countries that have imposed travel restrictions on India in the wake of a massive surge in coronavirus infections, either completely barring or restricting flights from the country. The National Emergency Crisis and Disaster Management Authority and the General Civil Aviation Authority of the UAE announced the temporary suspension of all flights from India and the entry of transit passengers for a period of 10 days from April 25. Cargo flights between the two sides were exempted from the ban.People who transited through India in the past 14 days will also be barred from entering the UAE and the travel ban will be reviewed after 10 days, according to the announcement.The ban will not apply to UAE nationals, diplomatic passport holders, official delegations, and “golden residency” visa holders, though they will be required to take further preventive measures such as a 10-day quarantine and a RT-PCR test at the airport. Flights between Indian cities and Dubai have been among the busiest routes even during the pandemic as the UAE is home to more than three million Indians, one of the largest concentrations of expatriates in West Asia. On Thursday, Singapore further tightened restrictions for travellers from India, mainly to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in its crowded workers’ dormitories. Officials acknowledged that the move would impact the construction and marine sectors, which employ a large number of people from India and other South Asian countries. The UAE became the third country after the UK and Oman to bar the entry of Indian nationals even as the daily infections surged past the 300,000-mark. On Wednesday, Oman barred the entry of travellers from India, Pakistan and Bangladesh from April 24. The ban will also cover travellers who transited through any of the three South Asian countries over the past 14 days, Oman’s Supreme Committee announced. The Australian government has decided to temporarily reduce the number of flights from India by 30% after registering a spike in incoming travellers testing positive for Covid-19. People coming from high-risk countries such as India will also have to test negative for Covid-19 at least 72 hours before boarding a flight to Australia. Prime Minister Scott Morrison said the reduction will apply to government-organised repatriation flights and commercial flights. The change will take effect “in the months ahead”, he said without giving details. Authorities in Australia’s Northern Territory (NT) said there would be changes to the schedule of repatriation flights from India to Howard Springs and the requirements for travellers. “All repatriation flights not yet booked but planned for the NT for May will now be deferred until June,” chief minister Michael Gunner was quoted as saying by ABC News. “Anyone returning from India on these flights and all flights thereafter will be required to isolate for two weeks prior to departure,” he said. The move follows the Howard Springs quarantine facility dealing with the highest number of Covid-19 cases since it began handling repatriation flights last year, with most cases recorded among arrivals from India. Singapore on Thursday announced that all long-term pass holders and short-term visitors with a history of travel to India within the last 14 days wouldn’t be allowed entry into the country from April 24. This includes travellers transiting through India and those who had obtained prior approval for entry into Singapore, officials said. “We know that this major move will have an impact on our construction, marine and process sectors. And many local SMEs and contractors will be badly impacted,” Lawrence Wong, co-chair of Singapore’s Covid-19 multi-ministry task force, told a news conference. Singapore’s health ministry had on Tuesday said Covid-19 border measures would be tightened for travellers from India, who will have to stay at home for an additional seven days after the mandatory 14-day stay at dedicated facilities. The US, the UK and New Zealand have imposed fresh restrictions on travellers from India or issued advisories against travelling to India in the backdrop of a massive spike in coronavirus cases. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Japan Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga have called off planned visits to India because of the Covid-19 situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-australia-oman-ban-travel-from-india-101619119192616.html
23-04-2021||India||Night curfew hits street food vendors||Bengaluru Bharat Kumar R, a street food vendor in Vijayanagar area of Bengaluru, is a worried man, like many others in the business. The extended night curfew and weekend restrictions announced by the government on Tuesday has dealt a harsh blow on the food cart vendor businesses, which were yet to recover from the last year’s lockdown in the city. “Our business starts only after 7-8 pm. We especially cater to those who come into town late after finishing work and want food, especially bachelors and others like delivery boys, cab, auto, and bus drivers among others. There is no section that does not come to us for food,” Kumar said. Food cart vendors, who serve dishes like egg rice, kebabs, tea and other condiments after dusk, said their businesses have come down by as much as 80%, adding that the new restrictions will further cripple their sole source of income. The BS Yediyurappa-led government, which announced fresh restrictions to contain the surging Covid-19 cases, has allowed food delivery from hotels and restaurants during the curfew hours, but has barely taken into consideration these vendors who feed the thriving gig economy of Bengaluru, said food experts. The government has tried to mitigate the hardships of those forced to stay back at home by allowing food and grocery delivery, fuel stations, cabs, buses and autos, medical stores, private security guards, ambulance and hospital staff among others. But the food carts, which offer a lifeline to workers in these sectors beyond regular hours, have neither got the permission to remain open nor received any financial compensation from the government this time or during the previous lockdown, they added. “Our business begins only after 8 pm. So, when the government order is for closure at 9 pm, we have to start closing by around 7.30 pm. Almost 80% of our business has vanished. Whether it is a night curfew or a lockdown or a weekend curfew, it has the same impact on us,” Manju G, another food vendor who has a stall outside the TTMC bus stand, said. The mobile food carts serve food for prices in the range of ₹30-60 in almost all urban centres of India, outside bus stands, railway stations, IT parks, among others. “A lot of delivery boys from Zomato, Swiggy and cab drivers from Ola and Uber eat from carts like ours,” Kumar added. This section of business is run mostly by families, with each member handling one aspect of the operations like cooking, cleaning, supplies and service. Food vendors are part of a large unorganised economy of Bengaluru and other large urban centres, but the lack of a union or organisation often deprives them of bargaining powers that other sectors may have, said experts. The government announced a slew of relief during the first lockdown for weavers, auto drivers, barbers and construction workers, but an even larger section of people in various professions do not even come in the radar of the administration, vendors and political leaders said. Being aware of the hardships people might endure if a second lockdown was announced, the Yediyurappa government tried to find a middle path with the night and weekend curfew to contain the Covid-19 surge without closure of businesses. “We have bigger problems than corona,” said Abdul Wahab, a food cart vendor in Frazer Town area in East Bengaluru. Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar said the government has failed. “The government must first instill courage in people and aid them financially,” he said. Another Congress legislator said several sections of people were barely noticed during the previous lockdown and restrictions even this time. “The last lockdown was almost inevitable, and we did not have any knowledge or time. We used our savings to survive the lack of income. But this time we don’t know what to do to survive,” Syed Mudabbir Ahmed, an auto driver said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-hits-street-food-vendors-101619119191964.html
23-04-2021||India||Maharashtra taking urgent steps to combat Covid surge, HC told||Mumbai The Bombay high court while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) questioning the mismanagement of the second Covid-19 wave in Maharashtra on Thursday was assured by the state and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) that appropriate measures were being taken to ensure equitable distribution of life-saving drugs and oxygen.As the hearing was on, additional solicitor general Anil Singh informed the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni that a web portal had carried a report that the Chief Justice of India had taken suo motu cognisance of all Covid-related public interest litigations (PIL) being heard by high courts and decided to hear all petitions together on Friday, with senior advocate Harish Salve as the amicus curiae. Singh informed the court that it could not continue hearing the case further and that the Supreme Court will deal with the supply of oxygen, essential drugs, method and manner of vaccination and powers of the state to declare a lockdown. However, as the SC was yet to issue an order staying the hearing in the HC or seeking transfer of petitions, the HC bench continued the hearing. The HC bench, while hearing the PIL filed by advocate Sneha Marjadi, was informed by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that the state was taking urgent steps to combat the spread. Pointing to the shortage of oxygen and life-saving drugs like remdesivir, he submitted the Centre had announced that it would take care of it from May 1. On a query by the court on the availability till April 30, Kumbhakoni submitted that measures such as asking suppliers to hand over the medicines directly to the collector who, in turn, would distribute it to hospitals were put in place. To this, the court said there has to be a portal on availability of essential Covid-19 drugs. Referring to a news report from last year which said that people need to be cautious about the spread of Covid till June 2021, the HC said, “Had we not lowered our guard at least till June 30, 2021, this situation would not have been arisen.” “You should realise this is an emergency situation,” said the bench, adding that black-marketing and profiteering should be stopped. With regard to the availability of Covid-19 tests, the state submitted the concerns and suggestions of advocate Simil Purohit for the petitioner to allow more labs for testing and having a uniform rate for the medicines would be considered. The court also stressed on the need for a faster way of testing, asking the state whether RT-PCR tests could be made more affordable and accessible to all.Addressing the issue of availability of beds, both Kumbhakoni and senior advocate Anil Sakhare for the BMC submitted there were sufficient beds in the state and statistics showed there were more beds than existing patients. “The shortage is because the middle class and upper class are now affected and they want a bed in a hospital of their choice. When the same is not available, it is depicted as shortage, while closeby hospitals may have vacant beds,” said Kumbhakoni. The court accepted the suggestions of Purohit and advocate Rajesh Inamdar, for an intervener, on the use of print and electronic media to spread awareness on the measures and to curb panic.The court also sought to know from the state the effects of Covid-19 on smokers and said that till the virus is not eradicated, the state and the Centre should consider banning smoking and consumption of tobacco products. Reacting to the Nashik oxygen leak that claimed 24 lives on Wednesday, the court said, “How can this happen in a civilised society? While the oxygen supply is less, there is leakage. It is of concern. This is not what we expect from a responsible government.” The HC said the Centre and the state should set aside politicking and concentrate on tackling the problems. The court scheduled the next hearing for May 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-taking-urgent-steps-to-combat-covid-surge-hctold-101619119131747.html
23-04-2021||India||Court seeks CBI, ED reply on Michel bail||Delhi court on Thursday sought the responses of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) on two bail applications by alleged middleman Christian Michel, who was arrested in connection with the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper scam cases.Special CBI judge Arvind Kumar issued notices to the probe agencies, and sought their responses by May 6, when the case will be heard next.Michel, accused in a case of corruption filed by the CBI in relation to the scam and another case of money laundering filed by the ED, moved the bail applications through advocates Sriram Parakkat and Aljo Joseph, saying that no purpose was being served by keeping him in custody.“The applicant has undergone almost 600 hours of custodial interrogation by both the agencies. As of today, the applicant has spent more than two years and four months, in addition to the period which he spent in Dubai jail,” he said in his application.Special public prosecutor NK Matta and advocate DP Singh received the notice for ED and CBI respectively.Michel, extradited from Dubai, was arrested by ED in December 2018.Michel is among the three alleged middlemen being probed in the case by ED and CBI in the case. The other two are Guido Haschke and Carlo Gerosa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-seeks-cbi-ed-reply-on-michel-bail-101619118951357.html
23-04-2021||India||Thief leaves 1,710 vaccine doses with an apology||A thief stole 1,710 doses of Covid-19 doses from a hospital in Haryana’s Jind town on Thursday but left it at a tea stall hours later with an apology note saying they didn’t mean to take away coronavirus shots, state police said.The shots were stolen from the personal protective kit centre of the Civil Hospital in Jind around 12.44am, said authorities.Jind deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Jitender Katkar said a man handed over a sealed packet to an old man sitting at a tea stall outside the Civil lines police station on Thursday.“The thief told the old man to hand over the packet to a police personnel and said there is food inside the packet. When the old man brought the packet, the cops found doses inside it. Then, we called the doctors and they checked all vials. No vaccines were found missing,” he said.Inside the packet, police also found a note.“The thief had written ‘sorry- I did not know it was corona vaccine’. We are checking the CCTV footage near the tea stall to identify the thief,” the DSP added.The packet contained 440 doses of Covaxin and 1,270 of Covishield.Earlier in the day, police said two men were caught on CCTV footage breaking into the hospital’s store past midnight. “We have studied the footage in which the two men are seeing breaking into three locks to reach the vaccine stock,” the hospital spokesman said.Civil surgeon Dr Manjeet Singh said: “It seems the thieves came to steal Remdesivir, the medicine to treat Covid-19, but took away the vaccines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thief-leaves-1-710-vaccine-doses-with-an-apology-101619119071157.html
23-04-2021||India||Pfizer offers vaccine to Indian govt at not-for-profit price||US pharma major Pfizer said on Thursday that it had offered a not-for-profit price for its vaccine to the government and was in talks with the administration to deploy its jab for India’s Covid-19 immunisation programme.The Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 mRNA vaccine has been widely used in the United States and Europe for inoculating large populations and has a tested efficacy of around 95%.It is a two-dose vaccine but the company said last week that people may need a third dose within 12 months of getting fully vaccinated, which may be the case with others too as scientists attempt to understand the duration of immunity.“For India, Pfizer has offered a not-for-profit price for its vaccine for the government immunisation program. We continue to be in discussions with the government and remain committed to make our vaccine available for deployment in India’s immunisation program,” a statement by the company read.The company said that it was interested in working exclusively with the government.“During the current pandemic situation worldwide, Pfizer has maintained that its priority would be to exclusively support governments through supply of its vaccine only to governments for their immunisation programs. This would be our approach in India as well,” the statement added.On April 13, India announced that Covid-19 vaccines cleared for use in the US, the UK, the European Union, and Japan will get fast-track approval in India, and would not need prior bridging trial results to seek emergency use authorization (EUA). The trials can be done in parallel to administering the shots to the general population..The move is expected to potentially boost India’s pandemic response when it has recorded the world’s worst surge in infections.At present, there are vaccines by three companies that are approved by regulators identified by the government and are yet to be authorised in India: Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and Johnson&Johnson. A fourth vaccine, made by Novavax, has made progress in clinical trials and sought approval from several of these regulators.Pfizer said it will continue talks with the Indian government on the matter.“We have noted the recent announcement with regard to the regulatory pathway for global vaccines. We remain committed to continuing our engagement with the government towards making the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine available for use in the government’s immunisation program in the country.”The company also denied some reports citing a price for American vaccines in India. “In all our agreements Pfizer has adopted a distinct pricing structure for high, middle, and low/lower-middle-income countries consistent with our commitment to work towards equitable and affordable access for our Covid-19 vaccine for people around the world,” the company said.Despite being the first company to have applied for EUA of its Covid-19 vaccine on December 7, Pfizer withdrew its application on February after the national drugs controller did not approve its EUA application and sought additional data.The decision was taken after the central drugs standard control organization (CDSCO) subject expert committee (SEC), on February 3, did not recommend granting approval for want of more data.The company said Pfizer’s priority had been to ensure rapid manufacturing and deployment of the COVID-19 vaccine to cater to the current emergency response scenario.“We are also mindful of the unique mRNA technology that is being utilized in this vaccine. Given these considerations, Pfizer has created two dedicated supply lines with established vaccine capabilities – one each in US and Europe… This will continue to be the company’s strategy for the time being. At this time we are not in discussions for any additional local manufacturing for this vaccine,” the company said.“Once the pandemic supply phase is over and we enter a phase of regular supplies, Pfizer will certainly evaluate all additional opportunities available. We remain committed to working towards equitable and affordable access for our COVID-19 vaccine for people around the world including in India, and we welcome opportunities to collaborate with the government to fight COVID-19,” the statement further read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-offers-vaccine-to-indian-govt-at-not-for-profit-price-101619119012419.html
23-04-2021||India||TN can share O2 if state’s needs are met: Madras HC||Chennai: Tamil Nadu can help other states in need of oxygen amid the relentless surge in Covid-19 cases if it has good production capacity and its own needs were met, the Madras high court observed on Thursday. The court’s observation came after the state government informed that there is no shortage of oxygen or Remdesivir, a drug used in treatment of Covid-19 patients.The court had taken suo-motu cognizance of reports that the Centre had diverted supply of oxygen to other states without the consent of the Tamil Nadu government, and shortage of the antiviral drug. “We are one country. If we have the resources here, we must share it,” a bench comprising chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said. The bench, however, raised concerns over the new pricing of Covid-19 vaccines and the financial burden it would cause on lower income groups. The observation also came shortly before the Supreme Court took suo-motu cognisance of the prevailing Covid-19 situation and sought a “national plan” to fight various issues on Friday. Earlier in the day, Banerjee had directed advocate general (AG) Vijay Narayan to focus on four areas -- the availability of the antiviral drug, oxygen, ventilators and vaccines. He also directed additional solicitor general (ASG) R Sankaranarayanan, who was representing the Centre, to be present for the hearing at 2.15 pm. During the hearing later, the state government informed the court that Tamil Nadu has a storage capacity of 1,167 tonnes of oxygen with a daily manufacturing capacity of 400 tonnes and that only 250 tonnes were being used for treatment as of now. Additionally, Puducherry has a production capacity of 150 tonnes, it added.“Recently, about 65 tonnes of oxygen were diverted from Tamil Nadu to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana but it did not affect our capacity at all,” the AG said. Out of 9,600 ventilators, 5,887 are earmarked for Covid-19 treatment in government hospitals. On the other hand, 3,000 ventilators are available in private hospitals. 3,10,000 vials of Remdesivir which is more than enough to meet contingencies, he added. The government also said that it is prepared to face any emergency and that a contingency plan was being prepared in case of an unforeseen situation. At present, there is no shortage in the four areas, it added. Taking note of the new pricing for vaccines announced by the Serum Institute of India (SII), the court asked the ASG to consider the financial burden it would cause on the citizens. On Wednesday, the SII, which locally manufactures the Covishield vaccine, fixed the price at ₹400 for government and ₹600 for private players per dose. “If the people do not take the vaccine, they will continue to remain as carriers and spreaders,” the bench said, taking into consideration that all those above 18 years of age would be eligible for the jab from May 1. It also urged the Centre to consider the requirements of the less privileged and those without basic resources and adequate jobs in the wake of the 2020 lockdown.Besides this, the court called for special measures to ensure minimum spread during Ramzan and on May 2 when counting of votes for the April 6 assembly elections will be conducted. The court said it was not interfering in the state’s functioning but wanted to ensure stricts measures were in place to tackle any emergency situation. The bench adjourned the hearing for Monday when the state is expected to submit more data on availability of hospital beds and vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tncan-share-o2-if-state-s-needs-are-met-madras-hc-101619118831333.html
23-04-2021||India||Violence mars 6th phase of polls, over 79% voter turnout||Injuries to two people in police firing and stray incidents of violence marked the sixth phase of polling in West Bengal on Thursday that was largely peaceful across four districts and held amid an alarming spike in coronavirus infections in the state. Polling was held for nine seats each in North Dinajpur and Nadia, 17 in North 24 Parganas, and eight in East Burdwan district. Provisional turnout stood at 79.09 %, comparatively lower than the polling percentage recorded in the first five phases. In the sixth phase, 306 candidates were in the fray. “Polling was today conducted peacefully in 14,480 polling stations,” the election commission (EC) said in a statement. With the sixth phase, polling has been held now for 223 of 294 seats. At Bagda in North 24 Parganas, a mob allegedly attacked a state police team, injuring a constable and the officer-in-charge of Bagda police station, EC officials said. When police fired three rounds to disperse the mob, two villagers suffered leg injuries. The incident triggered a slugfest between Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders. “Police opened fire on innocent villagers. Even the state police are now under the control of the EC,” said TMC spokesperson Snehasish Chakraborty. “The attack on the state police was an outcome of the instigating speeches by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Four men were killed at Sitalkuchi in north Bengal (on April 10) when central forces opened fire in self defence. Before that incident, Banerjee asked people to attack central forces,” said BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar. Voting took place amid a spike in coronavirus infections. The state reported more than 10,000 infections on Wednesday and 11,948 on Thursday. Fifty-six people died in Bengal between Wednesday and Thursday morning. Prime Minister Narendra Modi cancelled the four rallies he was to address in Bengal on Friday. “Tomorrow, will be chairing high-level meetings to review the prevailing COVID-19 situation. Due to that, I would not be going to West Bengal,” Modi tweeted. He was supposed to address a rally at the Shahid Minar grounds in the heart of Kolkata. Union home minister Amit Shah, who addressed a rally in South Dinajpur district where polls will be held on April 26, said by the time polling in the sixth phase ends, the BJP will secure an absolute majority. “But we still want you to vote for us so that BJP gets over 200 seats.” In North 24 Parganas district, TMC and BJP workers clashed in Ashoknagar, Barrackpore and Bijpur. BJP workers alleged that six people sustained splinter injuries when bombs went off at Ashoknagar. TMC workers blamed central forces for opening fire on them and said a man was shot in his leg. Central paramilitary officers posted in the area dismissed the allegation saying no shots were fired anywhere. The EC sought a report from the local administration as the election watchdog’s police observer, Navin Kumar, rushed to the area. BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy’s son, Subhranshu Roy, who was contesting from Bijpur seat in North 24 Parganas, alleged that bombs were hurled at their supporters. Mukul Roy contested the Krishnanagar North seat in Nadia district against actress Kaushani Mukherjee (TMC). “I was gheraoed by BJP workers in some areas when I was visiting polling booths,” alleged Mukherjee. Shah and chief minister Mamata Banerjee held rallies in districts where polls will be held in the last two phases on April 26 and 29. Addressing a rally in Malda district, where Muslims comprise majority of the population, Banerjee said: “There was a time when some people were in the CPI(M). They terrorised people. Now, the same people are in the BJP and still terrorising people... I will never let the BJP enforce the National Population Register and National Register of Citizens in Bengal, not as long as I am alive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violence-mars-6th-phase-of-polls-over-79-voter-turnout-101619118171086.html
23-04-2021||India||Rafale weaponry prompts China, Pak to alter defence posture||With the Indian Air Force’s (IAF) Rafale fighter successfully test-firing the 60km range Hammer air-to-ground modular weapon in March, the air defence posture of both China and Pakistan has changed in the wake of the advent of the multi-role fighter in South Asia, according to people familiar with the matter.The Hammer weapon secured a bunker-busting vertical hit on its target at the testing location. According to top South Block officials, with the IAF’s first Rafale squadron just one short of completion in Ambala, the Chinese have moved their so-called fifth generation fighter J-20 ahead in the Tibet and Xinjiang airbases. The Pakistanis have also moved their Chinese import JF-17 fighter in key forward bases to tackle the clear and present threat of the Rafale fighter. Although the Chinese say the J-20 is the third operational fifth-generation fighter after the US F-22 and F-35, genuine fifth-generation fighters developed by the Americans do not have a canard that further reduces the cross-section of the plane, the officials said. The Chinese J-20 has the same canard as the Rafale, which the IAF calls a 4.5-generation fighter.The Chinese and Pakistani air posture has also undergone a change with IAF’s induction of the Rafale as the latter carries the Meteor air-to-air missile, whose range is way beyond any missile the other two forces have in their arsenal. The Hammer and Scalp air-launched cruise missile with a range of over 500km ensures that the adversary will have no early warning as the two weapons can be launched from within Indian territory and beyond visual range.While India could only send three out of five readied fighters from the Merignac Bordeaux airbase in France on Wednesday due to unforeseen reasons, seven more fighters have been lined up for delivery to IAF next month. Although the seven fighters may come in batches of three and four, six of them will be flown to the Hashimara airbase in West Bengal via Ambala. The re-pavement and extension of the main runway at Hashimara, which sits astride the Siliguri corridor, is expected to be completed by this month-end. The Haishmara upgrade also includes blast pens and surface-to-air missile batteries to protect the vital base.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-weaponry-prompts-china-pak-to-alter-defence-posture-101619117691126.html
23-04-2021||India||Country is being run by God, remarks HC amid oxygen shortages||The Delhi high court on Thursday warned of criminal action against authorities failing to ensure “safe” and “unobstructed” passage of oxygen cylinders for hospitals in the city from different states, while regretting that “the country is being run by God”.“We direct the Centre to ensure strict compliance of the allocation order of April 21, April 22 of the ministry of home affairs under the Disaster Management Act and our order of April 21. We also direct all the authorities concerned who are bound by the order to ensure its strict compliance... We want to make it clear that this order is implemented immediately since non-compliance is likely to result in grave loss of lives and we put it to everyone that non-compliance of these orders will also invite criminal action”.“We direct the Centre to ensure that supplies of all the oxygen producing plants as per the allocation order are made and transportation takes place without any hindrance… to ensure that adequate security is provided to the lorries transporting oxygen and that there is no obstruction created. A special corridor may be created for immediate transportation,” a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli said.The bench, on Wednesday, in a late evening hearing, had got the Centre to assure it that safe and unobstructed passage would be provided to oxygen cylinders for patients in Delhi from different states. The Centre on Thursday issued an order with directions on timely and unhindered transportation of oxygen.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, for the Centre, told the court that the ministry of home affairs has issued an order to all the states and Union territories to ensure that no restriction shall be imposed on the movement of medical oxygen between states and transport authorities shall be instructed to accordingly allow free interstate movement.The direction came after the Delhi government told the court that the amount of oxygen that was to come from Panipat in Haryana was not being allowed to be picked up by the local police there. The court was also informed that several hospitals in the city such as Saroj Super Speciality Hospital, Rohini, Balaji Action Centre, Paschim Vihar, and many others had run out of oxygen supply and were left only with a few hours of medical oxygen.An anguished high court nudged the Centre and remarked during the hearing, “We all know that the country is being run by God,” adding that the situation in the city had become “precarious”. It said the Centre should make sure that oxygen reached the national capital without any hiccups.“If the government wants it can do anything and can even make heaven meet earth,” it observed.The directions were passed on a plea by advocate Rakesh Malhotra who sought ramping up of tests in the city. The petition, which was disposed of, was again revived by the HC on Monday, April 19, noting that the virus had raised its “ugly head” once again and that the “health care infrastructure is at the stage of imminent collapse”.The court noted that the Centre’s allocation of oxygen for Delhi from plants in other states such as Haryana was not being respected by the local administration there and it needed to be resolved immediately.With respect to the transportation by air, as suggested by the Delhi government, the court said oxygen cannot be airlifted as it would be hazardous and in case of an accident would not only affect the aircraft but also the population where it falls.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, told the bench, “If there is any roadblock by any individuals or any officers, the officers have been instructed that if they are involved in any such activity they will be departmentally dealt with.”The bench, while dictating its order, said, “The position in Delhi has turned rather precarious with several hospitals reporting that either they have insufficient oxygen or it will not last for a longer period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/country-is-being-run-by-god-remarks-hc-amid-oxygen-shortages-101619117574810.html
23-04-2021||India||Military, defence wings go in overdrive for Covid relief||As India reels under an unprecedented public health emergency, its hospitals stretched thin by a staggering number of Covid cases and deaths due to scarcity of beds, oxygen and medicines, the military and other wings of the defence ministry have been ordered to respond on war footing to fight the outbreak that has so far claimed nearly 185,000 lives, people familiar with the developments said on Thursday.From setting up Covid hospitals to ramping up oxygen production and airlifting of medical staff and oxygen containers to liaising with state governments to help them deal with the rising number of daily cases, the armed forces, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) are working overtime for Covid relief, said one of the people cited above.As many as 15,924,697 confirmed infections and 184,693 deaths (as of Wednesday) have been reported across the country since the pandemic began, according to HT’s dashboard. The most worrying factor right now is how fast daily cases are multiplying, and how the trajectory is showing no clear signs of approaching a peak.The DRDO is among the organisations that are at the forefront of fighting the second deadly wave of Covid that has ripped through the country. It has so far set up or is in the process of setting up state-of-the-art Covid hospitals in six cities to treat more than 3,100 critical patients, said a second official.The DRDO has set up a 500-bed hospital in Delhi and converted an ESIC hospital into a 500-bed Covid facility in Patna. In addition, hospitals with 450 beds in Lucknow, 750 beds in Varanasi and 900 beds in Ahmedabad are expected to be functional soon. A sixth Covid hospital is being readied in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur.The DRDO has also stepped in to address the oxygen crisis precipitated by the second wave of the disease. It has transferred oxygen generation technology to the industry, which has now started providing oxygen plants to state governments and hospitals, the official said. The Uttar Pradesh government, for instance, has ordered five such plants from Coimbatore-based Trident Pneumatics.The technology transferred to the industry is based on the onboard oxygen generation technology developed for the Tejas light combat aircraft. The oxygen generation plants can produce 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute. “More plants can be supplied by the industry to cater to the hospital requirements pan-India,” the official said.The DPSUs are also making arrangements to buy oxygen plants for the production and supply of oxygen cylinders at a swift pace.Technology developed by the DRDO for a supplemental oxygen delivery system for soldiers posted in high-altitude areas has also been transferred to the industry, and it will soon be available in the market for use by Covid patients.The Indian Air Force has deployed its aircraft for airlifting medical personnel, oxygen containers, oxygen cylinders, trolleys and essential medicines, an IAF official said.“Doctors and nursing staff were airlifted from Kochi, Mumbai, Vizag and Bengaluru for setting up the DRDO Covid hospital at Delhi. Oxygen containers of the DRDO have also been airlifted from Bengaluru for Covid centres in Delhi,” he said.The armed forces and other wings of the defence ministry can play an important role in the fight against Covid-19, said Lieutenant General BK Chopra (retd), a former director general of the Armed Forces Medical Services.“They have the manpower, resources and discipline to provide relief in these hard times. The military especially has a culture of quick response, be it enemy action or natural catastrophes. It can do a lot to alleviate the sufferings of our countrymen during the pandemic too,” Chopra said.On April 20, defence minister Rajnath Singh carried out an extensive review of the preparedness of the armed forces and other allied organisations to deal with the surge in Covid infections across the country.At that meeting, Singh asked the DPSUs, the DRDO and others to work on war footing to provide oxygen cylinders and extra beds to civil administration and state governments. The armed forces and other stakeholders were also given the go-ahead to buy medicines and other critical items using their emergency powers.The military is also exploring the possibility of utilising the services of vaccinated retired military personnel to help the civil administration and state governments deal with the grim situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-defence-wings-go-in-overdrive-for-covid-relief-101619117332998.html
23-04-2021||India||PM urges states to act tough against hoarding of oxygen||Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants states to come down heavily on hoarding of oxygen and fix responsibility with the local administration in cases of obstruction and told officials during a review meeting on Thursday to ensure “smooth, unhindered” supply to various states.The PM will attend three key meetings on Covid management and cancelled his election campaign in West Bengal scheduled for Friday.As patients and hospitals face acute shortage of oxygen, Modi chaired a high-level meeting on Thursday to review the situation across the country and discuss ways to boost availability. At 12.30pm on Friday, he will meet the country’s leading manufacturers of medical oxygen.Friday’s meeting will be the third meeting on oxygen in the month. On April 16, Modi met senior officials to review the status of oxygen supply.“Tomorrow, will be chairing high-level meetings to review the prevailing COVID-19 situation. Due to that, I would not be going to West Bengal,” the PM tweeted.Officials said that at 9am, the PM will review the Covid situation in an internal meeting, followed by a virtual interaction with chief ministers of high-burden states. His last meeting with the CMs was on April 8.Modi directed officials on Thursday to ensure that oxygen supply to various states happens in a smooth, unhindered manner.“He spoke about the need to fix responsibility with the local administration in cases of obstruction. He also asked ministries to explore various innovative ways to increase production and supply of oxygen,” an official release said.Various measures are being undertaken to rapidly increase the availability of cryogenic tankers through conversion of nitrogen and argon tankers, import and airlifting of tankers as well as manufacturing them.The PM stressed on the need to ensure faster transportation of oxygen to the states. It was discussed that the railways is being used for rapid and non-stop long distance transport of tankers. The first rake has reached Vizag from Mumbai to transport 105MT. Similarly, empty oxygen tankers are also being airlifted to suppliers to reduce one-way journey time.Representatives from the medical fraternity spoke about the need for judicious use of oxygen and how an audit in some states decreased oxygen demand without affecting the condition of patients.Modi’s emphasis on faster transportation and the need to come down heavily on hoarders came after reports emerged that tankers were stopped at state borders and were unable to supply oxygen to Delhi.“The PM was informed that an elaborate exercise is being done in coordination with the states to identify their demand for oxygen and ensure adequate supply accordingly. The PM was briefed on how oxygen supply to states is steadily increasing. Against the present demand from 20 states of 6,785 MT/day of Liquid Medical Oxygen, Government of India has from 21st April, allocated 6,822 MT/day to these states,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-urges-states-to-act-tough-against-hoarding-of-oxygen-101619117151015.html
23-04-2021||India||Vaccine registration for those above 18 begins Apr 28: Govt||Registration for universal adult Covid-19 immunisation in India will begin next week when anyone above 18 can log onto the government’s vaccine portals and book an appointment, paving the way for a crucial stage of inoculation pivotal to arrest the devastating recent surge in infections.The Co-WIN platform, which is the backbone of India’s Covid-19 vaccination delivery system and is being modified to accommodate extra numbers, will be ready by Saturday, said the Union health ministry. Adults can start registering for appointments from April 28, the ministry added.“The entire process will be the same as it has been happening so far for the age-appropriate category. People can register through the Co-WIN web portal or the Aarogya Setu app, and book an appointment. In a few days it will be ready to roll,” said an official familiar with developments.On Monday, the central government had announced it was opening up the vaccination drive to anyone above 18, allowing state governments to directly purchase shots and letting manufacturers earmark 50% jabs for states and private hospitals.The Centre’s drive for those above 45 will continue at the current subsidized rates – free at government hospitals and ₹250 a shot at private facilities. Those between 18 and 45 will have to take jabs procured by state governments or private hospitals at open market prices.The universal vaccination drive is an important step to tame the coronavirus outbreak, which is currently the worst in the world with 332,394 cases and 2,255 deaths posted on Thursday. . But experts have expressed concern at availability of adequate stock, given that the 18-45 population is estimated to be around 594 million. The government has currently administered around 130 million shots.The Centre also issued a rebuttal to reports that it had booked all stock from Serum Institute of India – which makes Covishield – till May 25.The government said state governments were free to procure from the manufacturer as per the revised government policy.“A key feature of the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy is that the vaccine manufacturers would supply 50% of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to Govt. of India and would be free to supply remaining 50% doses to state governments and in the other than Govt. of India channel. The state governments are free to purchase the vaccine doses from the vaccine manufacturers,” said Union health ministry in a statement.“There have been some media reports suggesting that Serum Institute of India (SII) has contracted all its production till 25th May 2021 to the Centre, and therefore till that date the State governments will not be able to procure vaccine from SII. These media reports are based on incorrect facts and are without any basis,” the statement read.SII’s current production capacity is about 60-70 million doses per month. The firm hopes to expand this to around 100 million doses soon.Under the revised vaccination strategy, the government has made pricing, procurement, eligibility, and administration open and flexible.The vaccine makers will be able to sell half of what they produce at a price of their choosing to the open market and to state governments. The remainder will need to be supplied to Centre for the state-sponsored component of the vaccination programme.If the vaccines have been imported as ready-to-use, the government will allow all of the stocks to be sold on the open market or to the states. The pricing for any doses sold in the open market will need to be “transparent”, although there will be no pricing cap, only monitoring.“If you want to keep making noise, then nothing will be enough. These were the same people who were asking the government of India to open up vaccination for everyone, and allow states a free-hand to purchase the doses. Now that that has been done, then suddenly talks of shortages have again risen,” said a senior central government official aware of the matter, who did not want to be identified.“The Centre hasn’t booked everything; the guidelines clearly say that only 50% of their stock every month will go to the central government, the rest they are free to sell. Nothing is going out of the country anyway. Their capacity is to be consumed within the country only, and central government will not book anything beyond 50%,” added the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-registration-for-those-above-18-begins-apr-28-govt-101619115652074.html
23-04-2021||India||PM Modi agreed to virtually address people of Bengal today: Dilip Ghosh||Ahead of the seventh phase of the West Bengal assembly elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually address the people of the state on Friday, confirmed West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh.The West Bengal BJP chief said the Prime Minister had to cancel his visit to Bengal on Friday, in which he was scheduled to address four rallies across four districts and 56 assembly constituencies.""BJP Bengal unit and the voters of West Bengal were looking forward to his visit but we realise the gravity of the situation and the rationale for him not being able to make it in person. We have since requested the Prime Minister to address all these constituencies at one go through a virtual address and we are pleased to confirm that he has agreed to do so," he said."Accordingly, Prime Minister will be addressing voters of West Bengal, particularly voters of Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Kolkata, through a virtual medium at 5 pm on April 23. On behalf of the voters of West Bengal, we extend our gratitude to the Prime Minister for acceding to our request," added Ghosh.Earlier today, the Prime Minister informed that he will not be going to poll-bound West Bengal as he will chair high-level meeting to review the 'prevailing Covid-19 situation' amid rapidly increasing coronavirus cases in the country..Meanwhile, the polling for the sixth phase of the eight-phased West Bengal elections concluded on Thursday with an approximate voter turnout of 79.09 per cent till 5 pm.Polling for the seventh and eighth phases will be held on April 26 and 29 respectively while the counting of votes will take place on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-agreed-to-virtually-address-people-of-bengal-tomorrow-dilip-ghosh-101619113671115.html
23-04-2021||India||Story withdrawn||We regret the publishing of this news based on parliamentarian Shashi Tharoor's tweet concerning Sumitra Mahajan's health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-lok-sabha-speaker-sumitra-mahajan-passes-away-tweets-shashi-tharoor-101619113993900.html
23-04-2021||India||MPs get ₹2,200 crore for local projects sanctioned or pending before April '20||Even as the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) is unavailable for lawmakers due to diversion of funds for Covid-19 management, they have just got access to ₹2,200 crore for projects in their constituencies sanctioned or pending before April 2020. According to a circular issued last month, the release of pending instalments for projects sanctioned by Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members will get first priority.When India faced the first Covid-19 wave last year, the government, anticipating the requirement of additional funds to fight the pandemic, decided to halt MPLADS for two years. Under this scheme, members of Parliament are entitled to get ₹5 crore annually for projects in their constituencies.Indian Parliament has 788 members, and they had access to ₹3,940 crore under MPLADS. Members of legislative assemblies, too, get funds from state governments for public projects of their choice.Also Read | Covid-19 peddled as an excuse to stop protests against agri laws: Farmer leaders“...pursuant to the implementation of the decision (to stall funds for FY20-21 and FY21-22), the ministry started receiving references from MPs, state nodal departments and district authorities for release of unreleased installments prior to March 31, 2020,” the government said the circular.During Parliament’s Budget Session this year, opposition parties requested the government to restart MPLADS as it helps build critical infrastructure and ensures public services, particularly in rural India.Parliamentarians have also had their salaries cut by 30% for one year and the money has been diverted for Covid-19 management. A member of Parliament is entitled to ₹1,00,000 monthly salary but now gets ₹70,000.The Salary, Allowances, and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was passed in September for the new salary structure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-get-rs-2-200-crore-for-local-projects-sanctioned-or-pending-before-april-2020-101619086490171.html
23-04-2021||India||Sitaram Yechury’s son dies of Covid-19, political leaders send condolences||Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Thursday said his son Ashish Yechury died of Covid-19.“It is with great sadness that I have to inform that I lost my elder son, Ashish Yechury to COVID-19 this morning. I want to thank all those who gave us hope and who treated him - doctors, nurses, frontline health workers, sanitation workers and innumerable others who stood by us,” Sitaram Yechury wrote on Twitter.Ashish Yechury, a journalist, had been hospitalised in Gurugram. He was 34 years old.Several senior political leaders condoled his death on Twitter.Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote “Condolences to Shri Sitaram Yechury Ji and his family on the tragic and untimely demise of his son, Ashish. Om Shanti”.Chief Minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee said that it was shocking and saddening to hear about Ashish’s death.“Shocked and very saddened to hear about the untimely passing away of Ashish, son of @SitaramYechury Ji. My deepest condolences to the grieving family”, Banerjee tweeted.Kerala chief minister and CPI(M) leader Pinarayi Vijayan also wrote, “Dear comrade Sitaram Yechury, our deepest condolences on the loss of Ashish. Our thoughts are with you and your family during this difficult time.”Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said that the news was devastating. He offered condolences to Sitaram Yechury and added there was no bigger loss for a parent than that of a child.“Devastated by the news @SitaramYechury @seemay. There is no greater loss for a parent to endure. May you find the strength to bear the inexpressible grief of your loss. My heart goes out to you at this painful time,” Tharoor wrote.On Thursday afternoon, Sitaram Yechury thanked everyone for their condolences.“I bid goodbye to my son, Ashish (Biku) at noon today. I thank all of you who have shared our sorrow. I thank everybody who gave us strength to be able to face this dark hour. I know that I am not alone in my grief, with this pandemic consuming countless lives,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitaram-yechury-s-son-dies-of-covid-19-political-leaders-send-condolences-101619069689237.html
23-04-2021||India||16 Covid-19 positive migrants in TN jump quarantine to go home to Jharkhand||Two days before their quarantine ended, 16 migrant workers who are Covid-19 positive have left Tirupur district to go home to Jharkhand, authorities from the police and health department said.The 16 infected patients left with a group of 36 other migrant workers and boarded a train on Monday night fearing that there may be a lockdown due to the second wave. Tirupur health authorities have informed the state officials to alert their counterparts in Jharkhand so that co-passengers of the same train could be tracked. Samples taken from the workers came back positive on April 7. Their 14-day isolation period would have ended on Wednesday. The workers were being treated at the government hospital and medical college in Tirupur for a week. “After being discharged they were asked to quarantine for another week but they escaped on the 5th day,” said Dr Jagadish Kumar, deputy director of health services of Tirupur. “They are unlikely to pose a risk as they’re all asymptomatic and have remained in quarantine except for two days but it is still a violation so we have registered a police complaint and informed the medical team in Jharkhand.”The district police are likely to register a complaint under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. “We have received the complaint today and we will be registering an FIR for Covid-19 violations,” said sub-inspector Sivaganesh. The workers were employed in a cotton mill at Vellakoil in Tirupur and were undergoing quarantine at the staff quarters at the mill. “Even the mill management were not aware that they had left,” he said. As Covid-19 cases are rising in Tamil Nadu and several restrictions have been imposed including a night curfew, migrant workers from different parts of the state are queuing up at railway stations to go home. The belt of Tirupur, Coimbatore and Erode in the western region of Tamil Nadu are dotted with industries and manufacturing factories and a major part of the workforce is formed by migrant workers predominantly from Jharkhand, Odisha and Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-covid-19-positive-migrants-in-tn-jump-quarantine-to-go-home-to-jharkhand-101619032664796.html
