24-04-2021||India||‘Heartbreaking’: Greta Thunberg urges global help for India amid Covid-19 crisis||Swedish teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg called for support from the world over for India as she learned about the ‘heartbreaking’ developments in the country battling the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Heartbreaking to follow the recent developments in India. The global community must step up and immediately offer the assistance needed. #CovidIndia,” she tweeted tagging a news report on India’s Covid-19 situation.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 herePakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan expressed his solidarity with India earlier in the day and extended his wishes for the speedy recovery of people infected with Covid-19. On Friday, France, Australia, and the European Union (EU) also offered support and solidarity to India amid a massive surge in coronavirus infections.Heartbreaking to follow the recent developments in India. The global community must step up and immediately offer the assistance needed. #CovidIndia https://t.co/OaJVTNXa6RIndia is reporting over 300,000 Covid-19 cases for the past three days amid challenges on the health infrastructure front. The toll due to the viral disease has also gone up with 2,000 fatalities being logged daily for several days now. Many states have flagged a shortage of oxygen, and medicines like Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, which a key to the treatment of patients with the coronavirus disease.As India battles the second Covid-19 wave with stretched medical facilities, the government has stepped up efforts to cater to the requirements and has increased the production of oxygen and vaccines to curb the rapid spread of the disease. Earlier in the day, the government waived customs duty and health cess on the import of vaccines against the coronavirus disease and oxygen and related equipment needed to treat critical Covid-19 patients for three months.“In order to augment their production and availability and to meet the rising demand, it was decided to grant full exemption from Basic Customs Duty and health cess on import of the following (16) items related to Oxygen and Oxygen related equipment for a period of three months with immediate effect,” the Union ministry of finance said in a statement after Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level meeting on the issue.The finance ministry informed that Indian Air Force (IAF) planes are bringing in cryogenic oxygen tanks from Singapore and it is also transporting oxygen tanks in the country to reduce travel times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heartbreaking-greta-thunberg-urges-global-help-for-india-amid-covid-19-crisis-101619283216612.html
24-04-2021||India||4 oxygen tankers flown by IAF from Singapore leave Panagarh airbase||The Union ministry of home affairs shared video of four oxygen tankers, which arrived from Singapore in a C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF), moving out of the Panagarh airbase in West Bengal. The Indian Air Force on Saturday boosted its efforts to transport medical oxygen as the country fights with a shortage of the gas, hospital beds and medicines due to raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19). "Four O2 tankers moving out of Panagarh Air Force Base this evening. These high capacity tankers arrived from Singapore onboard an IAF C17 transport aircraft. This airlift was coordinated by MHA," the tweet read with the shot of the tankers leaving the airbase.Four O2 tankers moving out of Panagarh Air Force Base this evening. These high capacity tankers arrived from Singapore onboard an IAF C17 transport aircraft. This airlift was coordinated by MHA.@HMOIndia @DDNewslive @airnewsalerts @PIB_India @airnewsalerts @ANI pic.twitter.com/TjIgn7wz3cThe C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft on Saturday flew to Singapore’s Changi International Airport from the Hindon airbase outside Delhi and returned to Panagarh in West Bengal with four cryogenic oxygen containers. The aircraft "with 4 cryogenic containers for storage of liquid O2 from Singapore landed at Panagarh air base" at 4.30pm, informed the home ministry in a tweet.The IAF undertook similar sorties, including those with empty oxygen containers to various oxygen filling centres in the country, to speed up the distribution of the essential medical supply as states struggle with a shortage. "The Indian Air Force is taking sorties to reduce the transportation time of Oxygen and other critical supplies. One C-17 has reached Changi airport in Singapore today. These containers of cryogenic oxygen tanks will help boosting the oxygen supply in the country,” defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday.Also read: Maharashtra, Rajasthan and MP next in IAF’s plan of carrying oxygenAs per a defence ministry statement, the Indian Navy told the minister that its warships have been kept on standby for moving oxygen tankers.The Union home minister on Friday said that it was in talks for the import of oxygen-carrying tankers from Singapore and the United Arab Emirates after home minister Amit Shah reviewed the coronavirus situation in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-oxygen-tankers-flown-by-iaf-from-singapore-leave-panagarh-airbase-101619280043777.html
24-04-2021||India||Gujarat hospital runs out of oxygen, Covid-19 patients wait outside for admission||Several Covid-19 patients were on Saturday forced to wait outside the state-run Sir Sayaji General Hospital here for hours before admission as it ran out of oxygen.An official said it was a temporary problem as the oxygen cylinders were sent for refilling."Oxygen supply has been exhausted for the last several hours. New patients were not allowed to enter the hospital but asked to wait outside in ambulances," said the relative of a patient.There were at least eight such ambulances lined up outside, he claimed.Patients were admitted only after government officials arrived, he alleged.Vinod Rao, an officer-on-special duty for Covid-19 in Vadodara, said the problem occurred because oxygen cylinders were sent for refilling.He admitted to a "supervisory lapse" on the part of the medical superintendent and said action will be taken against erring officials.The matter has now been resolved as oxygen cylinders were refilled, he said.Rao also said that such lapses had come to notice three-four times in the past which showed a lack of leadership at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-hospital-runs-out-of-oxygen-covid-19-patients-wait-outside-for-admission-101619287483655.html
24-04-2021||India||Puri’s Jagannath Temple closes for devotees as Covid-19 cases rise in Odisha||The Jagannath Temple administration on Saturday closed the shrine for devotees till May 15 in view of the rising Covid-19 cases over the last few days.Sri Jagannath Temple Administration chief administrator Dr Krishan Kumar who held a virtual meeting with members of Chhatisa Nijog, Puri district collector and SP and members of the temple said any spread of Covid-19 among servitors and their families will be detrimental to the observance of ensuing festivals like Chandan Jatra, Snana Jatra and Rath Yatra.“So the temple will remain closed for darshan till May 15, the day of Akshay Tritiya festival. However, all the daily rituals will continue with the help of servitors and temple officials. Ensuring the health of servitors who do daily seva-puja of the Lord is of utmost importance. So regular screening and testing for servitors, their families and temple officials will be taken up to ensure that cases of Covid-19 amongst them are detected at an early date and are provided effective treatment,” said Dr Kumar.Dr Kumar said a Covid Care Centre has been made operational at Niladri Bhakt Niwas and it will be further strengthened as per requirement. Constant review of the same will be taken up. Arrangements for shifting of serious cases for treatment to Bhubaneswar will be ensured seamlessly. Puri district on Saturday reported 395 fresh cases as the TPR rose to 23.33%. In the last 7 days, at least 50 people including a servitor who had gone to Kumbh Mela in Haridwar have tested positive.Awareness programs will continue to highlight the importance of masks, sanitisers, physical distancing. Vaccination will be prioritised for those who are involved in daily Seva-Puja of the Lord and also those involved in the construction of the three chariots for the upcoming Rath Yatra.In Bhubaneswar, Lingaraj Temple, the largest temple in the city as well as other temples have been closed for devotees. The Ashokasthami festival of Lord Lingaraj was observed earlier this week without any devotees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puris-jagannath-temple-closes-for-devotees-as-covid-19-cases-rise-in-odisha-101619286263760.html
24-04-2021||India||India's Covid-19 vaccination drive delivers over 140 million vaccine does, govt says fastest country to do so||India has administered 14 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine in just 99 days, the fastest in the world, the Health Ministry said on Saturday.More than 24 lakh vaccine doses were administered on Saturday till 8 pm, the ministry said.The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 14,08,02,794, according to a provisional report at 8 pm."India became the fastest country to administer 14 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine in just 99 days," the ministry said.The beneficiaries include 92,89,621 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the 1st dose and 59,94,401 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 1,19,42,233 frontline workers (FLWs) who have got the first dose, and 62,77,797 FLWs the second dose.As many as 4,76,41,992 people aged between 45-plus and 60 have got the first dose and 23,22,480 in the age group received the second dose.As many as 4,96,32,245 beneficiaries aged above 60 years have got the first dose and 77,02,025 the second dose, the ministry said.On Saturday, the 99th day of the nationwide vaccination drive, a total of 24,22,989 vaccine doses were given till 8 pm -- 15,69,631 beneficiaries for the first dose and 8,53,358 for the second dose.Phase-I of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched on January 16, prioritizing protection for healthcare workers and frontline workers.The phase-II was initiated from March 1, focusing on protecting most vulnerable i.e. all people above 45 years of age.Everyone above 18 years of age will be eligible to get vaccinated against Covid-19 from May 1, the central government said on Monday as it liberalised the vaccination drive to allow states, private hospitals and industrial establishments to procure the doses directly from manufacturers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-vaccination-drive-delivers-over-140-million-vaccine-does-govt-says-fastest-country-to-do-so-101619285297000.html
24-04-2021||India||Ramesh Chennithala urges Kerala govt to airlift surplus medical oxygen cylinders to Delhi after Kejriwal's request||Kerala Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Saturday urged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan government to airlift surplus medical oxygen cylinders to Delhi, which has been gasping for medical oxygen amid a record surge in Covid-19 cases.In a tweet, Chennithala said, "The State of Delhi which is a home for lakhs of Keralites is going through a critical phase. Oxygen shortage in Delhi is taking away lives. Request Kerala Govt to provide an air load of Oxygen to Delhi as we have in excess."He also requested to set up an open medical facility in Kerala House.Chennithala's remarks came after Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal request chief ministers of different states to provide oxygen to Delhi if they have spare."I am writing to all Chief Ministers requesting them to provide oxygen to Delhi if they have spare. Though Central government is also helping us, the severity of corona is such that all available resources are proving inadequate," Kejriwal tweeted.In the past few days, the national capital has suffered the worst of the mayhem caused by a shortage of oxygen at several hospitals due to the Covid-19 surge.Delhi registered 24,331 new Covid-19 cases and 348 related deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the health bulletin update on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-ramesh-chennithala-urges-kerala-govt-to-airlift-surplus-medical-oxygen-cylinders-to-delhi-after-arvind-kejriwal-s-request-101619284446763.html
24-04-2021||India||India, France to begin naval drills in Arabian Sea tomorrow||India and France will kick off joint naval drills Varuna-2021 in Arabian Sea on Sunday, with the three-day exercise involving high tempo operations including advanced air defence and anti-submarine exercises, fixed and rotary wing flying operations, tactical manoeuvres and surface and anti-air weapon firings, the Indian Navy said on Saturday.This will be the 19th edition of the bilateral exercise. The navy gave out details of the warships taking part in the exercise.The Indian Navy’s guided missile stealth destroyer INS Kolkata, guided missile frigates INS Tarkash and INS Talwar, fleet support ship INS Deepak, a Kalvari class submarine and the P-8I long range maritime patrol aircraft will take part in the exercise.The French Navy will be represented by its aircraft carrier Charles-de-Gaulle with embarked Rafale-M fighter jets and E2C Hawkeye aircrafts, Horizon-class air defence destroyer Chevalier Paul, Aquitaine-class multi-mission frigate Provence and tanker Var.“Units of both navies will endeavour to enhance and hone their war-fighting skills to demonstrate their ability as an integrated force to promote peace, security and stability in the maritime domain. On completion of Varuna-2021, INS Tarkash will continue to exercise with the French Navy’s Carrier Strike Group (CSG) from April 28 to May 1 to consolidate accrued best practices and enhance interoperability,” an official statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-france-to-begin-naval-drills-in-arabian-sea-tomorrow-101619282995170.html
24-04-2021||India||Covaxin to cost ₹600 for states, ₹1200 for private hospitals: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech International Limited said on Saturday Covaxin, the vaccine it has developed against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), will be available to state governments at ₹600 and at ₹1200 for private hospitals for the third phase of the country’s inoculation drive starting next month. Krishna M Ella, the Hyderabad-based company’s chairman and managing director, said in a statement that the company announced the prices of Covaxin following the directive of the Centre. The vaccine against Covid-19 will cost in the range of $15 to $20 for exports, Ella also said in the statement.“We are deeply concerned by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic in India & the world. We sincerely wish for the safety and good health of everyone. Bharat Biotech is honoured to develop, manufacture & supply COVAXIN for India's vaccine rollout at Rs.150/dose, which is distributed for free by the Govt. of India. We would like to state that more than 50% of our capacities have been reserved for Central Government supplies,” Ella said in the statement.Also read | Covaxin phase 3 interim trial reveals 78% efficacyCovaxin, along with Covishield which is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII), is being used by the Centre in its massive vaccination drive across the country battling the second wave of the pandemic.“COVAXIN' is an inactivated and highly purified vaccine, making manufacturing expensive due to very low process yields. All costs towards product development, manufacturing facilities and clinical trials were deployed primarily using internal funding and resources of Bharat Biotech,” Ella said. “Recovering costs is essential in the journey of innovation towards other vaccines such as Intranasal COVID-19, Chikungunyo, Zika, Cholera, and others. Our core mission for the last 25 years has been to provide affordable, yet world-class healthcare solutions for the globe,” he added.Also read | These states will provide free Covid-19 vaccines from May 1. Full list hereThe Serum Institute of India (SII) said on Wednesday it will sell one jab of this two-dose vaccine for ₹600 for private facilities and ₹400 for state governments. The Pune-based company’s chief executive Adar Poonawalla later said the Centre will also have to pay ₹400 for each dose of Covishield for new contracts, according to reports. However, the Union health ministry said on Saturday that the Centre will procure the Covid-19 vaccine at ₹150 and those doses will be provided free to the states.India’s infection tally rose by 346,786, a new world record for the third consecutive day, as overwhelmed hospitals reported a shortage in oxygen supplies. India is witnessing the deadlier second wave of the pandemic as the government’s aims to vaccinate as many people as possible as it will open vaccinations for all adults from next month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-to-cost-rs-600-for-states-rs-1200-for-private-hospitals-bharat-biotech-101619283333075.html
24-04-2021||India||IAF intensifies efforts for relief as govt asks military to render maximum help||In the midst of the unrelenting spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across the country and a frightening shortage of oxygen, hospital beds and medicines, the Indian Air Force on Saturday intensified its efforts for Covid-19 relief with its transport aircraft ferrying large oxygen containers to filling stations in different parts of the country even as defence minister Rajnath Singh directed the military and other wings of his ministry to extend all possible assistance to the civilian administration to tide over the current situation.Among the many sorties that the IAF undertook on Saturday was a C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft that flew from the Hindon airbase outside Delhi to Singapore’s Changi International Airport and returned to Panagarh in West Bengal with four cryogenic oxygen containers, the IAF said.Another C-17 took off from Hindon to Pune where it was loaded with two empty cryogenic oxygen container trucks which were then flown to Jamnagar air base, and the same aircraft carried out a second shuttle from Pune to Jamnagar with two more empty containers, the IAF said in a statement, adding that a third C-17 was deployed to ferry two empty containers from Jodhpur to Jamnagar.IAF aircraft also flew empty oxygen containers from Hindon and Bhopal to Ranchi.The containers will be filled up and transported to different centres for Covid-19 relief by rail or road. India also plans to airlift oxygen containers from the United Arab Emirates.The last two days have seen the air force carry out several sorties to airlift oxygen containers, cylinders, essential medicines and equipment required for setting up and sustaining Covid-19 hospitals and facilities to deal with the surge in infections. The IAF is using a variety of aircraft for Covid-19 relief work including C-17, C-130J, IL-76, An-32, Avro, Chinook and Mi-17 helicopters, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.“One IAF Chinook helicopter and an An-32 transport aircraft took Covid-19 testing equipment from Jammu to Leh and from Jammu to Kargil (on Saturday), respectively. The equipment consisted of bio-safety cabinets, centrifuges and stabilisers. These machines have been made by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and now given to UT of Ladakh to enhance testing,” the statement said.With India reeling under a public health emergency and its health resources at breaking point, the defence minister on Saturday chaired a meeting of top officials including the chief of defence staff to review the efforts of the ministry and the armed forces to fight the Covid-19 crisis.The armed forces and the defence ministry “will leave no stone unturned in providing all possible assistance to the civilian administration,” Singh later wrote on Twitter.During the review meeting, Singh was told by the navy that its warships have been kept on standby for moving oxygen tankers, the defence ministry said in a statement.The minister was also informed that an extra 250 ICU beds will be functional at the DRDO Covid facility in Delhi by Saturday evening taking the total number of beds to 500.The defence ministry said that compared to last year, the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) has deployed more medical staff, including specialists, super specialists and paramedics, at DRDO’s Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid-19 hospital to cater to the current surge in infections.“As against 294 doctors and health workers in 2020, 378 have been mobilised in 2021. These include 164 doctors in 2021 as against 132 doctors in 2020. Last year, only 18 specialists were mobilised, as against 43 specialists and 17 super specialists this year,” the defence ministry said in another statement. .The highly skilled specialists and super specialists have been deployed at the facility after being drawn from already-stretched service hospitals, it said. The number of critical patients admitted in 2021 is more than eight times compared to last year’s worst peak, the statement said.The DRDO is among the organisations that are at the forefront of fighting the second deadly wave of Covid-19 that has ripped through the country. It has so far set up or is in the process of setting up state-of-the-art Covid-19 hospitals in six cities to treat more than 3,100 critical patients. The DRDO has set up a 500-bed hospital in Delhi, a 1,000-bed hospital in Ahmedabad and converted an ESIC hospital into a 500-bed Covid-19 facility in Patna. In addition, hospitals with 450 beds in Lucknow and 750 beds in Varanasi are expected to be functional soon. A sixth Covid-19 hospital is being readied in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur.These hospitals would be operated by the AFMS in coordination with the state governments.The armed forces and other wings of the defence ministry can play an important role in the fight against Covid-19, said Lieutenant General BK Chopra (retd), a former directed general of AFMS said on Thursday.“They have the manpower, resources and discipline to provide relief in these hard times. The military especially has a culture of quick response, be it enemy action or natural catastrophes. It can do a lot to alleviate the sufferings of our countrymen during the pandemic too,” Chopra said.The AFMS is importing mobile oxygen generation plants from Germany to address the oxygen crisis precipitated by the second wave of the pandemic. It is importing 23 such plants that are expected to arrive in a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-intensifies-efforts-for-covid-relief-as-govt-asks-it-to-render-maximum-help-101619278495948.html
24-04-2021||India||Tamil Nadu imposes new restrictions; gatherings at weddings, cremations capped||Tamil Nadu on Saturday announced a new set of Covid-19 related restrictions, which will be imposed from 4am on April 26 on top of the existing measures in the state to curb the transmission of the coronavirus, a government order showed. “Despite the various measures taken by the government to control the coronavirus infection, the daily cases have increased every day as the people have been found without face-masks in public places and not following proper social distancing norms,” the order in Tamil said.Under the new restrictions, all people trying to enter Tamil Nadu from other states except the Union territory of Puducherry need to register online on the state’s official website for e-registrations. Also, the maximum number of people allowed at weddings has been capped at 50 and for cremations and burials, the limit has been capped at 25. The government has also ordered that cinema theatres, gymnasiums and other places where people gather in crowds would remain closed.Also read | Daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra again soar past 67,000Here is a list of all the new restrictions which are set to come into effect starting 4am on April 26:Also read | Kejriwal requests all CMs to send oxygen to Delhi ‘if they have spare'The government also noted that the existing night curfew and the Sunday curfew, imposed earlier on April 18, would continue to be in effect without any changes. It also mandated face masks in public places for the people along with proper social distancing norms.Tamil Nadu on Saturday reported 14,842 new Covid-19 cases, as the state’s tally reached 1,066,329 and 80 patients succumbed to the disease on the day, taking the death toll to 13,475 a bulletin from the health department showed. Active cases went past the 100,000-mark and currently stand at 100,668, a multi-fold increase from the 13,070 active cases reported earlier on March 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-imposes-new-restrictions-gatherings-at-weddings-cremations-capped-101619277744841.html
24-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: TMC to move Supreme Court against EC, says Mamata and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Trinamool Congress to move top court against EC after polls, says CM MamataThe Trinamool Congress will move the Supreme Court against the Election Commission of India after the West Bengal assembly polls are over to ensure elections are held impartially in future, party chief Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday.Read more.Arvind Kejriwal writes to all CMs, requests them to send oxygen to Delhi ‘if they have spare’Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday wrote to his counterparts in other states and Union territories requesting them to send the surplus of oxygen they may have to the Capital as the city faces acute shortage to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients.Read more. ‘Covishield most affordable Covid-19 jab’: SII calls out ‘inaccurate comparison’The Serum Institute of India (SII) on Saturday responded to criticism over the latest price of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, for state governments and private hospitals, saying the initial rates were kept very low globally as they were based on advance funding given by those countries for at-risk vaccine manufacturing.Read more. Please pay for Covid-19 vaccines, if you can: Maha deputy CM Ajit Pawar urgesMaharashtra’s deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday people who can afford the vaccine doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) should pay even as the government is preparing to inoculate all adults in the state in the next phase of vaccination from May 1.Read more. Sunil Gavaskar hails Maxwell's impact for RCBThe Royal Challengers Bangalore are showing early this season that they are the side to beat, having registered four wins in a row. The addition of Glenn Maxwell has worked wonders for them as RCB remain the only unbeaten team in the tournament.Read more. Smartbands and smartwatches below ₹5,000 that can help track your blood oxygen levelsOne of the primary things that you need to keep in check is your blood oxygen or SpO2 levels. Ideally it should be done with the help of a medical-grade pulse oximeter, but if you don't have one and it is not an emergency you can use these smart bands to keep a tab.Read more. Mark Zuckerberg posts about missing meals, receives sweet reply from dadFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg recently took his own platform to share how while working he often misses his meals. His post prompted many to share different responses. Amid them, one particular reply has now created a chatter and it’s from his father Edward Zuckerberg.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tmc-to-move-supreme-court-against-ec-says-mamata-and-all-the-latest-news-101619277497886.html
24-04-2021||India||Trinamool Congress to move top court against EC after polls, says CM Mamata||The Trinamool Congress will move the Supreme Court against the Election Commission of India after the West Bengal assembly polls are over to ensure elections are held impartially in future, party chief Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday.She even directed her party workers and family members to gherao police stations if any TMC worker is ‘illegally’ arrested the night before elections, lodge a complaint and move court.“In a Whatsapp group, ECI observers were instructing district officials and state police to arrest TMC goons and keep them in preventive detention. They are saying ‘as per plan’. TMC workers have been given the name of ‘trouble mongers’. I have decided to move the SC to ensure elections are held impartially in future,” said Banerjee at a virtual press conference, adding that she has the transcript of the chats.Earlier this month, the ECI had imposed a ban on the TMC chief for urging people to gherao the central forces.The TMC-government has been at loggerheads with the ECI with the ruling party repeatedly accusing the poll panel of working at the behest of the BJP-led government at the Centre. Both the BJP and the commission have refuted such charges.“The BJP won’t even get 70 seats. The Congress-Left alliance may get at the most 20– 25 seats, or even less. You don’t have the power to stop TMC,” Mamata said while attacking the ECI.Though none of the senior officials of the poll panel in Kolkata commented on the chief minister’s remarks, the BJP has hit out.“These are clear signs that she has become unnerved. She knows very well that on May 2 the TMC is going to be ousted from power and hence is making such wild allegations. The BJP is coming to power with more than 200 seats,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-congress-to-move-top-court-against-ec-after-polls-says-cm-mamata-101619276089424.html
24-04-2021||India||These states will provide free Covid-19 vaccines from May 1. Full list here||At least 17 Indian states have decided to vaccinate their population against the coronavirus disease free of cost in an initiative to inoculate the maximum number of people against Covid-19, which has killed 189,544 and infected more than 16 million in the country. The mass inoculation drive, expanded for all adults in the country from next month, is aimed at fighting the disease outbreak. While some states have made the drive free of cost for all adults, some have kept it free of cost for people between the age of 18-45 only.India's major vaccine maker Serum Institute of India announced a price of ₹400 per dose for its Covid-19 vaccine 'Covishield' for state governments and ₹600 per dose for private hospitals.There are the states which have made the vaccine doses free of cost:Madhya PradeshThe Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday announced that all people above the age of 18 years will be offered the Covid-19 vaccine free in the state from May 1. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made the announcement. "A detailed guidelines of the government of India will be issued later, but the people above the age of 18 will be vaccinated for free in Madhya Pradesh," Chouhan said.Jammu and KashmirOn Saturday, the Jammu and Kashmir government joined the list of states which will not charge people for the doses. "It has been decided that Covid-19 vaccination for people in the age group of 18 to 45 years will be free of cost in the Union Territory, and the cost of vaccine will be borne by the government of Jammu and Kashmir," a statement from the office of Jammu and Kashmir’s lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha read.Himachal PradeshThe Himachal Pradesh government has said it will provide the Covid-19 vaccine free of cost to people between the ages of 18 and 44 years from May 1. Following a meeting of the state cabinet chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj told reporters that the decision was made keeping in mind the welfare of the general public although it would be a huge burden on the exchequer. The free vaccine will be provided in government health institutions, he added.GoaGoa will inoculate those between the ages of 18 to 45 against coronavirus free of cost, it announced on Thursday. The state will be procuring 500,000 doses of Covishield vaccine initially, it said. The state’s additional secretary (health) Vikas Gaunekar informed the directorate of health services about the decision in a letter. "I am pleased to convey Government approval to provide Covid-19 vaccine doses to all population in the age group 18-45 through the state government free of cost," Gaunekar said in the letter.KeralaKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said the Left government would provide the vaccine against Covid-19 free of cost for everyone in the state.ChhattisgarhThe Chhattisgarh government announced this week that free Covid-19 vaccine will be provided for all above the age of 18 in the state. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said the state government will pay for the vaccination of people over 18 years of age, according to an official release. "We will take all possible steps to protect the lives of our citizens," the release quoted Baghel as saying.BiharBihar will also give Covid-19 vaccine free to all above 18 years of age, chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Wednesday this week. "The Bihar government will provide Covid-19 vaccine free of cost to all above 18 years of age in the state," Kumar tweeted in Hindi.JharkhandAll residents of Jharkhand who are above 18 years will be given free vaccination against Covid-19, chief minister Hemant Soren announced. "In Jharkhand, the corona vaccine will be provided free of cost to people above the age of 18 by the state government," Soren said in a tweet on Thursday night. "The government is working day and night to help people in this drastic transition. I am confident that with the cooperation of all, we will beat corona again. Corona will lose, Jharkhand will win," he added.Uttar PradeshBJP national general secretary BL Santhosh on Tuesday informed that Uttar Pradesh will vaccinate the population above 18 years free of cost.AssamIncluding Assam in the ambit of states which will provide free Covid-19 vaccine, BJP national general secretary Santhosh on Tuesday said it has already placed an order for 10 million vaccines with Bharath Biotech. "Assam & UP to vaccinate population of 18 years free of cost. Assam has already placed an order for 1 Cr vaccines with Bharath Biotech. But Kerala CM busy writing letters to PM. #IndiaFightsCorona," Santhosh tweeted.SikkimSikkim chief minister Prem Singh Tamang on Wednesday announced that the state government will provide free Covid-19 vaccine to all citizens between 18 to 45 years. He said the state government will bear the cost of the vaccines of the people in the age group of 18-45 if the Centre does not bear the cost. Tamang asked chief secretary SC Gupta to prepare the details in this regard.West BengalWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee Wednesday promised universal vaccination for those who are above 18 in her state. In West Bengal, vaccination for those from the age of 18 will start from May 5 as the election process is still on, she said.Tamil NaduThe Tamil Nadu government on Thursday said it will provide free Covid-19 vaccination for all from May 1, when the next phase of inoculation drive covering all above 18 years would start. Announcing the vaccination camp for those aged 18-45 years from next month as part of the third phase of the inoculation drive, the state government said districts that were the most affected by the pandemic will be prioritised in conducting the free camps.Andhra PradeshDeputy chief minister Alla Krishna Srinivas said on Saturday the government has decided to provide the Covid-19 vaccine free of cost to all above the age of 18 years. There are an estimated 20.4 million people in the 18-45 age group in the state. The vaccine drive for this group alone could cost the state at least ₹818 crore to ₹900 crore, reported PTI.TelanganaThe Telangana government will administer the Covid-19 vaccine free of cost to the entire population in the state irrespective of their age, chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao announced on Saturday. Rao said it would cost more than ₹2,500 crore to vaccinate everyone, and taking into consideration the importance of the lives of people, this amount is worth spending.HaryanaEveryone above 18 years of age will be vaccinated free of cost at government hospitals in Haryana, said chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday after chairing a state-level meeting of the Covid-19 Monitoring Committee. A registration portal will be started from April 28 and everyone has to register themselves for vaccination. Registration is a must to get vaccinated. Further details on how and where the registration can be done are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-states-will-provide-free-covid-19-vaccines-from-may-1-full-list-here-101619268848326.html
24-04-2021||India||Daily Covid-19 deaths in India could peak over 5000 in next 15-16 days: Study||A new study has projected that India’s daily deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) could peak as high as 5600 on May 10 and that additional 329,000 fatalities are estimated between April 12 and August 1. The study, 'COVID-19 projections’, was conducted by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington which published a summary on April 15 that evaluated the grim situation in the country and projected around 665,000 deaths by August this year.The study said that its worst-case scenario projects around 729,000 cumulative coronavirus disease-caused deaths on August 1, 2021. However, the study also suggested that universal mask coverage (95 per cent), if attained by next week, can save around 70,000 cumulative lives in the reference case scenario by August this year. Around 85,000 lives will also be saved considering the projected Covid-19 vaccine rollout, the study said, where it estimated that over 700 million people will be vaccinated by August 1.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19According to the study, Covid-19 is the fifth major cause of deaths in the country this week. This was based on the estimation that daily deaths in the last week increased to 1,500 per day on an average in contrast to 970 deaths per day before. The infection detection rate in the country was revealed to be eight per cent, and the estimates of the study suggest that nearly 24 per cent of the population in the country have been infected as of April 12.Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Punjab, which have been showing the highest rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, according to the Union health ministry’s data, have a daily death rate of greater than 4 per million, the study said.India is fighting a dangerous second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) amid a heavy oxygen supply crunch. The highly, seemingly contagious second wave took the Covid-19 positivity rate of the country to 15.37 per cent from being less than 1.50 per cent during the initial weeks of February. The death toll of the country currently stands at 189,544 after more than 2600 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, the health ministry’s data showed on Saturday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-covid-19-deaths-in-india-could-peak-over-5000-in-next-15-16-days-study-101619273221048.html
24-04-2021||India||Kerala logs 26,685 new Covid-19 cases, test positivity rate climbs to 20.35%||Kerala on Saturday reported another high of 26,685 new Covid-19 cases with a test positivity rate of 20.35% even as Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan sent another letter to Prime Minister Modi requesting him to make vaccination free of cost in the present scenario.Addressing the media in the state capital, the CM said the three-tier price mechanism ( ₹150 for Centre, ₹400 for state government and ₹600 for private hospitals) will lead to exploitation and it will weaken the ongoing fight against the pandemic. Citing some reports he said ₹600 (equivalent to 8 USD) per shot is the highest in the world and the vaccine firm was distributing the same to neighbouring Bangladesh for half of the cost.“I have written another letter to the Prime Minister citing these facts. Vaccine pricing is quite high, some studies show. We want the government to stick to its age-old policy of giving vaccine free of cost,” the CM reiterated. He said he had a meeting with private hospital managements on Saturday and asked them to increase their bed capacity to maximum.“We will have to learn a lesson from the trauma of the some of the states in north India. We have enough stock of oxygen but we may need more beds. There is no need to panic but we have to be vigilant,” he said adding the weekend 48- hour curbs were successful. “It is good that people responded well. We may have to tighten it further going by the caseload,” he said. Many busy roads and markets remained empty because permission was granted to only emergency services.For the third consecutive day, the viral caseload crossed 25,000-- out of 1,31,155 tests 26,685 were positive clocking a high TPR of 20.35%. The state also reported 25 fatalities taking the death toll to 5080. The active caseload is about to touch 2 lakh (1,98,576). Among those infected, 75 are health workers and 30 policemen, according to the data released by the state health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-logs-26-685-new-covid-19-cases-test-positivity-rate-climbs-to-2035-101619273088256.html
24-04-2021||India||In urban India, 50 million people in 15 cities have no access to safe, affordable drinking water: Unicef report||Healthy drinking water is very important for good health. Safe water supply ensures the health of a country, yet it is woefully under-prioritised, globally. And in India, it's at the lowest echelon.In urban India, 50 million people in 15 cities have no access to safe, affordable drinking water, reveals a UNICEF India report.Healthy drinking water is arguably one of the essential commodities, which plays a pivotal role in ensuring good health as it helps channelise the metabolic processes of the body. More so, in the current Covid scenario, water helps in staying healthy because proper hydration works as an important factor, helping your body fight the Covid virus."Amid the scarcity of water, it is very important to know about the purity of water available for consumption. It is often seen that people usually check if the water is clear while drinking. If it looks clean, they assume that it is safe to drink. But this is often not the case. Water looking clean might not always be safe for drinking," said Manjari Chandra, Consultant Nutritional Medicine, speaking on the essence of knowing healthy water."Healthy drinking water is very important for good health. But unhealthy water that the majority of urban Indians drink to survive due to the lack of knowledge about healthy water, is equally detrimental to health. Therefore, it is quintessential for everyone especially those who are living in urban India to know whether the water they consume is healthy or not because the sources it comes from and the way it is treated, determine its purity and safety for consumption," said Chandra,Drinking water comes from a variety of sources including public water systems, private wells, or bottled water. However, in urban India, the majority of the population resides in private households wherein privately owned and operated sources of drinking water, such as wells, cisterns, and springs are available. But people hardly know how the water they consume reaches them. How it is contaminated during the treatment and supply stages etc."The density of population in urban India is quite high and so is the scarcity of safe drinking water. Therefore, the majority of the population consumes water from privately owned water sources. In such a situation, knowing the way drinking water reaches them, turns very important considering its safety and purity. Usually, due to the hectic schedule, people living in urban India don't notice the discrepancy in the water pipelines of their own houses, which more often causes water contamination. So, it is obligatory for an individual to have a close eye on its maintenance. There are other sources of contamination that people usually don't pay heed to such as the water tank placed on their roofs if not cleaned at regular intervals contaminates the water stored in it," said Dr Prof Sanjay Rai, Professor, Dept. of Community Medicine, AIIMS, President, IPHA."Also, in urban India, Reverse Osmosis (RO) is one of the most effective water treatment processes being practised and widely used for water purification by the majority of the population. It is generally used for home water treatment to remove salts, chemical toxins, organic contaminants, dyes, pesticides, and microbes. In this process, the raw water is forced (with pressure) through a dense membrane filter that prevents the passing of impurities. Although, the Reverse Osmosis process has certain benefits such as it does not produce or use any harmful chemicals, yet water consumed after the treatment through the RO process is devoid of useful minerals. Unless minerals are added back, the RO water could have harmful effects on health. Therefore, it is very important that the water you drink must contain the right minerals to maintain the balance of the body," added, Dr Rai.In India, access to treated piped water continues to be inadequate for the majority of the population. Water from major sources like tube wells and hand pumps is also found to be unsafe as they are known to be carriers of waterborne diseases. While people blame unhygienic food for most of the ailments, waterborne diseases such as cholera, acute diarrhoeal diseases, typhoid, and viral hepatitis have caused 10,738 deaths, over the last five years since 2017. Of this, acute diarrhoeal diseases have caused maximum deaths followed by viral hepatitis, typhoid, and cholera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-urban-india-50-million-people-in-15-cities-have-no-access-to-safe-affordable-drinking-water-unicef-report-101619271319685.html
24-04-2021||India||Why India is facing an oxygen crisis as Covid-19 cases mount||By air, by train and by road, India is scrambling to move large quantities of medical oxygen to hospitals in its capital New Delhi and other areas hit hard by a record surge of Covid-19.Are hospitals running out of oxygen ? The main problem is that medical oxygen is not reaching hospital beds in time. This delay is a product of where production units are located, a stretched distribution network, and what critics have said is bad planning.Several hospitals in Delhi, which has no significant oxygen production capacity, made frantic public calls this week seeking emergency supplies.With Covid-19 cases also swamping its neighbouring states like Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, oxygen facilities there are over-stretched attempting to meet local demand.To fulfil Delhi's current needs, additional medical oxygen now has to be trucked in from industrial zones in eastern India.Why are oxygen deliveries getting delayed ? The facilities from where Delhi will now receive oxygen are spread across seven states, some more than 1,000 km (625 miles)away, according to a court document.Given the hazardous nature of the substance, all liquid oxygen must be transported in a limited number of specialised tankers, requiring advance planning to ensure deliveries are made on time, a gas industry source told Reuters.In recent days, as a scramble for oxygen among states worsened, local officials in some regions disrupted movement of tankers in a bid to keep supplies for themselves.In part due to such blockades, Delhi only received about 177 tonnes of oxygen on Wednesday against its allocation of 378 tonnes, an official said.But the industry source said that Delhi had also dragged its feet on planning ahead, without factoring in the time it takes to move oxygen cross-country by road."This problem wouldn't have happened if they had acted 2-3 weeks ago," the source said.Delhi's government did not respond to questions about the planning.Does India have enough oxygen ?India has a daily production capacity of at least 7,100 tonnes of oxygen, including for industrial use, which appears to be enough to meet current demand.This week, the government allocated 6,822 tonnes of liquid oxygen per day to 20 of the country's worst-affected states, compared to their combined demand of 6,785 tonnes, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's office said on Thursday.India's total medical oxygen demand was just 3,842 tonnes as of April 12, as the surge in cases really took hold.States are typically allocated supplies by an inter-ministerial group of bureaucrats mandated to monitor and facilitate the flow of essential medical kit during the pandemic.Modi's office has noted that the availability of liquid medical oxygen had increased by about 3,300 tonnes in the past few days, with steel plants and other industrial units diverting their production.What is India doing to solve the crisis ?The federal government has activated the Indian railways to move multiple tankers from refilling plants to where it is most needed.Working with industrial gas major Linde India and others, the government is also using the Air Force's cargo planes to fly empty tankers to production hubs. Refilled oxygen tankers will then move back by road.The armed forces are importing 23 mobile oxygen generation plants from Germany.Several other industries are offering oxygen to hospitals, while salt-to-software conglomerate Tata Group is importing 24 specialised containers to transport liquid oxygen.The government has issued orders to convert argon and nitrogen tankers into oxygen ones.But as some experts predict a trebling of daily infections in a few weeks, India will have to dramatically ramp up both oxygen production and distribution systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-india-is-facing-an-oxygen-crisis-as-covid-19-cases-mount-101619268862048.html
24-04-2021||India||Biological E gets nod for Phase III trial of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate||Biological E. Limited (BE) on Saturday announced that it has successfully completed Phase I/II clinical trials of its Covid-19 subunit vaccine candidate in India and received the approval to start the Phase III clinical trial from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) - Subject Expert Committee (SEC). BE started the Phase I/II clinical trials of its Covid-19 Vaccine candidate in the second week of November 2020, the vaccine maker said in a press release. Its candidate includes an antigen developed by the Texas Childrens Hospital Center for Vaccine Development and in- licensed from BCM Ventures, Baylor College of Medicines integrated commercialization team, along with Dynavax Technologies Corporations advanced adjuvant CpG 1018TM. The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) have provided support for the Phase I/II clinical trials and also for the upcoming Phase III trial of this vaccine candidate, it said. BE's Phase I/II clinical trial evaluated the safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate, consisting of the Receptor Binding Domain of the Spike Protein of SARS-CoV-2 at three-dose level adjuvanted with CpG 1018 plus alum, in about 360 healthy subjects in the age range of 18 to 65 years. The vaccination schedule consisted of two doses for each study participant, administered via intramuscular injection 28 days apart. BEs novel Covid-19 vaccine was found to be safe and well tolerated and immunogenic, the release said. Mahima Datla, Managing Director,BE,said "We are delighted with the success of the Phase I/II clinical trials of our Covid-19 vaccine candidate. The results of these clinical trials are very positive and promising. We believe that our vaccine candidate will become another effective global Covid-19 vaccine as we move forward into Phase III clinical trials." The Phase III clinical study to be conducted in 15 sites across India will evaluate the Immunogenicity and Safety of BEs SARS-CoV-2 Covid-19 vaccine for protection against Covid-19 in about 1268 healthy subjects in the age range of 18 to 80 years.It is intended to be part of a larger global Phase III study, the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biological-e-gets-nod-for-phase-iii-trial-of-its-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-101619268095619.html
24-04-2021||India||‘Covishield most affordable Covid-19 jab’: SII calls out ‘inaccurate comparison’||The Serum Institute of India (SII) on Saturday responded to criticism over the latest price of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, for state governments and private hospitals, saying the initial rates were kept very low globally as they were based on advance funding given by those countries for at-risk vaccine manufacturing.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereThe world’s largest vaccine manufacturer explained that government procurement for the immunisation programmes in all countries, including India, has been at a far lower price as the volumes are very large. “There was an inaccurate comparison done between the global prices of the vaccine with India. COVISHIELD is the most affordable COVID-19 vaccine available in the market today. The initial prices were kept very low globally as it was based on advance funding given by those countries for at risk vaccine manufacturing. The initial supply price of COVISHIELD for all government immunization programme, including India, has been the lowest,” the Pune-based SII said in a statement assuring transparency.SII’s statement comes against the backdrop of flak it faced after it notified on Wednesday that it will sell one jab of this two-dose vaccine for ₹600 to private facilities and ₹400 to state governments as the country preps for the third phase of vaccination from May 1. The pharmaceutical company’s CEO Adar Poonawalla later said for new contracts, the Centre will also have to pay ₹400 for each dose of Covishield, like state and UT governments, according to reports. However, the Union health ministry earlier on Saturday issued a clarification saying that the Centre will procure both the vaccines at Rs150 and those doses will be provided free to the states.Pointing to the seriousness of the situation during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and the firm’s need to ensure sustainability, SII said, “The current situation is extremely dire; the virus is constantly mutating while the public remains at risk. Identifying the uncertainty, we have to ensure sustainability as we must be able to invest in scaling up and expanding our capacity to fight the pandemic and save lives.”The Pune-based firm added that only a limited portion of SII’s volume will be sold to private hospitals at ₹600 per dose and assured that the cost of the vaccine is still lower than a lot of other medical treatment and essentials required to treat Covid-19 and other life-threatening diseases.As the country battles the second wave of infections, Adar Poonawalla suggested it is important for the market to open up for other vaccines from across the world. “This will accelerate and advance the immunization program of our country,” he said in the statement.SII’s Covishield, which has been developed by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin are being used in the government’s massive vaccination drive in a race against the pandemic, which affected millions across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-most-affordable-covid-19-jab-sii-calls-out-inaccurate-comparison-101619267794573.html
24-04-2021||India||Weekend curfew in Jammu and Kashmir from tonight 8pm to Monday 6am to curb Covid-19 spread||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday announced a 34-hour weekend curfew from Saturday to arrest the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to the office of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha. Essential and emergency services will be allowed during the weekend curfew but all other markets and commercial institutions will remain closed from 8pm on Saturday to 6am on Monday, the L-G’s office added.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19"Complete corona curfew to be observed in the Union Territory from 8PM, 24th April (Saturday) till 6AM, April 26 (Monday). Essential and emergency services to be allowed. All market, commercial institutions will remain closed," the L-G’s office tweeted.Complete corona curfew to be observed in the Union Territory from 8PM, 24th April (Saturday) till 6AM, April 26 (Monday). Essential and emergency services to be allowed. All market, commercial institutions will remain closed.On Friday, the number of coronavirus disease cases in the Union territory went over 156,000 as nearly 2000 people tested positive for the deadly virus. Jammu district reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases at 525 followed by 501 cases in Srinagar and 156 in Budgam on Friday. The number of active cases in the Union territory stood at nearly 17,000 cases, as per the news agency PTI.The Congress party’s Jammu and Kashmir unit on Saturday expressed concern over the Covid-19 situation in the UT. It also called for the speeding up of the vaccination process and increased efforts to handle the raging coronavirus pandemic.The second wave of the virus has hit the country hard even as 346,786 fresh Covid-19 infections and 2624 deaths were reported on Saturday. The steady rise in the number of infections took the country’s active cases’ tally to more than 2.5 million, the Union health ministry's data shows.Many states and Union territories have imposed measures to contain the spread of the virus as the healthcare infrastructure in the country is collapsing. Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana are among some of the states and UTs that have imposed a curfew and lockdown-like measures to contain the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weekend-curfew-in-jammu-and-kashmir-from-tonight-8pm-to-monday-6am-to-curb-covid-19-spread-101619265198829.html
24-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre's guidelines to states ahead of next phase of Covid-19 vaccination and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ahead of May 1 vaccination phase, Centre issues guidelines to states and UTsAhead of India’s third phase of vaccination on May 1, the Centre on Saturday issued guidelines for states and Union territories on the “effective implementation of the New Vaccination Strategy” as the country grapples with a devastating surge of Covid-19 cases. Read more'Skill wise, he is even ahead of Jasprit Bumrah': Nehra's massive praise for young India pacer, says 'sky is the limit'When it comes to the most complete fast bowler in the world, few can surpass India pacer Jasprit Bumrah. The India quick has emerged to become one of the top fast bowlers in the world. Read moreKangana Ranaut mocks Taapsee Pannu as 'she-man' in tweet, Twitter asks 'what's the difference between you and Bullywood'Actor Kangana Ranaut has endorsed a "definition" of actor Taapsee Pannu, and also called her 'she-man'. The Twitter account of Urban Dictionary had posted a definition of Taapsee. Read moreSpotify to launch podcast subscription service next weekSpotify has been rumoured of launching a podcast subscription service. This could happen as early as next week, according to a report by the Wall Street Journal. Read moreKid’s painting goes viral after mom posts that art teacher said it is ‘wrong’Every now and then we come across such stories which showcase how netizens can come together to turn an unfavorable situation into a positive one. Read moreUttarakhand: 8 killed in avalanche, 384 rescued; CM Rawat conducts aerial surveyEight people were killed after they were caught in an avalanche in Uttarakhand. The avalanche, reported in Niti valley in Chamoli, also left six critically injured. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-s-guidelines-to-states-before-next-phase-of-covid-19-vaccination-on-may-1-and-all-the-latest-news-101619263013550.html
24-04-2021||India||Ahead of May 1 vaccination phase, Centre issues guidelines to states and UTs||Ahead of India’s third phase of vaccination on May 1, the Centre on Saturday issued guidelines for states and Union territories on the “effective implementation of the New Vaccination Strategy” as the country grapples with a devastating surge of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The government said in a statement Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Dr RS Sharma, the chairperson of the empowered group on technology and data management to combat Covid-19, chaired a high-level meeting to guide the states and Union territories and to review their plans to ramp up the existing hospital and clinical treatment infrastructure.All adults will become eligible for a Covid-19 vaccine and doses can be sold via the market from May 1 in the government’s latest inoculation drive. The decision makes India one of the first countries to allow all adults to seek a vaccine, although people under the age of 45 will only be able to receive doses once private sales begin or if state governments procure stocks for distribution to these age groups. The government said manufacturers of Covid-19 vaccines will be free to supply 50 per cent doses to states and in the open market, for which they will have to make an advance declaration of the price before May 1.Also read | Covid-19 vaccination open to all above 18 years from May 1: Key pointsHere’s what the states were advised to do:1. They have been asked to register additional private Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs) in “mission mode” by engaging with private hospitals, hospitals of industrial establishments, industry associations, etc, coordinating with designated appropriate authority, mechanism for applications or requests and their processing and monitoring of pendency of registration.2. They will have to monitor the number of hospitals, which have procured vaccines and have declared stocks and prices on COWIN.3. They will have to schedule vaccination for those eligible for providing adequate visibility of vaccination slots on COWIN.Also read | Reliance to roll out its own Covid-19 vaccination programme for staff on May 14. They will have to prioritise decision regarding the direct procurement of vaccines.5. The Centre asked them to publicise about the facility of ‘only online registration’ for age groups 18-45 year.6. They will have to train CVC staff about vaccination, Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) reporting and management and the use of COWIN.7. They will have to coordinate with law-and-order authorities for effective crowd management at CVCs. The states were advised to review their existing hospital and other Covidtreatment infrastructure in light of the daily new case, daily fatality and those that would require hospitalisation.Also read | What changes from May 1 in Covid-19 vaccination drive? FAQs answeredThe states were also advised to prepare and implement a comprehensive plan for augmentation:1. Identify additional dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and prepare field hospital facilities either through DRDO, CSIR or similar agencies in the public and private sector. 2. Ensure adequacy in terms of oxygen supported beds, ICU beds and oxygen supplies. Setting up centralised call centre-based services for allocation of beds.3. Deploy requisite human resources with proper training and mentoring of doctors and nurses for management of patients and Strengthening ambulance services. 4. Establish sufficient referral linkages for districts with deficit infrastructure through the deployment of additional ambulances.5. Set up centralised call centre-based services for allocation of beds.They were also advised to:1. Maintain a real-time record for available beds and make it easily accessible to the general public.2. Create guidelines and enable states to take over private health facilities to provide Covid-19 care.Also read | Centre to begin vaccinating people above 18 from May 1. Check which states will provide free vaccination3. Expand designated Covid-19 care facilities for isolation of asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients so that all those who either cannot isolate at home and/or are willing for institutional isolation, have access to the requisite space and care.4. Provide telemedicine facilities for patients who are isolated at home.5. Ensure adequate availability of oxygen, ventilators and intensive care under trained doctors, as well as access to steroids and other drugs as appropriate.6. Step up the creation of in-hospital oxygen plants in large hospitals.7. Pay fair and regular remuneration to ASHAs and other frontline workers who are being engaged for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-may-1-vaccination-phase-centre-issues-guidelines-to-states-and-uts-101619262324059.html
24-04-2021||India||Centre scraps duties on oxygen to ramp up import amid Covid-19 surge||The Union government on Saturday scrapped basic customs duty and health cess on oxygen and oxygen-related equipment until further orders to ramp up supply, as hospitals continued to battle fatal shortage amid a devastating surge in Covid-19 infections in the country.Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level meet on ramping up oxygen supply in which the decisions on waiving off the duties were taken. Covid-19 vaccines too would be exempt from basic customs duty, it was decided.“The Prime Minister chaired a meeting to review steps taken to boost oxygen availability in the country. The PM emphasized that there was an immediate need to augment the supply of medical-grade oxygen as well as equipment required for patient care both at home and in hospitals,” an official statement read.The statement said the government had decided to grant full exemption from basic customs duty and health cess on import of oxygen and related gear for three months.The scrapping on related import duties will ease imports and make imported oxygen and related medical equipment cheaper, measures likely to boost availability.The PM stressed all ministries and departments need to work in synergy to increase availability of oxygen and medical supplies, according to the statement.Basic customs duty on Remdesivir, a drug recommended for use to treat Covid-19 in certain in-hospital cases, and Remdesivir’s active pharmaceutical ingredients has already been waived off.In the meeting chaired by PM, there were discussions on speeding up import of equipment related to providing oxygen, which could result in more easing of import regulations related to medical use of oxygen.Shortage of medical oxygen has paralysed Covid-19 treatment in major hospitals in Delhi and other cities for the third day on Saturday. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday had said the capital’s requirement of oxygen stood at 700 MT, while only about 400 MT was available, while the capital’s quota was enhanced to 480 MT.In order to augment production and availability and meet rising demand, the PM-chaired meet decided to grant full exemption from basic customs duty and health cess on import of a range of medical equipment and gear, including medical-grade oxygen, oxygen concentrators along with flow meters, regulators, connectors and tubing vacuum pressure swing absorption units.Any other device from which oxygen can be generated will also enjoy these waivers.The PM has directed the revenue department to ensure seamless and quick custom clearance of such equipment.The department of revenue has named Gaurav Masaldan, joint secretary, customs, as the nodal officer for issues related to customs clearance for the oxygen and oxygen-related gear, the official statement added.The country has recorded more than 25 lakh active coronavirus cases and has so far reported more than 1,89,000 coronavirus-related deaths. The ongoing surge in infections has greatly increased demand for medical oxygen.The official statement said a host of administrative and other measures had been taken to boost oxygen availability, as medical doctors sounded alarm over dwindling stocks to treat critical patients.“IAF planes are bringing in cryogenic oxygen tanks from Singapore. IAF is also transporting oxygen tanks in the country to reduce travel times. Similarly, in a major decision yesterday, free food grains will be given to 80 crore Indians for the month of May and June 2021,” the statement said.Those who participated in the meet chaired by the PM, included the finance minister, commerce and industry minister, the health minister, principal secretary to the PM, Member NITI Aayog, Dr Randeep Guleria of AIIMS and the Secretaries of the department of revenue and health along a host of other officials.Commerce minister Piyush Goyal tweeted that customs clearances for Covid-19 related imports will be fast-tracked. “In another step towards fighting Covi-19, Customs will expedite clearances for import consignments relating to the pandemic to ensure critical equipment and medicine can reach on time,” the tweet said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-scraps-duties-on-oxygen-to-ramp-up-import-amid-covid-19-surge-101619263020529.html
24-04-2021||India||Govt slashes basic customs duty on oxygen, 15 related equipment to fight Covid-19 crisis. Full list here||The Centre on Saturday slashed basic customs duty and health cess on medical grade oxygen and 15 other related equipment to boost oxygen availability in the country amid the Covid-19 crisis which has battered the health infrastructure in the ongoing second wave.The move to exempt the basic customs duty comes at a time when top hospitals in the national capital report depleting oxygen supply, threatening the lives of thousands of Covid-19 patients admitted in their units.In a review meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it was suggested that the import of equipment related to providing oxygen to patients needs to be expedited. "In order to augment their production and availability and to meet the rising demand, it was decided to grant full exemption from Basic Customs Duty and health cess on import of the items related to Oxygen and Oxygen related equipment for a period of three months with immediate effect," a statement from the ministry of finance read. These are the 16 items from which the cess has been removed till July this year:Additionally, the government has decided to waive off basic customs duty on import of Covid-19 vaccines with immediate effect for a period of 3 months, the finance ministry's statement read."This will boost the availability of these items as well as make them cheaper. The PM directed the Revenue Department to ensure seamless and quick customs clearance of such equipment," the statement read.For the third consecutive day, India on Saturday recorded over 3 lakh fresh infections, continuing the trend of registering the world's highest daily tally. With 3,46,786 people testing positive out of 17,53,569 tests in the last 24 hours, India's total Covid-19 tally reached 1,66,10481 on Saturday. The single-day toll also made a new record as 2,624 people died, taking India's total death tally to almost 1.9 lakh (1,89,544).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-slashes-basic-customs-duty-on-oxygen-15-related-equipment-to-fight-covid-19-crisis-full-list-here-101619259021749.html
24-04-2021||India||PM Modi reiterates need for Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, increased vaccination||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reiterated the need for Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and increased vaccination against the disease while hoping both urban and rural India would win the fight against the virus and help the country overcome the crisis it faces amid the second wave of the pandemic.Speaking at the virtual launch of the distribution of e-property cards to over 40,00,00 property owners under the Centre’s SMVITA scheme on the National Panchayat Day, Modi thanked rural India for its cooperation in preventing Covid-19 transmission in the villages. He said Panchayat leaders need to work again to stop the spread as India faces a much bigger challenge this time.The second pandemic wave has led to a scarcity of critical resources such as oxygen and medicines as rising infections have overwhelmed hospitals across the country.Modi, who was addressing Panchayat leaders across the country virtually, referred to India’s year-long experience in tackling the virus spread and added local leaders should use this to spread awareness among the masses and stop the Covid-19 spread. He asked the leaders to ensure the people in villages get the double Covid-19 vaccine dose.Modi called the Panchayati Raj Day a very important occasion to recognise the achievements of local governments. He added that the day was remarkable in India’s history as million would get property cards. Modi said the SMVITA scheme was aimed at fast tracking development, which will be possible only with the full support of the Panchayats.Modi spoke about the Garib Kalyan Rozgar scheme launched in 2020 for migrant workers forced to return to their homes following the lockdown imposed last year to check the pandemic spread. “The government of India has already initiated the free distribution of the food to the poor, and this would benefit over 800 million,” said Modi. Modi called it the responsibility of local leaders to promote democracy at the grassroots level and also asked them to look for new ways to develop each village. He referred to the SMVITA scheme and added property ownership rights will create a sense of security among the rural people. “This would end all the quarrels that used to take place over the issues of property rights and would end corruption and persecution of Dalits.” He added e-property cards will make more people eligible for bank loans to invest in making their lives better.Modi asked banks to formulate a format for these e-property cards and added citizens, who have procured them, should be facilitated with easy loan processes. He added a geographical drone survey being done under SMVITA has made village maps available to Panchayats.“This should serve as a framework for future course of development of the villages and Gram Panchayats should make full use of these maps.” Modi asked district administrations to launch awareness programmes in villages to educate the rural people on how to use e-property cards. He said the Centre was committed to developing rural India and Panchayats were empowered to look after various central initiatives such as ensuring safe drinking water supplies.Modi said the Centre has diversified the role of Panchayats by involving them in decision-making. He added the government is committed to helping local governments in making rural India better. “For this, the Central government has empowered the Panchayats to spend finances on the development on their own and we are working tirelessly to ensure that Panchayats do not depend on local government offices for the release of these funds,” he said. “We are committed to directly depositing these funds into the accounts of Gram Panchayats.” Modi said for the first time in India’s history, over two lakh crore rupees were directly sent to Panchayats. He said Panchayats should come up to the expectations of the Centre and utilise these funds for quality infrastructure in every village.Modi said the Centre has devised an online system to audit the work of Panchayats to ensure that quality work is done in villages. He asked all Panchayats to connect to this audit system sooner. “There is no doubt that there are challenges in the development of India but with a goal and a timeline, India can and will overcome these challenges.”Modi asked Gram Panchayats to work on making online education available for every village student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reiterates-need-for-covid-19-appropriate-behaviour-increased-vaccination-101619259480805.html
24-04-2021||India||On Panchayati Raj Day, Congress party launches new digital platform 'INC TV'||The Congress on Saturday launched its new digital media platform 'INC TV' on National Panchayati Raj Day to help spread its message directly to the people.A party leader alleged that various institutions in the country are under attack from the government and this is not being highlighted in the media.The 'INC TV' will highlight news which the government does not allow to be published, so as to enable people to know what is happening in the country, AICC secretary Pranav Jha said.The Congress has been accusing the mainstream media of not showing the party's views, alleging that it is only highlighting the government's version.Launching the channel virtually on Panchayati Raj Day, an initiative of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi, AICC general secretary K C Venugopal said the digital platform will help raise the voice of the people by highlighting the problems faced by them, especially the poor and the downtrodden.Congress general secretary Ajay Maken, party treasurer Pawan Bansal and party spokesperson Pawan Khera were present during the launch."The media is afraid of asking questions to the government and the Congress party through this initiative will help raise some of these questions," Venugopal said.He said asking questions and making the government accountable is the duty of the media.The senior party leader pointed to the large number of people dying due to "the shortage of oxygen and other life saving drugs" in the country during the coronavirus pandemic."The Congress party believes the media should be the voice of people and the voice of their voices. 'INC TV' is one such channel which will put forth the voice of people," he said.Maken said the media should put the government in the dock and question it, and only then will there be pressure on the dispensation to act in public welfare."The accountability of the government and leaders is a must," he said."Various institutions in the country are under attack from the government and this is not being highlighted in the media," party treasurer Bansal alleged.The idea behind the digital TV is to have dissemination of views and opinions of different sections of the society, especially that of the poor and oppressed classes, the party said.With the help of the platform, the party seeks to convey its message directly to people and raise issues of importance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-panchayati-raj-day-congress-party-launches-new-digital-platform-inc-tv-101619257321193.html
24-04-2021||India||After PM Modi’s high-level meet, Centre waives off basic customs duty, health cess on oxygen, Covid-19 vaccines||The Centre said on Saturday customs duty and health cess on the import of vaccines against the coronavirus disease and oxygen needed to treat critical Covid-19 patients will be waived with immediate effect for three months after Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting to discuss ways to boost the battle against the pandemic. Following reports of acute shortage of oxygen from several states and Union territories, especially Delhi, PM Modi stressed the immediate need to augment the supply of medical grade oxygen as well as equipment required for patient care both at home and in hospitals.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here “PM was briefed that basic customs duty was exempted on Remdesivir and its API recently. It was suggested that the import of equipment related to providing oxygen to patients needs to be expedited. In order to augment their production and availability and to meet the rising demand, it was decided to grant full exemption from Basic Customs Duty and health cess on import of the following (16) items related to Oxygen and Oxygen related equipment for a period of three months with immediate effect,” the government’s statement said.Oxygen related items that are exempt from basic customs duty and health cess are medical grade oxygen, oxygen concentrator along with flow meter, regulator, connectors and tubing, vacuum pressure swing absorption (VPSA) and pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen plants, cryogenic oxygen air separation units (ASUs) producing liquid or gaseous oxygen, oxygen canister, oxygen filling systems, oxygen storage tanks, oxygen cylinders including cryogenic cylinders and tanks, oxygen generators, ISO containers for shipping oxygen, and cryogenic road transport tanks for oxygen.Other items that are exempt are parts of all these items to be used for the manufacture of equipment for production, transportation, distribution or storage of oxygen, any other device from which oxygen can be generated, ventilators (capable of functioning as high-flow devices) with a nasal cannula; compressors including all accessories and tubing; humidifiers and viral filters, high flow nasal cannula device with all attachments, helmets for use with non-invasive ventilation, non-invasive ventilation oronasal masks for ICU ventilators, and non-invasive ventilation nasal masks for ICU ventilators.“This will boost the availability of these items as well as make them cheaper. The PM directed the Revenue Department to ensure seamless and quick customs clearance of such equipment. Accordingly, the Department of Revenue has nominated Shri Gaurav Masaldan, Joint Secretary, Customs, as the nodal officer for issues related to customs clearance for the above-mentioned items,” the statement said.Twenty patients suffering from coronavirus disease and admitted to Jaipur Golden hospital in Delhi’s Rohini area died due to low oxygen pressure as the hospital’s stock ran dry, according to hospital officials. The high-level meeting also came on a day India reported more than 300,000 new Covid-19 cases for the third day in a row.As the country battles the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic with the situation becoming grimmer by the day, Modi reiterated the need for all ministries and departments to work in synergy to increase the availability of oxygen and medical supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-chairs-high-level-meet-waives-off-basic-customs-duty-health-cess-on-oxygen-related-equipment-101619256646694.html
24-04-2021||India||Steel fraternity supplied 1.43 lakh metric tons of medical oxygen to different states: Dharmendra Pradha||Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Saturday said that the steel plants from across the country have already supplied 1.43 lakh metric tons of medical oxygen to different states till now."The steel plants from across the country have already supplied 1.43 lakh metric tons of medical oxygen to different states with the central public sector enterprises in the steel sector contributing about 39 thousand metric tons of medical oxygen till now," he said.He said that the steel fraternity stands with the nation in its collective fight against Covid-19 under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi are also pitching in with their efforts to augment supply of medical oxygen to different states.The Rourkela Steel plant under the Steel Authority of India Limited and the Kalinganagar plant of Tata Steel in Odisha are also pitching in with their efforts to augment the supply of medical oxygen to different states."Both the Rourkela Steel plant and Tata Steel plant in Odisha have already supplied about 70 metric tons of medical oxygen to Delhi and Maharashtra," he said.In response, the chief minister of Delhi Arvind Kejriwal and the Chief Minister of Maharashtra Uddhav Thackeray have thanked Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik for helping them with logistics for supply and transportation of medical oxygen from Odisha to their respective States.Earlier, Patnaik, speaking to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over phone, had promised Odisha's cooperation at the national level including ramping up oxygen production to assist other states during this emergency.The worsening Covid-19 situation has seen a surge in the demand for medical oxygen and beds for the Covid-19 patients and many states are reporting a shortage in essential medical supplies. Availability of oxygen is a key element in the treatment of certain medical conditions in the Covid infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/steel-fraternity-supplied-1-43-lakh-metric-tons-of-medical-oxygen-to-different-states-union-minister-dharmendra-pradhan-101619254038898.html
24-04-2021||India||Govt's claim of no shortage of Covid-19 vaccines hollow, says P Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader and former union minister P Chidambaram on Saturday asked the central government whether it has adequate stock of COVID-19 vaccines when more people will visit hospitals to take the shot from May 1.Chidambaram further cautioned the government and said that the decision of vaccinating all aged above 18 years carries a huge responsibility."When the surge in demand happens on May 1 and more people flock to hospitals for vaccination, will there be adequate stocks of vaccines all over the country? If people are turned away at hospitals, there will be great resentment and protests," Chidambaram told ANI.The Centre on April 19 had announced a ''liberalised'' policy, making all above 18 years of age eligible to get vaccinated from May 1. It has also allowed state governments and private hospitals to purchase vaccines from manufacturers.As per the central government, manufacturers of Covid-19 vaccines will be free to supply 50 per cent doses to state governments and in the open market, for which they will have to make an advance declaration of the price before May 1."We welcome the decision to vaccinate all aged above 18 years. However, we have to caution the central government that this decision brings with it a huge responsibility," said the former union minister."The first and foremost requirement is the availability of vaccines. There are widespread complaints about the lack of supply of vaccines. The government's claim that there is no shortage of vaccines is hollow and untrue," he added.The Congress leader further expressed doubt and said: "I am skeptical. Nevertheless, I urge the government to start preparing now for the time in order to meet the much greater demand for vaccines on and after the day (May 1)," he said.India had started the COVID-19 vaccination drive on January 16 with two vaccines -- Covishield (Oxford-AstraZeneca's vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India) and Covaxin (manufactured by Bharat Biotech Limited).The second phase of the COVID-19 vaccination drive to inoculate people above 60 years and those over 45 with comorbidities against the coronavirus began from March 1. The third phase began on April 1 for all above 45 years of age.In the next phase beginning May 1, all above the age of 18 would be eligible to receive the shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govts-claim-of-no-shortage-of-covid-19-vaccines-hollow-says-p-chidambaram-101619252233124.html
24-04-2021||India||Rajnath Singh reviews defence ministry's efforts to deal with Covid-19 crisis||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday reviewed efforts by various wings of the ministry in contributing to India's battle against a fast-spreading second wave of coronavirus.Singh carried out the review at a virtual meeting attended by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh and DRDO chairman G Satheesh Reddy among others.The three services as well as other wings of the Ministry of Defence (MoD) ministry have been extending support to various state governments and union territories in dealing with the massive surge in Covid-19 cases."Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh is reviewing the MoD's efforts to deal with the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country," the defence minister's office tweeted.Since Friday, the Indian Air Force airlifted empty oxygen tankers and containers to various filling stations across the country to speed up the distribution of the much-needed medical oxygen in treating Covid-19 patients.The IAF has also been transporting essential medicines as well as equipment required by the designated Covid hospitals in various parts of the country.On Saturday, one C-17 transport aircraft of the IAF reached Changi airport in Singapore to bring high-capacity oxygen containers to boost the oxygen supply in the country."The Indian Air Force is taking sorties to reduce the transportation time of Oxygen and other critical supplies. One C-17 has reached Changi airport in Singapore today. These containers of cryogenic oxygen tanks will help boosting the oxygen supply in the country," Singh's office said.India is struggling with a second wave of the coronavirus infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under acute shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of a rising number of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-reviews-defence-ministry-s-efforts-to-deal-with-covid-19-crisis-101619253403102.html
24-04-2021||India||IAF aircraft with 4 cryogenic oxygen tanks from Singapore to reach India today||A C-17 aircraft of the Indian Air Force will be reaching the Panagarh airbase by Saturday evening carrying four containers of cryogenic oxygen tanks, a day after the minister of home affairs said it is coordinating the lifting of high-capacity tankers from abroad at full throttle to cater to the rising demand of medical oxygen for Covid-19 treatment.The C-17 aircraft got airborne at 2am from the Hindan Air Base and reached the Changi International Airport in Singapore at around 7.45am.As the country is grappling with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, aggravated by oxygen shortage, the Indian Air Force has come forward with its resources to airlift "medical personnel, critical equipment and medicines". Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday reviewed the defence ministry's effort to deal with the present pandemic situation in the country.Also Read: Amit Shah reviews oxygen supply; asks states to create corridors for oxygen vehiclesApart from Singapore, the Centre is also looking at lifting oxygen tankers from the UAE.IAF aircraft are already ferrying oxygen within the country. Two empty cryogenic oxygen containers are being transported from Jodhpur to Jamnagar by IAF C-17 heavy-lift transports. Another C-17 from the Hindan airbase reached Pune at 10am on Saturday. It will reach the Jamnagar airbase around noon with two empty container trucks for liquid oxygen. On Friday, an IAF C-17 transport plane carried an empty oxygen tanker from Indore to Jamnagar.In another step towards scaling up oxygen supply, high capacity tankers are being airlifted from abroad by Indian Air Force aircraft for smooth movement of O2.One C-17 of IAF with liquid O2 containers loaded at Changi airport, Singapore today.@HMOIndia @IAF_MCC pic.twitter.com/jOuan6cWkyThe Centre has decided to import 50,000 metric tonne of medical oxygen and the ministry of external affairs was asked to explore possible routes for import through its missions abroad. The government is also planning to airlift 23 mobile oxygen generation plants from Germany.In its slew of measures taken in the last few days to address the oxygen shortage in the country, the Union home ministry on April 22 directed all states and UTs to treat oxygen vehicles like ambulances and make provision for green corridors to ensure uninterrupted transport of medical oxygen everywhere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-aircraft-with-4-cryogenic-oxygen-tanks-from-singapore-to-reach-india-today-101619251791408.html
24-04-2021||India||Explained: How India is faring amid record surge in Covid-19 cases this week||As India recorded 346,786 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections on Saturday, the country’s tally reached 16,610,481. The single-day death toll also made a new record as 2,624 people died in the past 24 hours, taking the total death tally to 189,544. While the recovery rate stood at 83.92 per cent as around 2.19 lakh people recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the country were over 25 lakh, comprising around 15 per cent of the total cases.How did India fare in terms of daily Covid-19 cases this week?Data provided by the Union health ministry shows a rising trend of Covid-19 in the country. On April 22 and April 23, the country reported the highest number of daily cases in the world. On April 19, the country recorded 273,810 new cases. On April 20, 259,170 new cases were registered in the country. On April 21, 295,041 new cases were registered and on April 22, 314,835 new cases were reported from across the country. 332,730 new cases were reported on April 23.What about the daily deaths reported in the country?In a worrying trend, the daily deaths reported in the country have also been on the rise. On April 19, the country reported 1,619 deaths from the disease which rose to 1,761 deaths on April 20, 2,023 deaths on April 21, 2,104 deaths on April 22 and 2,263 deaths on April 23.What about the country’s vaccination programme?According to data provided by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, till April 24 the cumulative number of vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 13.83 crore. Cumulatively, 138,379,832 vaccine doses have been which include 9,268,027 HCWs who have taken the 1st dose and 5,951,076 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 11,851,655 FLWs (1st dose), 6,194,851 FLWs (2nd dose), 49,145,265 1st dose beneficiaries and 7,165,338 2nd dose beneficiaries more than 60 years old and 46,671,540 (1st dose) and 2,132,080 (2nd dose) beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years.Which are the worst hit states in the country?According to the health ministry, twelve states have been displaying an upwards trajectory in daily new cases. These include Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Bihar and West Bengal. Maharashtra continues to be the worst affected state reporting a rise in daily new cases since last month. The state reported the highest daily new cases on Friday at 66,836, followed by Uttar Pradesh with 36,605 and Kerala with 28,447 new cases.What about the medical oxygen crisis that the country is facing?Through the week, the country scrambled to move large quantities of medical oxygen to hospitals in areas hit hard by the surge in Covid-19 cases. Several hospitals in Delhi made frantic public calls this week seeking emergency supplies of oxygen. The Centre has allocated 6,822 tonnes of liquid oxygen per day to 20 of the country's worst-affected states, compared to their combined demand of 6,785 tonnes, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s office said on Thursday. The government has also activated the railways to move multiple tankers from refilling plants to areas which need it the most. The government has also started using the Air Force's cargo planes to fly empty tankers to production hubs as well as the armed forces which are importing 23 mobile oxygen generation plants from Germany.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-how-india-is-faring-amid-record-surge-in-covid-19-cases-this-week-101619251520846.html
24-04-2021||India||Court asks Delhi government to arrange tankers for liquid oxygen amid shortage||The Delhi high court on Saturday ordered the Aam Aadmi Party-led government to arrange tankers for the transportation of liquid oxygen needed for the treatment of critical Covid-19 patients after the issue of its shortage in the national capital reached the doorsteps of the court again.Three city hospitals - Batra Hospital, Jaipur Golden Hospital and Maharaja Agrasen Hospital - sought immediate intervention to save the lives of Covid-19 patients admitted in their units. They informed the court that their oxygen stock will last for 30 minutes to a couple of hours.A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli was hearing an urgent plea by Maharaja Agrasen Hospital on the shortage of oxygen and pulled up the Delhi government for their inaction in procuring oxygen for the shortage of tankers and asked the nodal officers and authorities to speak with the suppliers.Also read: 'Less than 2 hours of oxygen left': Max Hospital, Moolchand tweet SOS"It's not that you will just write and keep waiting. What is the nodal office doing? You had to speak to the suppliers in the last three days. You knew where the supply was coming from. Get in touch with the suppliers. We cannot help you at every moment," the Bench told Delhi government."Citizens cannot be allowed to die like this…In case cryogenic tanks are less in supply, we are hopeful that the Centre may work this out in coordination with GNCTD, who cannot leave it completely on the Centre," the Bench said in its order.Slamming the Delhi government, the Bench said, "The problem is you think allocation is done so everything will be served at your doorstep but that's not how it works. After allocation have you made any effort for the tankers to collect oxygen?“Every state is arranging its own tankers. If you're not having your own tanks then arrange them. You will have to do it. Get in touch with the Central government officers. We are not here to facilitate contact between officers," the Bench said.The Bench was told by the Delhi government, represented by senior advocate Rahul Mehra, that many hospitals that have a long association with oxygen suppliers have been refused supply."Place one instance and we will hang that man. We are not going to spare anyone even if they are senior government officers. We will initiate action under DDMA and other sections against the erring persons. Whatever judicial action is required, we will take that, "the bench said.Also read: 20 patients die at Delhi’s Jaipur Golden hospital due to oxygen shortageBatra Hospital, which has 352 Covid-19 patients admitted at the moment, told the court that they have been allocated 8 tonnes of oxygen but they received only 0.5 tonnes on Friday. “Our oxygen stock will not last for more than 1 hour,” the representatives of the hospital told the court.Mehra said the situation is alarming as the suppliers have obstructed the delivery of oxygen.Pointing out the gaps in the supply of medical oxygen for Delhi's hospitals, Mehra said, "We got 309 metric tonnes yesterday. This is also trickling. Inox's supply has been affected and we have been given Air Linde. IAS and DANICS officers have jumped it and there's a chaotic situation with disorderly functioning. The allocation of 480 should be practically applicable.""We fear we will lose many people. I am not sensationalising this, but this is the truth. I have seen the functioning in the last 12 hours," Mehra said.Senior advocate Sachin Datta who represented Jaipur Golden Hospital said the hospital borrowed 1,500 tonnes of oxygen from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (Aiims) in New Delhi. "We have already lost 25 lives. We are literally gasping for breath. The cases are slipping out of our hand. We are trying to ask every authority but to no avail."Also read: India records 3,46,786 Covid-19 cases, 2,624 deaths in 24 hoursPlea from hospitals come on the day 20 patients suffering from coronavirus disease, most of who were admitted to the critical care unit of Jaipur Golden hospital in Rohini, Delhi, died due to low oxygen pressure as the hospital’s oxygen stock ran dry, hospital officials said.“We lost 20 patients almost all of whom were in critical care unit and on a high flow of oxygen. Our liquid medical oxygen was over by about 10 pm and then we switched over to the oxygen cylinders attached to the main gas pipeline. There was a drop in pressure and the patients could not survive,” said Dr Deep Baluja, medical director of the hospital.This comes a day after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal flagged the severe oxygen crisis faced by the national capital and “catastrophic” events that may follow if Delhi’s demand for liquid medical oxygen is not met. Kejriwal said some state governments are stopping tankers meant for Delhi to meet their requirement.“Will people of Delhi not get oxygen if there is no oxygen-producing plant here? Please suggest whom should I speak to in Central Govt when an oxygen tanker destined for Delhi is stopped in another state?” Kejriwal said during the Covid-review conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/looking-at-big-human-tragedy-3-hospitals-facing-oxygen-shortage-rush-to-delhi-hc-101619247130321.html
24-04-2021||India||'Villages at the heart of Aatmanirbhar Bharat': PM Modi launches distribution of e-property cards under 'SWAMITVA'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched the 'SWAMITVA scheme' aimed at distribution of e-property cards. PM Modi launched the scheme through video conferencing saying that as the country faces the challenge of the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the government is focussed on the welfare of people."The SWAMITVA scheme will help people across the country as corruption has reduced significantly in the villages because of the scheme," PM Modi said."We have to work together to fight this pandemic and ensure that more and more people get vaccinated as government expands the vaccination drive from May 1. We've to ensure that guidelines issued from time to time are followed in villages. We have the security cover of vaccines this time. So, we've to ensure that everyone in villages gets both the doses of vaccine," PM Modi added.According to a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), as many as 4.09 lakh property owners were given e-property cards, marking the roll out of the SVAMITVA scheme for implementation across the country.Prime Minister also talked about the Centre's scheme to provide 5 kilogram of free food grains which was announced on Friday under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana.“Under this special scheme (PMGKAY), around 80 Crore NFSA beneficiaries covered under both categories of NFSA, namely Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and Priority Householders (PHH), will be provided with an additional quota of free-of-cost foodgrains (Rice/Wheat) at a scale of 5 Kg per person per month, over and above their regular monthly entitlements under NFSA. Government of India will bear all expenditure of over ₹26,000 Crore on account of food subsidy and Central assistance to states/UTs on account of intrastate transportation etc,” a government statement said on Friday.Read more: On Covishield price row, Centre says it will procure vaccines at ₹150 per doseThe launch of the scheme comes as the country observes National Panchayati Raj Day which is observed on April 24 every year. The day, which is celebrated since 2010, commemorates the passing of the Constitution Act (73rd Amendment) which was passed in 1992 and came into effect on April 24,1993.PM Modi said that the day is crucial as it celebrates the importance of panchayats in country. "Panchayats and villages are the most important units of our strong democracy. Villages are part of India's progress and are the most important part of India's self-reliance goal (atmanirbhar bharat)," PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/village-at-the-heart-of-atmanirbhar-bharat-pm-modi-launches-swamitva-scheme-101619247690511.html
24-04-2021||India||8 killed in Uttarakhand avalanche, CM Rawat conducts aerial survey||Eight people were killed and six critically injured after they were caught in an avalanche that was reported in Niti valley in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district."384 persons have been rescued so far. Six of them are critical and currently under medical treatment. Eight bodies have been recovered. Rescue operation in progress," the Indian Army said.Chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat conducted an aerial survey of the area on Saturday and said that the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) had been deployed and rescue operation was underway. However, connectivity remains affected, he said."Union home minister Amit Shah called us up last night. The NDRF and the district administration are on the job. The ITBP and BRO were informed. Rescue was done quickly. I did an aerial survey today. The BRO is carrying out the operation but the connectivity remains affected," he said.On Friday, the CM issued an alert in the area. “We have got information (about a) glacier breakage in Sumna area of Niti Valley. I have issued an alert in this regard. I am in continuous touch with district administration and BRO (Border Roads Organisation),” he tweeted.“Have directed district administration to get all information about the incident. I have given the order to stop work during the night in NTPC and other projects so that no untoward incident occurs,” he said in another tweet.The higher reaches of Chamoli district have been witnessing rain and snowfall for the last three days, locals said.In a similar incident, 80 people were killed in February last year due to a glacial burst at Chamoli district's Joshimath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-killed-in-uttarakhand-avalanche-cm-rawat-conducts-aerial-survey-101619247623357.html
24-04-2021||India||As second wave rages, good Samaritans across India stand up to fight Covid-19||Healthcare and frontline workers are racing against time to help the nation avert the crisis brought on by the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India. Police personnel, essential workers and social organisations are heavily involved in helping people who are either infected with the virus or are adversely affected due to economic or social reasons brought about by the pandemic.Many people seeing the nation suffer in these times of crisis have also shown their courage and empathy and extended a helping hand to the people impacted by the disease. Here is a list of few instances where well-meaning Indians have stood up to the challenge posed by Covid-19:1. Abhishek Gupta, owner of an oxygen plant in Mayapuri and Inderjeet Singh Monty, president of Mayapuri Trading Association saw the oxygen crisis Delhi is facing and worked round-the-clock to provide oxygen to private hospitals in west Delhi. People from all over Delhi who are in urgent need of medical oxygen have received help from them and over the past few days 500-600 people went there to get their cylinders refilled. “The whole cost of this is borne out by Abhishek. He told us to help manage the things on ground and ensure that people's demands are being met,” Monty told news agency PTI. A similar effort has been taken up by a gurdwara at Indirapuram in Ghaziabad. Under the ‘Oxygen Langar’ initiative, the gurdwara pledged to provide oxygen to people until they find a hospital bed.#WATCH 'Oxygen Langar' at Sri Guru Singh Sabha Gurdwara in Indirapuram, to help COVID19 patients#Ghaziabad pic.twitter.com/L1yITzUchl2. In a hospital in Surat, Nancy Ayeza Mistry, who is four months’ pregnant, takes care of patients while observing Roza. Mistry said that for her attending to patients is akin to praying. “I am doing my duty as a nurse. I consider serving people as a form of prayer,” Mistry was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Gujarat: Nancy Ayeza Mistry, a four months pregnant nurse has been attending patients at a COVID care center in Surat, while observing 'Roza'.She says, "I am doing my duty as a nurse. I consider serving people as prayer." pic.twitter.com/Hx1EQXEAOx3. A woman constable in Rajasthan’s Dungarpur police station who could not leave the precinct was assisted by her colleagues who celebrated her Haldi ceremony there. The constable could not avail a leave owing to sheer volume of work as Rajasthan reported a spike in the number of cases.Rajasthan: 'Haldi' ceremony of a woman police constable who is posted at Dungarpur police station was held at station premises, as couldn't avail leave amid surge in COVID19 cases. (23/4) pic.twitter.com/S1KoKc99yB4. Ranchi's Ravi is happy to drop anybody who needs a ride to the hospital. He drives an auto-rickshaw for a living and has shared his number on social media for anyone who needs a ride or is sick and has been refused a ride. “I have been doing this since April 15. It started with an old woman who needed a ride to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) but was refused by others. My phone number is on social media so that people can reach out to me,” Ravi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Jharkhand: An auto driver in Ranchi offers free ride to people who need to go to hospitals, amid #COVID19 pandemic. Ravi, the driver says, "Doing this since 15th April when I dopped a woman at RIMS after everyone else refused. My number's on social media so people can contact me" pic.twitter.com/HkL49rzUni5. Noida-based social activist Kiran Verma with his Maruti Suzuki Esteem offered to drop people who wanted to donate their plasma at a blood bank and provided food to people in need at their doorstep. “The motivation is simply that these are very difficult times and I just wanted to encourage more people to come forward and show that we all are together in this tough time,” Verma was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Verma had attended more than 600 calls till now.Gurgaon-based Hemkunt Foundation distributes oxygen cylinders free of cost10:26pm: We are still distributing truck loads of Oxygen Cylinders in Gurgaon and will continue to do so throughout the night to critical #covid_19 patientsYour small donation can help us reach out to more peoplehttps://t.co/cj1axUN1xh#COVID19India #CovidIndiaInfo pic.twitter.com/94Laui7xbnThe National Capital has seen Covid-19 cases overwhelm the existing oxygen supply, with several major private hospitals warning that they have mere minutes of oxygen left. In the face of this shortage, Gurgaon-based Hemkunt Foundation has been providing oxygen cylinders free of charge to coronavirus patients in Mumbai and Delhi. Like Dhoondh, the foundation has been involved in Covid relief efforts since the first wave. But the sheer volume of requests it has received this time around has been alarmingly higher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-second-wave-rages-good-samaritans-across-india-stand-up-to-fight-covid19-101619245355864.html
24-04-2021||India||‘Unless world is vaccinated, variants will grow’: Dr Drew Weissman||Covid-19 will continue to be a problem and “variants will keep getting scarier and scarier” until at least two-thirds of the global population is vaccinated, one of the world’s foremost scientists has said, calling for efforts to minimise the inequity that has left large parts of the world without access to doses.The comments were made by Dr Drew Weissman, professor of medicine at University of Pennsylvania’s Perelman medical school, who, along with his long-time collaborator Dr Katalin Kariko, is credited with the research that underpins the success of mRNA vaccines by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna.“There are two things that have to happen for us to get the pandemic under control and stop the variants from appearing. We have to vaccinate the entire world and countries need to have a high enough percentage of people vaccinated – somewhere between 75-85% in order to reach herd immunity. Until that happens, variants will keep appearing and they are going to keep getting scarier and scarier,” he said in an interview over a video call.Also Read | mRNA vaccines can adapt to variants faster than others: Dr Drew WeissmanThe World Health Organization (WHO) said in a report on Friday that even after nearly a billion doses being given out, coronavirus vaccines remain out of reach in the poorest countries. “Over 81% have gone to high- or upper middle-income countries, while low-income countries have received just 0.3%,” WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said during a briefing.“The world really needs to get moving on this,” Dr Weissman said, while adding that vaccine hesitancy too needs to be tackled. “What people who are hesitant do not realise is that if they don’t take it, we are never going to reach herd immunity and Covid is going to be a problem for years and years to come,” he said.The Penn professor also said that he expects mRNA vaccines to become cheaper over time and that he and his colleagues at the university were working on making such vaccines more stable at refrigerator temperature so that they can be moved around more easily. “All of those advances I think are going to come over the next few months,” he said.“It (mRNA vaccines) is expensive because it’s brand new. The companies have just figured out how to make 100 million doses a month. Over time, I believe it is going to get less and less expensive.”RNA is genetic material that human cells read to make specific proteins. For decades, scientists attempted to leverage RNA to create therapeutics. RNA allowed scientists to instruct the body to create the proteins they intended to (in the case of Covid-19 vaccines, it is the spike protein the coronavirus uses to latch onto cells).Click here for full Covid-19 coverageBut scientists discovered it was not easy to deliver the RNA, since the immune system recognised and destroyed it before it could enter cells and start issuing instructions. It was this problem Dr Weissman and Dr Kariko, who is also known as Kati by her colleagues, solved and reported in a paper published in August 2005.“We spent a bunch of years studying that inflammatory activity and finally figured out how to get rid of it, which was by modifying a part of the RNA code,” Dr Weissman said, referring to what was scientifically known as a nucleoside modification.“Kati then moved to BioNTech where she developed the LNP technology (liquid nano particles), which is also a crucial part of the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines,” Dr Weissman added. LNPs are microscopic bubbles in which the RNA of the vaccine is wrapped, helping evade the body’s natural defences till it achieves what it’s meant to do: teach a cell how to recreate the Sars-Cov-2 spike protein so that the immune system can recognise it and fight off the real virus.The platform is also easy and quick to tweak, which will likely be an important tool to create new vaccines in case the Sars-Cov-2 mutates to become more resistant.“The minute new variants that look concerning appear, you can take the sequence and plug it into an RNA vaccine. It will take you literally weeks to make a new vaccine. That’s because the technology is the same no matter what the sequence. (But) if you have to make an adenovirus or an inactivated virus vaccine, you have to make the virus, grow it, inactivate it -- all that takes a lot of time,” Dr Weissman saidThe scientist said that he and his lab are working on multiple projects to help make vaccines accessible to more parts of the country. “My lab and me personally have had a big issue with equality of vaccine access. Early last spring, we started working with the government of Thailand to build their own RNA vaccines. They are going to be able to make the vaccine in Thailand and supply it to seven surrounding LMIC. I am also working with WHO to do the same thing in Africa so that same access is available,” he said.The professor expects some of these to become available by the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unless-world-is-vaccinated-variants-will-grow-dr-drew-weissman-101619244215586.html
24-04-2021||India||Justice NV Ramana sworn in as Chief Justice of India||Justice Nuthalapati Venkata Ramana on Saturday was sworn in as the 48th Chief Justice of India by President Ram Nath Kovind at a brief ceremony held at Rashtrapati Bhawan. The ceremony was also attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu.Delhi: Justice NV Ramana takes oath as the new Chief Justice of India (CJI). He was administered the oath by President Ram Nath Kovind, at Rashtrapati Bhavan. pic.twitter.com/jDESeLZh2DJustice Ramana, who took his oath in English, will retire on August 26, 2022. Born on August 27, 1957, in Ponnavaram village of Andhra Pradesh's Krishna district, he enrolled as an advocate on February 10, 1983.Justice Ramana was appointed as a permanent judge of the Andhra Pradesh high court in June 2000. He also served as the acting Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh high court for a brief period between March and May 2013. He was appointed as the Chief Justice of Delhi high court in September the same year, before being appointed as a judge of the Supreme Court in February 2014.He dealt with several-high profile cases in the apex court related to the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir, restoration of internet in the Valley, the restoration of the Congress government in Arunachal Pradesh and the Right to Information Act.He also led the bench which asked former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis to conduct a floor test where he asked him to prove his majority in the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-nv-ramana-sworn-in-as-chief-justice-of-india-101619243185141.html
24-04-2021||India||On Covishield price row, Centre says it will procure vaccines at ₹150 per dose||After Pune's Serum Institute of India (SII) announced the open market price of its Covishield ahead of the third phase of vaccination from May 1, confusion prevails over how much the Centre will pay for procuring the vaccine. Serum CEO Adar Poonawalla reportedly has confirmed that for new contracts, the Centre will also have to pay ₹400 for each dose of Covishield, like state and UT governments. But the Union health ministry on Saturday issued a clarification saying that the Centre will procure both the vaccines at ₹150 only. And those doses will be provided free to the states.Expanding the ongoing vaccination drive, the Centre announced its strategy for a 'liberalised and accelerated phase 3' of vaccination where vaccine makers can sell their vaccines at open market and states and private hospitals can directly buy them from vaccine makers. Till the second phase, vaccine procurement was centralised with the government of India procuring the vaccines and sending them to states. As states have increased per day vaccinations, a shortage of doses was being reported in April from several states.#Unite2FightCoronaIt is clarified that Govt of India’s procurement price for both #COVID19 vaccines remains ₹150 per dose. GOI procured doses will continue to be provided TOTALLY FREE to States.@PMOIndia @drharshvardhan @AshwiniKChoubey @DDNewslive @PIB_India @mygovindia https://t.co/W6SKPAnAXwWhile Bharat Biotech has not yet announced the open market price of Covaxin, Serum Institute said it will provide Covishield to states at ₹400 per dose and to private hospitals at ₹600 per dose. This is a considerable increase from ₹150 in which the Centre procured per dose of vaccines from both SII and Bharat Biotech in the first two phases of the vaccination. Clarifying, Adar Poonawalla said ₹150 was a special price for the Centre for the initial contracts. When the Centre places new orders, it will also have to pay ₹400.Deferential to CentreDifferential to States.1. SII recently said ₹400 is new price for ALL new govt procurements — States & Centre. What’s the truth?2. States have to buy from SII at ₹400($5.30) —Highest in the World— for Made in India vaccine. Why?@PMOIndia @nsitharaman https://t.co/IyUCswrpRqCongress leader Jairam Ramesh on Saturday raised the issue of pricing and said if for the new orders, the government has to pay ₹400, then it will be paying higher than what the US, UK, EU, Saudi, Bangladesh and the South African government paid.Replying to the Congress leader's tweet, the ministry said the Centre will continue to procure both Covishield and Covaxin at ₹150 per dose. "What is the truth?" Jairam Ramesh replied.Here is all you need to know about the price controversy> Both Covishield and Covaxin are manufactured in India. While Covaxin has also been developed in India, Covishield was developed by Oxford University in collaboration with AstraZeneca. Both the vaccines are presently manufactured in India.> When the vaccination drive began in January, the Centre procured the vaccines from both the vaccine makers at around ₹200 per dose. Vaccines for healthcare workers and frontline workers were free.> As private hospitals were included in the second phase of vaccination and were allowed to charge ₹250 per dose, the government renegotiated the procurement price and brought it down to ₹150. People above the age of 45 years were included in the phase.> Now in the third phase, the Centre allowed states and private hospitals to directly buy vaccines from the manufacturers. The pricing has to be transparent and declared in advance, the Centre said.> Serum Institute's announcement followed Centre's guideline where it also said that its open market price in India is cheaper than that of America, China, Russia.> When a controversy erupted over why states will have to pay ₹400 per dose while the Centre paid ₹150, Adar Poonawalla said ₹150 was a special price and will not be effective even for the Centre for the new orders.> Centre contradicted and said it will continue procuring both Covishield and Covaxin at ₹150.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-covishield-price-row-centre-says-centre-will-procure-vaccine-at-rs-150-101619242478101.html
24-04-2021||India||Liquor prices to go up in Haryana in May as new excise policy kicks in||Liquor prices are set to go up with the Haryana government’s new liquor licensing policy that was announced Thursday and would come into effect from May 10. The new policy will see an increase in wholesale liquor license fees, excise duty, permit fees, import duty and brand label fee, said officials.The excise duty on wine and draught beer remains unchanged, but the duty on India made foreign liquor (IMFL) has been increased 20%. The wholesale liquor license fees has been increased 25%.Retail liquor license fee for bars and restaurants remain unchanged at ₹18 lakh. These establishments can also operated until 6 am instead of 3 am with an additional payment of ₹20 lakh.For imported foreign liquor (IFL) license fees has been increased from ₹1 crore to ₹1.5 crore.Read more: Liquor smugglers try to run over excise inspector in MohaliDr Anirudh Sharma, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (DETC) (west), said that they had achieved their collection targets on liquor this year despite the Covid-19 pandemic and registered a growth of 15%. “The new excise policy benefits most licensees. There has been no increase in the liquor license fees for the restaurants, pub and bars as they have already suffered huge losses. We have also removed Covid cess of ₹10 to ₹30 on each bottle,” he said.VK Beniwal, DETC East, said they too had been able to meet their targets. “There has been no increase in the license fees for all star category hotels. Security deposit and annual fee instalment remains the same,” he said.Members of National Restaurants Association of India (NRAI) welcomed the policy.“Restaurants serving liquor under bar, pub, microbrewery categories will have three benefits under the 2021-22 policy. Mandatory license to serve imported foreign liquor has been withdrawn, the renewal of license based on minimum stock purchase for preceding year has been waived and the extension in time. This probably is the longest opening hours for a non-hotel outlet in India”, said Rahul Singh, trustee, NRAI.Read more: Illicit liquor manufacturing racket busted in Amritsar, 1,450-litre ENA seizedWhile the benefits were obvious, Singh said they hoped at a rationalising of the annual license fee of ₹18 lakh, which is one of the highest in the country. “It is not sustainable for restaurants to get liquor license for providing a complete experience to families. It’s skewed towards full fledged bars and pubs,” he said.Microbreweries were hopeful of allowing their excess production to be offset by selling kegs to other outlets, which is permissible across many states.Ishan Grover, a consultant brewer, said that in Haryana, microbreweries have received no relief from the government. “All the microbreweries are shut since the restrictions were announced. We are not benefitted in any ways as the operations start post 8 pm and now we cant continue operations after 6 pm. We are hit and it will take years to recover these losses and our cost of operating is too high so until the situation is back to normal we wont be able to run the business,” he said.The licensee were hoping to see a change in policy for drinking age which is 25 years after Delhi reduced it to 21 years in their new excise policy. The police has not made any changes despite neighbouring national capital announcing the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/liquor-prices-to-go-up-in-haryana-in-may-as-new-excise-policy-kicks-in-101619240713123.html
24-04-2021||India||2 Pak drones enter Indian territory in Jammu, flies back after firing by BSF||Two drones from Pakistan entered the Indian territory along the 200 kilometre-long Indo-Pak international border in Arnia sector of Jammu district during the wee hours on Saturday. After BSF guards opened fire, they flew back into Pakistani territory, security officials confirmed.“Around 4.30 am on Saturday, two Pakistani drones entered our territory in Arnia sector but the alert BSF immediately opened fire. The drones, probably spy drones, flew back into Pakistani territory,” a senior BSF officer said.“Despite the existence of a ceasefire agreement between Pakistan and India, Pakistan rangers did not stop their nefarious activities against India and carried on with their ill motives on International Border in Jammu. Today alert BSF troops in Arnia Sector foiled drones intrusion bid by Pakistan on International Border. During the early morning hours today, two drones/UAVs were observed entering from Pakistan side and Immediately fired upon by vigilant BSF troops which compelled them to retreat to Pakistan territory,” said an official statement issued by BSF DIG SPS Sandhu. Pakistan rangers have been regularly violating the International Boundary through drone intrusions, trying to drop arms and ammunition in Indian territory but successfully repulsed by BSF troops on border, the statement added.It may be recalled that the BSF shot down a Pak hexa-copter carrying huge cache of arms and ammunition on 20 June 2020 at BOP Pansar in Hiranagar sector of Kathua district.“Saturday’s drone intrusion bid foiled by BSF Jammu troops is indicative of alertness and swift retaliatory action by the BSF on a drone intrusion from Pak side. The BSF intelligence branch was receiving inputs about possible use of drones by Pakistan for ferrying arms and ammunition from Pakistan into Indian side,” said the statement. Accordingly, the troops are on alert and the border domination was exponentially increased, it added. India and Pakistan renewed their mutually brokered truce deal on February 25 this year and since then there has been no firing and shelling by the Pakistani forces along the 744-km-long Line of Control (LoC) and 200-km-long International Border (IB). The thaw between the two countries has given much needed relief to the villagers on either side of the border. As a result, farmers on the Indian side have been able to cultivate crops on their farmlands close to the IB in Jammu region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-drone-enters-indian-territory-in-jammu-flies-back-after-firing-by-bsf-jawans-101619240399468.html
24-04-2021||India||In a new high, India records 3,46,786 Covid-19 cases, 2,624 deaths in 24 hours||For the third consecutive day, India on Saturday recorded over 3 lakh fresh infections, continuing the trend of registering the world's highest daily tally. With 3,46,786 people testing positive out of 17,53,569 tests in the last 24 hours, India's total Covid-19 tally reached 1,66,10481 on Saturday. The single-day toll also made a new record as 2,624 people died, taking India's total death tally to almost 1.9 lakh (1,89,544).Around 2.19 lakh people have recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours, taking the recovery rate of the country to 83.92 per cent, the Union health ministry's bulletin showed. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the country is over 25 lakh, which is around 15 per cent of the total cases.Covid-19: Second national wave still risingThe number of cases in India started rising since February. While the rise at that time was limited to only a few states, including Maharashtra, in March and April, the second wave of the pandemic reached most of the states while India's vaccination drive was on. In the past few days, the Covid-19 situation has become precarious, as the staggering rise in the number of daily infections has been coupled with an acute shortage of hospital beds, oxygen, drugs etc.Expressing concern over India's situation, World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said people are dying across the world because they are not being vaccinated against Covid-19, they are not being tested and not being treated. "The situation in India is a devastating reminder of what the virus can do," he said.Chairing a meeting of chief ministers of the high-burden covid states, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday assured the Centre's full support to all states and asked the state governments to deal strictly with any kind of hoarding, black-marketing of essential medicines and injections. In a separate meeting with the leading oxygen manufacturers of the country, the Prime Minister stressed the need for good coordination between the government and the oxygen producers.The Covdi-19 situation of the country worsens at a time the country is preparing for the rolling out of the third phase of vaccination from May 1 where people between the age of 18 to 44 years will be considered eligible for inoculation. Till April 23, over 13 crore vaccine doses have been administered, including 27,78,555 doses given on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-3-46-786-covid-cases-2-624-deaths-in-24-hours-making-new-record-101619233155488.html
24-04-2021||India||Remdesivir has side effects too, warns expert as demand rises in Covid 2nd wave||Amid concerns over the shortage of Remdesivir, a drug being used in the treatment of Covid-19, the Union home ministry, doctors have reiterated to not use Remdesivir indiscriminately. This is not a drug meant to treat only Covid-19, Dr Naresh Gupta, director-professor of Delhi's Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) said, adding that like any other drugs, Remdesivir too has side effects. The video was shared on Twitter by the Centre through its citizen engagement account MyGovIndia."This is not a drug specifically meant for coronavirus. It is a drug against virus and can be used against coronavirus too. In a study published by the World Health Organization, it has been claimed that Remdesivir will have no impact on a patient under ventilation. What may happen is that your stay in the hospital becomes shortened. That too is the finding of only one study," Dr Gupta said.Remdesivir can have dangerous side effects if used in high dosages without consulting. Watch Dr. Naresh Gupta, Senior Medical Consultant, MAMC explain that why it is only meant to be given to patients admitted to hospital. #IndiaFightsCorona @MoHFW_India @PMOIndia @PIB_India pic.twitter.com/OyQPIZVYHuTalking about the side effects of Remdesivir, Dr Gupta said that one may collapse after being administered with Remdesivir. "Its side-effects may be life-threatening. That's it's not recommended to people who are being treated at home. Now we have to weigh whether a particular case requires Remdesivir. In my mind, we are using it more than required."When to use Remdesivir, Tocilizumab? When to do HRCT chest? Govt issues clinical guidance for Covid-19 treatmentCovid-19 patients are panicking and stocking Remdesivir thinking that they may need it later and at that time they may not get it. But this is wrong as stocking Remdesivir when there is no actual need will deprive someone who may actually need it, the MAMC director said.Watch: Oxygen Express train with 30,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen reaches UPIn its latest clinical guidance for Covid-19 treatment, the Centre has specified guidelines on which medication to be used in which phase and said Remdesivir is only for patients who are on supplemental oxygen support in the hospital.The Centre is ramping up the production of Remdesivir and till April 30, all states and Union Territories will be given some interim allocation. From May onwards, India will be producing 74 lakh units of Remdesivir injections, while the present supply is 38.80 lakh units.Calling Remdesivir a 'little contribution in the overall Covid-19 management', Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said, "Remdesivir is only for emergency use. It is not under standard therapy. Only doctors should administer this injection in hospitals."AIIMS director Randeep Guleria has also warned against the injudicious use of Remdesivir. "Remdesivir should only be given who are hospitalised, have low oxygen saturation and have infiltrates on the chest X-ray or CT-scan," Dr Gulerial said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remdesivir-has-side-effects-too-warns-expert-as-demand-rises-in-covid-2nd-wave-101619237387424.html
24-04-2021||India||2 killed, 25 hurt as tree branch falls on Thrissur Pooram artists||Tragedy struck Thrissur Pooram, often called the mother of all temple festivals in Kerala, a thick branch of a banyan tree broke off and fell on a procession of artists claiming 2 lives in the early hours of Saturday, officials said. “It happened in a second. We heard a sound and branch came down heavily. Since we were carrying heavy instruments we could not run also,” said one of the injured, P Parameswaran, a flutist. The deceased have identified as N Rameshan and P Radhakrishnan, both employed with Thiruvambady temple. There were around 60 people at the site when the tragedy struck. District collector S Shanavas said the incident happened around 12.30 am and more than 25 people were injured in the freak mishap. A major tragedy was averted by the timely intervention of authorities after two caparisoned elephants ran amok in the melee but were later brought in control and chained. State cooperation minister A C Moyideen visited the spot and said it was a freak accident. “It was least expected. A big contingent of police and fire personnel were at the site and that really helped to limit the damage,” he said. The injured include percussion instrument artists, policemen and office-bearers of the temple boards. In view of the tragedy, the festival committee has called off the firework event scheduled later in the night. “Some of the fireworks were already filled. Dismantling of them will be more dangerous. So we light them just to destroy them,” said G Ramesh, secretary of Paramekavu temple. He said timely intervention of all averted a big tragedy and stampede. The Pooram was being held after big uncertainty and it was allowed after several rounds of discussion without spectators. The largest cultural pageant of the state, Pooram, was started in the late 18th century by the erstwhile King of Kochi Sakthan Thamburan. Every year, the festival is held at Vadukunathan temple in Thrissur but last year it was not held in view of the pandemic situation. Usually, more than two million devotees take part in the 10-day celebration which culminates with a musical ensemble and grand fireworks. It is also a major tourist attraction of the state but the pandemic took sheen out of the festival last year and this time. On Friday the state reported 28,447 fresh Covid-19 cases with a high test positivity rate of 21.78 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tragedy-hits-thrissur-pooram-2-dead-after-tree-falls-down-101619237699397.html
24-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Telangana health dept asks Kumbh returnees to isolate for 14 days||Amid the rise in Covid-19 cases in Telangana, the state Health Department has urged people returning from the Kumbh Mela in Uttarakhand to isolate for 14 days.It has also asked people showing Covid-19 symptoms to get tested immediately, or call the state emergency 104 healthcare number for assistance.Over 2,000 people have tested positive for the coronavirus at the Kumbh festival in Haridwar so far.The Covid-19 protocols including wearing of masks and social distancing were openly violated as lakhs gathered for the major Hindu pilgrimage.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had appealed on April 17 that the Kumbh Mela "should now only be symbolic amid the coronavirus crisis", stressing that it would give a boost to the fight against the pandemic.In response, Swami Avdheshanand replied, "We respect PM Modi's appeal. Saving lives is sacred. I request people to not gather for the ritual bath in large numbers and follow all Covid protocols."A total of 5,567 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Telangana on April 21. A total of 2,251 people recovered while 23 deaths were reported yesterday. The total number of Covid cases in the state is 3,73,468. The number of active cases is 49,781.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-telangana-health-dept-asks-kumbh-returnees-to-isolate-for-14-days-101619233421282.html
24-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Colour-coded stickers to discontinue says Mumbai Police, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Colour-coded stickers not required anymore, but checks will be on: Mumbai PoliceAfter almost a week of restricting the movement of private vehicles in Mumbai, the Mumbai Police on Saturday said the categorisation of the red, yellow and green emergency stickers will be discontinued going further. Read moreCovid-19: Night curfew in Andhra Pradesh from todayAndhra Pradesh will be put under night curfew to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state from Saturday. The restrictions will be in place from 10pm to 5am, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said. Read moreAhmedabad to get new Covid-19 facility, Dhanvantari Covid Hospital, todayAhmedabad will add another dedicated coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hospital to its set of hospitals on Saturday as a 950-bed facility Dhanvantari Covid Hospital becomes functional. Read more'Will you ask Sehwag not to open?': Former India cricketers baffled with MI's batting approach against PBKSFormer India cricketers Virender Sehwag and Ajay Jadeja were left baffled by Mumbai Indians’ tactics while batting against Punjab Kings in an IPL 2021 match at the MA Chidambaram Stadium in Mumbai on Friday, which MI lost by 9 wickets. Read moreKangana Ranaut wants Sonu Sood to 'appreciate India-made vaccine and its effects' after recovery from Covid-19 in a weekActor Kangana Ranaut has responded to actor Sonu Sood recovering fast after being diagnosed with the coronavirus earlier this month. She insisted that Sonu recovered within a week because he had taken the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine. She also urged him to appreciate the "India-made vaccine and its effects". Read moreWatch: ‘Our blood boils..’: Meet the ‘helpless’ doctor whose Covid video went viral﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-colour-coded-stickers-to-discontinue-says-mumbai-police-and-all-the-latest-news-101619232850220.html
24-04-2021||India||Ahmedabad to get new Covid-19 facility, Dhanvantari Covid Hospital, today||Ahmedabad will add another dedicated coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hospital to its set of hospitals on Saturday as a 950-bed facility Dhanvantari Covid Hospital becomes functional. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) helped in setting up the hospital in collaboration with the Gujarat government. The dedicated Covid-19 hospital is situated at the Gujarat University Convention-cum-Exhibition Centre at GMDC ground.Dhanvantari Covid Hospital has 950 oxygen beds, including 250 ICU beds and its capacity can be further enhanced by 500 more beds and 25 doctors and 75 paramedics will be deployed at Dhanvantari, according to a press release by the Gujarat government.Union home minister Amit Shah, chief minister Vijay Rupani and deputy chief minister along with several top officials came and checked preparations on Friday. “This facility has been set up by DRDO in collaboration with the Gujarat Government. It has around 950 oxygen beds, including 250 ICU beds. It will start functioning from tomorrow. It has all the necessary equipment and facilities including CT Scan,” Shah was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.“To address needs that might arise in near future, a 1,200-bed hospital will come up soon at the Helipad ground in Gandhinagar. While the Tata Trust would bear the expenditure, the facility will be set up by the DRDO and it will have 600 ICU beds,” the home minister further added. The home minister also announced that IAS officers and district administration will soon audit the vaccination drive in the state to address the issue of vaccine wastage. He also praised Rupani’s efforts in containing the pandemic. Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani along with his counterparts from other states and Union Territories which have a high burden of Covid-19 attended the review meeting with PM Modi on Friday. Chief ministers Arvind Kejriwal, Uddhav Thackeray, Ashok Gehlot, BS Yediyurappa, Pinarayi Vijayan, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Captain Amarinder Singh, Yogi Adityanath and Bhupesh Baghel attended the meeting as their respective states fight a Covid-19 surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmedabad-to-get-new-covid-19-facility-dhanvantari-covid-hospital-today-101619231770316.html
24-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Night curfew in Andhra Pradesh from today||Andhra Pradesh will be put under night curfew to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state from Saturday. The restrictions will be in place from 10pm to 5am, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said.The decision to impose the seven-hour curfew was taken during a high-level Covid-19 review meeting chaired by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday. According to deputy chief minister (health) A K K Srinivas (Nani), only essential and emergency services, like medical and health services, will be allowed to function during the curfew.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"We had an extensive discussion with the chief minister on the steps to check the spread of coronavirus as the cases are peaking again. Night curfew was one option, along with intensive vaccination," Nani said, according to news agency PTI.The Deputy CM added that the Covid-19 vaccine will be provided free of cost to all those above the age of 18. There are an estimated 2.04 crore people in the 18-45 age group in the state, according to PTI, and a vaccination drive for this group could cost the state ₹818 crore to ₹900 crore.The announcement came on the day when the state crossed the 1 million Covid-19 infection-mark as 11,766 more people were infected with the virus on Friday. With this, Andhra Pradesh became the fifth state in the country, after Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, to aggregate over 10 lakh coronavirus cases so far, according to a state health bulletin.As many as 4,441 patients recovered while 38 succumbed to the disease in 24 hours, according to the bulletin. With this, the active caseload jumped to 74,231 after a total of 9,27,418 recoveries and 7,579 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-night-curfew-in-andhra-pradesh-from-today-101619228463902.html
24-04-2021||India||New Covid-19 treatment guidelines||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have issued new guidelines to identify Covid-19 treatment based on three levels of seriousness--mild, moderate and severe. A look at the new protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-19-treatment-guidelines-101619215812846.html
24-04-2021||India||Change in positivity rate between March 23 and April 22||Among India's 20 most populated states and UTs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/change-in-positivity-rate-between-march-23-and-april-22-101619215594298.html
24-04-2021||India||2 million new Covid-19 cases in a week||For the first time since the start of the outbreak, India reported more than two million cases in just seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-million-new-covid-19-cases-in-a-week-101619215098457.html
24-04-2021||India||India Covid-19 cases cross 345k; record 348||For the third day running, India’s daily Covid-19 infection tally remained higher than ever recorded anywhere in the world as Friday saw 345,159 new infections across the country. Daily deaths touched yet another new national record with 2,622 people losing their lives on Friday, even as Delhi lodged its highest ever single-day death toll of 348.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-covid-19-cases-cross-345k-record-348-101619214714519.html
24-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Second national wave still rising||As the second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak in India continues to touch new highs in terms of daily cases, the positivity rate – the proportion of cases returning positive for Covid-19 – is still rising in every major state in the country despite testing record levels, according to an HT analysis. This suggests that this wave is yet to peak and that daily cases may continue to grow in most states -- at least in the near future.To analyse the trends of the outbreak, HT analysed data from the past month (between March 23 and April 22) in India’s 20 most populous regions, looking at two factors — positivity rate and daily tests for Covid-19.Positivity rate is a crucial metric as experts say it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when coupled with increasing new cases, it indicates that the virus is spreading fast within the community. As a rule of thumb, tracking a region’s positivity rate serves as a good barometer for whether cases are going to increase or decrease in the coming days: a rising positivity rate generally means cases will rise in the immediate future, while a dropping positivity rate tends to precede a drop in new infections.The country, meanwhile, is testing at the highest rate ever – in the week ending April 22, India , on average, tested 1.56 million samples every day, the highest ever. And this number is increasing: on Thursday, for instance, the country set a single-day testing record with 1.74 million samples tested in 24 hours. In fact, in the past month, every state has improved its average rate of testing.That is even more worrying -- a rising positivity rate as tests increase is the worst possible scenario from an epidemiological perspective.Currently, the seven-day average of positivity rate is rising in all of India’s 20 most populous regions. Only three of these regions – Assam (3%), Jammu and Kashmir (4.3%) and Telangana (4.4%) – are currently below the World Health Organization’s recommended threshold of 5%. Meanwhile, only two more – Bihar and Gujarat – are under 10%. Six states and UTs – Chattisgarh, Delhi, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal – have exhibited a positivity rate in excess of 20% in the past week.At the national level, the average positivity rate has gone from 4.2% a month ago to 18.4% in the week ending April 22 – a rise of 14.2 percentage points.Delhi saw its positivity rate increase the most in the country in the past month – the number went up 26.7 percentage points, from an average of 1.1% for the week ending March 23 to 27.8% for the week ending April 22 — along with Chhattisgarh (also up 26.7 points, from 3.8% to 30.4%). Chhattisgarh has the highest positivity rate in the country (30.4%) currently, while Delhi is on the second spot (27.8%)Andhra Pradesh is on the third spot, in terms of seeing the biggest change in positivity rate in the past month – its positivity rate has gone up 20.2 percentage points, from 1.1% on March 23 to 21.2% in the past week. It is followed by West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh, both of which have seen the positivity rate soar around 18 percentage points in the past month.At the other end of the spectrum, Assam, Maharashtra and Punjab have seen the least increase in their positivity rates. In Assam, it has gone up from 0.2% a month ago to 3.0%.Maharashtra, India’s worst-hit state by the disease, has seen the second least change in positivity rate – the number went from 21.9% to 25.2%, a rise of 3.3 percentage points. If the state manages to turn this number around , then it may point to a peak to a peak of infections in the state. It is followed by Punjab where the positivity rate went from 7.3% to 11% in the past month.To be sure, Maharashtra remains the biggest hot spot in terms of cases in the country and the state continued to report over 67,000 new cases every day in the past week with a positivity rate of more than five times WHO’s recommended threshold.The rising positivity rate cannot be explained by low testing. Nationally, the seven-day average of daily tests per million residents have risen 53% in the past month – from 766 samples a day per million, to 1,176. The best improvement has been visible in Assam (daily tests up 306%), Jharkhand (up 250%) and Rajasthan (187%). In Maharashtra, daily tests have increased by 113%.Delhi lies on the other end with only an increase of 13% in its daily testing in the past month -- from an average of 3,910 samples tested per million residents a day last month to 4,413 for the week ending April 22. However, in terms of daily tests per million, Delhi remains the best testing state in the list. It is followed by Telangana 3130 tests per million last week, Jammu and Kashmir (2935), Kerala (2905) and Gujarat (2531 tests a day per million residents). West Bengal (484 samples tested per million every day in the last week), Madhya Pradesh (632) and Bihar (834) were the lowest.Experts said both positivity rate rising despite increased testing is an alarming trend. “This shows that the rate of reproduction of cases -- what we call the R-naught -- is going up still, which shows that the virus is extremely infectious right now... And this is why even if you increase your testing the positivity rate is not going down. I don’t think there’s much chance for cases to plateau or come down, at least in the near future,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head, epidemiology, ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-national-wave-still-rising-101619214117702.html
24-04-2021||India||Govt flags ‘excess’ O2 use at hospitals||The Delhi government on Friday flagged the possible “excess” use of oxygen by some hospitals, as per guidelines prescribed by the government of India, and directed hospitals to urgently carry out an audit in this regard.The government, in an order issued on Friday, also said that it will maintain a buffer stock of oxygen cylinders and liquid medical oxygen (LMO) for use in “extreme critical situations”.The directions came amid a severe shortage of oxygen in city hospitals which have been left overwhelmed by a surge in Covid-19 cases.Government officials said that the Capital managed to get only 178 metric tonnes of oxygen on Wednesday, against an allocated quota of 375 MT, and 350 MT on Thursday against an increased allocation of 480 MT.This, even as the demand for oxygen has shot up to 700 MT per day. The data for Friday is yet to be summarised, said officials.“It is also observed that some hospitals are using oxygen in excess of the guidelines prescribed by the government of India (10lt/min for non-ICU and 24lt/min for ICU patients). Hospitals are required to carry out an audit urgently and identify cause of excess use and [draft] a strategy to reduce oxygen usage to prescribed level. The strategy should be implemented in the shortest possible time. Special emphasis should be on reducing the number of high oxygen usage systems, such as HFNCs,” said the order, a copy of which Hindustan Times has seen.It further said, “Government will maintain a buffer of oxygen cylinders and LMO for use in extremely critical situations. Hospitals are requested to maintain their supply through normal channels, through assigned vendors. Request for allocation from buffer stock should be made only in critical situations when the supply of oxygen is alarmingly low – three hours or less.”Senior government officials said that they are yet to draft a full list of daily allocations for all Covid-19 hospitals in the city.In the order, the government directed hospitals to appoint officers in charge to update the oxygen stock in real-time and act as the contact point for emergencies.They were also asked to maintain detailed logs of stocks of both oxygen cylinders and liquid medical oxygen, consumption and deliveries, and submit it to the health department on a daily basis.The government told hospitals that they will be assigned a daily quota of oxygen, which will be reviewed periodically, and directed suppliers, vendors and refill agencies to submit daily reports to the health department.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday issued an order elaborating an action plan, which included strict demand-based supply of oxygen to all health care facilities, seamless transportation of tankers till the Capital’s borders, a 24x7 control room to resolve emergency calls from hospitals within 30 minutes, and constituting oxygen audit committees in all hospitals.The DDMA’s Thursday order also said that the Delhi government will have to issue a daily schedule specifying the oxygen allocation to every health care facility in the city, adding that the allocation and supply of oxygen within the city will be “strictly regulated” and shall “supersede any existing contractual arrangements” entered into by any health facility with any supplier until further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-flags-excess-o2-use-at-hospitals-101619211906794.html
24-04-2021||India||4 held for illegally selling Covid drug||Cracking down on hoarding and black marketing Covid-related life-saving drugs, Delhi Police on Friday said it arrested four men belonging to two separate interstate gangs over the past three days and allegedly recovered 81 vials of remdesivir injection from them. Further searches are being conducted in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi by crime branch teams to nab other members of the two gangs and make more recoveries, police said.“They were selling remdesivir injections for ₹25,000 to ₹40,000 per vial. The key players are still absconding,” said DCP (crime) Monika Bhardwaj.Crime branch teams used dummy customers to strike deals with the racketeers and catch them red-handed.One such customer contacted a person who assured delivery of one vial of remdesivir injection for ₹25,000 at Parmanand Chowk near GTB Nagar in north Delhi.On April 21, the team caught Talwinder Singh alias Sajan, belonging to Amritsar in Punjab, and recovered from him three vials of remdesivir. Police said his gang was supplying injections across India using a courier company in Chandni Chowk.Police searched the company’s office and arrested Jitendra Kumar, who charged ₹2,000 as commission for delivering each remdesivir injection. Their questioning led to the recovery of 68 more vials.“Even when in our custody, Singh received a request from a person who was ready to pay ₹50 lakh as several members of his family were Covid positive,” said a senior police officer.In the second operation, another team arrested Shoaib and Mohan with 10 vials of remdesivir injection from outside Batra hospital in south Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-held-for-illegally-selling-covid-drug-101619211476751.html
24-04-2021||India||Key farm leader says there’s no Covid-19 pandemic, refuses to call off stir||Hundreds of farmers protesting three agricultural laws at five sites on Delhi’s borders said they would not call off or draw down their agitation despite record Covid-19 infections paralyzing the country’s health system. On Friday, farm union leaders summoned more peasants to join their movement. Gurnam Singh Chaduni, a key farm leader, on Friday told HT he did not believe that the country was facing a pandemic. “In any disease, there are naturally at least 2% deaths, as with coronavirus. Does that mean these are pandemics? The tragedy is that the government did not prepare with adequate oxygen and beds,” Chaduni said. Public-health experts have partly blamed large political rallies following state elections and religious gatherings for surging Covid-19 numbers. If coronavirus infections break out at the farmers’ protests since last November, it could risk hundreds of lives, they said. Chaduni also said the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the parent body of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, should intervene to resolve the logjam. “The Prime Minister is selling off the country. That is surely not the RSS’ agenda. So I think, it’s time now that the RSS should intervene in our demand for withdrawal of the farm laws,” said Chaduni. Farmer unions, especially from Haryana and Punjab, are demanding the rollback of three laws passed in September last year to lift restrictions on trade of farm produce to allow more private investments. Farmers say these changes will leave them at the mercy of large corporations and supermarkets. Farmers in large numbers are currently at five sites near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and Shahjahanpur (on the Rajasthan-Haryana border). The Haryana government had criticsed the farmers, alleging that their occupation of key spots along road networks had hampered the movement of critical medical equipment and patients. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the platform of farmers leading the protests, has called for increasing the protests despite surging Covid-19 infections around the country. The SKM leaders met with Haryana government officials on Thursday and one side of the highway at Singhu Border will see removal of barricades. “Passage has been made for movement of emergency services,” the SKM said in a statement. “Farmers are preparing to come back to protest sites in large numbers. A large convoy of protestors in tractor trolleys will be leaving from Barwasni in Sonepat district of Haryana for Singhu Border. These farmers are associated with Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Samiti. It is expected that there will also be many women farmers in this convoy,” Darshan Pal, a leader of the SKM, said. Public intellectual Gopalkrishna Gandhi has appealed to the farmers to call off their agitation. In an open letter authored by him and published in HT on Friday, he stated: “This is not the time to converge in hundreds around a city where the virus is dancing the dance of death-by-crowding. I am not asking you to stop it or end the agitation. Only to dismantle its present form and keep it dismantled until the virus is completely under control.” “It is a well-known fact that large crowds are a source of risk for the spread of Covid-19 infections,” said Sushil Sharma, a surgeon with Noida’s Kailash hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-farm-leader-says-there-s-no-covid-19-pandemic-refuses-to-call-off-stir-101619209258039.html
24-04-2021||India||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan urges PM Modi to make Covid-19 vaccines free||With Kerala reporting another sharp spike of 28,447 Covid-19 cases, the highest since the outbreak began last year, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to tweak the proposed vaccine policy and ensure free doses to the overburdened state.Talking to the media in the state capital the CM said in the virtual meeting chaired by the PM he appraised him about the shortage of vaccines and told him that the new policy will put extra burden on the state which is already reeling under the impact of the pandemic. He expressed hope that the Union government would take a proactive decision on this soon.“In India major vaccines were distributed free of cost. When the country is going through a difficult situation it is not proper to impose a fee on vaccines. Three-level price mechanism is really intriguing. Hope the PM will realise this and will do a rethink,” the CM said adding most of the states expressed similar views in the meeting. He said the state needs ₹1300 crore to meet the vaccine bill if the Centre insists on charges for the vaccines.Vijayan said the state can’t wait interminably for doses and it will chalk out a plan to buy directly from the market. “For herd immunity vaccination is important. We want to carry it out as quickly as possible to contain the surge. In the state only 11 per cent people were exposed to the virus so we have to act fast,” the CM said adding despite mounting cases the state has maintained the lowest case fatality rate, 0.39 per cent in the country.The CM lauded people for contributing to the CM’s relief fund to foot expenses of the vaccine. “It is really heart-warming. On Friday also we received more than ₹one crore towards this. This shows the spirit of the people. We will make a separate fund for this and use it only for vaccines,” he said.He said the second wave in Kerala was critical and the government will do everything possible to save lives. “It is more than what we expected. There is no short cut but people will have to go by the restrictions. If we work in unison we can overcome this like last year,” he said adding the weekend restrictions will be on the lines of lockdown. The government has also called an all-party meet on Monday. He said a decision on further restrictions will be taken after the all-party meet.The state has hit another high reporting 28,477 cases on Friday with a test positivity rate of 21.78 per cent. With 27 fatalities, the death toll went up to 5055. Ernakulam district topped the list with 4548 cases. The active caseload also went up to 1,78,983. The first coronavirus case was reported in the country in Kerala in January 2020, when a medical student in China returned to Thrissur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-urges-pm-modi-to-make-covid-19-vaccines-free-101619208597664.html
24-04-2021||India||Bengal: Phase 7 campaigning over, Modi ends it with a virtual address||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday ended his campaign for the eight-phase Bengal assembly polls with a virtual address that spoke about the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) agenda and promises to the state, with no mention of either chief minister Mamata Banerjee or her party, the Trinamool Congress (TMC).Modi was supposed to address four rallies in the state, including one in the heart of Kolkata, but cancelled them to address high-level meetings on Covid-19 in Delhi. Later, the Election Commission (EC) imposed a ban on roadshows and big rallies and limited the number of people attending political meetings to 500 in view of the sharp spike in coronavirus infections.In all, Modi addressed more than two dozen rallies rallies in the state .Bengal reported 12,876 infections asnd 59 deaths on Friday.Urging people to cast votes in large numbers in the last two phases to be held on April 26 and 29, the PM, in his 32-minute long speech, said, “After four decades, people of Bengal are striving to establish a government of their choice.”The PM focused on the BJP’s electoral promises made to the poor, youth, farmers, middle-class and women. In sharp contrast to the attacks he earlier made on TMC, Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee, Modi made only a couple of general remarks in reference to governance and law and order situation in the state. “Infiltration, extortion et al are enemies of development…. We will give a government which will be free of corruption. Bengal yearns for peace, security and development,” he said.Hours before addressing his virtual rally, Modi announced in a tweet that if the BJP comes to power, all people in Bengal would get free vaccine. He also announced after his meeting with the chief ministers that the Centre would provide free ration in May and June.TMC leaders said Modi was following Banerjee’s policies as she was the first to make these announcements. “Banerjee announced last year that the Bengal government would continue to give free ration to people till June. She repeatedly wrote to Modi to let the state buy vaccines so that people can get these free from May,” said Bengal’s deputy parliamentary affairs minister, Tapas Roy.Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya confirmed that Modi will not address Bengal voters anymore. “This was his last speech. We are planning something for Union home minister Amit Shah. Otherwise, the campaign will be limited mostly to street-corner meetings,” said Bhattacharya.“Modi seems to have given up,” quipped TMC Lok Sabha member, Saugata Roy .Campaigning for 34 assembly seats that are scheduled to go to the polls on April 26 in the seventh phase of election ended on Friday, .A total of 8,678,221 voters -- 4,444,634 men, 4,233,358 women and 229 transpersons -- will exercise their franchise in the 34 constituencies spread across Malda (Part I), Kolkata Dakshin, Murshidabad (Part I), Paschim Bardhaman (Part 1) and Dakshin Dinajpur districts.Polling will be held between 7 am to 6.30 pm as in other phases at 12,068 polling stations in nine assembly constituencies each in Murshidabad and Paschim Bardhaman districts, six each in Dakshin Dinajpur and Malda districts four in Kolkata Dakshin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-phase-7-campaigning-over-modi-ends-it-with-a-virtual-address-101619204036865.html
24-04-2021||India||Centre resumes free food for poor scheme||The Union government on Friday resumed the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana, a programme to distribute free foodgrain to the poor as a food assistance due to disruptions caused by India’s surging Covid second wave.Over 800 million beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act will get an additional 5kg of wheat or rice and 1kg of gram free during May and June 2021, under the scheme which was launched first in April 2020 during the national lockdown.“Under this special scheme (PMGKAY), around 80 Crore NFSA beneficiaries covered under both categories of NFSA, namely Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and Priority Householders (PHH), will be provided with an additional quota of free-of-cost foodgrains (Rice/Wheat) at a scale of 5 Kg per person per month, over and above their regular monthly entitlements,” an official statement said.“The country has plentiful stocks of foodgrains to meet demand,” a food ministry official said.According to official data, the Food Corporation of India currently has 77 million tonne of foodgrains, 3.6 times more than the required emergency reserve for this time of the year.Nearly 810 million qualify for subsidised foodgrains under the food security law, under which beneficiaries get 5kg of wheat or rice covers per person per month. The Act applies to 67% of the population (75% in rural areas and 50% in urban pockets).The Centre will “bear full expenditure” of over ₹26,000 crore for the additional foodgrain allocation to the beneficiaries as part of central assistance to States, an official said.Record Covid-19 infections and a crippled health care system have left several migrant workers jobless, and hit the income of the poor due to lockdown-like restrictions in several states as authorities battle the pandemic.In 2020, when India imposed a strict four-month lockdown to deal with pandemic, a migrant crisis had gripped the country. Thousands of jobless migrants fled cities and faced hunger.According to reports, migrants have begun moving out of cities such as Mumbai and Delhi as a second wave of Covid infections rages.An official said migrants should not panic and they can withdraw subsidised ration from any state under the ‘One nation, one ration card’ programme. While the programme is operational in 32 states, Delhi is not one of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-resumes-free-food-for-poor-scheme-101619203916675.html
24-04-2021||India||Tharoor apologises to family after Twitter gaffe on Mahajan’s health||An unverified erroneous tweet by senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on former Lok Sabha speaker Sumitra Mahajan’s health caused confusion and outrage on social media on Thursday night before the former Union minister deleted the message and apologised to the family.Tharoor’s tweet about Mahajan’s health, which was not accompanied by any official source or information, led to other politicians, including Nationalist Congress Party leaders Sharad Pawar and Supriya Sule, to put out now-deleted statements. Some news outlets, including HT, initially ran web stories, quoting the Congress member of Parliament’s tweet.Minutes after his tweet, several Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and Mahajan’s family refuted Tharoor’s information and said the 78-year-old leader was healthy and fine. They also pointed out that Tharoor had no official source of information, and hadn’t verified the facts before tweeting, leaving the Congress leader with no option but to delete his tweet and apologise.BJP general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya replied to Tharoor, saying Mahajan,78, was healthy and wishing her a long life. Other leaders also said that Mahajan was admitted to Bombay hospital in Indore for mild fever and was doing fine. She had also tested negative for Covid-19.Responding to Vijayvargiya, Tharoor thanked him and tweeted, “I have deleted the tweet. I wonder what motivates people to invent and spread such evil news that takes in people. My best wishes for Sumitra ji’s health and long life.”Her younger son, Mandar Mahajan, put out a video message as well. “My mother is perfectly healthy. The rumours about her demise are absolutely false,” he said.On Friday morning, news agency ANI spoke to Mahajan. “How could news channels run a report on my so called demise without even cross checking with the Indore administration? My niece refuted Mr. Tharoor on Twitter but what was the urgency in announcing without confirmation?” she said.Hours later, Tharoor said that he apologised to Mahajan’s son. “Spoke to Sumitra Mahajan ji’s son to convey my sincere apologies at last night’s misinformation. He was most gracious & understanding. Delighted to hear she is very much better,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tharoor-apologises-to-family-after-twitter-gaffe-on-mahajan-s-health-101619203856625.html
24-04-2021||India||France, Australia, EU extend help amid crisis||France, Australia and the European Union (EU) on Friday offered support and solidarity to India as it grappled with a massive surge in coronavirus infections that has stretched medical facilities across the country and resulted in shortages of oxygen and medicines.French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain tweeted a message from President Emmanuel Macron about providing support for India’s Covid-19 response, while cooperation on pandemic-related issues figured in a virtual meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and European Commission executive vice-president Margrethe Vestager.“I want to send a message of solidarity to the Indian people, facing a resurgence of Covid-19 cases. France is with you in this struggle, which spares no-one. We stand ready to provide our support,” Macron was quoted as saying by the French envoy.Though the meeting between Jaishankar and Vestager largely focused on preparations for the virtual India-EU Summit next month, the two leaders also discussed India’s Covid-19 response. “Appreciated the support offered by EU on Covid challenges currently faced by India. Confident that EU will help strengthen our capabilities at this critical juncture,” Jaishankar tweeted after the meeting.European Council President Charles Michel too said in a tweet that the EU “stands in solidarity with Indian people amidst [the] resurgent #COVID19 pandemic”. He added the fight against the virus is a “common fight” and said the EU would discuss its support and cooperation at the India-EU Summit on May 8.Australian foreign minister Marise Payne extended solidarity to India “as it tackles this latest COVID-19 outbreak” and said in a tweet: “India’s generosity and leadership in providing vaccines to our region is appreciated. We will continue to work together closely to respond to this global crisis.”Meanwhile, China on Friday said it was holding talks with India on sending assistance to New Delhi to fight the surge in Coronavirus cases, a day after offering to help with support.“Based on the needs [of the] Indian side, we stand ready to offer support and assistance. We are now holding communications with the Indian side,” foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told a briefing in Beijing. He didn’t give details of the assistance China intended to provide.India on Friday recorded the world’s highest daily tally of coronavirus cases for the second day in a row, with daily deaths too recording a jump. With 332,730 new cases, India’s total caseload crossed 16 million, and the official death toll rose by 2,263 to touch 186,920, according to health ministry data.As the cases surged, Canada announced it would temporarily bar passenger flights from India and Pakistan for 30 days as part of stricter measures to combat the spread of the coronavirus.The government of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau acted after prominent opposition politicians complained Ottawa hasn’t done enough to combat a third wave of infections in Canada. The ban will not affect cargo flights.Canada’s health minister Patty Hajdu said while Indian citizens accounted for 20% of all international arrivals, they represented more than 50% of positive tests conducted by Canadian authorities. “By eliminating direct travel from these countries, public health experts will have the time to evaluate the ongoing epidemiology of that region and to reassess the situation,” she said.France imposed a 10-day quarantine requirement for travellers from India, Brazil, Chile, Argentina and South Africa, while Indonesia on Friday announced a ban on all travellers from India that will come into force on April 25.“The government has decided to stop granting visas to foreign nationals who live in or have visited India in the past 14 days,” economic affairs minister Airlangga Hartarto, who heads Indonesia’s Covid-19 handling and economic recovery committee, told a news conference.Australia, Canada, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Oman, the US, Britain and New Zealand have imposed travel restrictions on India or issued advisories against travelling to India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-australia-eu-extend-help-amid-crisis-101619203136680.html
24-04-2021||India||People are dying for oxygen: SC to TN Govt on reopening of Vedanta plant||People are dying for want of oxygen, said the Supreme Court on Friday, questioning the Tamil Nadu government for opposing the reopening of Vedanta’s Sterlite copper unit at Thoothukudi only to produce medical oxygen.The bench, led by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, took a dim view of the state government’s submission that letting the plant function will create law and order problems.“When people are dying, can a state say we will still not run it because there could be law and order problems or that Vedanta did this and that? People are dying for want of oxygen. Somebody has to take the responsibility,” observed the bench, which also included justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat.“Just because they (state government) have a problem with Vedanta, they will let people die. What is this? We have never heard this kind of an argument by a state before,” lamented the bench, as it sought a categorical answer from the state government by Monday on whether it would let Vedanta operate or if the state was willing to take over the plant to produce the oxygen on its own.The plant was shut down in May 2018 after 13 civilians were shot dead in the anti-Sterlite protests in Thoothukudi. The Madras high court in August 2020 rejected Vedanta’s petition to reopen the plant, citing environmental concerns. The SC has also rejected requests to reopen the plant for a trial run.However, a fresh plea by Vedanta, argued by senior advocate Harish Salve, urged the court to let it make only the oxygen plant in Thoothukudi functional so that it could provide free of cost thousands of tonnes of oxygen for medical purposes to combat the shortage of oxygen.The central government, through solicitor general Tushar Mehta, has also supported Vedanta’s application citing the dire need for medical oxygen due to the surge in infections during the second Covid-19 wave.But representing the state government, senior advocate CS Vaidyanathan resisted the plea, submitting there was a total lack of confidence among local people after the shooting incident and any attempt to reopen the plant will impact the law and order in the area.Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for the organisation of affected families, also submitted that people have a lot of anger against the plant while adding that Tamil Nadu had surplus oxygen and hence, there was no need to reopen the plant.However, the CJI was unimpressed with the grounds of opposition: “It is not just about Tamil Nadu. The whole country needs it. With respect to everyone’s sentiments, this may not be right to say because we are in surplus we don’t want to produce more.”The bench further reminded the Tamil Nadu government of the constitutional provisions on the directive principles of state policy. “The material resources should be distributed equitably. I am sure the Tamil Nadu government also understands this. We are not on who will produce. Let Tamil Nadu government produce it if they have a problem with Vedanta.”On being asked if the state government was willing to operate the plant, Vaidyanathan said even the Centre could take over the plant but he would need some time to obtain instructions regarding this.The bench then told Vaidyanthan that the state could not allow people to die just because it had a problem with Vedanta. Vaidyanthan said he would file a proper affidavit in this regard by Monday.On Thursday, Salve had made a request on behalf of Vedanta for reopening the Sterlite Copper plant to produce and supply oxygen for Covid-19 patients. He argued, “People are dying everyday. We want this permission only for starting the oxygen plant. And we will supply it free of cost. Give us the permission today and we can start producing it in 5-6 days.”The S-G too cited the dire need for medical oxygen, saying, “Let Vedanta operate its plant only for the purpose of producing oxygen and this will be diverted only for medical purposes. Sooner the plant starts functioning, better for the country.”Mehta had said between protecting human life and the environment, they must lean toward protecting human lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-are-dying-for-oxygen-sc-to-tn-govt-on-reopening-of-vedanta-plant-101619203076600.html
24-04-2021||India||US, India issue joint statement on Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030||Through the US India Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 partnership, the US and India aim to demonstrate how the world can align swift climate action with economic development, taking into account national circumstances and sustainable development priorities, a US-India joint statement released on Thursday night.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday announced the launch of the joint climate and clean energy initiative to “mobilise investments, demonstrate clean technologies and enable green collaborations” in India that could also “create templates of sustainable development” for other developing countries.The statement said the partnership will proceed along two main tracks—the strategic clean energy partnership co-chaired by Secretary of Energy Granholm, and the Climate Action and Finance Mobilization Dialogue, co-chaired by Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry.“Both the United States and India have set ambitious 2030 targets for climate action and clean energy. In its new nationally determined contribution (NDC), the US has set an economy-wide target of reducing its net greenhouse gas emissions by 50–52% below 2005 levels in 2030. As part of its climate mitigation efforts, India has set a target of installing 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030.”Through the partnership, the US and India are firmly committed to working together in achieving their ambitious climate and clean energy targets and to strengthening bilateral collaboration across climate and clean energy.“The partnership will aim to mobilize finance and speed clean energy deployment; demonstrate and scale innovative clean technologies needed to decarbonize sectors including industry, transportation, power, buildings; and build capacity to measure, manage, and adapt to the risks of climate-related impacts,” the statement added.HT had reported on March 29 that Petroleum minister, Dharmendra Pradhan and Granholm agreed to prioritise greater collaboration in the clean energy sector, such as biofuels, carbon capture, utilisation and storage (CCUS), hydrogen production and carbon sequestration, through technology exchange, joint research and development (R&D) through Partnership to Advance Clean Energy Research (PACE-R) as part of the strategic partnership.Independent experts welcomed the US’s upgraded NDC. “The new NDC target that the US submitted aims to reduce its GHG emissions by 50-52% below 2005 levels. Since the US’ emissions grew between 1990 and 2005, this new target roughly amounts to a 43-45% reduction below its 1990 emissions or its 2020 emissions. This is a step in the right direction, particularly when combined with its commitment to net-zero GHG emissions by 2050. Unlike the UK and EU, however, the US’ pledge is not yet enshrined in law. But it has the potential to spur technological innovation,” said Ulka Kelkar, director, climate programme, World Resources Institute.The US on Thursday also released its international climate finance plan. “The US intends to double, by 2024, our annual public climate finance to developing countries relative to the average level during the second half of the Obama-Biden Administration (FY 2013-2016). As part of this goal, the United States intends to triple our adaptation finance by 2024. The Biden Administration will work closely with Congress to meet these goals,” the plan said. Several experts said the USA’s climate finance plan is not ambitious enough. World Resources Institute’s Joe Thwaites, an expert in climate finance said in a tweet: “The climate finance plan the Biden administration launched today starts to play catch up after the US was largely absent for the last four years…In this time many other developed countries already doubled their climate finance, and some committed to doubling again before 2025. In this light Biden’s commitment to doubling its public climate finance by 2024 compared to the 2013-16 baseline is not particularly ambitious.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-india-issue-joint-statement-on-climate-and-clean-energy-agenda-2030-101619202957105.html
24-04-2021||India||Amid shortage, PM Modi holds virtual meet with oxygen producers, industrialists||New Delhi At a meeting with oxygen producers and industrialists Mukesh Ambani, Sajjan Jindal and Naveen Jindal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday highlighted the need to increase the availability of cylinders and upgrade logistics for transporting them easily.The Prime Minister’s meeting came amidst a crippling shortage of oxygen, a critical medical intervention against Covid-19, which causes respiratory distress in some cases. The vitual meeting was also attended by chairperson of the Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) Soma Mandal, TV Narendran of Tata Steel and other oxygen manufacturers. “It was a very good meeting. Everyone gave good suggestions,’’ said Naveen Jindal, when contacted by HT. “Everyone assured the Prime Minister that they would work to tackle the shortage, that everyone would make an all-out effort to tide over the crisis.’’Jindal said that there were concerns about some states blocking the free transport of oxygen tankers from one state to another. The Prime Minister, he said, assured everyone that no one will be stopped. To increase the availability of oxygen, the PM also suggested that tankers used to carry argon and nitrogen should be converted and used to carry oxygen too. “Some of us said that we will be importing some tankers too. Everyone assured him that they would do their best to ensure that no lives are lost for want of oxygen,’’ Jindal said.The producers also discussed the need for rational use of oxygen so that there was no wastage. Modi apprised the attendees of how the government had pressed the railways and the air force into service to help in transporting oxygen to several states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-shortage-pm-modi-holds-virtual-meet-with-oxygen-producers-industrialists-101619202956604.html
24-04-2021||India||Shah urges states to provide security for oxygen transport||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Friday asked all states and Union territories to provide adequate security to oxygen transporting vehicles and to make provisions for exclusive corridors for such transportation, treating these vehicles like ambulances.At a review meeting chaired by home minister Amit Shah, he directed an expert group to optimise and rationalise the allocation of oxygen to various states and UTs, keeping in view the active cases and to reduce time for movement of medical oxygen.“In view of the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases and resultant increasing demand of medical oxygen across the country, Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah has reviewed the situation and directed various measures to augment the supply of oxygen for medical purposes. Accordingly, an Expert Group is optimising and rationalising the allocation of oxygen to various States and UTs, keeping in view the active cases and to reduce time for movement of medical oxygen,” said a statement by MHA.The ministry has further written to states/UTs, to direct district collectors/ deputy commissioners to list all the plants situated in their district, in which different types of oxygen is generated, along with the installed capacity, the statement added.“They should also take action to revive those plants, which are lying closed. These efforts will ensure ready availability of oxygen at the district level, besides supply of medical oxygen from usual channels,” the ministry said.Earlier, the ministry on Thursday directed states to make sure there was no hindrance in the supply of oxygen transporting vehicles, while invoking the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Within hours, the Delhi high court directed to ensure adequate security to the trucks transporting oxygen and their non-obstruction on the way as well as creation of a special corridor for immediate transportation.In his letter to states/UTs on Friday, Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla pointed out that the Delhi high court “has further directed that non-compliance of its order will invite action for contempt of court and also invite criminal and penal action under DM Act and under the Indian Penal Code (IPC)”.Meanwhile, the Indian Air Force has already started transporting empty tankers after delivery of oxygen to destination state/UT to oxygen producing locations to reduce movement time.The MHA is coordinating lifting of high capacity tankers from abroad, such as Singapore and UAE by Indian Air Force (IAF) transport planes. Further, Ministry of Railways is running special trains carrying oxygen tankers across the country for faster movement.MHA and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare are in regular touch with the States and UTs for promoting optimal use of medical oxygen and undertake periodic audits to ensure there is no wastage of medical oxygen and essential medicines, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-urges-states-to-provide-security-for-oxygen-transport-101619202896633.html
24-04-2021||India||15 Covid patients die in Virar hospital fire||Fifteen Covid patients were charred to death after a fire broke out on the second floor of a four-storey private hospital, Vijay Vallabh Covid Care Hospital, in Virar in the early hours of Friday, officials said.The wife of one of the patients, Chandni Doshi, 40, died of shock minutes after hearing that her husband Kumar Kishore Doshi, 45, was killed in the blaze. She was being treated for Covid at another hospital, Jeevdani, in the vicinity. They have a 14-year-old daughter.A short-circuit may have been behind the fire, which broke out around 3.15am, according to preliminary findings by the the Vasai-Virar fire brigade.“There were 17 patients in the ICU, of whom 14 have been confirmed dead,” said Dilip Palav, chief fire officer, Vasai-Virar civic fire brigade. “Around 10 tenders were pressed into service, and the fire was controlled within 10 minutes,” he added.Eyewitnesses said the fire spread quickly. “I had come to the hospital to admit my friend’s mother. I saw the ward completely in smoke, and later the charred bodies,” said Avinash Patil.Tempers ran high in the area after the incident, with relatives of the victims expressing their anguish against the government and the hospital administration.Dr Dilip Shah, CEO of the hospital, said he was mobbed by agitated relatives who blamed the hospital for the tragedy. “There were 90 patients in the hospital at the time of the incident. We are cooperating with the police, who are checking documents of fire and structural audits and also the occupation certificate of the hospital,” he said.Some people also surrounded ministers Eknath Shinde and Dadaji Bhuse, who visited the spot. A few alleged that the central air-conditioning unit was faulty, and that the management was aware of it. The relatives also beseeched Palghar collector Dr Manik Gursal and Vasai-Virar municipal commissioner Gangatharan Devrajan, who assured them that the guilty would be punished after an inquiry was conducted. Some of the relatives also said that were told about the deaths hours later. “My sister, Shama Arun Mahale, 48, was admitted in the ICU. I was informed about her death only at 7.30am,” said Dr Ravi Tandel, her brother.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray ordered an inquiry into the incident, and compensation of ₹5 lakh each to the family members of the victim, and ₹1 lakh each to other seriously injured patients. “The cause of the fire should be properly investigated. The administration has been instructed to immediately inquire whether the fire safety was adequate and whether it was a private hospital,” a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said.“Orders have been given to the administration to undertake a thorough inquiry and those found responsible will not be spared. The government has already announced a financial assistance of ₹5 lakh each to the families of those who lost their lives,” said Eknath Shinde, state urban development minister and Shiv Sena leader.Sanjay Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2, Mira-Bhayander Vasai-Virar commissionerate, said and an FIR (first information report) was registered against the hospital management, doctors, and staff, under sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 337 and 338 (whoever causes hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life) of the Indian Penal Code.“No arrests have been made so far. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem examination,” he said.Leader of Opposition and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Devendra Fadnavis said, “This has been the fifth such case related to hospitals in the past six months. We have witnessed tragic incidents at hospitals in Bhandara, Nagpur, Nashik, Bhandup and now at Virar. After every incident, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray says that a fire safety audit would be conducted, but nothing comes out of it. Covid-19 hospitals are currently under tremendous pressure and in such a backdrop, the state should set up a mechanism for fire safety.” Friday’s fire comes two days after 24 Covid patients died after a leak in an oxygen tank in Nashik led to disruption in the supply of oxygen. Nine Covid-19 patients, mostly senior citizens, were killed on March 27, after a massive fire broke out at Sunrise Hospital, located inside the Dreams Mall in Bhandup. Six of the dead were on ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-covid-patients-die-in-virar-hospital-fire-101619202837463.html
24-04-2021||India||Hiran case: Another cop remanded to NIA custody||A special court on Friday remanded Mumbai Police inspector Sunil Mane, arrested in connection with Thane trader Mansukh Hiran’s murder, to the National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) custody till April 28. Hiran is linked to the explosives-laden Scorpio found abandoned near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence Antilia on February 25, an incident that ballooned into a huge political controversy, eventually resulting in the exit of the state’s home minister.An NIA officer who asked not to be named said the agency summoned Mane for interrogation in connection with the Antilia and murder cases on Thursday and placed him under arrest on Friday.He was produced before special judge Rahul R Bhosle. Advocate Prakash Shetty, appearing for NIA said the federal agency requested Mane’s custody to recover his phone and other personal devices and also to obtain his call data records. The agency claimed Mane was a part of the conspiracy to kill Hiran and had confessed to his role in the murder.Mane’s counsel advocate Aditya Gore opposed the remand, claiming that his client was not involved in the murder and that the agency has no evidence against him, except his purpoted confession.The special court accepted Shetty’s contention and remanded Mane to NIA custody.The court also extended the judicial custody of two other accused, suspended police officer Sachin Vaze and his colleague at crime branch’s criminal intelligence unit (CIU) Riyazuddin Kazi, till May 5.Mane was in charge of unit 11 of the crime branch till recently. He was transferred as a part of the clean-up drive undertaken by police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, after Vaze was arrested by NIA in the cases and posted at the local arms branch.Vaze was originally in charge of the investigation of the explosives case, but removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV, and reported it stolen on February 17, 2021. Hiran himself was found dead in a creek on March 5. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the car in November and returned it in early February.NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and the murder case on March 24. Vaze was named the main accused in both.To contain the damage, the Maharashtra government transferred police commissioner Param Bir Singh for his management of his case. The police officer subsequently wrote a letter to the chief minister alleging that home minister Anil Deshmukh instructed Vaze to extort ₹100 crore from restaurants and bars, and when no action was forthcoming approached the courts.The Bombay high court eventually asked the Central Bureau of Investigation to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the matter, prompting Deshmukh’s resignation.According to NIA officers, Mane was under suspicion from the beginning, and a team from the agency visited the Kandivli unit of the crime branch where he was posted. The team inspected several vehicles parked at the office. The agency investigations, the officers said, already revealed that the person who made the last call Hiran received before he went missing, at 8.30pm on March 4, identified himself as a crime branch officer from Kandivli and drew the victim out of his Thane home on the pretext of a meeting along Ghodbunder Road. The following day, Hiran’s body was found in a creek at Reti Bunder near Mumbra with six handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth and his face covered by a scarf.NIA officers claimed that Mane was involved in the murder conspiracy. According to Shetty, he was placed under arrest after thoroughly verifying his role.The NIA officers said that Mane was present at CIU on March 3, when Vaze tried to convince Hiran to take the blame for placing the explosives-laden SUV near Antilia. According to NIA, Vaze assured Hiran that he would be out on bail soon. The plan to eliminate Hiran was allegedly hatched after he refused to take the blame, the officers added.The NIA officer who asked not to be named said that at least two witnesses, a hotelier who visited CIU on March 3 and a deputy commissioner of police, also questioned by NIA , have corroborated that Mane was with Vaze at CIU office that day. The officer added that Mane was also present at the meeting attended by Vaze, arrested former constable Vinayak Shinde and another former officer before the murder at Chakala in Andheri.NIA has so far arrested Vaze, assistant police inspector Kazi, Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Ramniklal Gor in the two cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hiran-case-another-cop-remanded-to-nia-custody-101619202836666.html
24-04-2021||India||Didn’t stop HCs from passing orders to combat Covid: SC||The Supreme Court clarified on Friday that it has not restrained high courts from passing urgent orders to combat the crisis triggered by the second Covid-19 wave, as was widely believed on Thursday. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, maintained that the top court did not stop the high courts from taking up the matter when it initiated a public interest litigation on its own on Thursday, asking the Centre to present before it on Friday, a national plan to deal with the crisis that has now made India the worst hot spot of the global pandemic.With the Centre seeking more time, much of Friday’s hearing was not devoted to the ballooning Covid-19 crisis, but to the clarification, and a recusal.The clarification by the top court came after a controversy ensued over justice Bobde’s bench taking suo motu (on its own motion) cognisance of the surge in infections the day before his retirement and appointing senior advocate Harish Salve as the amicus curiae to assist the court . This, even though Salve represented Vedanta, which wanted its controversial shuttered plant in Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi reopened for producing oxygen.On Thursday, the apex court issued notices to the petitioners before the high courts, asking why uniform orders should not be passed by the Supreme Court, something interpreted by most people as the bench taking over all the cases.When the proceedings commenced, Salve opted to withdraw as amicus, citing adverse comments by some lawyers in the media against his “friendship” with justice Bobde and a possible conflict of interest.“It is the most sensitive case this court will look into. I don’t want this case to be decided under a shadow that I knew the CJI from school and college and allegations being made or there is a conflict of interest.”SG Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union government, requested Salve not to succumb to the “pressure” and stay on but Salve remained firm. Mehta also asked for an adjournment till next week to present a national plan on availability and distribution of essential supplies and services, saying he would not want justice Bobde’s last day in office to get mired in any controversy. The surging second wave of the coronavirus disease has resulted in the number of active Covid-19 cases in the country rising to around 2.4 million by Thursday evening, leaving people scrambling for hospital beds, oxygen, and key medicines.Subsequently, the CJI accepted Salve’s withdrawal, observing: “We were also pained at reading what some senior advocates had to say. But everyone is entitled to their opinion. In future, we will have to appoint someone as amicus only when we don’t know that person. Bu we will honour your sentiments and allow you to recuse.”The bench, which included justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, also expressed its displeasure at “some senior lawyers” questioning the suo motu proceedings and the purported attempts to hold the hands of at least six high courts across the country which have kept the Centre as well as the state governments concerned on their toes regarding the supply of essential medicines, medical oxygen and hospital beds. For instance, the Delhi High Court’s interventions may well have prevented a series of medical tragedies in the national Capital.An anguished justice Rao said: “Even before the order was passed, motives were imputed that we were going to stop the high courts. Some senior advocates are destroying the institution.”The judge then turned to senior advocate Dushyant Dave, who was among those who questioned the intervention of the Supreme Court at a time when high courts were proactively working for the benefit of people, and asked: “You have imputed motives to us without reading the order. Is there anything in our order to transfer the case? Is this how a senior advocate should speak? Without reading the order?”Dave retorted: “No motives have been imputed but we all thought that your lordship was going to do it (transfer the case)... entire country thought like that. It was a genuine perception. My lordships have done this before. And there is still an indication in your order.”Intervening at this point, justice Bhat told Dave: “We never said a word and did not stop the high courts. We in fact asked the Centre to go to high courts and report to them. What kind of perception are you talking about?”Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union government, asked Dave whether a senior counsel should react on the basis of a perception or should rely on a judicial order, which prompted Dave to respond: “Mr Mehta, you represent a government that runs only on perception.”At this juncture, president of the Supreme Court Bar Association and senior lawyer Vikas Singh submitted that the lawyers’ body was opposing the transfer of proceedings from the high courts and referred to how the Supreme Court simply accepted a statement from the S-G during the pandemic last year that no migrant was on the roads.Singh also complained about the shortage of oxygen in the hospitals of Delhi, getting CJI Bobde to respond: “That is exactly the kind of issues we wanted to deal with. But anyway, now since the S-G has requested for an adjournment, we will adjourn this case to Tuesday next week.”On Thursday, the Supreme Court called the crisis triggered by the second Covid-19 wave a “national emergency”, and asked the Centre to present before it on Friday a national plan. Issuing notices to the Union and state governments, the order said its focus areas at this time were the supply of medical oxygen, essential medicines, the method and manner of vaccination, and the declaration of lockdowns to check the spread of the disease. It also issued notices to the petitioners before the high courts, asking why uniform orders should not be passed by the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/didnt-stop-hcs-from-passing-orders-to-combat-covid-sc-101619202716650.html
24-04-2021||India||IAF deploys 5 aircraft to aid oxygen distribution||Pitching in to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian Air Force (IAF) has deployed five types of aircraft to ferry essential items to different parts of the country, and has carried out several sorties to airlift oxygen containers, cylinders, essential medicines and equipment required for setting up and sustaining Covid hospitals and facilities to deal with the surge in infections, the defence ministry said on Friday.Aircraft have also been kept on standby to cater to additional workload.“The IAF transport aircraft and helicopters have been pressed into service for carrying out these tasks. These include C-17, C-130J, IL-76, An-32 and Avro. Chinook and Mi-17 helicopters are on standby,” the ministry said in a statement, adding that tasks undertaken so far include airlift of doctors and nursing staff from Kochi, Mumbai, Vizag and Bangalore to Delhi. Transport planes and choppers are on standby for being deployed at short notice, it said.IAF on Thursday airlifted three oxygen containers from Hindon to Panagarh in West Bengal, where these will be filled up and supplied to different centres for Covid relief. It also moved oxygen containers from Begumpet to Bhubaneswar on Friday. Once filled, the containers will be carried to Covid centres by rail or road.“The C-17 and IL-76 aircraft of IAF have started airlifting big empty oxygen tankers from their place of use to the filling stations across the country to speed up the distribution of much needed oxygen. In addition to this, the aircraft have transported large quantity of load comprising bio-safety cabinets and autoclave machines for setting up of an additional Covid facility at Leh,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-deploys-5-aircraft-to-aid-oxygen-distribution-101619202476575.html
24-04-2021||India||Military importing 23 oxygen plants from Germany||The Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) is importing mobile oxygen generation plants to address the oxygen crisis precipitated by the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), people familiar with the development said on Friday.The AFMS is importing 23 mobile oxygen generation plants from Germany, and these will arrive within a week, said one of the officials cited above. “These plants will be deployed in AFMS hospitals catering to Covid patients,” he said.The military and other wings of the defence ministry have been ordered to respond on war footing to fight the outbreak that has so far claimed nearly 185,000 lives, as reported by Hindustan Times.From setting up Covid hospitals to ramping up oxygen production and airlifting of medical staff and oxygen containers to liaising with state governments to help them deal with the rising number of daily cases, the armed forces, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) are working overtime for Covid-19 relief.The DRDO is among the organisations that are at the forefront of fighting the second deadly wave of Covid-19 that has ripped through the country. A new Covid hospital set up by the DRDO in Ahmedabad will be functional from Saturday. The hospital has been readied in less than 10 days.The Dhanvantri Covid Hospital will have a capacity of 900 beds including 150 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, said a second official. The remaining 750 beds also have provision for oxygen, he added. The DRDO has set up the facility in collaboration with Gujarat government.It has so far set up or is in the process of setting up state-of-the-art Covid hospitals in six cities to treat more than 3,100 critical patients.The DRDO has set up a 500-bed hospital in Delhi and converted an ESIC hospital into a 500-bed Covid facility in Patna. In addition, hospitals with 450 beds in Lucknow and 750 beds in Varanasi are expected to be functional soon. A sixth Covid hospital is being readied in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur.The Indian Air Force on Thursday airlifted three empty oxygen containers from Hindon to Panagarh in West Bengal where these will be filled up and supplied to different centres for Covid relief. The IAF used its C-17 and Il-76 heavy-lift aircraft to move the containers. Also, it moved empty oxygen containers from Begumpet to Bhubaneswar on Friday. Once filled, the containers will be carried to Covid centres by rail or road.The IAF has deployed its aircraft for airlifting medical personnel, oxygen containers, oxygen cylinders, trolleys and essential medicines to places where they are needed, as reported by HT.The DRDO has also stepped in to address the oxygen crisis precipitated by the second wave of the disease. It has transferred oxygen generation technology to the industry, which has now started providing oxygen plants to state governments and hospitals. The Uttar Pradesh government, for instance, has ordered five such plants from Coimbatore-based Trident Pneumatics.The technology transferred to the industry is based on the onboard oxygen generation technology developed for Tejas light combat aircraft. The oxygen generation plants can produce 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute. The DPSUs are also making arrangements to buy oxygen plants for the production and supply of oxygen cylinders at a swift pace.Technology developed by the DRDO for a supplemental oxygen delivery system for soldiers posted in high-altitude areas has also been transferred to the industry, and it will soon be available in the market for use by Covid patients.The armed forces and other wings of the defence ministry can play an important role in the fight against Covid-19, said Lieutenant General BK Chopra (retd), a former directed general of AFMS said on Thursday.“They have the manpower, resources and discipline to provide relief in these hard times. The military especially has a culture of quick response, be it enemy action or natural catastrophes. It can do a lot to alleviate the sufferings of our countrymen during the pandemic too,” Chopra said.On April 20, defence minister Rajnath Singh carried out an extensive review of the preparedness of the armed forces and other allied organisations to deal with the surge in Covid infections across the country.Each plant can produce 2,400 litres of oxygen per hour. “At this rate, it can cater to 20-25 patients round the clock. The advantage of these plants is that they are easily portable,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-importing-23-oxygen-plants-from-germany-101619202356638.html
24-04-2021||India||CJI Bobde wanted Shah Rukh Khan to mediate in Ayodhya case: Laywer||Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, who demits office on Saturday, had reached out to actor Shah Rukh Khan to facilitate the resolution of the Ayodhya title dispute through mediation, senior advocate Vikas Singh disclosed on Friday.Speaking at the virtual farewell of the outgoing CJI, Singh revealed that justice Bobde sought his assistance in roping in Shah Rukh Khan since the lawyer knew the actor well.“While he (justice Bobde, as a member of the Ayodhya bench) was in very initial stages of the mediation, he was of the firm view that Ayodhya dispute should be resolved through mediation... just see his commitment to the mediation process that he asked me since I knew the family of Shah Rukh Khan very well, whether Shah Rukh Khan will be interested in participating in the mediation if the mediation were to go forward,” Singh, president of the Supreme Court Bar Association, said during the address.Singh added that he spoke to Khan, who was “more than willing” to be a part of the mediation process since he felt the best way forward is when Hindus and Muslims can live together peacefully in this country and when there is complete religious harmony.“He (Khan) suggested that the foundation stone of the Hindu temple should be laid by some prominent Muslims and foundation stone of the mosque be paid by prominent Hindus. Unfortunately, the mediation did not go ahead,” lamented Singh.Shah Rukh Khan did not respond to queries seeking comment .A five-judge bench in the Supreme Court, comprising then CJI Ranjan Gogoi and justices Bobde, Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Ashok Bhushan and SA Nazeer, had in March 2019 ordered mediation for exploring the possibility of amicable resolution of the land dispute. It constituted a three-member mediation committee which included former top court judge FM Ibrahim Kalifulla, spiritual guru Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, and senior advocate Sriram Panchu. The panel was given the liberty to include more mediators or seek assistance of anyone.Narrating the entire episode, Singh told HT that he rang up Shah Rukh Khan, who was initially reluctant to be a part of the contentious dispute but later agreed to assist in any fruitful manner.“I had to persuade him that it is the Supreme Court that wanted his assistance, and so he agreed. He was always of the view that Hindus and Muslims must live peacefully and with mutual respect. It is then he came out with a suggestion if the mediation goes forward, one of the ways forward could be to have the first brick of the temple be put by some renowned Muslims and vice versa. However, the mediation never lifted off the ground,” said Singh.Singh also disclosed another “secret” between him and justice Bobde.“I wanted to sell my Harley Davidson bike. Everyone knows justice Bobde is a bike enthusiast. I was on a flight with him when I told him I wanted to sell my bike. The CJI said he would want to buy it, and I sent it to him for a trial. I told him it is heavy but justice Bobde replied he has been riding bikes since his childhood. It was because of that bike he had a fall and the chief justice got an injured femur. He told me the fall was not because of the weight of the bike but because of its side-stand,” said Singh.Singh told HT that the injury not only delayed the Ayodhya hearings by at least four weeks in 2019, but he had to also look out for another buyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cjibobde-wanted-shah-rukh-khan-to-mediate-in-ayodhya-caselaywer-101619202296684.html
24-04-2021||India||mRNA vaccines can adapt to variants faster than others: Dr Drew Weissman||The earliest couple of coronavirus vaccines the world had access to were by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna. They have high efficacy rates, and produce some of the strongest immune responses among all Covid-19 vaccines. Common among the two is also their platform – modified mRNA coated in a lipid nano-particle. This technology is the result of research by two scientists, Drew Weissman and Katalin Kariko. In a video interview with Hindustan Times, Weissman, professor at Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, spoke about the platform’s development and future possibilities in finding new cures, while urging the world to focus on vaccinating the global population quickly. Edited Excerpts:Tell us a little about your journey in developing the platform. The first time RNA was used as a therapeutic was in 1990. I moved to Penn in 1997 and that’s when I met Kati Kariko. My interest at the time was in a subset of immune cells involved in vaccines. Part of the study was in developing new kinds of vaccines. Kati was working on mRNA. We met, we started talking, and started working on mRNA vaccines. What I noticed early on was RNA was highly inflammatory, and that’s bad when you are trying to make a drug, vaccine, or a therapeutic. So we spent a bunch of years studying that inflammatory activity, and finally figured out how to get rid of it, and that was by modifying one of the RNA code. We published that (paper reporting the success) in 2005, and that’s the technology that Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech use in their vaccines. Kati moved to BioNTech, where she developed the LNP technology (liquid nano particles – the way mRNA is delivered), which is also a crucial part of the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines.So essentially, the 2005 finding was a turning point for the potential of mRNA vaccines?Definitely. Some people have continued to study unmodified RNA. They are using the same LNP (delivery mechanism) that Pfizer is using, but if you compare their results to Pfizer’s, Pfizer makes antibodies about five times higher than people recovering from Covid. Curevac, which uses the same immunogen (mRNA wrapped in LNP) but with unmodified RNA, makes antibodies in the lower quartile -- much less than the Pfizer vaccine. The comparison tells you the importance of modified RNA.How did mRNA platforms role come into play with Covid-19?Initially, what happened is companies used the tech they knew best. A big problem with science is that when a company develops a vaccine, they don’t compare it with what others do because they do not want to know how much better or worse their product is. [However] what BioNTech did was a four-arm Phase 1 study and compared different RNA platforms - they looked at unmodified RNA, nucleoside-modified RNA (the method Weissman and Kariko pioneered) and self-replicating RNA. And they found nucleoside-modified worked best for Covid.The mRNA vaccines are expensive as far as LMIC nations are concerned. How do we look at making it more accessible?It is expensive because it’s brand new. The companies have just figured out how to make 100 million doses a month. Over time, I believe it is going to get less and less expensive. The other big difficulty is the freezing that it requires. We and other companies are working on how to make it stable in our refrigerators, how to freeze-dry it so that it can be stored at room temperature. All of those advances are going to come over the next few months. Many of those are issues we can address.My lab and me, personally, have had a big issue with equality of vaccine access. So early last spring, we started working with the government of Thailand to build their own RNA vaccines and their own GMP centres (production facilities). They are going to be able to make the vaccine in Thailand and supply it to seven surrounding LMIC. I am also working with the WHO to do the same thing in Africa so that same access is available.Is the end of the year a realistic time-frame for some of this?With the Thai vaccine, the hope is to give it to people by the end of this year. It goes to a bunch of countries, like Vietnam, Pakistan, Malaysia and some others.What sort of role mRNA can play in keeping up with variants?The vaccine is literally plug and play. All you need is the sequence of the antigen. For the coronavirus, it’s the spike protein. The minute new variants appear that look concerning, you can take the sequence of the variant and plug it into an RNA vaccine. It will take you literally weeks to make a new vaccine. That’s because the technology is the same no matter what the sequence. [But] if you have to make an adenovirus or an inactivated virus, you have to make the virus, grow it, inactivate it -- all that takes a lot of time.Can you share some details about the vaccine you are working on with WHO, especially issues relating to intellectual property?Right now, it is an unknown. The IP is always an issue. People are always working on that to make the IP available. This involves negotiations. Moderna said they would not hold an IP for any Covid-19 vaccine so other companies are free to use it. I think that is a great step forward.As far as building a facility, a GMP unit (for mRNA vaccines) costs millions of dollars to build. Then you need to get the technology transferred. That’s what we are working on with WHO to get the technology so that we will be able to go in to a GMP facility somewhere in Africa and help them set up to make an mRNA-LNP vaccine. I think that’s the critical difficulty people will have. Once we give them the technology, they can start making the vaccines and that starts takes weeks.What other doors do you think the modified RNA platform will now open?We have five Phase 1 trials for other vaccines with mRNA before the pandemic hit. We and other companies have clinical trials that are being set up to deliver monoclonal antibodies as mRNA. We have some gene therapy clinical trials that we look forward to. We are setting up to do HIV cure studies in macaques. There’s really a huge amount of technologies and therapeutics that we are developing with modified RNA.Where do you think we will be this time next year, April 2022?I am a little concerned because in the United States we have fantastic vaccine roll-out, Israel has good coverage and so has UK; Europe has not done well, and then rest of the world has little access. India has access because of Serum Institute but their roll-out is not as fast as wanted and the vaccine availability isn’t great.There are two things that have to happen for us to get the pandemic under control and stop the variants from appearing. We have to vaccinate the entire world, and countries need to have a high enough percentage of people vaccinated – somewhere between 75-85% in order to reach herd immunity. When that happens, Covid won’t go away but the variants won’t appear quickly, and the virus won’t spread. I don’t know how quickly that happens, but until it does, variants will keep appearing. And they are going to keep getting scarier and scarier. The world really needs to get moving on this. It’s just as much about convincing people to get vaccines – in the US, we are reaching a point where there are more vaccines than people willing to take them, and that’s a big problem. What people who are hesitant do not realise is that if they don’t take it, we are never going to reach herd immunity, and Covid is going to be a problem for years and years to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mrna-vaccines-can-adapt-to-variants-faster-than-others-101619202236657.html
24-04-2021||India||Zydus hepatitis drug cleared for Covid care||Indian pharmaceutical firm Zydus Cadila on Friday announced that the company has received restricted emergency use approval from the drug regulator to the use of its hepatitis C drug, known as virafin, to treat cases with moderate infection of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The Ahmedabad-based company said in a statement on Friday that according to clinical trials, the antiviral drug -- Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b (PegIFN) -- reduces viral load if administered to Covid-19 patients early on in their course of treatment, thus lowering the chances of severe illness.“The fact that we are able to offer a therapy which significantly reduces viral load when given early on can help in better disease management. It comes at a much-needed time for patients and we will continue to provide them access to critical therapies in this battle against COVID-19,” said Sharvil Patel, managing director, Cadila Healthcare Limited.It added that the drug will be available on prescription for use in hospitals and medical facilities.As per phase 3 trials that spanned across 20-25 centres in India, 91.15% of the patients treated with the drug were RT-PCR negative by day 7. The treatment significantly reduced the hours of supplemental oxygen required for treatment of the patients, the firm said.More details about the study are yet to be released, and peer reviewed.“Clinically the hours of supplemental oxygen required was significantly lesser in the PegIFN arm and as well as the time to resolution of signs and symptoms as compared to the Standard of care arm (5 days vs 6 days),” the data released by the company said.“Their data is good,” an official of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) aware of the matter said requesting anonymity.Type I interferons – essentially proteins -- are the body’s first line of defence against many viral infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-hepatitis-drug-cleared-for-covid-care-101619202176659.html
24-04-2021||India||Covid vaccines: US defends restrictions on raw material export||The US has defended curbs on exports of raw materials needed by India to make Covid-19 vaccines, while German Chancellor Angela Merkel was critical of the slowdown of vaccine exports from India against the backdrop of a record spike in coronavirus infections in the country.The position taken by the US state department and the German leader caused consternation in New Delhi, though there was no formal response from Indian officials. India has raised with the US the need to lift restrictions imposed on the export of critical raw materials and equipment several times since February.On February 5, US President Joe Biden invoked the Defense Production Act to restrict exports of the raw materials to boost domestic vaccine production. External affairs minister S Jaishankar raised the matter with secretary of state Antony Blinken when they spoke on April 19; the same was also taken up in Washington by Indian envoy Taranjit Singh Sandhu.Asked by a reporter about India’s call to ease the export curbs as they threaten to slow the country’s vaccination drive, US state department spokesperson Ned Price told a briefing on Thursday that the Biden administration’s priority is to meet the vaccine requirements of the American people.“What I will say broadly is that the US first and foremost is engaged in an ambitious and effective and, so far, successful effort to vaccinate the American people,” Price said.“Number one, we have a special responsibility to the American people. Number two...this country has been hit harder than any other country around the world – more than 550,000 deaths, tens of millions of infections in this country alone. But there’s also a broader point here that I made yesterday that it’s...not only in our interest to see Americans vaccinated, it’s in the interests of the rest of the world to see Americans vaccinated,” he added.Price also pointed to arrangements between the US and the members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad on vaccine production, including increasing production capacity in India, but did not say whether or when the US would ease curbs on export of vaccine raw materials.The silence of the top US leadership on this matter has not gone down well in New Delhi, especially against the backdrop of the agreement on vaccine production and delivery at the first virtual summit of Quad leaders in March.In a separate development, Merkel held out what was perceived in some quarters as a veiled threat on the issue of India calibrating Covid-19 vaccine exports since last month in order to focus on its domestic immunisation programme. Germany is among the European countries affected by a slowdown in exports of the AstraZeneca vaccine made by the Serum Institute of India (SII).“We now have a situation with India where, in connection with the emergency situation of the pandemic, we are worried whether the pharmaceutical products will still come to us,” Merkel was quoted as saying by Politico while participating in an online conversation on Wednesday.“Of course, we have only allowed India to become such a large pharmaceutical producer in the first place, also from the European side, in the expectation that this should then also be complied with. If that is not the case now, we will have to rethink,” she added.Observers noted Merkel’s comments came against the backdrop of several European countries banning exports of vaccines, and at a time when India is registering a record number of infections – 332,730 as of Friday – and is struggling to cope with the surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccines-us-defends-restrictions-on-raw-material-export-101619201996595.html
