25-04-2021||India||Intense action, local containment measures: Centre issues fresh guidelines to states to contain rising Covid cases||The Centre on Sunday pointed out to the urgent need for states to consider strict management and control measures in areas reporting a massive surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) “to bring the situation under control to contain the spread of infection”. The focus, it said, should be on containment, clinical management, community engagement and vaccination. The existing infrastructure may not be able to cope with this kind of surge, it stressed.“Prompt and targeted action needs to be focused on specific districts/cities/areas in order to flatten the current curve of the epidemic which may be identified by States,” the government said in a statement as it defined the parameters. It said intensive action must be taken in well-defined geographies with more than 10% positivity or 60% bed occupancy and local containment must be imposed for 14 days to break the chain of transmission. “Classification of districts requiring intensive action and local containment is also to be undertaken by the State on a weekly basis and may also be made available online, besides being given due publicity in the media… The local containment will essentially focus on three strategic areas of intervention, which include Containment, Clinical Management and Community Engagement,” it said.Also read | ‘No reason why states must complain now’: Vardhan’s clarification on vaccinationThe Centre also suggested that states, after the identification of areas for intensive and local containment, should appoint nodal officers for 14 days for effective monitoring and implementation in consultation with district collectors and municipal commissioners. “The State Nodal Officer should submit details of all such areas identified for local containment to state government for approval … the District Collector/Municipal Commissioner should undertake a daily status review, including analyzing details of case trajectory, day to day operational planning, implementation of various activities as per the field level feedback.”The daily status report should be submitted to the state government and a consolidated report may also be sent to the Centre. “If required, all States may also consider a further graded response in accordance with local situation, requirements, and resources,” it said.Also read | 500 oxygen bed Covid care hospital in Delhi to start from Monday“Focus will be on containment as a major approach to flatten the current curve of the epidemic… Districts will continue with the strategy of 'Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate and implementation of Covid Appropriate Behavior across the district as the ongoing strategy for the management of COVID-19,” the Centre said. The states must also ensure people wear masks, follow social distancing norms and other guidelines such as sanitising hands frequently and not attending any gatherings. Quarantining and testing individuals suspected to be positive, including contacts of SARS-CoV-2 positive cases among the public health measures to contain the virus. The statement said night curfew should be imposed in containment zones and the local administration will have the power to decide on its duration.Also read | Centre restricts use of liquid oxygen for only medical purposes, no exceptionsIndia recorded 349,691 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike since the pandemic broke out last year, and 2767 deaths in the last 24 hours, acccording to the Union health ministry on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-fresh-guidelines-to-states-to-contain-rising-covid-cases-101619373509591.html
25-04-2021||India||US says will send raw material urgently required to manufacture Covishield vaccine in India||The US said on Sunday it will “immediately” provide India with the raw material needed to make the Covishield vaccine and supply protective gears, PPE kits, testing kits to help treat Covid-19 patients and protect frontline workers as the country battles a massive surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and deaths. Jake Sullivan, the national security advisor, said the US is also deploying more supplies and resources to aid India, according to a statement.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19"Spoke today with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval about the spike in COVID cases in India and we agreed to stay in close touch in the coming days. The United States stands in solidarity with the people of India and we are deploying more supplies and resources," Sullivan also tweeted on Sunday.Recognising India's assistance towards the US during the beginning of the pandemic, Sullivan said the United States is determined to help India in its time of need. "Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, the United States is determined to help India in its time of need," the statement said.The US is pursuing other options to provide oxygen generations and other supplies on urgent basis, as per the statement. “The US has identified supplies of therapeutics, rapid diagnostic test kits, ventilators & PPE that will immediately be made available for India. US is also pursuing options to provide oxygen generation & related supplies on an urgent basis,” it added.The pledge to help came after the European Union (EU) and Germany too said they were mobilising aid to support India and the UK announced it was sending more than 600 pieces of medical equipment, including ventilators and oxygen concentrator devices, from its surplus stocks. Canada, Iran and Pakistan have also promised to supply equipment and medical supplies to help India tackle the crisis caused by a second wave of the pandemic.Spoke today with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval about the spike in COVID cases in India and we agreed to stay in close touch in the coming days. The United States stands in solidarity with the people of India and we are deploying more supplies and resources: pic.twitter.com/yDM7v2J7OAAmid the massive surge in Covid-19 cases, Serum Institute of India’s CEO Adar Poonawalla last week urged the US to lift the embargo on raw material exports to boost vaccine production in the country.The US also said that the Development Finance Corporation is funding the substantial expansion of manufacturing capability for BioE, the vaccine manufacturer in India. The funding is aimed at increasing the production capacity of the vaccine in India to at least 1 billion doses by the end of 2022.Additionally, the USAID will also quickly work with the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to support and fast-track the mobilization of emergency resources available to India through Global Fund. “The United States is also deploying an expert team of public health advisors from Center for Disease Control (CDC) & USAID to work in close collaboration with US Embassy, India’s health ministries & its Epidemic Intelligence Service staff," the statement read.India on Sunday reported a record number of nearly 350,000 fresh Covid-19 infections and more than 2700 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-says-will-send-raw-material-urgently-required-to-manufacture-covishield-vaccine-in-india-101619370582574.html
25-04-2021||India||Oxygen emergency in UP, recognise seriousness of situation: Priyanka Gandhi tells Yogi||Stating that there is an "oxygen emergency" in Uttar Pradesh amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday advised Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to recognise the seriousness of the situation and immediately start working for saving the lives of people.Adityanath, in his previous statement, warned those who are spreading rumors about oxygen shortage in the state and said properties of those spreading rumours of oxygen shortage will be seized.Reacting to this, Gandhi tweeted: "Chief Minister, there is oxygen emergency all over Uttar Pradesh. You have to put a case on me, seize the property, so do. But for the sake of god, recognise the seriousness of the situation and immediately start the work of saving the lives of the people."Earlier in the day, Adityanath informed that an order for one crore Covid-19 vaccine doses has been placed for the third phase of the vaccination drive beginning May 1.Taking to Twitter, Adityanath said, "Uttar Pradesh government has placed an order for 1 crore doses of anti-Covid vaccines for the vaccination drive beginning May 1."An order of 50-50 lakh doses has been placed for both indigenous vaccine manufacturers. In addition, the dose will be made available by the Government of India. A comprehensive action plan is being prepared in this regard," he added.The Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister has directed officials that hospitals, where Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment, should make public the details of availability of beds twice a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-emergency-in-up-recognise-seriousness-of-situation-priyanka-gandhi-tells-yogi-101619367881062.html
25-04-2021||India||‘No reason why states must complain now’: Harsh Vardhan’s clarification on Phase 3 Covid-19 vaccination||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday called out ‘politics’ over the third phase of India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive which will start from May 1 and issued a clarification regarding the campaign, saying “we need a greater degree of shared idealism.” Addressing the concerns regarding the price of vaccines in the third phase of the immunisation programme, Harsh Vardhan said, “While the dreaded disease is spreading like a tsunami, it was critical to ease the controls and allow a free hand to the state governments as well as the private sector. Hence, under the able guidance of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, we decided to ease the vaccination policy norms.”Shared idealism is the need of the hour !Politics around the world’s #LargestVaccineDrive needs to end, for the sake of our citizens.Here’s clarifying all aspects of upcoming phase 3 of our #Covid19Vaccination drive, putting all speculations to rest.https://t.co/RsdBUrkmMe pic.twitter.com/Mjoku3Bt4YHis statement comes against the backdrop of the prices of vaccines notified by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech at which they will sell the jabs to states and private hospitals. In this phase, the government has allowed all citizens above the age of 18 years to get vaccinated. While the vaccine manufacturers would supply 50% of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to the government, which the Centre will provide to people for free, and would be free to supply the remaining 50% doses to state governments and in the open market, according to a health ministry statement.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The Serum Institute of India has set the price of its vaccine Covishield at ₹400 per dose for states and ₹600 for private hospitals. Bharat Biotech, on the other hand, said it would charge ₹600 per dose from states and ₹1200 from private hospitals for Covaxin.Harsh Vardhan clarified, “The Centre will continue giving vaccine doses from its 50% quota to the states and UTS for free. These vaccines shall continue to be administered by States and Union Territories...balance 50 per cent quota grants flexibility for states. Many states had requested that the vaccination process be opened up for them. Now, this balance 50% quota shall give them the freedom to vaccinate groups that they deem as priority.”The balance 50% quota is also open for the corporate and private sector to pool in their resources so that the combined effort of Team India can be deployed to vaccinate every adult in the earliest possible time, he added.On concerns flagged by several state governments, Harsh Vardhan said, “I see no reason why the states must complain now. They were demanding the removal of restrictions on vaccine supplies to them. Under the new policy, they have the liberty to directly procure from the manufacturers and even negotiate prices based on volumes. This will also cut the delays. I empathise with the states because they are leading this battle from the front and need fast replenishment of vaccine stocks. They need to decide when, how, how much and to whom. This is exactly what the Centre has done by easing the process.”Amid criticism by some political parties, the health minister appealed to them to put the success of the vaccination program above everything else, so that people’s lives can be saved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-reason-why-states-must-complain-now-harsh-vardhan-s-clarification-on-phase-3-covid-19-vaccination-101619365675733.html
25-04-2021||India||‘Irreparable loss’: PM Modi condoles classical singer Rajan Mishra's death||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday condoled the death of classical singer Rajan Mishra in Delhi. Mishra, a Padma Bhushan awardee, was admitted to St Stephen Hospital after he developed heart complications along with Covid-19, reports said. He was 70. “I am saddened by the death of Pandit Rajan Mishra ji, who left his indelible mark in the world of classical singing. Mishraji demise, who was associated with the Banaras Gharana, is an irreparable loss to the art and music world. My condolences to his family and fans in this hour of mourning. Om Shanti!” the Prime Minister’s tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.शास्त्रीय गायन की दुनिया में अपनी अमिट छाप छोड़ने वाले पंडित राजन मिश्र जी के निधन से अत्यंत दुख पहुंचा है। बनारस घराने से जुड़े मिश्र जी का जाना कला और संगीत जगत के लिए एक अपूरणीय क्षति है। शोक की इस घड़ी में मेरी संवेदनाएं उनके परिजनों और प्रशंसकों के साथ हैं। ओम शांति!Rajan Mishra suffered two heart attacks, his nephew Amit Mishra told PTI. "Pandit Rajan Mishra ji passed away at around 6.30 in Delhi's St Stephen hospital. He had Covid-19 and was admitted to the hospital. He had taken the first dose of the vaccine about 15-20 days ago. He had a heart attack in the afternoon and he had another attack at around 5.30," Amit said.Part of the Rajan-Sajan Mishra duo, he was a renowned singer of the khayal style of Indian classical music. Born in 1951, Rajan Mishra was born and brought up in Varanasi. He and his brother were trained their father Hanuman Prasad Mishra, their grandfather’s brother Bade Ram Das Ji Mishra, and their uncle, sarangi virtuoso, Gopal Prasad Mishra. The brothers were honoured by the Padma Bhushan award, the Sangeet Natak Akademi award and the Gandharva National award for their contribution to the classical music.Several others also tweeted about Rajan Mishra’s passing and condoled his death. “Heartbreaking news – Padma Bhushan Shri Rajan Mishra ji left us today. He died of Covid in Delhi . He was a renowned classical singer of the Benaras Gharana & was one half of the brother duo pandit Rajan Sajan mishra. My condolences to the Family. Om Shanti,” composer Salim Merchant said on Twitter.“Sad to hear about Pt Rajan Mishra’s demise. A great loss to Indian classical music. Will be badly missed by millions of fans all over the world,” historian S lrfan Habib also tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irreparable-loss-pm-modi-condoles-classical-singer-rajan-mishra-s-death-101619365072151.html
25-04-2021||India||News Updates from HT: Indian warship carries Covid-19 relief to Lakshadweep and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Indian warship carries medical supplies to Lakshadweep for Covid-19 reliefPitching in to fight the Covid-19 crisis that had led to a virtual collapse of the country’s healthcare set up, an Indian warship on Sunday left Kochi with essential medical supplies to provide assistance to the Lakshadweep administration. Read More‘Please help us in whatever way you can’: Kejriwal to industrialists amid Delhi oxygen crisisDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday requested the country’s top industrialists to help deal with the shortage of oxygen in the national capital as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continue to mount. Read More500 oxygen bed Covid care hospital in Delhi to start from MondayThe 500-oxygen bed Covid care centre in Delhi will open on Monday at 10am to combat the spiralling cases the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) spokesperson Vivek Pandey said on Sunday. Read MoreDropped on 0, Jadeja haunts RCB as he smashes 37 runs off Harshal Patel over - WATCHRavindra Jadeja has been in amazing form in the Indian Premier League 2021. After spectacular bowling and fielding efforts in his last two matches, Jadeja showed why he is one of the best all-rounders in the world against Royal Challengers Bangalore. Read MoreBehind-the-scenes clip of Rahul Dravid’s ‘Indiranagar ka gunda’ ad goes viralUnless you have been staying away from social media, there is a high possibility that you have seen Rahul Dravid’s hilarious ‘Indiranagar ka gunda’ ad. In case you haven’t, allow us to explain. Read MoreAlia Bhatt-Ranbir Kapoor, Disha Patani-Tiger Shroff are back home amid online flak for Maldives holiday during pandemicActors Alia Bhatt and Ranbir Kapoor, and Tiger Shroff with Disha Patani, are back in Mumbai. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-indian-warship-carries-covid-19-relief-to-lakshadweep-and-all-the-latest-news-101619362442759.html
25-04-2021||India||Maharashtra records 66,191 fresh Covid-19 cases, daily death toll soars past 800||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 832 deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19), in the highest number of fatalities in a single day since the pandemic began last year, the state’s health department bulletin showed. The rise in fatalities took the death toll in the state to 64,760. The state also recorded 66,191 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the bulletin showed. The coronavirus caseload in the state now stands at 4,295,027.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19There has been a net decline in the number of new cases since Saturday. A day before Maharashtra reported 67,160 new cases in a single day. More than 289,00 samples were tested to detect coronavirus disease cases in the last 24 hours. Testing in the last 24 hours witnessed a decline by over 3000, as more than 286,000 samples were tested on Saturday. More than 61,450 patients recovered in the state in the last 24 hours. Mumbai, the state capital which is also one of the major hotspot districts in the country, reported 5542 new Covid-19 cases. There were 5888 cases on Saturday and 7221 on Friday. Mumbai on Sunday reported 64 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 12,783. There has been a decline in deaths from Saturday, as 71 deaths were reported on Saturday.More than 8400 patients recovered in the last 24 hours in Mumbai after 8549 people beat the coronavirus disease on Saturday. The recovery rate in the metropolitan city increased by one percentage point in the last 24 hours as BMC data showed a recovery rate of 86 per cent on Sunday in comparison to 85 per cent on Saturday. The number of active containment zones also declined to 114, according to data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-66-191-fresh-covid-19-cases-daily-death-toll-soars-past-800-101619362931143.html
25-04-2021||India||Indian warship carries medical supplies to Lakshadweep for Covid-19 relief||Pitching in to fight the Covid-19 crisis that had led to a virtual collapse of the country’s healthcare set up, an Indian warship on Sunday left Kochi with essential medical supplies to provide assistance to the Lakshadweep administration. “As part of the nation’s fight against Covid-19, Indian Navy ships under Headquarters Southern Naval Command at Kochi are progressing with the mission of Oxygen Express in order to render support to the local administration of the Lakshadweep…INS Sharda, based at Kochi, undertook transfer of essential medical supplies to the capital Kavaratti,” Indian Navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said on Sunday. The stores carried by INS Sharda consisted of 35 oxygen cylinders, Rapid Antigen Detection test (RADT) kits, personnel protective equipment (PPE) and other items to fight the pandemic. From Kavaratti, the ship continued with its mission to the Minicoy Island for disembarkation of oxygen cylinders and medical supplies, Madhwal said. “Additionally, 41 empty oxygen cylinders from the islands have been embarked onboard Indian Navy hired vessel Meghna. The vessel is now headed to Kochi for refilling of the empty cylinders and will head back to Lakshadweep with filled cylinders soon to ensure that the Oxygen Express continues unabated,” he added. The navy has also reserved 10 beds for patients from Lakshadweep at INHS Sanjivani, Kochi, to cater to shortage of beds at the islands. The Indian Air Force continued to ferry empty oxygen containers to filling stations on Sunday. “One C-17 aircraft airlifted two cryogenic oxygen tankers of 15000 litres capacity each from Gwalior air base to Ranch,” a defence ministry official said.The IAF has intensified its efforts for Covid-19 relief with its transport aircraft ferrying large oxygen containers to filling stations in different parts of the country, as previously reported by HT. The containers will be filled up and transported to different centres for Covid-19 relief by rail or road.The IAF also ferried three containers from Jodhpur and Udaipur to Jamnagar as well as another three from Indore to Jamnagar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-warship-carries-medical-supplies-to-lakshadweep-for-covid-19-relief-101619363047592.html
25-04-2021||India||Bangladesh closes land borders with India for 14 days amid spike in Covid-19 cases||Bangladesh will close its land borders with India for the next 14 days due to the unprecedented surge of coronavirus cases in the neighbouring nation, Foreign Minister A K Abdul Momen announced here on Sunday.India logged a record of 3,49,691 new coronavirus infections in a day on Sunday, taking its total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,69,60,172. The death toll increased to 1,92,311 with a record 2,767 daily new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data.Passenger travel from India to Bangladesh via land will remain closed from Monday for 14 days, Momen told reporters here."The decision was taken in view of the rapid increase of coronavirus cases in India...We are closing the land routes for passengers for the time being," he said.The minister, however, said the trade between the two countries would continue.There would be no ban on the movement of cargo vehicles, Momen said.Air travel between India and Bangladesh has already been suspended since April 14 with the rise in infections.Home Minister Asaduzzamman Khan Kamal also said that the authorities have decided to close the borders with India for two weeks."The land routes with India will be shut from April 26," he said.Bangladesh's National Technical Advisory Committee (NTAC) on Covid-19 had earlier suggested border closure with India in view of the surging number of coronavirus cases. It had also suggested that the land routes should not reopen until there is an improvement in the coronavirus situation in India.Bangladesh and India share land borders in West Bengal and the northeastern states of Assam, Tripura, Mizoram and Meghalaya.Meanwhile, Bangladeshi health officials said the nationwide Covid-19 death toll reached 11,058 on Sunday with 101 more people succumbing to the disease in the last 24 hours.Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) in a statement said 2,922 new infections were recorded overnight, taking the total tally to 7,45,322 in the country.Bangladesh is currently under lockdown. Health officials have expressed concern that the proposed relaxation of the restrictions on movement from April 28, two weeks before the Eid-ul-Fitr, could deteriorate the coronavirus situation in the country.Road transport minister and ruling Awami League general secretary Obaidul Quader has warned that the government would be forced to reimpose strict lockdown if people do not follow guidelines once the public transport services are resumed after the end of the ongoing two-week lockdown.In a related development, DGHS officials said the vaccine shortage has prompted them to stop administering the first dose of the jab procured from India's Serum Institute."We have stopped the first dose of vaccination considering our stock," a DGHS spokesman told reporters, but added that the second dose of the vaccination would continue.DGHS Director General Abul Bashar Mohammad Khurshid Alam said Bangladesh will get 21 lakh more doses of Covid-19 vaccine by the first week of May. Most of those doses would come from India's Serum Institute, he said."We'll also get vaccines from China as a gift. The Covid-19 National Technical Advisory Committee will take the decision on how those will be administered," Alam said.Earlier this week, Foreign Minister Momen said Russia has proposed co-production of its Sputnik vaccine in Bangladesh plants. However, nothing has been finalised as yet.On Chinese vaccines, he said Bangladesh earlier did not show much interest about Chinese vaccine as they were yet to get approval from the World Health Organisation (WHO).“But now, we are keeping all options open to get vaccines,” Momen said.Bangladesh has purchased 30 million doses of India-made vaccine under a tripartite memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed on November 5 and a subsequent agreement on December 13 between the Bangladesh government, Beximco Pharmaceuticals Ltd (BPL) and the Serum Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladesh-closes-land-borders-with-india-for-14-days-amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-101619361950063.html
25-04-2021||India||500 oxygen bed Covid care hospital in Delhi to start from Monday||The 500-oxygen bed Covid care centre in Delhi will open on Monday at 10am to combat the spiralling cases the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) spokesperson Vivek Pandey said on Sunday. The Sardar Patel CCC & Hospital at Radha Soami Beas campus in Delhi's Chhattarpur will be restarted after the Union home ministry issued the order to re-operationalise the facility that was first created last year.The border guarding force ITBP has been set up as the nodal force for running the SPCCC. "ITBP is designated as a nodal force for operation of the SPCCC... ITBP may draw the required medical manpower (doctors and paramedics), if needed, from other central armed police forces (CAPFs) also," an order issued earlier in the week said.Informing that no walk-in admission will be allowed, Pandey said patients will be referred by the respective district surveillance officer (DSO) of respective districts. The standard operating procedure (SOP) for admission of Covid-19 patients will be strictly followed and all laid down protocols will also be adhered to, Pandey said.Also read: Centre restricts use of liquid oxygen for only medical purposesThe protocols for admission involve patients reporting first at the reception. After initial documentation, a physical examination of the patients will be done and then admitted to the hospital at their allotted bed. A kit will also be provided to them after their admission. All medical treatment, medicines, food and other facilities will be provided free of cost. Stress counsellors will also be provided, Pandey added.The centre was shut on February 23 and it treated 11,657 Covid-19 patients since its operation began last year, reported PTI. The border force has recently started various other facilities for treatment of its own personnel, from other police forces, CAPFs, their veterans and families.Delhi has been witnessing a huge surge in Covid-19 cases and on Saturday more than 24,000 infections and 357 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500-oxygen-bed-covid-care-hospital-in-delhi-to-start-from-monday-101619357248045.html
25-04-2021||India||Air India to bring 600 oxygen concentrators from US in next 2 days for private entities||Air India will bring around 600 oxygen concentrators on its two US-India flights in the next two days, aviation industry sources said on Sunday.These oxygen concentrators have been ordered by private entities, the sources mentioned.Various hospitals across the country continue to grapple with a severe shortage of medical oxygen on Sunday even after receiving emergency supplies.Twenty people died at Delhi's Jaipur Golden Hospital on Saturday amid a shortage of oxygen.Sources said Air India plans to bring around 10,000 oxygen concentrators for private entities in the coming weeks.When asked about this matter, Air India spokesperson said the airline is prepared to shoulder the responsibility of carrying oxygen concentrators or any consignment into India."Obviously, Air India with its experience of international operations and wide-body fleet is fully capable of carrying a large volume of cargo consignments," the spokesperson mentioned."It goes without saying that we will continue to play a major role in transporting oxygen (equipment) and serve our nation in whatever role assigned to us," the spokesperson said.A record single-day rise of 3,46,786 coronavirus cases pushed India's tally of infection to 1,66,10,481, while active cases crossed the 25-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday.The death toll rose to 1,89,544 with a record 2,624 more fatalities in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-to-bring-600-oxygen-concentrators-from-us-in-next-2-days-for-private-entities-101619361066626.html
25-04-2021||India||Centre restricts use of liquid oxygen for only medical purposes, no exceptions||The Centre on Sunday directed states and Union territories to ensure that use of liquid oxygen is not allowed for any non-medical purpose and all manufacturing units must maximise their production to make it available for medical use only with “immediate effect until further orders.” This is the government’s latest measure to ensure the uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen across the country as several states have reported a shortage of the gas to treat critically-ill coronavirus disease patients amid rising deaths.“The Central Government has reviewed the oxygen supply situation and has decided that with immediate effect, use of liquid oxygen, including the existing stock, will be allowed for medical purposes only, and that all manufacturing units may be allowed to maximise their production of liquid oxygen, and make it available to the Government, for use for medical purposes only,” the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) said in a statement. Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla said in the statement on Sunday that “no exception is allowed to any industry with regard to use of liquid oxygen.”Also read | Don’t panic and stock oxygen, Remdesivir at home: AIIMS chief to Covid patientsThe Centre tweaked its previous order that exempted nine categories of industries from diverting liquid oxygen for medical use and said these industries will no longer continue to do so. The nine industrial sectors were pharmaceuticals, petroleum refineries, steel plants, ampoules and vials, nuclear energy establishments, oxygen cylinder manufacturers, waste water treatment plants, food and water purification and process industries which require uninterrupted running of furnaces. All other industrial units were told to consider alternative measures such as import of oxygen or setting up Air Separator Units (ASUs) for generation of oxygen for their captive requirements.The government also said on Sunday it has directed all major ports to waive all charges for ships carrying oxygen and related equipment amid a massive surge in coronavirus infections across the country. The ministry of ports, shipping and waterways said it has directed all major ports to accord the highest priority in the berthing sequence to the vessels carrying consignments of medical grade oxygen, oxygen tanks, oxygen bottles, portable oxygen generators and oxygen concentrators.Also read | ‘Glaring lapses...’: Parliamentary committee report flagged concerns over oxygen supply last yearThe government has also exempted customs duty on medical-grade oxygen, oxygen related equipment and Covid-19 vaccines till July 31, 2021. It has granted full exemption from basic customs duty and health cess on import of 16 items related to oxygen and oxygen-related equipment. Among other steps, planes of the Indian Air Force (IAF) brought in cryogenic oxygen tanks from Singapore and also transported them to several parts of the country to reduce travel time.The MHA’s latest order on oxygen comes on a day India reported a record daily rise of 349,691 new infections and 2767 deaths, which have pushed the tally to 16.96 million and death toll to 192,311.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-restricts-use-of-liquid-oxygen-for-only-medical-purposes-101619360752627.html
25-04-2021||India||Don’t panic and stock oxygen, Remdesivir at home: AIIMS chief to Covid patients||Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said on Sunday there is no need to panic and stock oxygen and medicines like Remdesivir as he advised patients of the coronavirus disease who are in home isolation to follow certain steps. “Due to panic, people are stocking injections at their homes, hoarding Remdesivir drug and oxygen cylinders... Remdesivir is not a magic bullet and is given only to patients who are hospitalised, have moderate to severe disease and whose oxygen saturation is below 93... Don't misuse oxygen and Remdesivir. Most patients can recover by isolating at home,” Dr Randeep Guleria said as he virtually addressed the nation on issues related to the Covid-19 crisis.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereHe was accompanied by Medanta chairman Dr Naresh Trehan, professor and head of the department of medicine at AIIMS Dr Naveet Wig and director general health services Dr Sunil Kumar even as India battles the deadlier second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.Watch | 'Don't panic': Top doctors on oxygen use, Remdesivir and when to visit hospital﻿The address by the top doctors comes at a time when the citizens across the country have sent out distress messages amid the increasing daily count of Covid-19 cases, which has remained above 300,000 for the past four days.Dr Randeep Guleria explained that Covid-19 is only a mild disease and 85% to 90% of people are witnessing normal symptoms like fever, cold, body ache, and cough, which do not require Remdesivir. “You can take medicines for these normal infections or treat yourself with home remedies and yoga. You will back to normal and get well within seven or 10 days. You don't need to put Remdesivir or oxygen in your house," he asserted.The AIIMS chief said that only 10%-15% may witness severe infection and may need extra medicines like Remdesivir, oxygen or plasma. “Less than 5% of patients need to be operated on a ventilator,” he added, during the live session, which was aired on news agency ANI.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also made similar suggestions and cautioned people against falling prey to rumours regarding Covid-19 treatment as well as vaccination. “I appeal to you all to seek information on Covid-19 from reliable sources only. I am seeing many doctors have taken to social media to share information on Covid-19 and are also offering consultations," he said while addressing the 76th episode of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-panic-and-stock-oxygen-remdesivir-at-home-aiims-chief-to-covid-patients-101619356555797.html
25-04-2021||India||Bharat Biotech seeks extension of Covaxin’s shelf life. All you need to know||Bharat Biotech International Limited has sought the Drugs Controller General of India’s (DGCI’s) permission to extend the shelf life of its Covaxin, India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, to 24 months. The vaccine, which the company has said will be sold for ₹600 to state governments and for ₹1200 to private hospitals, currently has a shelf life of six months.What is a vaccine shelf life?Shelf life is the expiration date of a vaccine, the time frame within which it retains the same characteristics it possessed at the time of its manufacturing. In other words, shelf life denotes the length of time for which any item remains fit for use.Why does shelf life matter?Longer shelf life is necessary for vaccine manufacturers since they stockpile vaccines to be used over a period of time. It ensures that the vaccine is safe and of sound quality. The World Health Organization (WHO) acknowledges that the stability of vaccines has a major impact on the success of immunisation programmes worldwide.Who can extend shelf life of vaccines?WHO has given the power of assuring vaccine quality to national regulatory agencies like DGCI. “As part of its efforts to assure vaccine quality, WHO has acknowledged the importance of clearly defining the stability characteristics of a vaccine and emphasizes the role of national regulatory authorities in overall vaccine evaluation,” says the WHO guidelines on stability evaluation of vaccines.Has DGCI extended the shelf life before?DGCI, earlier in February, granted approval to Serum Institute of India (SII), the manufacturer of Covishield, for an extension of the vaccine’s shelf life from six months to nine months. WHO, however, rejected SII’s application for the extension of Covishield’s shelf life, citing the lack of sufficient data, Reuters reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-seeks-extension-of-covaxin-s-shelf-life-all-you-need-to-know-101619356706872.html
25-04-2021||India||Germany's Merkel extends support to India, says preparing 'urgent support' tackle Covid-19||German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Sunday expressed solidarity with India in the “common fight” against coronavirus pandemic and said Germany was “urgently preparing a mission of support” for the country battling the unprecedented surge in the cases of Covid-19. "To the people of India I want to express my sympathy on the terrible suffering that Covid-19 has again brought over your communities," Merkel said in a message, which was shared on Twitter by her spokesperson Steffen Seibert. "The fight against the pandemic is our common fight. Germany stands in solidarity with India and is urgently preparing a mission of support,” she also said.Chancellor #Merkel: Solidarity and support to the people of India. #CovidIndia pic.twitter.com/FJO5cSAEYbMany countries have said they will support India and expressed solidarity as the coronavirus disease cases and deaths continued to rise at a high rate. Earlier, Canada also extended support to the country to fight the deadly wave.Canada’s minister of public services and procurement Anita Anand communicated its support to India and said it will provide PPE kits, ventilators and other essential items. “We will stand ready with PPE (personal protective equipment) and ventilators and any items that might be useful for the Government of India," Anand said during a press conference.Also read| 90% of Covid-19 patients will recover at home: Dr Naresh TrehanAs India has been gasping for breath amid a huge crunch of oxygen cylinders, hospital beds, and essential medicines, it reported nearly 350,000 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday. The recovery rate of the country, which used to be one of the highest in the world, has slid to less than 85 per cent. The active caseload in the country stands at more than 2.6 million, as per the Union health ministry's data.An American study last week projected that the daily deaths in the country can peak as high as more than 5000 by mid-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/germanys-merkel-extends-support-to-india-says-preparing-urgent-support-tackle-covid19-101619349834208.html
25-04-2021||India||'I know what's it like’: Omar Abdullah retweets SOS messages from Covid-19 patients’ families||National Conference leader Omar Abdullah has been retweeting messages by distraught relatives of patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from across the country seeking help to millions of his followers on Twitter. Omar Abdullah, who tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this month days after his father Farooq Abdullah also contracted the disease, said wanted to help people. "I want to be able to help people through this crisis as best I can because I know what's it like to have a loved one in hospital fighting against COVID. To that end I've opened up my DMs for now & will amplify every message requesting/offering help," Omar Abdullah tweeted on Sunday morning.Since then the former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir has been amplifying the messages to 3.2 million followers. "I know, in the grand scheme of things, it may not amount to much but every little bit helps & if even one individual benefits from a tweet of mine I'll consider myself extremely fortunate," Omar Abdullah also wrote. I want to be able to help people through this crisis as best I can because I know what’s it’s like to have a loved one in hospital fighting against COVID. To that end I’ve opened up my DMs for now & will amplify every message requesting/offering help.Also read | Defence ministry ramps up effort for Covid-19 reliefFarooq Abdullah, who was vaccinated against Covid-19, was hospitalised after testing positive for the coronavirus disease, in March. Farooq Abdullah received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on March 2, a day after India’s vaccination drive entered its second phase. Omar Abdullah also received his first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 in Srinagar on April 7.Omar Abdullah also said he will not be tweeting requests for donations or funds “because I have no way of independently verifying the antecedents of the people/organisations seeking to raise funds.”Also read | 4 oxygen tankers for Delhi may arrive on Monday from Chhattisgarh: GovtMany infected people and their families are struggling to find treatment, with hospitals in Delhi and other parts of the country overcrowded and many running out of oxygen and beds as India faces a massive surge in Covid-19 cases. India, which has set a new global record of the most number of infections in a day on Sunday, has witnessed 16.96 million infections and and 192,311 people have succumbed to the disease so far, Union ministry of health and family welfare’s data showed.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged all citizens to be vaccinated and exercise caution, saying the "storm" of infections had shaken the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omar-abdullah-retweets-sos-messages-from-covid-19-patients-families-101619350304041.html
25-04-2021||India||1st Oxygen Express to Delhi to depart from Chhattisgarh amid severe shortage in capital||Four cryogenic tankers carrying Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) on board the ‘Oxygen Express’ train are scheduled to depart from Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) steel plant in Raigargh, Chhattisgarh for New Delhi tonight, the railway ministry said on Sunday.“One Oxygen Express train carrying four tankers (around 70 metric tonnes of LMO) will depart tonight for Delhi Cantt. from JSPL, Raigarh,” a railway ministry spokesperson said.The Indian Railways has so far moved 10 oxygen tankers of total 150 MT with 9 more on the move, railway board chairman Suneet Sharma said at a press conference on Sunday.This comes at a time when Delhi hospitals are struggling with an acute shortage of oxygen for the sixth consecutive day with some ending up turning away Covid-19 patients. On Saturday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal sent an urgent SOS to chief ministers of all states, requesting them to send to the national capital whatever surplus oxygen and tankers that they could spare.With Delhi’s daily oxygen allocation being 480MT, Kejriwal has said that the city currently requires about 700MT, given the massive surge in fresh Covid-19 cases -- the national capital has been reporting nearly or over 25,000 cases every day for the past one week at least.Facing acute shortage of oxygen supply due to the rising number of Covid 19 cases, more states are seeking railways’ assistance for delivering Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) via ‘Oxygen Express’ trains. The national carrier has planned more Oxygen Express trains to Andhra Pradesh, UP, Maharashtra, Telangana, Delhi and MP in the coming weeks.The first Oxygen Express train departed from Mumbai to Vizag on April 19. From April 22 to 24, four trains have also operated from Lucknow to Bokaro and back, the railways said adding that it has delivered around 150 MT of Liquid Medical Oxygen so far. Each tanker has a capacity of around 15-16 MT.The Indian Railways last week decided to deploy the first-of-a-kind ‘Oxygen Express’ trains over the next few days to transport Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) and Oxygen cylinders in bulk along key corridors, amid high demand from states grappling with a deadly second wave of Covid-19 cases.With several states reporting a shortage of oxygen, the government last week directed them to ensure uninterrupted movement of medical oxygen carrying vehicles along their borders and said they must not impose any curbs on production and supply of the essential public health commodity anywhere.A meeting was held between Railway Board officials and state transport commissioners and representatives of the industry on April 17 on issues related to transportation of liquid medical oxygen.The railway ministry last week also approved the transportation of liquid medical oxygen in cryogenic tankers under its Roll on-Roll off model as a special case following a request from the Maharashtra government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1st-oxygen-express-to-delhi-to-depart-from-chhattisgarh-amid-severe-shortage-in-capital-101619350446587.html
25-04-2021||India||News Updates from HT: 2 Congress states claim shortage of vaccines ahead of May 1 drive and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ahead of May 1 vaccination drive in India, 2 Cong states claim shortage of dosesWith just six days to go for the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from May 1, when doses will be administered to all citizens above the age of 18, two states Congress-ruled states of Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh have reported non-availability of the doses. Read moreMaharashtra govt to float tendre to procure Covid vaccine, Remdesivir from international market: Ajit PawarMaharashtra has formed a five-member committee which has been tasked to draft a tender to purchase vaccines from global vaccine makers, a week after the Centre announced that all adults will be eligible for a coronavirus vaccine and doses can be sold via the market from May 1. Read moreArmenian PM triggers early election a day after Biden's genocide announcementArmenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan, who was swept to power in pro-democracy protests in 2018, triggered an early election on Sunday to try overcome criticism over his handling of last year's conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh. Read moreOil ministry tells ONGC to sell oilfields; hive off drilling, other servicesThe petroleum ministry has told India's largest oil and gas producer ONGC to sell stake in producing oil fields such as to Ratna R-Series to private firms, get foreign partners in KG basin gas fields, monetise existing infrastructure, and hive off drilling and other services into a separate firm to raise production. Read more'His teammates don't appear too happy with him being captain': Sehwag explains what Samson is lacking as skipper in IPLRajasthan Royals broke their three-match losing streak with a six-wicket-win over Kolkata Knight Riders, but former India batsman Virender Sehwag feels there are still some lingering issues the franchise needs to address as quickly as possible. Read moreWhatsApp this week: New sticker pack, self-destructing media and moreWhatsApp is one of the most popular messaging apps in the world. It is constantly adding new features to its lineup to make conversations on its platform smoother and better for its users. Every week, we bring to you the new features that the company is working on. Read moreChris Gayle enacts Amrish Puri’s iconic Mogambo Khush Hua dialogue. Watch viral clipMogambo Khush Hua, there is a high possibility that most are familiar with this iconic dialogue said Amrish Puri in the film Mr India. Every now and then, people also share videos of themselves enacting it on various occasions. Read moreWhen Oscars 2011 interrupted Abhishek Bachchan, Aishwarya Rai's vacation with an invite to the ceremony, watchIndia is no stranger to the Academy Awards. The country has won a few Oscars, including Bhanu Athaiya's Best Costume Design, Satyajit Ray's Honorary Oscar for Lifetime Achievement, and AR Rahman's dual win for Slumdog Millionaire, over the past few years. Read moreWatch| 'Don't fall prey to rumours about Covid vaccine': PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-2-states-claim-shortage-of-vaccines-ahead-of-may-1-drive-101619348704543.html
25-04-2021||India||Bharat Biotech seeks DCGI's nod to extend shelf life of Covaxin||Bharat Biotech has written to the India's drug regulator seeking extension of the shelf-life of its indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin from six to 24 months, sources said on Sunday.Covaxin, along with Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute of India, are the two vaccines so far being used in India's current Covid-19 vaccination drive. Russian vaccine Sputnik-V has also been approved for emergency use in India.The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech was given permission for sale and distribution of Covaxin with shelf life of six months when stored at two to eight degrees Celsius."Now, we are herewith applying for the extension of shelf life from six months to 24 months when stored at 2-8 degreesCelsius," the firm said in its application to the Drugs Controller General of India.In support of their proposal, Bharat Biotech has submitted updated accelerated and real-time stability data of Coaxin along with the justification for the extension of shelf-life.The DCGI had extended the shelf-life of Covishield from six to nine months from its manufacturing date in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-seeks-dcgi-s-nod-to-extend-shelf-life-of-covaxin-101619348896120.html
25-04-2021||India||900-bed Covid-19 hospital becomes operational in Ahmedabad||A 900-bed Covid-19 hospital, set up jointly by the DRDO and the Gujarat government, started functioning in Ahmedabad on Sunday.In the wake of a spike in Covid-19 cases, the facility, named Dhanvantari Covid Hospital', has been set up at the Gujarat University Convention Centre here, according to the Chief Minister's Office (CMO).Union Home Minister Amit Shah and state Chief Minister Vijay Rupani visited the facility on Friday."The 900-bed Dhanvantari Covid Hospital at the Gujarat University Convention Centre in Ahmedabad has started treating patients from today. Only referral patients will be admitted for treatment in this hospital under the '108' centralised system," the CMO said in a press note.The capacity of the facility can be enhanced by 500 beds, according to the state government.Shah told reporters on Friday that the facility, set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in collaboration with the Gujarat government, has all the necessary equipment and facilities, including CT Scan.The Centre had recently announced that 25 doctors and 75 paramedics from paramilitary forces would be deployed at the facility.Shah had said another temporary hospital with 1,200 beds will come up in Gandhinagar soon.On Saturday, Gujarat recorded 14,097 Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day spike so far, taking the overall infection count in the state to 4,81,737.The state also reported its highest single-day fatality count of 152 on Saturday, pushing the toll to 6,171, while there were 1,07,594 active cases in the state, as per official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/900bed-covid-19-hospital-becomes-operational-in-ahmedabad-101619347450264.html
25-04-2021||India||4 oxygen tankers for Delhi may arrive on Monday from Chhattisgarh: Govt||As many as four oxygen tankers are being loaded on rail wagons in Chhattisgarh and are likely to reach Delhi by Monday night, the ministry of railways said on Sunday. This is the first Oxygen Express train routed for Delhi following the Arvind Kejriwal government’s request to the Centre for the gas needed to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here"One oxygen Express train carrying four tankers (around 70 Metric tonnes of LMO) will depart tonight for Delhi from Raigarh, Chattisgarh. It will contribute in fulfilling the oxygen need of Delhi," the ministry of railways wrote on Twitter. The crucial announcement comes at a time when the Delhi government has been reporting an acute shortage of oxygen and other infrastructure needed to meet the requirements as per the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the fourth wave of the pandemic in the city.Railway Board chairman Suneet Sharma said the railways has chalked out plans to transport medical oxygen from Angul, Kalingnagar, Rourkela and Raigarh to the national capital and the National Capital Region (NCR) and that the Delhi government has been advised to get road tankers ready to obtain the oxygen.On Saturday, 20 patients at a hospital in Delhi’s Rohini died due to a shortage of oxygen. Social media, too, is flooded with SOS messages from citizens as well as hospitals who need to save the lives of seriously ill Covid-19 patients gasping for breath at hospitals or in home isolation.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday wrote to his counterparts in other states and Union territories asking them to assist the national capital with any surplus oxygen supply they may have. However, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan claimed that Delhi was provided with as much supply of the gas as asked by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government and it is their responsibility to rationalise its use.The Delhi government on Sunday extended the lockdown in the city till May 3 morning to curb the spread of the viral disease that has infected over one million people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-oxygen-tankers-for-delhi-may-arrive-on-monday-from-chhattisgarh-govt-101619345663352.html
25-04-2021||India||Ahead of May 1 vaccination drive in India, 2 Cong states claim shortage of doses||With just six days to go for the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from May 1, when doses will be administered to all citizens above the age of 18, two states Congress-ruled states of Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh have reported non-availability of the doses. Both the states are worst hit by the pandemic and are adding the most number of Covid-19 cases towards India’s daily tally.Rajasthan, which claims it is leading the vaccination programme in the country, said it will face difficulties during the third phase to inoculate as many people as possible. “Ahead of vaccination for those above 18 years of age from May 1, when we spoke to the Serum Institute, we were told by them it may take till May 15 to fulfill orders placed by the government of India (GoI) and they won’t be able to deliver vaccines to Rajasthan before it,” state health minister Raghu Sharma told news agency ANI on Sunday.Ahead of vaccination for those above 18yrs of age from May 1,when we spoke to Serum Institute we were told by them that it may take them till May15 to fulfill orders placed by Govt of India, &they won't be able to deliver vaccines to Rajasthan before it: Rajasthan Health Minister pic.twitter.com/7OcwLbwtOySharma’s comments come after Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on April 20 requested the Centre to ensure adequate availability of vaccines so that all above 18 can be inoculated as soon as possible. The health minister on that day claimed the state was only left with two days of vaccine stock and raised questions about the numbers of beneficiaries across India and the vaccine production capacity. He also alleged there is no supply of an adequate number of doses to the state. According to the Union health ministry’s dashboard, Rajasthan has so far vaccinated 12,207,892 people of which nearly 10. 3 million have received the first dose and the remaining 1,909,319 have been given both doses.Also Read| Centre to begin vaccinating people above 18 from May 1. Check which states will provide free vaccinationChhattisgarh is one of the several states in the country which will be vaccinating people free of cost from May 1. However, state health minister Tribhuvaneshwar Saran Singh Deo told ANI on Sunday that vaccinations cannot be done if doses are not available and claimed the Congress-led state government has sites ready and the process can be completed in 30-40 days. Chhattisgarh has inoculated more than 5.32 million beneficiaries till now of which 4,721,481 have been administered the first dose and 602,963 have been given the first and the second dose.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday wrote a letter to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan urging him to determine the minimum price of the vaccine so that all of India can avail the doses at the same rates. Baghel wrote in the letter that according to the information received by the state, Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccine is being supplied in India at the highest prices across the world, according to PTI. Baghel also alleged Serum Institute has increased the vaccine rates with a view to earning extra profits. Covishield will be sold at ₹400 per dose to states and ₹600 per dose to private hospitals, the Pune-based company has said.There is no way vaccination can be done if vaccines are not available. We have the vaccination sites ready and can complete the vaccination in 30-40 days. The Centre is doing politics on this: Chhattisgarh Health Minister TS Singh Deo pic.twitter.com/t2jyfQYEFEIn the letter, Baghel suggested the minimum prices should be decided by the Centre’s Bureau of Pharma PSUs of India (BPPI) and all states should be able to purchase doses as per their need after making payments to BPPI. This would ensure everyone gets a vaccine at the same rates.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-may-1-vaccination-drive-in-india-2-cong-states-claim-shortage-of-doses-101619344821100.html
25-04-2021||India||Steep hike in fares on India-US flights after US govt's 'do not travel' advisory||Airfares on India-US flights have increased significantly since the American government's advisory to its citizens to avoid travelling to India due to a recent surge in Covid-19 cases, aviation industry sources said on Sunday.Average fare for an economy class ticket on a India-US flight is around ₹50,000, but the fares for this week's flights are hovering around ₹1.5 lakh, the sources mentioned.High demand for tickets on India-US flights after the advisory on Thursday has led to the spike in fares, they said."Many passengers want to go to US immediately as they don't want to get stuck here if further restrictions are put in place on India-US flights," said one of the sources.Some other countries, including Germany, the UK and the UAE, have also restricted air travel from India. The UAE has banned travel from India for 10 days from Sunday due to the worsening Covid-19 situation in the country.The US government on Thursday had put India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh and the Maldives on its Level 4 travel advisory, which means asking Americans not to travel to these countries.Meanwhile, private chartered flights within the country are also in high demand these days, mainly for taking Covid-19 patients from smaller cities to bigger cities for better medical treatment. An official of a Mumbai-based charter flight operator said his planes have been busy for the last couple of days as they have been conducted continuous air ambulance flights for high net-worth individuals.The price of private chartered flights have increased by up to two times, said a Delhi-based general aviation company official.India logged a record 3,49,691 new coronavirus infections in a day taking its total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,69,60,172, while active cases crossed the 26-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.The death toll increased to 1,92,311 with a record 2,767 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/steep-hike-in-fares-on-india-us-flights-after-us-govt-s-do-not-travel-advisory-101619342904709.html
25-04-2021||India||Defence ministry ramps up effort for Covid-19 relief||To help the country tide over the Covid-19 crisis, defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) and the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) are leaving no stone unturned, people familiar with the developments said on Sunday. “It (OFB) has earmarked nearly 60% its existing strength for Covid care… 813 beds out of a total of 1,405 are now reserved for Covid patients… In this hour of crisis, they (OFB and DPSUs) are catering to the civilian population from their existing services in coordination with the state governments,” the defence ministry said in a statement.The OFB is providing Covid care at its medical facilities in 25 locations scattered across Maharashtra, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha and Uttarakhand, the official statement said.The OFB is the country’s main producer of military arsenal. It controls 41 ordnance factories engaged in the production of tanks, armoured personnel carriers, bombs, rockets, artillery guns, anti-aircraft guns, parachutes, small arms and clothing for soldiers.State-run plane-maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) has started work on setting up a 250-bed Covid hospital in Lucknow, with the facility expected to be functional in early May, the ministry added, detailing steps being that are being taken by the DPSUs and the OFB to help state governments deal with the deadly second wave of the pandemic.HAL has already set up two Covid facilities in Bengaluru with 250 and 180 beds each. It will now focus on providing more ventilators and oxygen points in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh and Bengaluru, Karnataka. It has also operationalised a 70-bed facility in Odisha’s Koraput and a 40-bed hospital in Maharashtra’s Nasik. The DPSUs are fast-tracking the procurement of oxygen plants for state government hospitals under their corporate social responsibility (CSR) scheme. These include Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL), BEML Limited, HAL, Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited (MDL), Garden Reach Shipbuilders & Engineers (GRSE) Limited and MIDHANI.On Saturday, defence minister Rajnath Singh said the armed forces and the defence ministry “will leave no stone unturned in providing all possible assistance to the civilian administration.”The DRDO is among the organisations that are at the forefront of fighting the pandemic that has ripped through the country. It has so far set up or is in the process of setting up state-of-the-art Covid hospitals in six cities to treat more than 3,100 critical patients.The Indian Air Force has also intensified its efforts for Covid relief with its transport aircraft ferrying large oxygen containers to filling stations in different parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-ministry-ramps-up-effort-for-covid-19-relief-101619343366157.html
25-04-2021||India||‘Glaring lapses...’: Parliamentary committee report flagged concerns over oxygen supply last year||As India struggles with the availability of hospital beds and medical oxygen amid the Covid-19 crisis, a parliamentary committee headed by Professor Ram Gopal Yadav had flagged the much-needed measures in November last year to avoid the unprecedented situation that India is facing.“The Committee appreciates the measures but also observes that there have been few glaring lapses in the battle against pandemic like shortage of emergency supplies, red-tapism, shortage and quality of testing kits, delay in domestic production etc,” the report titled ‘The Outbreak of Pandemic Covid-19 and its management’ read.Regarding the oxygen availability in the country, the committee had noted that the overall production in the country was roughly 6,900 metric ton every day out of which, the highest consumption of medical oxygen was reported in mid-September when the usage was almost 3,000 metric ton of oxygen in one day.On 16th October last year, the secretary, department of health and family welfare, had informed the Committee that the oxygen used in pre-Covid days was just 1000 ton and the remaining 6,000 were used for industrial purposes. The committee, therefore, felt that “there is a strong need to ensure that the oxygen inventory is in place” for hospitals and “oxygen prices are controlled”.It had also appealed to the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority to take appropriate measures to cap the price of the oxygen cylinders, “so that the availability, as well as affordability of the oxygen cylinders, is ensured across all hospitals for medical consumption”.“The Committee recommends the Government for encouraging adequate production of oxygen for ensuring its supply as per demand in the hospitals,” the report stated, besides urging the government to produce more vaccines and collaborate with maximum vaccine producers on a large scale to make more vaccines available, given the potential rise in the cases.With regard to the availability of beds, the committee had called it a “crucial aspect of the pandemic”, observing that ‘the total number of government hospital beds in the country was grossly inadequate keeping in view the rising incidence of Covid-19 cases”.“As the numbers of cases were on the rise, a frantic search for vacant hospital beds became quite harrowing. Instances of patients being turned away from overburdened hospitals due to lack of vacant beds became the new normal. The scenario of patients holding oxygen cylinders rushing from pillar to post in search of a bed in AIIMS Patna is a testimony to the fact that they tear apart humanity. The Committee is aggrieved at the poor state of the healthcare system and therefore, recommends the government to increase the investment in public health and take appropriate steps to decentralize the healthcare services/facilities in the country” the report read.While seeking a “convincing response” from the government on the issue, the committee said that it “fails to comprehend the underutilisation of the available resources especially at a time when people struggled to find a bed in the hospitals.”The committee comprising of nine Rajya Sabha members, including senior leaders like AK Antony, Suresh Prabhu, Santanu Sen, Subramanian Swamy, mentioned that 3,914 Covid facilities were developed in the country with 39,820 ICU beds and 1,42,415 oxygen supported beds along with 20,047 ventilators. It had, however, said that there was more to be done to ‘mitigate’ the upcoming crisis because of “super spreading forthcoming festive events in the country and advent of the winter season”.“The Committee observes that after a steady increase in the number of Covid cases across the country, there has been a downtrend in Covid cases. However, the Committee strongly feels that the threat of Covid-19 is still looming large on the country keeping in view the second and third wave in European countries and spike in Delhi,” it had warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glaring-lapses-parliamentary-committee-report-flagged-concerns-over-oxygen-supply-last-year-101619340185983.html
25-04-2021||India||Who can't donate plasma? Can women not take covid vaccine during periods? Govt busts fake news||Unscientific claims regarding vaccination against Covid-19, home remedies are doing the rounds on WhatsApp, social media as the second wave of the pandemic is raging ahead. The government, in the last few days, have busted several fake claims and clarified some regarding vaccination and treatment of Covid-19. The third phase of the vaccination will begin on May 1. Everyone above the age of 18 years will be considered eligible in this phase.During his Mann ki Baat on Sunday, which was a full episode dedicated to the issue of the ongoing pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged people to not fall prey to rumours — be it regarding vaccination or Covid-19. The government's fact-checking machinery too is working on to identify false claims.Should women not get vaccinated before and after periods?A viral post being forwarded on WhatsApp is claiming that women should not take vaccines before and after periods as the immunity at that time remains low. "#Fake post circulating on social media claims that women should not take #COVID19Vaccine 5 days before and after their menstrual cycle. Don't fall for rumours!" the government said through its PIB fact check handle.#Fake post circulating on social media claims that women should not take #COVID19Vaccine 5 days before and after their menstrual cycle.Don't fall for rumours!All people above 18 should get vaccinated after May 1. Registration starts on April 28 on https://t.co/61Oox5pH7x pic.twitter.com/JMxoxnEFsyHas WHO approved this home remedy against Covid-19?The Centre has also refuted claims that a home remedy against Covid-19 found by a student of a Puducherry University has been approved by the World Health Organization. The fake news claims the concoction comprises black pepper, ginger and honey.एक #फ़र्ज़ी खबर में दावा किया जा रहा है कि पांडिचेरी विश्वविद्यालय के एक छात्र ने #COVID19 का घरेलू उपचार ढूंढ लिया है व @WHO द्वारा भी इसे स्वीकृति दी गई है। #PIBFactCheckऐसे भ्रामक संदेश साझा न करें। #कोविड19 से जुड़ी सही जानकारी हेतु आधिकारिक सूत्रों पर ही विश्वास करें। pic.twitter.com/Utepz7OYpsCan a person not donate plasma after vaccination?Treatment of Covid-19 through plasma has been approved by the Centre in its fresh Covid-19 treatment protocol. Plasma can be administered within seven days of the onset of symptoms and in moderate cases.If you are planning to donate plasma to a COVID positive patient in Delhi, here are the do's and don'ts you should know about! #IndiaFightsCorona #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/98mtaDmpZAA person can donate plasma only after 14 days 28 days after receiving the vaccination. Women who have ever been pregnant can not donate Covid-19 convalescent plasma.Has Air Force doctor Asutosh Sharma claimed steam can counter Covid-19 pandemic?Responding to a viral Whatsapp message claiming that one Air Marshal Asutosh Sharma of Bengaluru's Command Hispital Air Force has said that taking steam can counter the pandemic, the Centre of Sunday issued a clarification saying there is no Air Marshal Ashutosh Sharma in Bangalore. "Command Hospital Air Force Bangalore is headed by Air Vice Marshal Ashutosh Sharma and the message in question has not been originated by him. Indian Air Force and Air Vice Marshal Ashutosh Sharma do not vouch for anything that is stated in the message. Any person with any symptoms of Covid-19 must seek professional medical help for treatment," the Centre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-can-t-donate-plasma-can-women-not-take-covid-vaccine-during-periods-govt-busts-fake-news-101619339509252.html
25-04-2021||India||Coal ministry sets up monitoring cell to help officials who tested +ve for Covid||The Coal Ministry has set up a monitoring cell for rendering help to its officials and their family members who have been tested positive for Covid-19 and are under home quarantine or admitted in hospitals for treatment.The ministry mentioned that a large number of officials in the coal ministry have tested positive for Covid-19 at a time when the country is in the grip of a devastating second wave of the pandemic.The Covid Monitoring Cell, set up by the Coal Ministry on Friday, will also help the family members of the officials found to be tested positive for the deadly virus.In an official memorandum, the coal ministry said, "It has been observed that a large number of officers/officials in the Ministry of Coal has been tested positive for Covid-19 in the recent time and are under home quarantine/admitted in hospitals for treatment."In this regard, the competent authority has decided to create a 'Covid Monitoring Cell' in the Ministry to help the officers/officials working in the Ministry and their family members, including the staff of CIL, NLC India Ltd,CCO and CMPFO for getting logistics support and other necessary help as far as possible.According to Sanjeeb Bhattacharya, who is one of the nodal officers of the Covid Monitoring Cell, more than 30 officials in the coal ministry have been tested positive for Covid-19 since April 8.The logistics support will be provided by Coal India.India logged a record 3,49,691 new coronavirus infections in a day, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,69,60,172, while active cases crossed the 26-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.The death toll increased to 1,92,311 with a record 2,767 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coal-ministry-sets-up-monitoring-cell-to-help-officials-who-tested-ve-for-covid-101619337026828.html
25-04-2021||India||Doctor, 3 others arrested for black-marketing Remdesivir in Gujarat's Surat||Police have arrested a doctor and three other persons in Surat for allegedly black-marketing Remdesivir injections, which are in high demand for treating Covid-19 patients, an official said on Sunday.Acting on a tip-off, a crime branch team nabbed the four people from different areas here in Gujarat on Saturday and recovered three vials of the key anti-viral drug from them, he said.The accused were trying to sell the drug at a higher price than its MRP (maximum retail price) tothe needy persons, the police official said.Efforts were also on to nab the person who supplied the Remdesivir vials to the accused, he said.An FIR was lodged against the accused at the Lalgate police station under Indian Penal Code Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy), and provisions of the Essential Commodities Act, the official said.Remdesivir is listed for use in serious Covid-19 patients. In view of a sudden spike in demand of the drug due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Centre recently banned its export till the situation improves.A few days back, the Gujarat High Court asked the state government to formulate a policy for the distribution of Remdesivir injections to hospitals in view of its high demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-3-others-arrested-for-black-marketing-remdesivir-in-gujarat-s-surat-101619338488362.html
25-04-2021||India||551 oxygen generation plants to be set up through PM CARES: PMO||Amid several states facing shortage of medical oxygen which was caused due to surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across the country, the Prime Minister's office (PMO) gave approval for allocation of funds from PM CARES for installation of 551 dedicated Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation plants inside public health facilities in the country. PMO also directed that these plants should made operational as soon as possible as they will act as a major boost to oxygen availability at the district level.Oxygen is an important element used in the treatment of certain medical conditions which arise due to the Covid-19 infection.Read more: Record oxygen level thrice a day, Centre issues 8-step guideline for Covid patients on use of oximeterAccording to the statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the plants will be established in identified government hospitals and the procurement will be done through ministry of health and family welfare."The basic aim behind establishing PSA oxygen generation plants at government hospitals in the district headquarters is to further strengthen the public health system and ensure that each of these hospitals has a captive oxygen generation facility. Such an in-house captive oxygen generation facility would address the day to day medical oxygen needs of these hospitals and the district," the statement said.Read more: ‘Delhi got more oxygen than they asked, up to AAP govt to rationalise’: Harsh VardhanIn addition, the liquid medical oxygen (LMO) would also serve as a top up to the captive oxygen generation."Such a system will go a long way in ensuring that government hospitals in the districts do not face sudden disruption of oxygen supplies and have access to adequate uninterrupted oxygen supply to manage the Covid-19 patients and other patients needing such support," the statement said.India is facing increased pressure on health facilities amid the second wave of coronavirus disease pandemic with several states reporting severe shortage of medical oxygen and beds.Read more: Maharashtra, Rajasthan and MP next in IAF’s plan of carrying oxygenOn Sunday, the country recorded 349,691 Covid-19 which took the country’s tally to 16,960,172, according to Union ministry of health and family welfare. The single-day death toll also made a new record as 2,767 people died during the same period taking the total death tally to 192,311.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/551-oxygen-generation-plants-to-be-set-up-through-pm-cares-govt-101619334739825.html
25-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Stricter Covid-19 curbs in Tamil Nadu from April 26 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Tamil Nadu imposes stricter curbs in view of Covid-19 pandemicThe Tamil Nadu government imposed fresh restrictions in the state from April 26 in view of the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency ANI reported. Read MoreUS vows ‘more support’ to India; billionaire offers to fund ‘planeloads’ of O2The US has decided to deploy “more supplies and support” to help India deal with the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 cases. Read MoreDelhi HC suspends ED’s look our circular against alleged arms dealer Sudhir ChoudhrieSudhir Choudhrie, an alleged arms dealer who is under the Enforcement Directorate (ED) scanner in its money laundering probe against London-based engine-maker Rolls-Royce Plc. Read More'He likes to be main man in teams, he isn't that here': Pietersen on why he was 'skeptical' about Maxwell's run at RCBVirat Kohli's Royal Challengers Bangalore have declared themselves to be the favourites to lift the Indian Premier League 2021 trophy this year after four straight wins in the tournament. Read MoreGrandpa’s reply on being asked what he liked building the most leaves people emotional. Watch viral clipIn today’s edition of videos which are absolutely heartwarming, here’s a clip of a conversation between a grandpa and his granddaughter. Read MoreStowaway movie review: The most vital film 'atmanirbhar' Indians can watch right now, out on NetflixNo one could have predicted this, least of all the people who made it, but Stowaway, a new science-fiction survival drama on Netflix, is perhaps the most thematically relevant and emotionally resonant film that Indians will watch this year. Read MoreMaximalism & minimalism: Mira Kapoor channels Moira Rose in monochrome outfitsIt is no secret that Shahid Kapoor's better half, Mira Rajput is quite the fashionista, and the 28-year-old mother of two is constantly blessing our feeds with one banger look after the other. Read More‘BJP has outfunded us’: TMC's Derek O’Brien on West Bengal polls l The InterviewTrinamool MP and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's go-to man in Delhi Derek O'Brien spoke exclusively to Hindustan Times' Kumkum Chadha on the West Bengal polls. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-stricter-covid-19-curbs-in-tamil-nadu-from-april-26-and-all-the-latest-news-101619333530959.html
25-04-2021||India||Delhi's Covid situation not improving, says Kejriwal, announces oxygen portal for timely monitoring||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the Covid-19 situation of the Capital is not improving, though the acute crisis of oxygen is likely to be over in a few days. As he announced the extension of lockdown in the Capital by a week, Kejriwal also highlighted that the Capital has never clocked such a high positivity rate. He also announced the setting up of a portal where oxygen availability can be monitored every two hours. Positivity rateThe positivity rate during the lockdown reached 36-37%, Kejriwal said adding that this was an unprecedented high. "We have not seen such a high positivity rate, not in Delhi. Don't know about other places," he said. The positivity rate in the last few days has come down, but it can't be said the peak is over, CM said.Delhi extends Covid-19 lockdown by a week till May 3: CM Arvind KejriwalLockdown extension unanimousThe Delhi government consulted before deciding the extension of the lockdown and everyone is in favour of the extension, Kejriwal said. However, while announcing the restrictions last week, he appealed to migrant workers of the Capital to not leave Delhi as the lockdown is small and is not likely to be extended. Delhi needs 700 tonne of oxygenThe Centre has allotted 490 tonne oxygen for Delhi. "But we have not got the entire allotment. We have reached 330 tonne. This is the reason why hospitals are complaining of an oxygen shortage. Our officials, ministers are coordinating round the clock. We are trying everything can't say all our efforts have been fruitful," Kejriwal said.New portal on oxygen monitoringOn this portal, manufacturers, suppliers and hospitals will have to update regular data regarding the movement of oxygen. "So that we can identify the bottlenecks," Kejriwal said.Oxygen crisis should be over in a few daysHoping that the oxygen crisis situation of Delhi will become less intense in the coming few days. Kejriwal said the AAP government is exploring all possible routes to source oxygen. "Have written to all states yesterday. Talks are on with some states," the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-covid-situation-not-improving-says-kejriwal-announces-oxygen-portal-101619334491056.html
25-04-2021||India||Stricter curbs in Tamil Nadu from April 26 as Covid-19 cases surge||The Tamil Nadu government imposed fresh restrictions in the state from April 26 in view of the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency ANI reported. In a press release issued on Saturday, the government said, "Temple events and congregations have already been prohibited since April 10. Permission was granted to allow pre-scheduled events with 50 members. But the government has decided to allow only the temple staff to hold consecration ceremonies. No new consecration ceremony/temple events will be permitted."The Palaniswami government had earlier announced a night curfew, ban on tourists at hill stations and a complete lockdown on Sundays.Chennai: Tamil Nadu imposes lockdown on Sunday, with some exceptions, to curb the spread of COVID19From Apr 26th, beauty parlors, salons, spas, barber shops to be closed, only takeaway allowed in hotels, restaurants & tea shops. All places of worship to be closed for the public pic.twitter.com/thJ2g24GXCThe night curfew, in place from 10pm to 4am, and the Sunday lockdown will continue, with an exemption for essential services.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe fresh restrictions come in the backdrop of Tamil Nadu recording 14,842 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, pushing the caseload to 10,66,329. As many as 80 fatalities in 24 hours took the toll to 13,475, the state health department said in a release.Here is all you need to know about the fresh restrictions:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-imposes-stricter-curbs-in-view-of-covid-19-pandemic-101619324944552.html
25-04-2021||India||Gujarat: 14 arrested for birthday celebrations during night curfew||Police have arrested 14 people from two birthday parties organised in Rajkot during the night curfew imposed to check the spread of Covid-19, an official said on Sunday.Videos of the two events held here in Gujarat on Saturday night also surfaced on social media platforms.According to a senior official, the birthday party of a policeman's son was organised at the police headquarters where firecrackers were also burst."Officials patrolling in a police control room van noticed fireworks at the police headquarters. They reached the spot and found four persons celebrating the birthday. All the four accused were arrested," the police official said.In another incident, members of an NGO participated in a birthday celebration in the premises of a high school around midnight.After some videos of the event were shared on a social media platform, the police registered a case against 11 members of the NGO and arrested 10 of them, the official said.The accused were booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (negligent act that could cause spread of the disease dangerous to life) and other provisions, he said.In the wake of a sharp rise in coronavirus cases in Gujarat, the state government has imposed a curfew from 8 pm to 6 am in 20 cities till April 30.On Saturday, Gujarat's Covid-19 tally reached 4,81,737 with 14,097 new cases, the highest single-day rise so far.The state also reported its highest single-day death count of 152, taking the total number of fatalities to 6,171, as per the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-14-arrested-for-birthday-celebrations-during-night-curfew-101619333063230.html
25-04-2021||India||Delhi HC suspends ED’s look out circular against alleged arms dealer Sudhir Choudhrie||Sudhir Choudhrie, an alleged arms dealer who is under the Enforcement Directorate (ED) scanner in its money laundering probe against London-based engine-maker Rolls-Royce Plc, was apprehended at Delhi airport last month based on a Look Out Circular (LOC) issued by the agency but the Delhi High Court on Thursday suspended the notice, people familiar with the development said. Advocate Abhimanyu Bhandari, appearing for Choudhrie, informed the court of Justice Pratibha M Singh at Delhi High Court that his client was apprehended even though he is not a named accused in the case and “no summons were issued to him earlier”. Seeking suspension of the LOC against him, Bhandari said “Choudhrie frequently visits India, on an average of two-three months in a year, for various purposes and has deep roots in India. He also has movable and immovable assets in India. The LOC was issued against (by ED) without any case.” He sought permission for Choudhrie to travel abroad to London or the USA to consult his doctors “owing to the Covid-19 pandemic in India and his precarious medical condition as no hospital is willing to admit him as he is likely to contract Covid-19.” ED’s special prosecutor Amit Mahajan opposed suspending the LOC saying “there are several allegations against Choudhrie”. The High Court, however, suspended the LOC issued by the ED and reprimanded the agency for making Choudhrie and his wife sit the whole night at the airport on March 21. “….authorities ought to be mindful of the medical condition and age of parties who are apprehended at the airport due to LOCs being issued in their name before such a treatment is meted out to them,” Justice Singh said in the order, reviewed by HT. An email sent to ED seeking comments remained unanswered. Rolls Royce didn’t offer any comments on Saturday. Choudhrie, 73, a British citizen, is a known arms dealer, who has been under agencies radar in the past for dodgy defence deals but agencies have not been able to gather enough evidence against him. He had been earlier investigated for alleged payment of bribes in securing a contract for an upgrade of artillery guns for an Israel-based defence firm in 2004 and in Barak missile scandal in 2006-07. However, both the cases were closed by the CBI due to lack of evidence. UK’s Serious Fraud Office (SFO) had also launched a probe against him but it had met the same fate. People familiar with the development said Choudhrie was stopped at IGI Airport on the intervening night of March 21 and March 22 upon his arrival here from London on the basis of a LOC issued at the behest of ED and was summoned to the agency office the next morning. To be sure, Choudhrie has not been arrested. The anti-money laundering probe agency opened a LOC against him after in its case against Rolls-Royce Plc. and its subsidiary Rolls-Royce India Private Limited, registered in August 2019, for making dubious payments in the form of commissions in return for contracts from three state-run Indian companies. ED’s probe is based on a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) case in which it is alleged Rolls-Royce made payments in several tranches to a Singapore based middleman between 2007 and 2011 in bank accounts in Singapore and Hong Kong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-suspends-ed-s-look-our-circular-against-alleged-arms-dealer-sudhir-choudhrie-101619332445454.html
25-04-2021||India||Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi urges citizens to not fall prey to rumours about Covid-19 vaccine||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation through 'Mann Ki Baat' and warned citizens against falling prey to rumours around the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine. He also urged everyone to seek information on the virus only through reliable sources on the 76th edition of his monthly radio programme.The PM further said that the Centre was fighting with all its might to support all states but a major role in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic was played by the doctors, nurses and frontline workers.Also Read | Don't panic, don't rush after Remdesivir: Doctors say during PM Modi's Mann Ki Baat"I appeal to you all to seek information on Covid-19 through reliable sources only. I am seeing many doctors have taken to social media to share information on Covid-19 and are also offering consultations," he said while addressing the 76th episode of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat.Watch | ‘Don't chase costly medicines': Doctor’s Covid advice on PM Modi's Mann Ki BaatOn the show, PM Modi talked to two doctors, one from Mumbai and the other from Jammu and Kashmir about the nature of the virus in the second phase, and urged citizens to seek information on Covid-19 only through genuine sources and not to fall prey to misinformation. He also dialed nurses in Bhopal and Bengaluru asked them about their experience in dealing with Covid-19 patients. "Nursing staff and doctors are doing their duty well and they are an inspiration for us," PM Modi said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWishing everyone on the occasion of Mahavir Jayanti, the PM said the discourses of the spiritual leader inspired us to practice austerity and self-restraint. "This is also the pious month of Ramzan. Buddh Purnima and the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur is also coming. Tagore Jayanti is also approaching. All these days teach us one lesson - to perform our duties well. If we are diligent, we will be able to overcome this crisis soon," the PM said.The PM's address comes as India reels under the second wave of coronavirus pandemic. On Sunday, India recorded 349,691 fresh cases of Covid-19 in a new daily high, taking the infection tally to 16,960,172. As many as 2,767 people died of the virus in 24 hours, taking the country's total death toll to 192,311.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-urges-citizens-to-not-fall-prey-to-rumours-about-covid-19-vaccine-101619326884587.html
25-04-2021||India||Telangana sees highest ever single-day spike in Covid-19 cases and deaths||Telangana witnessed the highest number of Covid-19 cases as well as deaths in a single day spike with 8,126 fresh infections and 38 more fatalities, the state government said on Sunday.The cases tally stands at over 3.95 lakh while the toll rose to 1,999.Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 1259, followed by Medchal Malkajgiri (676) and Rangareddy (591), it said in a bulletin, providing details as of 8 PM on April 24.The total number of cumulative cases in the state stood at 3,95,232 while with 3,307 patients being cured, the total recoveries were at 3,30,304.The state has 62,929 active cases and over 1.08 lakh samples were tested on Saturday.Cumulatively, over 1.24 crore samples have been tested.The samples tested per million population was over 3.35 lakh, the bulletin said.The case fatality rate in the state was 0.50 per cent, while it was 1.1 per cent at the national level.The recovery rate in Telangana was 83.57 per cent, while it was 83 per cent in the country.The state has 293 active micro containment zones.According to a separate release, over 35.14 lakh people in the state have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine while over 4.91 lakh got their second shot also as of April 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-sees-highest-ever-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-and-deaths-101619330404702.html
25-04-2021||India||Don't panic, don't rush after Remdesivir: Doctors say during PM Modi's Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Mann ki Baat on Sunday spoke to a number of frontline workers of the country who offered an insight into the current pandemic situation. Mumbai's Dr Shashank Joshi, who was the first on a call with PM Modi, said though the second wave of the pandemic is more threatening, there is nothing to panic about as the recovery rate in this phase is also high."The second wave came very fast. It is spreading faster. But the recovery rate is also faster. In this phase, young people and children are also being infected. Symptoms are more or less similar. About 80 to 90 per cent of people do not have any symptom. There is no need to worry about mutations. The way we change our clothes, viruses too change the colour and get mutated," Dr Joshi said.Mann Ki Baat: PM urges citizens to not fall prey to rumours surrounding vaccine"People are starting clinical treatment late because they are thinking the symptoms will go away on their own. Also, reliance on WhatsApp forwards is growing," Dr Joshi said explaining the three stages of Covid — mild, moderate and severe.Watch: ‘Don't chase costly medicines': Doctor’s Covid advice on PM Modi's Mann Ki BaatHe also said there is no need to rush after Remdesivir as it is an experimental medicine, which may reduce one's stay in hospital."I urge all of you if you want any information, to seek information from the right source. Contact your family doctor, doctors nearby, you should contact them by phone, many of our doctors are also taking this responsibility themselves," PM Modi said.In his Mann ki Baat, the Prime Minister interacted with several frontline workers, which included Dr naved from Srinagar, Sister Bhawna Dhruv from Raipur, Sister Surekha from Bengaluru, ambulance driver Prem Verma and Covid survivor Preeti Chaturvedi from Gurugram.On people getting positive after vaccination, Dr Naved said, "It is possible to get infected even after vaccination. But the severity will be much less.""No vaccines provide 100 per cent immunity against Covid-19 instantly. It takes time to build immunity. Please stay at home, don't touch your mouth and nose, drink kadha," Sister Surekha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-panic-don-t-rush-after-remdesivir-docs-say-during-pm-modi-s-mann-ki-baat-101619330430396.html
25-04-2021||NA||Mann Ki Baat Highlights: People should avoid misinformation on Covid, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 11am on Sunday addressed the nation through his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' radio programme. This was the 76th episode of the programme and the fourth this year. The previous three 'Man Ki Baat' episodes of 2021 took place on January 31, February 28 and March 28.Sunday's episode came at a time the nation is reeling in the deadly second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with more than 300,000 daily cases and over 2,000 related deaths being recorded per day, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW). India is currently seeing more daily cases than any other country, and is the second worst-hit after the United States, and is ahead of Brazil. Several hospitals in various cities across the country have also reported acute shortage of medical oxygen.On Sunday, the health ministry reported that in the previous 24 hours, there were 349,691 cases and 2717 related fatalities . The country's Covid-19 tally currently stands at 16,960, 172 including 192,311 deaths. Recoveries and active cases, meanwhile, are at 14,085,110 and 2,682,751 respectively.The first episode of Maan Ki Baat was aired on October 3, 2014.Follow all the updates here:Corporate sector can also help in vaccine drive: PM ModiCountry's corporate sector can also participate in vaccine drive by getting their employees vaccinated. Govt of India's free vaccination program will continue in future too. I request states to ensure benefits of this free vaccination program reaches as many people as possible: PM ModiCases rising but recoveries also increasing, says PM ModiPositive cases rising but the recoveries are also increasing. Our biggest priority is to defeat the pandemic, says PM Modi in Mann Ki Baat.Don't fall prey to any rumour on vaccines: PM Modi"I urge people to not fall prey to any rumour about vaccine. You all must be aware that Govt of India has sent free vaccine to all State Govts. All people above 45 years of age can benefit from this. From May 1st, vaccines will be available for every person above 18 years of age," says PM Modi.Govt will help states in efforts to tackle Covid-19: PM ModiThe government of India is dedicated to taking forward the efforts of the state governments to tackle the current Covi19 situation, says PM Narendra Modi in Mann Ki Baat.People shouldn't fall prey to misinformation, says PM ModiPM Modi urges citizens to seek information on Covid-19 only through genuine sources, not to fall pray to misinformation.PM Modi converses with Dr Shashank from MumbaiPM Modi converses with Mumbai-based Dr Shashank over the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 in the country. "While cases are surging, more recoveries also being recorded," says Dr Shashank.Second Covid-19 wave a 'storm': PM ModiCountry was full of confidence after successfully battling first wave of Covid-19. However, this second wave, which is a storm, has left us devastated, says PM Modi in Mann Ki Baat.Nearly 350,000 new Covid-19 cases in India in last 24 hoursIndia saw record 349,691 new Covid-19 cases and 2,627 related deaths, also a record, in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare's (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Sunday morning.PM Modi to address nation shortlyThis month’s #MannKiBaat programme begins at 11 AM. pic.twitter.com/ynf3w9IB8tPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation at 11am through the 76th episode of his Mann Ki Baat programme amid a rapid surge in country's daily Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-live-pm-narendra-modi-to-address-nation-shortly-amid-covid-surge-101619314799341.html
25-04-2021||India||Day 100: How is India's Covid-19 vaccination drive going?||Amid surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country, India on Sunday marks 100 days since the start of its vaccination drive which began on January 16 this year. In just 99 days, India has become the fastest country to administer 14 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 140,802,794 as per the 8 pm provisional report on Saturday. These include 9,289,621 Healthcare Workers (HCWs) who have taken the 1st dose and 5,994,401 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 11,942,233 Frontline Workers (FLWs) (1st dose), 6,277,797 FLWs (2nd dose), 47,641,992 for over 45 years old to 60 years old (1st dose), 2,322,480 for over 45 years old to 60 years old (2nd dose), 49,632,245 for above 60 years (1st dose) and 7,702,025 for above 60 years (2nd dose).HCWsFLWs1st Dose2nd Dose1st Dose2nd Dose92,89,62159,94,4011,19,42,23362,77,797Age group 45-60 yearsAbove 60 years1st Dose2nd Dose1st Dose2nd Dose4,76,41,99223,22,4804,96,32,24577,02,025Read more: ‘Unless world is vaccinated, variants will grow’: Dr Drew WeissmanIndia’s vaccination programme so farIn the phase 1 of the Covid-19 immunisation programme which was launched on January 16 this year, all health and frontline workers were eligible to take the shot. In phase 1 of the vaccination drive, immunisation was initiated in two parts on March 1 and on April 1. All people above the age of 60 years and those over 45 years with comorbidities were allowed to take the vaccine in this phase.Vaccination programme from May 1With the aim to control the second wave of Covid-19 in the country, India will expand immunisation to include its entire adult population, i.e, all citizens above the age of 18 years under the phase 3 of the vaccination strategy from May 1. With this decision, India has become one of the first countries in the world to allow all adults to seek a vaccine. However, people under the age of 45 will only be able to receive vaccine doses after private sales begin or after the respective state governments procure stocks for distribution. Additionally, manufacturers of Covid-19 vaccines will also be free to supply 50 per cent doses to the states as well as in the open market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-100-how-is-india-s-covid-19-vaccination-drive-going-101619325283656.html
25-04-2021||India||Keep all political work aside, help people: Rahul's message to party workers amid Covid-19 crisis||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday urged all Congress workers to leave all political workers to stand by with people amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic because the system has failed. It is time to talk about the welfare of the people because the 'system' has failed, the Congress leader tweeted as the country recorded 2,767 deaths from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and 3,49,691 fresh Covid-19 infections — both records for the country.‘सिस्टम’ फ़ेल है इसलिए ये जनहित की बात करना ज़रूरी है:इस संकट में देश को ज़िम्मेदार नागरिकों की ज़रूरत है। अपने कांग्रेस साथियों से मेरा अनुरोध है कि सारे राजनैतिक काम छोड़कर सिर्फ़ जन सहायता करें, हर तरह से देशवासियों का दुख दूर करें। कांग्रेस परिवार का यही धर्म है।"At this hour of crisis, the country needs responsible people. I urge my friends in the Congress to leave all political works and help the people of India, help alleviate the suffering of the people of India. This is the dharma of the Congress family," he said.'Government of India, this is on you': Rahul Gandhi on oxygen crisis amid Covid-19 surgeOn April 18, Rahul Gandhi cancelled all his public rallies in West Bengal which at that time had three phases of voting pending. “In view of the Covid situation, I am suspending all my public rallies in West Bengal. I would advise all political leaders to think deeply about the consequences of holding large public rallies under the current circumstances," he said on Twitter. Two days later, the Congress leader tested positive and isolated himself.Lamenting the present situation of the country struggling for oxygen Rahul Gandhi earlier said India is facing two crisis, one of the Covid and the other of the anti-people policies of the Centre."In the coming days, the crisis will deepen. Appealing the government in good faith to focus on vaccines, oxygen and other health services instead of spending on public relations and unnecessary projects. The current situation is unbearable," the Congress leader tweeted on Saturday.After Rahul Gandhi cancelled his engagements in West Bengal, the Election Commission of India banned all rallies in the state. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Trinamool supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee too cancelled their scheduled programmes in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keep-all-political-work-aside-help-people-rahul-s-message-to-party-workers-101619325742382.html
25-04-2021||India||Record oxygen level thrice a day, Centre issues 8-step guideline for Covid patients on use of oximeter||As doctors and experts are advising Covid-19 patients being treated at home to keep track of their blood oxygen level to understand whether there is any need for hospitalisation, the Centre has shared an eight-step guideline on how to check the oxygen level.Here are the steps> Before placing your finger inside the oximeter, remove nail polish, false nails etc., and warm your hand by rubbing against each other, if it's cold.> Before taking the measurement, one should rest for at least five minutes.> Rest your hand on your chest at heart level and hold it still.> Then switch on the oximeter and place it on either the middle or the index finger.The pulse oximeter is used to measure the oxygen level (oxygen saturation) of the blood. But do you know how does it work? Take a look! #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/YAToaH8hIq> The reading may fluctuate. Wait for it to be stable. Keep the oximeter in place for at least a minute or longer if the reading is not stable.> Record the highest result once it has not changed for five seconds.> Identify each recording carefully.> Start recording from baseline and record three times a day at the same time.Oxygen level monitoring is crucial for patients being treated at home as the baseline saturation should not be below 94 per cent. According to experts, if it is below 94 per cent, hospital admission may be required on the advice of the doctor. Covid-19 patients have also been asked to take a 6-minute walk test in which one should check the oxygen level before and after six minutes of walking inside the room. If there is a fluctuation of 4 per cent or more, then hospital admission may be required.For better oxygenation at home, the Centre has also asked Covid-19 patients ti try self proning where one has to lie face down with the support of 4-5 pillows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-oxygen-level-thrice-a-day-centre-issues-8-step-guideline-for-covid-patients-on-use-of-oximeter-101619324581080.html
25-04-2021||India||India sees over 300,000 Covid-19 cases for fourth straight day||India’s new daily cases of the coronavirus disease (covid-19) crossed 300,000 for the fourth straight day as the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said on Sunday morning that 349,691 fresh infections were detected across the country in the last 24 hours, taking the infection tally to 16,960,172.Also Read | Day 100: How is India's Covid-19 vaccination drive going?This was yet another day when India’s Covid-19 tally rose by record cases, as well as another day of the highest single day rise in infections globally since the beginning of the pandemic. India recorded more than 300,000 cases for the first time on April 22, with 314,835 infections being the-then highest in a single day anywhere in the world.Also Read | In a new high, India records 3,46,786 Covid-19 cases, 2,624 deaths in 24 hoursMore than 2,000 people succumbed to the viral disease yet again, as the related death toll rose by a record 2,767 fatalities and currently stands at 192,311 or 1.13% of the infection tally, the health ministry’s dashboard showed on Sunday morning. The number of recovered patients, meanwhile, increased to 14,085,110 or 83.05% of total cases as 217,113 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, the dashboard showed. Active cases, meanwhile, are at more than 2.6 million, rising by 129,811 infections to 2,682,751 or 15.82% of the national caseload.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/jwc7VBFE3wThe number of samples tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours is 1,719,588, the government-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said. The ICMR further said that with this, 277,918,810 samples have been tested for the infection up to April 24.Also Read | Keep all political work aside, help people: Rahul's message to party workers amid Covid-19 crisisOn the country’s vaccination drive against the pandemic, the health ministry’s dashboard showed more than 2.5 million doses were administered in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of doses administered thus far to 140,916,417. From May 1, every citizen of the age of 18 and above will be eligible for a vaccine shot, in what will be the third phase of the vaccination drive, as announced by the Union government on April 19 amid a rapid and alarming rise in daily cases.Also Read | Adar Poonawalla has assured 'maximum support': CMO Maharashtra on vaccinationWith hospitals across the country also complaining of a shortage of medical oxygen, which has forced several hospitals to discharge patients, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation through his radio programme Mann Ki Baat at 11am. The administration of US President Joe Biden, which has come under scrutiny for banning the supply of raw material for Covid-19 vaccine, too, expressed concern at the situation in India, with secretary of state Antony Blinken tweeting, “We’re working closely with our partners in the Indian government, and will deploy additional support to the people of India and India’s health care heroes.”Our hearts go out to the Indian people in the midst of the horrific COVID-19 outbreak. We are working closely with our partners in the Indian government, and we will rapidly deploy additional support to the people of India and India's health care heroes.India’s Covid-19 tally is the second-highest in the world, between those of the United States and Brazil, respectively. Its death toll is the fourth-highest after that of the United States, Brazil and Mexico.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-over-300-000-covid-19-cases-for-fourth-straight-day-101619318133620.html
25-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to address nation on Mann Ki Baat at 11am and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to address nation on 'Mann Ki Baat' amid Covid-19 surge in India todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi's address, to be aired at 11am, comes in the wake of the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic that has gripped the nation. Read moreCM Thackeray thanks PM Modi after Centre approves supply of 4.35 lakh vials of Remdesivir to MaharashtraChief minister of Maharashtra Uddhav Thackeray expressed his gratitude towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the Centre gave its nod to the supply of 4,35,000 vials of Remdesivir to the state. Read moreGovt orders removal of posts on Covid-19, terms it ‘inflammatory content’The Centre issued orders to take down over 100 “inflammatory” posts and accounts across Twitter, Facebook and Instagram related to Covid-19, including an official Facebook page of Mamata Banerjee. Read more'That's what the No. 1 player does': Sunil Gavaskar says Virat Kohli's massive IPL feat will 'set the bar' for othersOf those in awe of Kohli is former India captain Sunil Gavaskar, who reckons Kohli's achievement will pave the way for other cricketers to follow. Read moreApple’s new mini-LED 12.9-inch iPad Pro has a downside and it may cost you ₹31,900 extraThe new 2021 model is not compatible with the old Magic Keyboard folio case that supported both 12.9-inch iPad Pros from 2018 and 2020 - blame mini-LED tech for the thickness. Read moreWhen Amitabh Bachchan teased Anushka Sharma about Virat Kohli's flying kisses, made her blushAmitabh Bachchan once left Anushka Sharma blushing during her appearance on Kaun Banega Crorepati. This was the Virat Kohli reference he made. Read moreIndian Army rescues workers after avalanche in Chamoli, injured airliftedEight Border Roads Organisation (BRO) workers were killed, seven injured and 31 went missing in an avalanche near the Indo-China border in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-address-nation-on-mann-ki-baat-at-11am-and-all-the-latest-news-101619317732316.html
25-04-2021||India||Viral video on using nebuliser as oxygen cylinder baseless, warn experts; doctor apologises||At a time when people are scrambling for oxygen for their near and dear ones battling with Covid-19, a video of some Dr Alok from Faridabad's Sarvoday Hospital claiming that an empty nebuliser can improve the level of blood oxygen has gone viral. But doctors, experts have warned that there is no scientific base in his claims. Even Sarvodaya Healthcare has denied any endorsement of the viral video.He is Dr Alok from Sarvodaya Hospital Faridabad.He has shown an excellent technique using ‘nebuliser’ to improve the levels of blood oxygen level. In today's scenario of Oxygen crisis this can save lives of many. Request everyone to watch it once.(Shared as received) pic.twitter.com/P5F6o5w5rKIn the video, shared on several social media platforms by many verified users, Dr Alok says it is heartbreaking for him to see people doing anything to get hold of oxygen, spending any amount of money. "I am showing you a trick. You can do this. This is the nebuliser. This is the machine where we put the medicine. But don't use any medicine. Use the empty nebuliser. Sit down. Put it on your nose and switch on the machine. There is enough oxygen in the environment. Don't rush after oxygen cylinders. Don't put your life at stake. Stay at home. Thank you," Dr Alok can be seen saying as he demonstrates the entire process.Nebulisers are machines to inhale medication but no medicine is needed here, the video said.The video demonstrating a purported technique that can substitute a nebulizer machine for an oxygen cylinder to improve blood oxygen levels is totally baseless. It should be discredited."The video demonstrating a purported technique that can substitute a nebulizer machine for an oxygen cylinder to improve blood oxygen levels is totally baseless. It should be discredited," tweeted Dr Arvinder Singh Soin, chairman of the Institute of Liver Transplantation and Regenerative Medicine, Medanta.Always consult a medical practitioner before following any #medication practice, especially for #treatment of severe conditions. Do not fall prey to any information without an authorized source.#awareness #SarvodayaHealthcare #SHRC pic.twitter.com/itTVLfYqkdSarvodaya Healthcare took notice of the viral video and said one should always consult a medical practitioner before following any medication practice, especially for the treatment of severe conditions."The video has not been backed by any evidence or scientific study, does not reflect any medical advice, and is in no way endorsed by Sarvodaya Hospital, Faridabad. Please do not follow any such practice without consulting your medical practitioner. It could lead to worsening of the disease," it said.According to reports, Dr Alok clarified that his video on how to use a nebuliser has gone wrong and is sending the wrong message. Dr. Alok apologize for his viral video regarding use of nebuliser machine. #sarvodayahospital #nebulizermachine #oxygen #dralok pic.twitter.com/d7APD3Z7d5"Hi, I am Dr Alok. A video of me went viral yesterday which says nebuliser is an alternative to an oxygen cylinder. This is not true. I am repeating myself this is not true. Probably I wanted to say something else and couldn't frame it properly. With folded hands, I am telling you nebuliser is not an alternative to an oxygen cylinder. I wanted to give some other message. Take care. Thank you," he said in another video, available on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/viral-video-on-using-nebuliser-as-oxygen-cylinder-baseless-warn-experts-101619319832023.html
25-04-2021||India||Covaxin vs Covishield: Open-market price, efficacy, second-dose timing||From May 1, everyone above 18 years will be considered eligible for getting a vaccination against Covid-19 only through advanced booking on Co-Win website. The registration process will begin on April 28. This is the first time that state governments and private hospitals will independently procure the vaccines and administer them at a fixed charge per dose. As of now, Covishield, the vaccine developed by Oxford University in collaboration with AstraZeneca and manufactured in India by Pune's Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin will be available. Later on, imported, fully ready-to-use vaccines will also be available in the open market.Covaxin to cost ₹600 for states, ₹1,200 for private hospitals: Bharat BiotechBefore deciding which Covid-19 vaccine to take, here is all you need to know about these vaccines:EfficacyBoth the vaccines comprise two doses. Covishield has an overall efficacy pf 70 per cent, but it can be over 90 per cent when administered as a half dose followed by a full dose a month later.Covaxin has shown the efficacy of 78 per cent in the second interim analysis and 100 per cent efficacy against 'severe Covid-19 disease'.PriceCovishield will be given at ₹400 per dose to states and ₹600 per dose to private hospitals. Covaxin, on the other hand, will cost ₹600 per dose for the states and ₹1,200 per dose for private hospitals. But how much will you have to pay?> In Central government hospitals, all vaccinations will remain free.> The prices that have been announced are for state governments and private hospitals to buy. The price for end-users will depend on whether the hospitals impose any additional service charge.On Covishield price row, Centre says it will procure vaccines at ₹150 per dose> If you are getting vaccinated at state government hospitals, the price may go down as well in case the state subsidises the price. Some state governments including Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Goa, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Sikkim, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, have announced that vaccination will be free.> This price range is only for people in the age group between 18 and 44 years. Vaccination of healthcare workers, frontline workers and people above the age group of 45 years will continue as before.Will those who justified the COVISHIELD prices of ₹400 and 600 also justify the COVAXIN prices of ₹600 and 1200 announced today?Is the open-market price of vaccines the highest in India?The prices fixed for private hospitals in India — ₹600 and ₹1,200 — are claimed to be the highest in the world. While Bharat Biotech has not addressed the price issue and said recovering the cost is essential, Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla said the comparison between the price in India and elsewhere is unfair.When should you take the second dose?If you are getting Covaxin, then the second dose should be taken within four to six weeks. If you are getting Covishield, the second dose should be taken in four to eight weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-vs-covishield-open-market-price-efficacy-second-dose-timing-101619316091524.html
25-04-2021||India||PM Modi to address nation on 'Mann Ki Baat' amid Covid-19 surge in India today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the 76th episode of his monthly radio programme 'Mann Ki Baat' at 11am on Sunday. The address comes in the wake of the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic that has gripped the nation, with infections rising by record numbers everyday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOn Saturday, India recorded 3,46,786 fresh cases of Covid-19 in a new daily high. With 3,46,786 people testing positive out of 17,53,569 tests in the last 24 hours, India's total Covid-19 tally reached 1,66,10481. The number of deaths recorded in 24 hours, 2,624, was also India's highest ever. With this, the total toll of the country was pushed to 1,89,544.On his previous Mann Ki Baat address, PM Modi urged everyone to take Covid-19 vaccine shots and said all citizens should commit to the aim of “dawaai bhi, kadaai bhi”.He also reiterated his government’s call for modernisation of the agriculture sector. Farmers need to “adopt new alternatives along with traditional farming” to boost their incomes, he said.“Novelty, modernisation is essential in all fields of life, otherwise it becomes a burden at times... It is already late. We have already lost a lot of time. Adopting new alternatives, new innovations, along with traditional farming, are equally important to create new opportunities for employment in the agriculture sector; to increase the income of farmers,” the PM said.Also Read | Covid-19: Second national wave still risingThe PM's address will be broadcast on All India Radio (AIR) and Doordharshan. It will also be available on the AIR news website (www.newsonair.com) and the newsonair mobile application. Viewers can also tune in to the programme on YouTube channels on AIR, DD News, PMO and the Information and Broadcasting Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-nation-on-mann-ki-baat-amid-covid-19-surge-in-india-today-101619311117567.html
25-04-2021||India||From student leader to CJI||Justice Nuthalapati Venkata Ramana was sworn in as the 48th Chief Justice of India (CJI) by President Ram Nath Kovind at a ceremony held at Rashtrapati Bhawan. Justice Ramana will retire on August 26, 2022.Born on August 27, 1957, in Ponnavaram village of Andhra Pradesh's Krishna district, he enrolled as an advocate on February 10, 1983.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-student-leader-to-cji-101619295420599.html
25-04-2021||India||Fourth Covid-19 wave brings grim milestone||If we divide Delhi's one million confirmed cases into four phases of a quarter million infections each,then we see dear trends about how the disease has picked up pace in the Capital. The first case was reported in Delhi on March 2, 2020.It has taken a total of 419 days for the tally to touch 1 million.While the first 250,000 cases took 205 days,the second 250,000 cases came in 57 days - Delhi's tally crossed the half million mark on November 18,2020. From there, as cases came under control, thethird phase slowed down considerably - ittook 146 days for the tally to cross 750,000.Pushed by the mammoth surge of infections in recent weeks, it has taken only 11 days for the latest 250,000 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fourth-covid-19-wave-brings-grim-milestone-101619294715806.html
25-04-2021||India||Will continue to provide Covid-19 vaccines free to states: Centre||The Centre on Saturday directed states to coordinate with local law-and-order authorities for effective crowd management at Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVCs) as there is a strong likelihood of people turning up in large numbers to get the coronavirus vaccines, with the immunisation drive widening to all adults from May 1. The health ministry also said the government’s procurement price of both the Covid-19 vaccines remains ₹150 per dose and the Centre will continue to provide them free to states.“There is a possibility of overcrowding that would need to be managed effectively. The states have been asked to keep this in mind as we start vaccinating all above 18 years of age,” a senior central government official said on condition of anonymity.The Centre has also asked states to encourage online-only registrations among the eligible beneficiaries.In a tweet, the health ministry said: “It is clarified that Govt of India’s procurement price for both #COVID19 vaccines remains ₹150 per dose. GOI procured doses will continue to be provided TOTALLY FREE to States.”On April 19, the Centre announced that it will open up Covid-19 vaccination for everyone 18 years and above from May 1 as part of a liberalised and accelerated phase 3 strategy of Covid-19 vaccination in the country. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and RS Sharma, chairman, empowered group on technology and data management to combat Covid-19, chaired a high-level meeting with all states and Union territories on Saturday.The aim of the meeting was to guide them on effective implementation of the new vaccination strategy (Phase 3), and to review their augmentation plans so as to strengthen the existing hospital and clinical treatment infrastructure for Covid-19 patients, according to the Union health ministry.They also directed states to register additional private CVCs in mission mode by engaging with private hospitals, hospitals of industrial establishments, industry associations. They also emphasised on coordinating with designated appropriate authority for setting up mechanisms for applications or requests, and their processing and also monitoring of pendency of registration.The states will also have to monitor the number of hospitals that have procured vaccines and have declared stocks and prices on CoWIN platform, which is the backbone of the Covid-19 vaccination delivery mechanism, and ensure that the eligible population is provided adequate visibility of vaccination slots on the the platform.The states were assured that the CoWIN platform is equipped to handle the high load of beneficiaries, and that the stakeholders will have to ensure that accurate and timely relevant data is fed into the system.“…CoWIN platform has now stabilized and is working at scale flawlessly. It is equipped to handle the complexities of the new phase of vaccination starting from 1st May,” said the health ministry in a statement issued on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-continue-to-provide-covid-19-vaccines-free-to-states-centre-101619290141270.html
25-04-2021||India||Covishield most affordable Covid vaccine in market today, says Adar Poonawalla||Addressing the debate over the pricing of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine locally manufactured under the brand name Covishield, Serum Institute of India’s chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla said on Saturday that comparing global vaccine prices with India was “inaccurate comparison”.“Government procurement for countrywide immunization programs in all countries including India has been at a far lower price as the volumes are very large. For instance, based on the market conditions, prices of many vaccines in the private market including our pneumococcal vaccine are sold at a higher free-economy price, whereas for the government it is almost 1/3rd of the free market price,” he said.SII was selling Covishield to the government of India at ₹150 per dose, and recently announced its prices for state governments, and private hospitals and institutions, which are ₹400 and ₹600 per dose respectively. SII was criticised for keeping the per-dose price of Covishield higher in the Indian market than the global market.“Furthermore, there was an inaccurate comparison done between the global prices of the vaccine with India. COVISHIELD is the most affordable COVID-19 vaccine available in the market today. The initial prices were kept very low globally as it was based on advance funding given by those countries for at-risk vaccine manufacturing. The initial supply price of COVISHIELD for all government immunization programme, including India, has been the lowest,” he added.Poonawalla also said that the current situation was extremely dire as the virus was constantly mutating, which meant that the public remained at risk.“Identifying the uncertainty, we have to ensure sustainability as we must be able to invest in scaling up and expanding our capacity to fight the pandemic and save lives,” he said, and adding that only a limited portion of SII’s volume will be sold to private hospitals at ₹600 per dose.“The price of the vaccine is still lower than a lot of other medical treatment and essentials required to treat COVID-19 and other life-threatening disease. Furthermore, in the interest of public health, it is important for the market to open-up for other vaccines from across the world. This will accelerate and advance the immunization program of our country. We hope this lay to rest the confusion for which we are happy to in a fully transparent manner explain our various pricing policies,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-most-affordable-covid-vaccine-in-market-today-says-serum-ceo-adar-poonawalla-101619290081308.html
25-04-2021||India||Govt scraps cess on oxygen to ramp up supply||The Union government on Saturday scrapped basic customs duty and health cess on oxygen and oxygen-related equipment until further orders to ramp up supply, as hospitals continued to battle scarcity amid a devastating surge in Covid infections in the country.Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level meet on ramping up oxygen supply in which decisions on waiving off the duties were taken. Covid vaccines too would be exempt from basic customs duty, it was decided.“The Prime Minister chaired a meeting to review steps taken to boost oxygen availability in the country. The PM emphasised that there was an immediate need to augment the supply of medical-grade oxygen as well as equipment required for patient care both at home and in hospitals,” an official statement read.The statement said the government had decided to grant full exemption from basic customs duty and health cess on import of oxygen and related gear for three months.The scrapping on related import duties will ease imports and make imported oxygen and related medical equipment cheaper, measures likely to boost availability.The PM stressed all ministries and departments need to work in synergy to increase availability of oxygen and medical supplies, according to the statement.Basic customs duty on remdesivir, a drug recommended for use to treat Covid-19 in certain in-hospital cases, and its active pharmaceutical ingredients has already been waived off.In the meeting chaired by the PM, there were discussions on speeding up import of equipment related to providing oxygen, which could result in more easing of import regulations related to medical use of oxygen.Shortage of medical oxygen paralysed Covid treatment in major hospitals in Delhi and other cities for the third day on Saturday. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the capital’s requirement of oxygen stood at 700 MT, while only about 400 MT was available, while the capital’s quota was enhanced to 480 MT.In order to augment production and availability and meet rising demand, the PM-chaired meet decided to grant full exemption from basic customs duty and health cess on import of a range of medical equipment and gear, including medical-grade oxygen, oxygen concentrators along with flow meters, regulators, connectors and tubing vacuum pressure swing absorption units.Any other device from which oxygen can be generated will also enjoy these waivers.The PM has directed the revenue department to ensure seamless and quick custom clearance of such equipment.The department of revenue has named Gaurav Masaldan, joint secretary, customs, as the nodal officer for issues related to customs clearance for the oxygen and oxygen-related gear, the official statement added.The official statement said a host of administrative and other measures had been taken to boost oxygen availability, as doctors sounded alarm over dwindling stocks to treat critical patients.“IAF planes are bringing in cryogenic oxygen tanks from Singapore. IAF is also transporting oxygen tanks in the country to reduce travel times. Similarly, in a major decision yesterday, free food grains will be given to 80 crore Indians for the months of May & June 2021,” the statement said.Those who participated the meet chaired by the PM were the finance minister, the commerce and industry minister, the health minister, the principal secretary to the PM, member NITI Aayog, Dr Randeep Guleria of AIIMS, and the secretaries of the departments of revenue and health apart from a host of other officials.Commerce minister Piyush Goyal separately tweeted that customs clearances for Covid-19 related imports will be fast-tracked. “In another step towards fighting COVID-19, Customs will expedite clearances for import consignments relating to the pandemic to ensure critical equipment and medicine can reach on time,” the tweet said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-scraps-cess-on-oxygen-to-ramp-up-supply-101619290021275.html
25-04-2021||India||Bharat Biotech announces Covaxin prices: ₹600 per dose for states||Bharat Biotech said on Saturday that it will sell its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin to state governments at ₹600 per dose, while it will supply the vaccine directly to private hospitals at rs 1,200 per dose, an announcement that came days after the Serum Institute of India released the pricing of Covishield ahead of the widening of the immunisation drive against the infectious disease to cover all adults from May 1.Covaxin was developed by the Hyderabad-based firm in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology. It is one of the two vaccines that are currently deployed in India’s vaccination drive, which was launched on January 16.“Bharat Biotech is honoured to develop, manufacture and supply Covaxin for India’s vaccine roll out at ₹150 per dose, which is distributed for free by the government of India. We would like to state that more than 50% of our capacities have been reserved for central government supplies. Following the directive of the government of India, we announce the price of Covaxin: ₹600- state governments; ₹1200- private hospitals; and exports- $15-$20…,” Bharat Biotech said in a statement.The second interim Phase 3 analysis of the first make-in-India Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, has shown 78% efficacy, its maker has said. The company first released its preliminary Phase 3 analysis results in March, showing 81% efficacy based on 43 cases. In this round, a vaccine efficacy of 78% was recorded against mild, moderate, and severe symptoms of Covid-19 based on 127 cases.“Covaxin is an inactivated and highly purified vaccine, making manufacturing expensive due to very low process yields. All costs towards product development, manufacturing facilities, and clinical trials were deployed primarily using internal funding and resources of Bharat Biotech,” said Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director, Bharat Biotech.“Recovering costs is essential in the journey of innovation towards other vaccines such as intranasal Covid-19, Chikungunya, Zika, Cholera and others. Our core mission for the last 25 years has been to provide affordable, yet world-class health care solutions for the globe,” he added.Bharat Biotech’s price announcement came after the Centre announced on April 19 that the vaccination drive would be opened up to all adults and that vaccine manufacturers were allowed to supply 50% of their monthly doses to the central government, and the remaining 50% doses to state governments and in the open market at pre-decided prices.India currently has two Covid-19 vaccines in use for the national Covid-19 immunisation porgarmme: Covaxin and Covishield. Covaxin is co-developed by Bharat Biotech and ICMR, and the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is locally manufactured by the Serum Institute of India under the brand name Covishield.On Friday, SII announced that it will sell Covishield to state governments at ₹400, and to private hospitals at ₹600.“This (Covaxin price) is probably much higher compared to what they announced in local media in the initial stages. Even though I am not an expert on cost of vaccines, I hope the governments have been consulted before deciding on this high a price,” said Dr Giridhara Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health.Bharat Biotech currently manufactures about 10 million doses of Covaxin each month, and is looking at manufacturing scale-up in a stepwise manner across multiple facilities at Hyderabad and Bengaluru.With the help of the central government, the company is working towards ramping up the production capacity by at least 100% by May-June, 2021, with a target of producing nearly 100 million doses per month by September 2021.The company is exploring manufacturing partnerships with partners in other countries, who have prior expertise with commercial scale manufacture of inactivated viral vaccines under biosafety containment. To further increase capacities, Bharat Biotech has partnered with Indian Immunologicals (IIL) to manufacture the drug substance for Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-announces-covaxin-prices-600-per-dose-for-states-1-200-for-private-hospitals-101619289961332.html
25-04-2021||India||At least 10 killed in avalanche in U’khand’s Chamoli district||An avalanche in the Sumna area of Chamoli district in Uttarakhand killed at least 10 people and injured several on Friday evening, according to the state government officials.The location of the snow avalanche near the Indo-China border is mainly uninhabited but Border Road Organisation personnel working there have been affected. Around 384 persons have been rescued from the spot. This part of Uttarakhand has been recording heavy snowfall for the past 4 to 5 days, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).“An active western disturbance was passing over the region and it brought both rainfall and heavy snowfall in the upper reaches of the western Himalayas including Uttarakhand. We do not track avalanches or landslides, so information on how the disaster occurred is not there with us,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.Local officials couldn’t confirm if the disaster was caused by an avalanche or a glacier breach.“The scientists can confirm this. From what we have understood, it’s a glacier breach and landslide,” said Swati Bhadouriya, district magistrate, Chamoli.“The number of dead may increase. There were around 450 workers working there, out of that 384 have been rescued and 7 have been airlifted and hospitalised. Rescue operations are underway but roads are blocked from Malari onwards due to heavy snowfall for the past few days. Many rescue teams are not able to reach the location,” said RS Negi, information officer, Chamoli.The avalanche occurred less than 100km from Raini village which was affected by a glacier breach on February 7. A glacier breach triggered an avalanche and deadly floods in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on February 7, which killed at least 72 people and destroyed two hydroelectric projects.The Rishi Ganga Hydropower Project (13.2 MW) near Raini village was the first to be hit by the debris after the rockslide. The unfinished Tapovan Vishnugad Hydropower Project (520 MW), 8km downstream from Rishi Ganga Hydropower Project, was the second hydropower plant hit by the flood where most of the deaths occurred.Kathmandu-based International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development (ICIMOD) has underlined the link between the February 7 glacier breach disaster in Uttarakhand’s Rishi Ganga river with infrastructure development, particularly the construction of hydropower projects in the higher reaches of the Himalayas.A senior official of the Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE) under Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) said their team hasn’t managed to reach the location because of a blocked road. The team will assess the exact reasons behind the disaster.The western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation which is lying over north-eastern parts of Ladakh and its neighbourhood has started moving away north-eastwards. Under its influence, isolated rainfall/snowfall is very likely over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on Saturday. A fresh feeble western disturbance likely to affect Western Himalayan region from April 27 causing isolated rainfall/snowfall with thunderstorms and gusty winds over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand during April 27 to 30.A north-south trough (area of low pressure) is running from Marathwada to south coastal Tamil Nadu across north interior Karnataka, Telangana and Rayalaseema. Under its influence, scattered to fairly widespread rainfall/thunderstorm activity is very likely over Kerala and Mahe and isolated scattered rainfall/thunderstorm over remaining parts of south Peninsular India during next 4-5 days. Strong surface winds (speed reaching 20-30 kmph) are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and north Rajasthan on April 25 and 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-10-killed-in-avalanche-in-u-khand-s-chamoli-district-101619289721288.html
25-04-2021||India||Delhi HC suspends ED’s look out circular against arms dealer Choudhrie||Sudhir Choudhrie, the alleged arms dealer who is under the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) scanner in its money laundering probe against London-based engine-maker Rolls-Royce Plc, was apprehended at Delhi airport last month on the basis of a Look Out Circular (LOC) issued by the agency but the Delhi high court on Thursday suspended the notice, people familiar with the development said.Choudhrie, 73, a British citizen, has been on various agencies’ radar in the past for dodgy defence deals but they have not been able to gather enough evidence against him.He had earlier been investigated for alleged payment of bribes in securing a contract for an upgrade of artillery guns for an Israel-based defence firm in 2004 and in the Barak missile scandal in 2006-07. However, both the cases were closed by the CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) for lack to evidence. The UK’s Serious Fraud Office (SFO) had also launched a probe against him but it met the same fate.People familiar with the development said Choudhrie was stopped at IGI Airport on the intervening night of March 21 and March 22 upon his arrival here from London on the basis of the LOC and was summoned to the ED office the next morning. To be sure, Choudhrie has not been arrested.The anti-money laundering probe agency opened an LOC against him in its case against Rolls-Royce Plc and its subsidiary Rolls-Royce India Private Limited, registered in August 2019, for making dubious payments in the form of commissions in return for contracts from three state-run Indian companies.ED’s probe is based on a CBI case in which it is alleged that Rolls-Royce made payments in several tranches to a Singapore-based middleman between 2007 and 2011 in bank accounts in Singapore and Hong Kong.Advocate Abhimanyu Bhandari, appearing for Choudhrie, informed justice Pratibha M Singh at the Delhi high court that his client was apprehended even though he is not a named accused in the case and “no summons were issued to him earlier”.Seeking suspension of the LOC against him, Bhandari said, “Choudhrie frequently visits India, on an average of two-three months in a year, for various purposes and has deep roots in India. He also has movable and immovable assets in India. The LOC was issued against him (by ED) without any case.”He sought permission for Choudhrie to travel abroad to London or the US to consult his doctors “owing to the Covid-19 pandemic in India and his precarious medical condition as no hospital is willing to admit him as he is likely to contract Covid-19”.ED’s special prosecutor Amit Mahajan opposed suspending the LOC, saying “there are several allegations against Choudhrie”.The high court, however, suspended the LOC issued by ED and reprimanded the agency for making Choudhrie and his wife sit the whole night at the airport on March 21. “...authorities ought to be mindful of the medical condition and age of parties who are apprehended at the airport due to LOCs being issued in their name, before such a treatment is meted out to them,” justice Singh said in the order, reviewed by HT.An email sent to ED seeking comments remained unanswered.Rolls Royce didn’t offer any comments on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-suspends-ed-s-look-out-circular-against-arms-dealer-choudhrie-101619289661274.html
25-04-2021||India||Govt orders removal of posts on Covid-19, terms it ‘inflammatory content’||The Centre issued orders to take down over 100 “inflammatory” posts and accounts across Twitter, Facebook and Instagram related to Covid-19, including an official Facebook page of Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee, officials familiar with the matter said on Saturday, as cases of the infectious disease continued to surge across the country.“Covid related posts that showed photos of cremations that were incendiary, inflammatory messages that could incite the public and lead to assaults on healthcare personnel are among those that have been blocked,” a government official familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity.HT learns that the Mamata Banerjee Facebook page under scrutiny was “Banglar Gorbo Mamata”, which has over 2.7 million followers and is a verified account. HT could access the page until late evening and could not independently verify whether the admin had received a notice from Facebook.Other affected accounts included those of Congress MP Revanth Reddy, TMC’s Moloy Ghatak, a West Bengal state minister, two filmmakers, Vinod Kapri and Avinash Das, and Mamata Banerjee Supporters (FAM) on Twitter. Flagged posts by these accounts have been blocked by Twitter in India. Facebook declined to comment on the matter.The emergency blocking orders, under Section 69(A) of the Information Technology Act, were issued by the ministry of electronics and information technology on Friday and the full order came into force on Saturday. “A Mamata Banerjee election handle is also part of the blocking orders,” the official quoted above said. “All orders have been issued as they constitute content misinformation.”Of the over 100 blocking orders, 52 have been received by Twitter, a person familiar with the matter said, adding that Twitter has complied with the orders and has withheld the specific posts in the country, while the accounts continue to be functional. The company is considering the further course of action, the person added.A Twitter spokesperson clarified that the company complies on the receipt of a valid legal request and disclosures of the blocking are made on Lumen. “When we receive a valid legal request, we review it under both the Twitter Rules and local law. If the content violates Twitter rules the content will be removed from the service. If it is determined to be illegal in a particular jurisdiction, but not in violation of the Twitter rules, we may withhold access to the content in India only,” the spokesperson said.TMC Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien severely criticized the government’s move. “MO-SHA are fascists. We have been saying that for a while. Losers cannot handle criticism,” he said. “Why are we all getting angry that they blocked Twitter accounts. They block oxygen from gasping citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-orders-removal-of-posts-on-covid-19-terms-it-inflammatory-content-101619289601923.html
25-04-2021||India||6 patients die at Punjab hospital due to oxygen shortage, CM orders probe||Six critically ill patients died at a private hospital in Punjab’s Amritsar due to a shortage of oxygen on Saturday morning. The hospital authorities blamed the district administration for the first such incident in Punjab, saying they prioritised government hospitals in ensuring oxygen supply, amid the second Covid-19 wave that has led to a surge in infections and overwhelmed hospitals. Chief minister Amarinder Singh ordered the Amritsar deputy commissioner (DC) to initiate a thorough probe into the incident.The wave has sparked a shortage of critical supplies such as oxygen and medicines. Oxygen is a critical medical intervention against Covid-19, which causes respiratory distress in some cases. The pandemic has accelerated the global demand for it.“The district administration bought oxygen cylinders from suppliers for government hospitals. It is responsible for the [oxygen] shortage in private hospitals,” said Sunil Devgan, the managing director of Neelkanth Hospital, where the six died. He added they had informed the families of the patients about the limited stock of oxygen. “We urged them to shift their patients to another hospital, but they declined the option.”Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said they held a meeting with owners of private hospitals on Friday about the oxygen supply and that is when the Neelkanth authorities informed them about the shortage. “We told private hospitals not to admit any critical patient or those who need oxygen if they have shortage as we could arrange only a few cylinders for GMCH [Government Medical College Hospital], where more patients are admitted. Private hospitals are responsible for arranging the required number of [oxygen] cylinders. If Neelkanth Hospital was short of supply, they should have referred the patients to other hospitals,” he said.“Due to the shortage of [oxygen] cylinders in the district [Amritsar], oxygen supply at Neelkanth Hospital dried up this morning, resulting in the death of six patients on the spot. Of the dead, two were from Gurdaspur district, one from Tarn Taran, and three from Amritsar district. All six patients were in a critical condition when they were admitted to the hospital on Thursday.”Amritsar civil surgeon Charanjit Singh promised an inquiry and said they will ensure no such incident happens in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-patients-die-at-punjab-hospital-due-to-oxygen-shortage-cm-orders-probe-101619289421338.html
25-04-2021||India||Timely police action averts oxygen crisis at three hospitals||Police on Saturday said they created a green corridor and helped an oxygen tanker reach Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) hospital from a production plant near Ghaziabad within an hour.The timely action by the police helped avert a major crisis as currently, there are nearly 700 Covid-19 patients admitted in the hospital, which is one of the largest Covid facilities in Delhi. The hospital was running short of oxygen supply and was left with only 1.5 hours oxygen in its gas plant when the tanker arrived, police said.DCP (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said around 9.45am, the police received a message followed by a call from a government-appointed nodal officer to transport an oxygen tanker from a production plant in Modinagar. “We contacted senior UP police officers. The details of the tanker and its driver were shared and we immediately dispatched our team to get the oxygen tank transported here,” said the DCP.In another such effort, the north district police came to the rescue of Sant Parmanand hospital by providing 71 oxygen cylinders. Similarly, in the southeast district, police helped IBS hospital in Lajpat Nagar get oxygen cylinders and saved the lives of 40 Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/timely-police-action-averts-oxygen-crisis-at-three-hospitals-101619289222764.html
25-04-2021||India||Centre extends tax resolution scheme ‘Vivad se Vishwas’||The Centre on Saturday extended the deadline for making payments under tax dispute settlement scheme ‘Vivad se Vishwas’ (from dispute to trust) from April 30 to June 30 to provide relief to taxpayers facing a public health crisis due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.The earlier deadlines of April 30 for various other compliances such as income-tax assessment or reassessment orders and notice for reopening of cases where income has escaped assessment have also been extended by two months, a Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) order said.“The deadlines have been extended in view of the severe Covid-19 pandemic raging unabated across the country affecting the lives of our people, and in view of requests received from taxpayers, tax consultants and other stakeholders that various time barring dates, which were earlier extended to April 30, 2021 by various notifications may be further extended,” a finance ministry spokesperson said.The extended time limit will also be applicable for passing an order related to any directive of the Dispute Resolution Panel (DRP) and for sending intimation to process of equalisation levy (EL), he said. EL is imposed on non-resident e-commerce firms that mop up revenue from the Indian market without paying any taxes.It has also been decided that the time for payment of amount payable under ‘Vivad se Vishwas’ scheme without any additional amount shall be further extended to June 30, 2021, he said.Tax amnesty scheme ‘Vivad se Vishwas’ is one of the most successful direct tax dispute resolution schemes, which settled more than 148,000 vexed cases and recovered 54% of about ₹1 lakh crore amount under litigation. The scheme that was enacted on March 17, 2020, closed on March 31 this year. However, taxpayers who had already made declarations within the stipulated deadline of March 31, can make payment without any additional amount or penalty up to June 30.According to official data, the government received a total 133,837 applications under the scheme that involved total 148,690 disputes – 145,237 related to appeals by assesses and 3,453 related to appeals by the income-tax department. While the total disputed amount was ₹1,00,437 crore, the government received ₹54,005 crore payments against the disputed tax.The ‘Vivad se Vishwas’ scheme provides for settlement of disputed tax, disputed interest, disputed penalty or disputed fees in relation to an assessment or reassessment order. It grants immunity to taxpayers from levy of interest, penalty and institution of any proceeding for prosecution for any offence under the Income-Tax Act in respect of matters covered in the declaration.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the scheme in the Union budget presented on February 1, 2020. It aimed to resolve legacy disputes involving direct taxes. Under the scheme, penalty and interest would be waived if the disputed amount is paid before the stipulated date. As on January 31, 2020, there were over 5.10 lakh litigations pending in various forums involving over ₹19.5 lakh crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-extends-tax-resolution-scheme-vivad-se-vishwas-101619289241310.html
25-04-2021||India||Justice Ramana takes oath as CJI||Justice NV Ramana was on Saturday sworn in as the 48th Chief Justice of India (CJI) by President Ram Nath Kovind during a small ceremony at the Rashtrapati Bhavan owing to Covid restrictions.Justice Ramana, whose tenure will be until August 26, 2022, succeeds justice SA Bobde. He is the first judge from the Andhra Pradesh high court to become CJI.At the farewell of justice Bobde on Friday, justice Ramana had paid his tribute to all those who have lost their lives due to the Covid-19 pandemic and implored the people to exercise utmost caution against the spread of the infection.“We are going through testing times. The country as a whole is battling the severest second Covid wave. The virus does not make any distinction. During these unprecedented times, some strong measures are necessary to break the cycle. I request everyone to cooperate in implementing these measures,” he said.“We can defeat this pandemic together with discipline, dedication and cooperation with each other and with authorities. My heart goes out to everyone who has lost their loved ones due to this virus... We are undoubtedly living in hard times. However, I believe that these circumstances will compel us to emerge stronger than ever before. Let us be strong and overcome this together,” justice Ramana had asserted.Justice Ramana was born to a family of farmers at Ponnavaram village in Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district. He fought for civil liberties during the Emergency and lost an academic year. He also participated in the Jai Andhra movement for a separate Andhra state in the 1970s because of alleged injustices meted out to the people of the coastal and Rayalaseema regions. Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu was among the other proponents of the movement.Justice Ramana worked as a journalist from 1979 to 1980 and reported on political and legal matters for the Eenadu newspaper. He enrolled as an advocate in 1983 and specialised in constitutional, criminal, service, and interstate river laws at the Andhra Pradesh high court. He was appointed as a permanent judge of the high court in 2000. Justice Ramana was elevated as chief justice of the Delhi high court in 2013 and to the Supreme Court a year later.He is seen as a conventional judge, who is restrained in his speech. He is known to talk less and for clarity of thought in his orders and judgments and adhering to the principle of judicial discipline and the rule of precedent.Justice Ramana has been a part of several landmark judgments, underscoring constitutional rights, democratic values, and accountability. In his judgments in the cases of Anuradha Bhasin and the Foundation for Media Professionals, he ruled that access to the internet is a fundamental right by extension while pulling the government up for the telecommunications blackout in Jammu & Kashmir after the nullification of the region’s semi-autonomous status. The judgments also laid down certain parameters on curfews. They held that Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which bans assembly of over five people, cannot be used to suppress the legitimate expression of opinion or grievance or exercise of democratic rights.Similarly, as part of a five-judge bench in Subash Chandra Agarwal’s case, justice Ramana emphasised that the right to information and right to privacy are on an equal footing. In Swaraj Abhiyan vs Union of India, he stressed the need for cooperative federalism in the implementation of the National Food Security Act.Justice Ramana delivered the 2019 verdict related to the Karnataka assembly, clarifying the legal position that disqualification under the Tenth Schedule for defection could not operate as a bar for contesting elections again. Simultaneously, he lamented “a growing trend of the Speaker acting against the constitutional duty of being neutral” and implored presiding officers to check horse-trading and corrupt practices associated with defection and change of loyalty for the lure of office or other wrong reasons.In the Shiv Sena vs Union of India case, justice Ramana followed the precedent of ordering an immediate floor test in the Maharashtra assembly to prevent horse-trading in 2019. In another significant case, a bench that included him, passed directives to expedite criminal investigations and trials involving lawmakers.Justice Ramana in January ordered fixing a notional income for non-earning homemakers in insurance claim cases. He called this a step towards the constitutional vision of social equality and ensuring the dignity of life for all individuals. In a case involving an accused with mental illness facing the gallows, he wrote: “The right to dignity of an accused does not dry out with the judges’ ink, rather, it subsists well beyond the prison gates and operates until his last breath.”Not a single judge was appointed to the top court during justice Bobde’s 14-month tenure as the CJI. All eyes will be on the new CJI to fill up the current vacancies of six judges in the Supreme Court. Justices Rohinton F Nariman, Ashok Bhushan, and Navin Sinha are also due to retire by the end of 2021. Four more judges of the top court will retire before justice Ramana demits office. There will be 13 vacancies in the Supreme Court during justice Ramana’s tenure. The apex court currently has just one woman out of the sanctioned strength of 34 judges.Meanwhile, vacancies of high court judges have also risen to 411 out of 1,080. The new CJI will have to streamline the appointment process as the pendency in the high courts has gone beyond five million cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-ramana-takes-oath-as-cji-101619289181293.html
25-04-2021||India||Maharashtra, Rajasthan and MP next in IAF’s plan of carrying oxygen||The Indian Air Force (IAF) will on Sunday carry out the next round of sorties to transport oxygen to Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh as the country is grappling with the unprecedented surge in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) during the second wave of the pandemic, aggravated by the shortage of the gas needed to treat critically ill patients, a senior military official said on Saturday. The air force’s transport aircraft have already ferried large oxygen containers to filling stations in different parts of the country, including Panagarh in West Bengal to Jamnagar in Gujarat.A C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft flew to Pune in Maharashtra and then to Gujarat’s Jamnagar carrying four oxygen container trucks, according to the senior military official aware of the developments. The aircraft was used to carry two empty containers from Rajasthan’s Jodhpur to Jamnagar and deployed from Indore in Madhya Pradesh to Jamnagar. The IAF aircraft also flew empty oxygen containers from Hindon airbase and Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal to Jharkhand’s capital city of Ranchi. An An-32 transport aircraft took Covid testing equipment from Jammu to Kargil and from Jammu to Kargil on Saturday. In the morning, a C-17 flew from the Hindon to Singapore’s Changi International Airport and returned to Panagarh with four cryogenic oxygen containers.Also read | IAF intensifies efforts for relief as govt asks military to render maximum helpThe Union home ministry on April 22 directed all states and Union territories to treat oxygen vehicles like ambulances and make provision for green corridors to ensure uninterrupted transport of medical oxygen across the country.“The issue is not about hospitals, it is a shortage of beds for severely affected cases needing oxygen support. In fact, most positive cases do not need hospitalisation. There are many positive cases moving about freely and only when they get tested as positive their near and dear ones push them to hospitals to avoid spread at home. It is a case of palming off responsibility. Hospitals, therefore, are getting burdened with cases that otherwise can be managed at home. In some cases family members are not coming back to hospitals to take patients who have recovered,” the official mentioned above said.Also read | PPCR arranges 250 ventilators, 4,000 oxygen concentrators from SingaporeThe official also said that filling of oxygen from manufacturers in Haridwar, Panipat, Dehradun and other areas in north India is time-consuming because of traffic obstruction further complicated by blocks established on approaches to Delhi. “The IAF is airlifting empty oxygen trucks to Panagarh where these are refilled at Durgapur and then moved by rail to various destinations. Filled trucks cannot be airlifted because these trucks carry oxygen under pressurised conditions. IAF has also transported oxygen trucks from Singapore,” the official added.The Centre is also looking at lifting oxygen tankers from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) apart from Singapore. Defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday the armed forces and the defence ministry “will leave no stone unturned in providing all possible assistance to the civilian administration”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-rajasthan-and-mp-next-in-iaf-s-plan-of-carrying-oxygen-101619286738999.html
25-04-2021||India||CBI files case against Anil Deshmukh on corruption charges||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday booked former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh under the Prevention of Corruption Act and Indian Penal Code’s section 120 B (criminal conspiracy) over a month after ex-Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh accused him of running an extortion racket. It conducted a preliminary inquiry on the Bombay high court’s directions before registering a First Information Report (FIR) against Deshmukh and “unknown others”.People familiar with the matter said the FIR was registered for further probe into the allegations after the CBI’s initial inquiry found “prima facie” evidence against Deshmukh, who resigned hours after the high court order on April 5. They added senior officers and the CBI’s legal team reviewed the findings of the inquiry before giving the go-ahead for the FIR.The FIR against Deshmukh, who did not respond to repeated calls and text messages for comments, coincided with raids at four places in Mumbai. Deshmukh’s residence was among the places searched.Singh wrote a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in March and alleged Deshmukh had asked suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore monthly from bars, restaurants, hotels, and other sources in Mumbai. The letter was written after Singh was transferred for allegedly mismanaging the bomb scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house in February. Vaze has been arrested in connection with the discovery of the explosives-laden car outside the house and the alleged murder of the man, Mansukh Hiran, linked to the vehicle.Deshmukh, a leader of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government sought to brazen out the issue initially as Singh approached the Supreme Court seeking a CBI investigation into the alleged extortion racket. The top court refused to intervene and said Singh could approach the high court. Deshmukh resigned citing moral grounds after the high court asked the CBI to conduct the preliminary inquiry within 15 days and left it to the discretion of the agency’s director to decide the further course of action.NCP spokesman and state minister Nawab Malik called the action being taken in the alleged extortion racket case as politically motivated. “...Deshmukh has been cooperating with the investigating agency and will continue to do so in the future too. But the investigation by the Central agency is on allegations levelled by the former police commissioner of Mumbai [Singh] who himself is under the scanner in the Antilia [Ambani residence] explosive case. We firmly believe that the judiciary will do its job and the truth will come to the fore.”HT this week reported the CBI’s preliminary probe was delayed due to the complex nature of the investigation, the federal agency’s internal mechanism of reviewing a case at various levels, and unforeseen delays due to a surge in Covid-19 cases. The agency did not want to rush its probe though it had recorded the statements of most of the key people.A CBI team led by police superintendent Abhishek Dular over the last two weeks recorded statements including those of Deshmukh, his two personal assistants, Sanjeev Palande, and Kundan Shinde, and Singh. It scrutinised financial documents, statements of witnesses, and people arrested by the National Investigation Agency during its probes into the bomb scare conspiracy and Mansukh Hiran murder cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-case-against-former-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-on-corruption-charges-101619239079359.html
25-04-2021||NA||Highlights: West Bengal logs 14,281 fresh Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours||Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to affect Indians as people cope with news of increasing deaths and rising numbers of infections in large parts of the nation. Major cities in India reel from crumbling hospital infrastructure as lack of medical oxygen and hospital beds drive families of those infected to despair. Prime Minister Narendra Modi held two review meetings with chief ministers of states which have been adversely affected in the second wave. He also held another virtual meeting with leading oxygen manufacturers to address the oxygen shortage in several cities.The US decided to resume J&J vaccines despite fears of blood clotting. Brazil recorded more than 69,000 cases but its daily death toll remained close to 3,000 as the South American nation along with India and the US drove most of the global infections. An outbreak in Australia has led neighbour New Zealand to pause its newly opened travel bubble with Australia. Kuwait also banned travellers from India due to surge in cases.Follow all the updates here:West Bengal logs 14,281 fresh Covid-19 casesWest Bengal reported 14,281 new Covid-19 cases, 59 deaths and 7,584 discharges in the last 24 hours.Delhi reports 24,103 new Covid-19 cases, 357 deathsDelhi on Saturday reported 24,103 new Covid-19 cases, 357 deaths and 22,695 recoveries in the last 24 hours.Pune reports nearly 10,000 new Covid-19 casesPune district in Maharashtra reported 9,989 fresh Covid-19 cases, 138 fatalities and 8,853 recoveries in the last 24 hours.Haryana logs over 10,000 new Covid-19 casesHaryana registered 10,491 new Covid-19 cases, 5,104 recoveries and 60 fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the case tally to 4,13,334.Covaxin to cost ₹600 for states, ₹1200 for private hospitals in Phase 3 Covid vaccination, announces Bharat BiotechMadhya Pradesh reports 12,918 new Covid-19 casesMadhya Pradesh on Saturday reported 12,918 fresh Covid-19 cases, 104 deaths and 11,091 recoveries in the last 24 hours.Tamil Nadu reports 14,842 fresh Covid-19 infectionsTamil Nadu reported 14,842 new Covid-19 cases, 9,142 recoveries and 80 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the active cases at 1,00,668.Mumbai reports 5,888 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursMumbai reported 5,888 new Covid-19 cases, 71 deaths and 8,549 in the last 24 hours, taking the case tally to 6,22,109.Bihar reports 12,359 new Covid-19 casesBihar reported 12,359 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the count for active cases to 81,960.,Goa logs 1,540 fresh Covid-19 infections in last 24 hoursGoa on Saturday reported 1,540 new Covid-19 cases, 485 recoveries, and 17 deaths in the last 24 hours.Uttarakhand reports over 5,000 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursUttarakhand on Saturday reported 5,084 new Covid-19 cases, 1,466 recoveries and 81 deaths in the last 24 hours.Kerala reports 26,685 fresh Covid-19 infections in last 24 hoursKerala reported 26,685 new Covid-19 cases and 25 deaths in the last 24 hours. Death toll in the state stands at 5080, active cases are1,98,576, reported ANI.Weekend curfew in Jammu and Kashmir from tonight 8pm to Monday 6am to curb Covid-19 spreadUnion minister Nitin Gadkari receives second dose of Covid-19 vaccineUnion Minister Nitin Gadkari took his second dose of #COVID19 at AIIMS, Nagpur today pic.twitter.com/s73f2N2r39DRDO to assist in construction of 1000-bed temporary hospital in Bina, says MP CMMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said that the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will fully assist the state government in the construction of a 1,000-bed temporary hospital at Bina, reported ANI.Tamil Nadu govt sets up 24x7 call centre to assist hospitals in oxygen supplyTamil Nadu government on Saturday said a 24x7 call centre has been set up to aid in the resolution of 'any issues' faced by the hospitals. Health facilities can call 104 for assistance in issues pertaining to medical oxygen supply, the government said, reported PTI.Haryana govt to provide free Covid-19 vaccination to all adultsHaryana government, state-level Covid monitoring committee chaired by the chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, decided to administer Covid-19 vaccine doses free of cost to people aged above 18 years at government hospitals of the state. Registration to begin from April 28, only those who have registered will get vaccinereported ANI.Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi asks govt to consider reducing patients intakeSir Ganga Ram Hospital on Saturday requested government to consider decreasing the patients intake amid dangerous oxygen crisis in the national capital, reported ANI.Australia stands with our friends in India: PM Morrison on difficult second wave"Australia stands with our friends in India as it manages a difficult second #Covid-19 wave. We know how strong and resilient the Indian nation is. PM Narendra Modi and I will keep working in partnership on this global challenge," said Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison.Delhi HC asks Delhi government to arrange tankers for transport of oxygenThe high court asked Delhi govt to arrange for tankers for transporting oxygen to hospitals. Delhi HC says that if admissions are turned down it could create law and order situatin"Let's face the reality, if admission are turned down, you know how people may react when they lose their near and dear ones. There might be a law and order situation. what would happen if there are mass deaths," the Delhi HC questioned Centre. MHA officials inform Delhi HC that shortage of tankers due to high number of casesMHA officials inform Delhi HC that because of a high number of cases across the country there is a shortage of tankers. He also said that State governments are working very hard. Delhi and the Centre have to work together, he added.The MHA officials also said that governments of states and Union Territories are working very hard in this regard. They further added that both governments have to work together. RSS asks people to be cautious of anti-India elementsIt's also possible that anti-India forces in the society can take advantage of these adverse circumstances to create an atmosphere of negativity&mistrust in the country. People should be cautious of the conspiracies of these destructive forces: Dattatreya Hosabale, Gen Secy, RSSRSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale said that RSS Swayamsevaks are helping the government in dealing with the crisis and asked people to stay away from 'anti-India' elements who might want to create an atmosphere of 'negativity and mistrust'. Pakistan PM expresses concern over Covid-19 situation in IndiaI want to express our solidarity with the people of India as they battle a dangerous wave of COVID-19. Our prayers for a speedy recovery go to all those suffering from the pandemic in our neighbourhood & the world. We must fight this global challenge confronting humanity togetherPakistan PM Imran Khan tweeted expressing solidarity between citizens of both nations during these times of crisis. Max flags shortage of oxygenSOS - Less than 2 hour's Oxygen supplies at Max Hospital Gurugram and attached Dedicated Covid Centre. Over 70 covid pts admitted across. Supplies expected at 10am diverted @cmohry @mlkhattar @anilvijminister @dc_gurugram @drharshvardhan @PMOIndia @PiyushGoyal need urgent help 🙏🏼Max Hospital in Gurugram says they have less than 2 hours worth of oxygen supplies left in their hospitals. They had tweeted asking for help at 11.20am. Moolchand Hospital says its has less 2 hours of oxygen supply@VishnuNDTV @dcptsrMoolchand Hospital says it has less than 2 hours of oxygen supply left. Delhi HC says Capital need Centre's help in oxygen procurementDelhi HC on Saturday said that the Capital city needs Centre's help to procure oxygen as it does not have nitrogen and argon tanks. The court observed that if anybody is seen obstructing oxygen supply then the person will be punished. Lok Narayan Jay Prakash Hospital says need 40-50 ltr/oxygen per patientDelhi | All ICU beds at our hospital are full for the last 4-5 days. Some critical patients need 40-50 ltr of oxygen per minute to maintain oxygen saturation level. The oxygen supply chain is compromised: Dr. Suresh Kumar, MD, LNJP Hospital pic.twitter.com/P6akymIJtjLNJP MD Dr Suresh Kumar says critical patients need 40-50 litres of oxygen and also said that there are chances that the oxygen supply chain in compromised. Centre clarifies on vaccine pricingThe government of India’s procurement price for both #COVID19 vaccines remains ₹150 per dose. GOI procured doses will continue to be provided totally free to States: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare pic.twitter.com/KJDzMQRXSlThe Union ministry for health and family welfare said that the Centre will continue to provide the vaccine doses it procured to states for free. Saroj Hospitals closes admissions due to oxygen shortageDelhi | We are closing the admissions because of an oxygen shortage. We are discharging the patients: COVID in-charge, Saroj Hospital pic.twitter.com/bXNioSfarySaroj Hospitals in Delhi said that it will not be able to take in patients due to lack of oxygen. Jaipur Golden Hospital says oxygen supply at hospital to last for 30 minsDelhi | Oxygen supply to last only half an hour now, more than 200 lives are at stake. We lost 20 people due to an oxygen shortage last night: DK Baluja, Jaipur Golden HospitalJaipur Golden Hospital's DK Baluja fears that more people will lose their lives as oxygen reserves worth 30 minutes left in hospitals.India records 2,624 fresh fatalities in last 24 hoursThe nation has recorded 16,610,481 total cases. The number of new cases recorded reached 346,786.Odisha observes weekend lockdownOdisha | Weekend lockdown imposed in all urban areas of the state till 5 am on Monday; Exemption of one hour (5am -6am) for morning walk & other physical activitiesVisuals from Bhubaneswar pic.twitter.com/bGjAqGAxcPOdisha observes strict weekend lockdown in a bid to curb cases. Pune, one of the worst-affected, remains under lockdownMaharashtra: Weekend curfew continues in Pune, amid rising COVID19 cases. Only medical shops allowed to remain open, all other shops to remain closedPune district reported 9,810 fresh #COVID19 cases and 137 deaths yesterday pic.twitter.com/ch03h7n1EnPune which is reeling from one of the worst outbreaks is under a complete lockdown as it tries to stop the chain of transmission.Johnson extends assurances, says UK looking at avenues to help IndiaBritish Prime Minister Boris Johnson said that he was looking at what he could do to help India, where the coronavirus pandemic is entering a deadly new phase with which its health services are struggling to cope: Reuters pic.twitter.com/LIQU30Tvo6UK PM Boris Johnson said that UK is looking for avenues to help India fight the Covid-19 second wave.Ahead of Olympics, Japan imposes emergency in several areasSuga govt declared a state of emergency in Tokyo and three other regions, three months ahead of the games as Covid-19 infections rose in these prefectures.Hong Kong vaccine bookings doubleHong Kong's vaccine booking increased as the administration brought all residents aged 16 and older under the ambit of the vaccination drive.Kumbh returnees asked to isolate themselves for 14 days in TelanganaTelangana Health Department urges people who are returning from Kumbh Mela to isolate themselves for 14 days and if they have any symptoms then they must get tested immediately: State Govt#COVID19Telangana urges Kumbh returnees to isolate themselves for 14 days.Biden faces pressure from US Chambers of Commerce, lobbies to help IndiaUS Chamber of Commerce pushed Biden administration to release medical supplies, vaccines and life-saving support to India. Several other lawmakers along with the influential Indian-American community are also putting pressure on the US administration to send supplies to India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-april-24-2021-101619225939013.html
25-04-2021||India||PM Modi chairs meets on infra crisis as cases, deaths soar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday urged all states to come together and work as one nation to ensure there is no scarcity of resources to arrest the second wave of Covid-19 that has triggered a deluge of infections, overwhelmed hospitals, and sparked a critical shortage of oxygen and medicines.In his meeting with chief ministers of 11 worst-hit states and Union territories, Modi said the central government was working to increase oxygen production and ensure seamless supply across states. He asked states to ensure widespread testing and vaccination and crackdown on black marketeering and hording of medicines and medical oxygen.“The biggest basis of India’s success during the first wave of the pandemic was our united effort and united strategy… we will have to address this challenge in the same way,” he said in the virtual meeting.“If we work as one nation, there will not be any scarcity of resources,” he added.The meeting came on a day India posted its highest number of infections and deaths, at 345,159 and 2,622, respectively, straining further the country’s health infrastructure already burdened with the world’s worst outbreak.The surge has left India devastated. Across the country, desperate patients are begging authorities for non-existent beds and hospitals are putting up SOS messages on social media with hours left for their oxygen supply to run out. Relatives of people who died of the disease are forming long queues outside makeshift crematoriums and graveyards that are running out of wood and space, with workers often working through the night. The ominous siren of ambulances has become a part of the soundscape of major cities.Later in the day, Modi also met leading oxygen manufacturers and told them that this time was not only to deal with challenges, but also to provide solutions in a very short time. The PM stressed on the need to maintain good coordination between the government and the oxygen producers and spoke about utilising the full potential of the industry.Modi also held an internal review meeting on the overall Covid-19 situation in the morning.Chief ministers of some states asked the Prime Minister to help with removing hurdles in the supply of oxygen and medicines, and demanded that the price of vaccines to be used in phase 3 of the inoculation drive from May 1, when it opens up to all adults, should not cost more than earlier phases, when vaccine manufacturers supplied shots to the Centre at a subsidised price.At the meeting, Modi also stressed on the importance of vaccination, which, experts say, is crucial in taming the ferocious surge in infections. He said that India was running the world’s largest vaccination programme and the Centre had provided 150 million doses free of cost to the states. He stressed on the importance of stepping up the drive from May 1, when it opens to all adults. Currently, only those above 45 can get vaccinated.“Our vaccination programme should not slow down in this situation… we will also need to work in mission mode to get more and more people vaccinated,” he said.PM Modi assured the Centre’s full support to all states and said there was a continuous effort to increase oxygen supply. He urged states to coordinate to fulfil requirements relating to medicines and oxygen, and check hoarding and black marketing of oxygen and medicines.This came amid pitched battles between several states, especially Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, over oxygen supply. Delhi government has complained that neighbouring states are stopping tankers from entering the Capital, a charge refuted by the other two states. The Centre on Thursday invoked the Disaster Management Act to ensure unrestricted interstate supply of oxygen.“Every state should ensure that no oxygen tanker, whether it is meant for any state, is stopped or gets stranded,” Modi said.He asked states to set up a high-level co-ordination committee to carry oxygen to different hospitals of the state. “This coordination committee should ensure that as soon as there is allotment of oxygen from the Centre, it can deliver oxygen as per requirement in different hospitals of the state immediately,” he said.Modi said the central government was working on all possible options to reduce the travel and turnaround time of oxygen tankers, including Oxygen Express by the railways and roping in the air force.Modi said added the Union health ministry was monitoring the situation closely.He said that along with upgrading of resources, the country had to focus on testing. His comments came amid complaints of long delays and shortage of kits for testing in several states.“Along with all measures for treatment of the patients, hospital safety is also very important… administrative staff of the hospital needs to be made more aware about the safety protocols,” he said, expressing grief about recent incidents of oxygen leakage and fire at hospitals in Maharashtra. He also urged the administration to make people aware so that they did not indulge in panic buying.At the meeting, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said that the new vaccination policy for 18+ people was unfair to the states, and demanded central funding. He said his government adopted all measures to minimise the demand for oxygen and asked the Centre to ensure all commitments as per allocation were complied with by oxygen manufacturers in other states. “This is not happening at present. Punjab’s supplies come from Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, and there are reports of supplies being ‘hijacked’,” he said.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said he sought information about the quantity of vaccines the state will get from the Centre from May 1. ”We asked how many vaccines will be given to us by the Centre. We also asked that there should be one rate of vaccines for Centre and the states.”Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray demanded additional medical oxygen for the state, adequate supply of vaccines, and permission to import medicines to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases. He also demanded that oxygen be airlifted if possible, an official release said.Maharashtra requires 1,550 metric tonnes of medical oxygen to treat coronavirus patients every day and about 300 to 350 metric tons is being procured from outside, he said. Instead of distant states, if the supply could be arranged from neighbouring states, it would be available early, he said, according to the statement.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa urged the Centre to supply 1,471 tonnes of oxygen and 200,000 doses of Remdesivir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-chairs-meets-on-infra-crisis-as-cases-deaths-101619214887387.html
