26-04-2021||India||Covid-19 management in Assam on track for next 10 days: Himanta Biswa Sarma||Allaying speculations about lack of medicines and facilities, the Assam government on Monday assured people that the state has enough logistics to deal with a surge in Covid-19 cases at least for the next 10 days. Addressing a press conference, minister Himanta Biswa Sarma informed about the present status of oxygen supply, intensive care unit (ICU) beds and Remdesivir injections. “Assam is consuming 20 metric tons (MT) of oxygen daily. In the past 10 days, we have rejuvenated some of our old oxygen plants and also established pressure swing absorption (PSA) plants in different medical college and civil hospitals our oxygen generation capacity has increased to 61 MT daily,” Sarma said. “We have also enhanced our oxygen storage capacity to 468 MT. Therefore, I personally feel that for the next 10 days our oxygen situation will remain stable and there should not be any panic. In the next week we will set up three more small oxygen plants in three hospitals,” he added. Assam has been witnessing around 1,500-2,000 new Covid-19 positive cases in the past week. On Sunday, the state recorded 1844 new cases and 14 deaths. There were 15,470 active cases on Sunday. “Though the number of cases has gone up in the past week, the situation hasn’t gone out of hand as yet. We expect the number of cases to increase this week as well,” Sarma said. The minister informed that the state has a stock of 25,000 Remdesivir injections and they are being provided to both government and private hospitals as well as per requirement. “We have been able to add a substantial number of ICU beds in last 10 days. Almost 220 more ICU beds have been added and efforts are on to add more beds in the next few days. As of today, we are comfortable about oxygen, beds, medicine and ICU availability for next 10 days,” Sarma said. Sarma, who also holds the education portfolio, informed that in amendment of an earlier order closing down primary schools in districts where 100 Covid-19 cases are recorded in a day, from now on all classes in private and government schools till Class VII will be conducted via the online mode in all such districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-management-in-assam-on-track-for-next-10-days-himanta-biswa-sarma-101619461578937.html
26-04-2021||India||UK variant, African virus strain detected in Kerala, says CM Pinarayi Vijayan||In Kerala, the presence of deadly Covid-19 mutant strains from the United Kingdom and South Africa have been confirmed, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday even as the state added 21,890 new cases with a high test positivity rate of 22.71 per cent. This is the first time that the state government has admitted the presence of deadly virus strains in Kerala.The CM said preliminary studies have found that mutant strains fanned the second wave in the state. “Among new patients at least 40 per cent are infected with mutated variants. Of these 30 per cent are the UK variant and 7 per cent with double mutants and 2 per cent have the South African variant,” he said. When asked about more details he said experts will divulge further details in the coming days.“Detection of UK and African variants calls for stricter restrictions. The situation is really critical. We don’t want to create panic but people will have to be extra vigilant. We are going through a bad phase. Now experts have advised people to wear double masks in public places to avoid rapid infection,” he said. The CM said vigil has been stepped up in areas where mutant strains were reported. Last week the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology in Thiruvananthapuram had done an extensive study on the spike protein of the virus with the help of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in Delhi. Going by the rapid spread and nature of the second wave experts have warned about presence of strong mutants.Earlier in the day the CM chaired an all-party meeting which decided not to enforce a complete lockdown but suggested partial closure on weekends and restrictions in containment areas that will be tightened. The meeting has also decided not to hold victory processions or rallies on counting day on May 2. The results of the assembly elections will be declared on May 2. Almost all political parties have agreed that a complete lockdown will affect people who are already reeling under the impact of the pandemic.“Mini lockdown will continue during weekends for the time being. Shops and business establishments will be allowed to remain open till 7.30 pm. Bars and malls will be shut. We will tighten measures in containment zones and effective policing will be there,” said the CM adding it is the duty of respective political parties to ensure that big victory rallies or processions won’t take place on counting day. As cases rise alarmingly the core committee formed for the pandemic had earlier recommended a two-week lockdown but the all-party meet felt that complete closure and curfew will impact people badly and it will affect their livelihood.In terms of daily viral caseload, Kerala is on the third spot with 21,890 cases and active cases have also risen to 2,31,812. Out of 96,378 people tested, 21,980 tested positive, according to the data released by the state health ministry. The state has also reported 28 fatalities taking the death toll to 5138. Among the infected are 70 health workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-variant-african-virus-strain-detected-in-kerala-says-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-101619461098976.html
26-04-2021||India||Cap on domestic flight rates to stay till May 31: DGCA||New Delhi: The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Monday extended till May 31 the fare cap on domestic flights, and kept the existing limit on capacity at 80% of pre-Covid levels.“In partial modification of circular dated 26-6-2020, the competent authority has further extended the validity of circular issued on the above subject regarding Scheduled International commercial passenger services to/from India till 2359 hrs IST of April 30. This restriction shall not apply to international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by DGCA,” it said in a circular.The statement added that this was done in view of the Covid 19 situation in the country.The Centre fixed fare bands when airlines resumed their services in May 2020 after the national lockdown in a bid to ensure that passengers were not overcharged. On March 19, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri announced a 5% in the lower fare band due to rising Aviation Turbine Fuel prices. According to DGCA data, 15.5 million passengers travelled on domestic airlines in February 2021, as compared to 7.7 million in January. Though domestic departures and total distance flown are still under pre-pandemic levels, they were steadily improving till February. DGCA on Tuesday also said it has approved 18,843 flights per week from 108 airports for the summer schedule, which begins on the last Sunday of March and ends on the last Sunday of October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cap-on-domestic-flight-rates-to-stay-till-may-31-dgca-101619460979567.html
26-04-2021||India||Chamoli avalanche death toll reaches 15||With the recovery of four more bodies by the Indian Army, the death toll in the avalanche that hit Niti Valley area of Chamoli near Indo-China border last week rose to 15 on Monday, officials said.Swati Bhadoria, Chamoli district magistrate, said two bodies were recovered on Sunday night while two more were recovered on Monday. She added that the bodies were being brought to Joshimath in Chamoli area for post-mortem and completion of other formalities so that death certificates could be issued as soon as possible. Bhadoria also said that at least three to four persons are still believed to be missing. As many as 384 people who were working with BRO were shifted to a safer location, she added. The snow avalanche, which occurred at around 4 pm on Friday, hit Sumna area near the border at an altitude of over 11,000 ft when several labourers of Border Road Organisation were working at the site. A search and rescue operation was immediately initiated by the personnel of the Indian Army’s Central Command to rescue the trapped persons. Seven persons were injured in the incident. While one of them was brought to Dehradun, the remaining were taken to AIIMS Rishikesh for treatment.The avalanche occurred less than 100km from Raini village which was affected by a glacier breach on February 7. The glacier breach which triggered an avalanche and deadly floods in Chamoli district, killed at least 72 people and destroyed two hydroelectric projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chamoli-avalanche-death-toll-reaches-15-101619460858339.html
26-04-2021||India||5 Covid patients die in Hisar hospital, kin allege oxygen shortage||Five Covid-19 patients died at a private hospital in Haryana’s Hisar district on Monday with the relatives of the deceased alleging that the deaths occurred due to a shortage of medical oxygen at the facility.All five patients who died at the Sony Burn Hospital were above 45 and three were above 60, the hospital staff said. Four hailed from Hisar and one from Punjab. Hisar deputy superintendent of police Rajbir Singh confirmed that five Covid-19 patients died at the hospital but added that the exact cause of death was yet to be ascertained.“The relatives of the deceased alleged that all of them were on ventilator support and died due to shortage of oxygen supply. The hospital authorities have not spoken on the issue yet,” he added.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said a magisterial probe was ordered into the incident. ”There is no oxygen shortage either in Hisar or at any other place,” he said. But relatives of the deceased said the lack of medical oxygen was responsible for the incident. “The doctors failed to provide proper treatment to my uncle and he died due to shortage of oxygen supply,” the nephew of a 42-year-old deceased said.The brother of a 43-year-old victim said he visited another hospital to bring a cylinder for his brother but in vain as the patient passed away before his arrival.The oxygen reportedly ran out of supply at 12 am on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. After several efforts to ensure supply, the hospital staff later allegedly brought two gas cylinders from another private hospital but till then, all five had died.Three manufacturing units in Hisar provides nine metric tonnes of oxygen to various hospitals in Hisar, Agroha and Sirsa, which is more than sufficient, an official said. “The oxygen is being supplied to various hospitals as per patients numbers. There is no shortage of oxygen in the district,” the official added.This is the third incident of Covid-19 patients dying, allegedly of oxygen shortage in the state, in the past 24 hours. A day ago, four patients each died at private hospitals in Gurugram and Rewari respectively, allegedly due to shortage of oxygen supply. An inquiry was ordered in both the cases. Four people died at Rewari’s Virat hospital on Sunday afternoon and four other critically Covid-19 patients, who were on ventilator support at Kathuria hospital in Gurugram, died due to shortage of oxygen supply, according to hospital management. Kathuria Hospital owner Dr AK Kathuria said they had informed the health department regarding the oxygen supply. However, around 3pm, the cylinders went empty and four patients lost their lives, he said.Virat Hospital operational head Dharmender Kumar said that 114 Covid-infected patients were undergoing treatment at the hospital. “Three patients died in ICU, while one died in the ward. We need over 300 oxygen cylinders on a daily basis, but our supply has been reduced. We have been repeatedly reporting this to the administration,” he added.Hisar deputy commissioner Priyanka Soni said a probe will be conducted into the deaths. “ A medical negligence board has been setup to analysis the reasons behind the deaths,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-covid-patients-die-in-hisar-hospital-kin-allege-oxygen-shortage-101619460738387.html
26-04-2021||India||CM EPS writes to PM Modi, urges Centre to supply vaccines for all age groups||Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting the Centre to procure and supply the entire quantity of Covid-19 vaccines required for administering it to all groups including those in the 18-45 age bracket.Since the Union government changed its policy for states to directly procure vaccines from manufacturers at predetermined prices for phase-3 of the vaccination drive, Palaniswami said that a “differential price mechanism” is “inherently unfair”. He pointed out that the new prices are different from the prices at which the Union government is procuring vaccines. “Some manufacturers have already announced a higher, increased rate for procurement of vaccines by the state governments,” he said adding that this would put a higher financial burden on the states which have lesser financial resources compared to the Central government. “Since budgetary provision of ₹35,000 crore has been made in the Budget Estimates for 2021-22 for the Covid-19 Vaccination Programme, states have a legitimate expectation that the Government of India would supply the Covid-19 vaccines for phase 3,” Palaniswami wrote in his letter.On Friday, the chief minister had written to PM Modi urging the Centre to allocate an assured supply of 20 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines. He had also asked for permission to be granted for an Integrated Vaccine Complex in Chengalpattu district near Chennai as it was ready and could augment production of Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-eps-writes-to-pm-modi-urges-centre-to-supply-vaccines-for-all-age-groups-101619458938721.html
26-04-2021||India||Railways deploy Covid Care Coaches in 9 stations across 4 states amid surge||The ministry of railways announced on Monday it has deployed Covid-19 care coaches in nine major railway stations in the states of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh , Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra--- that are worst-hit by the coronavirus pandemic. The decision comes in the backdrop of these states reporting a severe shortage of beds to accommodate infected patientsIn a statement, the ministry said it is swiftly meeting the demands of Covid-19 coaches from all states under the “current raging second spell of the Covid-19 pandemic” with its fleet of 4,000 coaches which have a capacity of 64,000 beds. “As per currently available data, these facilities are seeing a steady intake registering a cumulative admission of 81 Covid-19 patients and the subsequent discharge of 22 patients. None of the facilities have registered any casualties,” the statement said.The care coaches came into existence last year during the first wave of the pandemic in the country.In the national Capital, the railways has provided 75 coaches with 1,200 beds. Fifty of these coaches have been positioned at the Shakurbasti station while the remaining 25 are at the Anand Vihar station. There are currently five patients at the Shakurbasti station of whom one was discharged, the statement said adding 857 patients were admitted and discharged from the facility last year.Railway Deploys 2670 Covid Care Beds at 9 Railway Stations.Railways Meet Demand of Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra State Governments for Covid Care Coaches.https://t.co/nEmtxt5PfB pic.twitter.com/4eHi0tQAU1In Uttar Pradesh, the coaches have not been requisitioned by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led state government yet. Fifty coaches in total have been provided, 10 each at Faizabad, Bhadohi, Varanasi, Bareli and Nazibabad regions of the state. The total number of beds amounted to 800.Twenty isolation coaches have been positioned in Madhya Pradesh’s capital Bhopal with a capacity of 292 beds. In Maharashtra’s Nandurbar, 24 isolation coaches with 292 beds have been deployed by the Railways, the statement said.According to the Union health ministry’s dashboard, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh , Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra have been contributing the maximum number towards the country’s daily cases and deaths due to the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh along with eight other states are accounting for nearly 70% of the active caseload.India’s Covid-19 viral caseload on Monday breached the 17 million-mark after a record jump of 352,991 new cases logged in the last 24 hours. More than 2,800 people succumbed to the disease during the same period, taking the death toll to 195,123 while 14,304,382 patients have been discharged so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-deploy-covid-care-coaches-in-9-stations-across-4-states-amid-surge-101619455758005.html
26-04-2021||India||PM Modi discusses Covid-19 situation, supply of vaccine raw materials with Biden||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to US president Joe Biden on Monday and discussed the importance of smooth and efficient supply chains of vaccine raw materials in a telephone conversation. The phone call came after the US president expressed his solidarity with India as the nation faces a second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that he discussed the Covid-19 situation in both countries in detail and said he thanked his US counterpart for his support. "Had a fruitful conversation with @POTUS @JoeBiden today. We discussed the evolving COVID situation in both countries in detail. I thanked President Biden for the support being provided by the United States to India," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a tweet. He also said that the Covid-19 can be beaten by India-US healthcare partnership and his discussion with Biden focused on ensuring 'smooth and efficient' supply chains of vaccine raw materials and medicines. My discussion with @POTUS @JoeBiden also underscored the importance of smooth and efficient supply chains of vaccine raw materials and medicines. India-US healthcare partnership can address the global challenge of COVID-19.Earlier on Monday, Joe Biden in a tweet had assured India that United States would take required actions to help India in its time of crisis. "Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, we are determined to help India in its time of need," Biden said a tweet.The United States government in February had invoked the Defense Production Act, which allows the government to regulate distribution of products which led to the curb in export of raw materials critical for vaccine production. This was done after pharmaceutical company Pfizer Inc. cut short its vaccine production target by almost fifty percent citing shortage in raw material and creating an obstacle for the Biden administration which promised 100 million vaccination shots within Joe Biden's first 100 days in office.The US administration decided to take steps to help India after Union minister S Jaishankar and NSA Ajit Doval spoke with US secretary of state Anthony Blinken and US NSA Jake Sullivan respectively. Following Doval's conversation with Sullivan, US national security council spokesperson released a statement saying US is identifying resources needed by India as it fights the second wave. "The United States has identified sources of specific raw material urgently required for Indian manufacture of the Covishield vaccine that will immediately be made available for India," the statement said. Germany, Australia and Saudi Arabia has also extended their support as India battles a second wave of Covid-19. Germany and Australia are working to spend oxygen production plant and ventilators to India to strengthen India's response to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-us-president-joe-biden-speak-to-each-other-over-phone-101619454786789.html
26-04-2021||India||Planning to get vaccinated? Check the list of states offering free doses||Several states have announced free vaccines for everyone above 18 years of age after the central government said all adults in the country will be eligible under the 'liberalised' third phase of its inoculation drive from May 1. The decision was made based on the current situation of the pandemic in the country and was announced after Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired several meetings with several stakeholders.Here is the list of states and Union territories which will provide free vaccination:KarnatakaKarnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa announced on Monday that citizens of the state will be vaccinated free of cost. Yediyurappa made the announcement while declaring the 14-day lockdown-like measures in the state starting from 9pm on Tuesday. “The health department will draw up the guidelines required. For those above 45 years the Centre is giving vaccines free of cost,” the chief minister said.LadakhLadakh lieutenant governor RK Mathur announced on Monday that eligible citizens will be vaccinated free of cost beginning next month. “Ladakh administration is in process of procuring Covid-19 vaccines for inoculating its residents who fall in the 18-45 years age group. The vaccination will be provided free of cost to all who are eligible,” the lieutenant governor said.DelhiDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the government will provide free vaccines to all those above 18 years of age in the Capital and approval of 13.4 million doses has been done to achieve the target. “We are working on a plan to start large-scale vaccination as soon as possible,” Kejriwal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.OdishaOdisha on Sunday announced that people above the age of 18 years will be inoculated free of cost. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik made the announcement on Sunday for all citizens of the state in the age group of 18 to 44 years and said that the state government will spend ₹2,000 crore on this vaccination campaign.UttarakhandUttarakhand government said that people under the age group of 18-45 years will be vaccinated free of cost. State government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal made the announcement on Monday, news agency ANI reported.GujaratThe Gujarat government on Sunday announced that those between 18 and 45 years of age will be vaccinated free of cost. Chief minister Vijay Rupani made the announcement after a meeting with the cabinet. Rupani also said that an order for 15 million doses has been placed for the vaccination drive.RajasthanThe Rajasthan government said that it will spend ₹3000 crore to vaccinate people above 18 years of age free of cost starting May 1. “The state government will provide free coronavirus vaccine to all people above 18 years of age in the state at the cost of about ₹3,000 crore,” chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Sunday.MaharashtraThe Maharashtra government announced on Sunday that it will vaccinate people above 18 years for free starting May 1. Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said that the decision was taken after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a cabinet meeting.Assam, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Sikkim have also said that they will vaccinate people over 18 years free of cost during the Phase III of the vaccination programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/planning-to-get-vaccinated-check-the-list-of-states-offering-free-doses-101619452856896.html
26-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Jammu man breathing life in poor Covid patients with free oxygen and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Jammu man breathing life in poor Covid patients with free oxygenA gas manufacturer in Jammu is providing free oxygen to poor Covid-19 patients in Jammu and Kashmir at a time when its shortage has led to loss of lives across states and engendered a healthcare crisis in the country, grappling with the highly virulent second wave of Covid- 19, resulting in a record number of new patients being reported daily. Read moreDGCA extends fare cap on domestic flights, operations at 80% of pre-Covid levelThe Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Monday extended the capping of fares on domestic flights till May 31 and limited capacity at 80% of pre-pandemic levels due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country. Read more1 Covid patient can infect 406 if physical distancing measures are not followed, says govtInability to follow proper physical distancing measures can result in one person infecting 406 people with the SARS-CoV-2, the virus which causes the coronavirus disease, in the span of just 30 days, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Monday. Read more'Give him a PAT on the back'; Jaffer asks KKR to give Cummins 'a night off', Kaneria asks IPL players to also contributeAustralian speedster Pat Cummins decided to donate $50,000 to the PM-Cares Fund to India's fight against Covid-19. The gesture by the Kolkata Knight Riders pacer has been lauded by many Indian people. Read moreSonu Sood, who recently recovered from Covid-19, poses for pic with flight attendant at Mumbai airport. WatchTwo days after he was tested negative for Covid-19, Sonu Sood was seen making his way to the Mumbai airport. The actor, who has been a good samaritan for several people during the pandemic, was seen wearing a pink T-shirt and a pair of jeans for his flight. Read moreOxygen shortage amid Covid storm: Modi Govt takes 7 steps to ease crisis||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-jammu-man-breathing-life-in-poor-covid-patients-with-free-oxygen-and-all-the-latest-news-101619450490319.html
26-04-2021||India||No shortage of medical oxygen in Haryana, says CM Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday asserted that there is no shortage of medical oxygen in the state while assuring people that the state government was geared up to ensure people do not face any problem amid the raging coronavirus pandemic.Khattar visited Panipat, Rohtak and Hisar to take stock of things amid the surge in the number of virus cases.The Chief Minister, who was responding to questions of reporters during a visit to Panipat, ruled out any shortage of medical oxygen in the state.“There is no oxygen shortage neither in Hisar or at any other place,” said Khattar as he responded response came when his attention was drawn to some deaths in three private hospitals in Rewari, Gurugram and Hisar allegedly due to oxygen shortage.He, however, said that magisterial probe has been ordered in these incidents.Notably, the kin of most of the patients who died in the incident had levelled allegations of oxygen shortage.With Haryana seeing an influx of patients from Delhi and elsewhere in the wake of the sharp rise in number of coronavirus cases, Khattar while responding to a question said, “We will treat them irrespective of the fact from wherever they may be”.Meanwhile, according to a state government statement here, Khattar said strict directions have been given to ensure maintaining of essential services like medical oxygen, antiviral drugs like Remdesivir, etc. and to take strict action against anyone indulging in black marketing or hoarding.The Chief Minister also visited the site in Panipat where a 500-bed dedicated Covid hospital is to be set up.He directed Deputy Commissioner, Panipat, Dharmender Singh to get the hospital constructed at the earliest.He also visited Hisar, where he gave necessary directions for setting up another dedicated Covid 500-bed hospital.Both these facilities are being set up with assistance from Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO).Speaking in Rohtak after taking stock of essential health services for Covid-19 patients at PGIMS, Rohtak, Khattar said no coronavirus patient will be allowed to suffer due to lack of medical oxygen.The Chief Minister said Haryana's daily quota for medical oxygen has been increased to 200 metric tonnes (MT) which was earlier fixed at 162 MT by the Centre. The central government has been requested for 240 MT of oxygen, he said.Khattar said that industrialist Naveen Jindal, who is a former MP, has also said that he will send 5 MT of liquid oxygen and people will not be allowed to suffer from the lack of the life-saving gas.He said that in view of the raging Covid-19 pandemic, an additional 650 beds are being arranged at PGIMS, Rohtak, whereas earlier 350 beds are already available for Covid-19 patients.He also said 1,250 additional beds are being arranged in different medical colleges of the state and space has already been identified for setting up 500 such beds.The structure will be erected there in the coming three-four days and soon all these beds will be available for the Covid-19 infected patients, he said.He said private hospitals are being monitored at the state level so that these do not admit more patients than their capacity and the oxygen supply for Covid-19 patients remains constant.He said Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms who do not require oxygen should remain in isolation in their homes. A health kit is being provided by the Health Department so that all of them can take care of themselves properly at home, he added.The Chief Minister said in this hour of crisis, the entire administration and the people of the state should work together to defeat this pandemic.In view of the surge in demand of medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, the Haryana government on Monday appointed nodal officers/District Drug Controller officers at the district-level to ensure that there is adequate supply and proper distribution of oxygen in all the districts of Haryana, an official statement said.As per the statement, Haryana would be getting supply of 50 MT of oxygen from Jharkhand's Bokaro, which would be used for emergency and treatment of critical Covid-19 patients.In Hisar meanwhile, Khattar held detailed discussions with top officials including Principal Secretary to Chief Minister, V Umashankar; Deputy Commissioner, Hisar, Dr Priyanka Soni and other officers for exploring the possibilities of setting up a 500-bed hospital in the premises of O P Jindal Modern School.The Chief Minister directed that immediate action should be initiated for setting up this hospital.In Panipat district, the 500-bed hospital would be set up in the premises of the Indian Oil Corporation Refinery, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-shortage-of-medical-oxygen-in-haryana-says-cm-khattar-101619450016080.html
26-04-2021||India||Military starts recalling retired medical staff for Covid-19 relief as crisis worsens||Military medical personnel who retired or took pre-mature retirement during the last two years are being recalled to work in Covid-19 facilities near them, chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat told Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a briefing on Monday. This comes at a time when the country is reeling under a public health emergency and its healthcare resources are at breaking point. Medical officers who retired more than two years ago have also been requested to make their services available for consultation through medical emergency helplines, the PMO said in a statement after the CDS briefed the PM who reviewed the military’s preparations to assist in Covid-19 management. At a meeting held on April 20, defence minister Rajnath Singh asked the military to explore the possibility of utilising the services of vaccinated retired military personnel to help the civil administration and state governments to deal with the health crisis. India reported 354,709 new cases on Sunday, taking the total number of infections in the country to 17.3 million. A total of 2,808 new deaths were reported due to Covid-19 on Sunday, the highest ever in the country, pushing the total number of people who have lost their lives to the disease to 195,137, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard on Sunday. The CDS told the PM that all medical officers on staff appointments at Command HQ, Corps HQ, Division HQ & similar HQ of the navy and the Indian Air Force will be employed at hospitals. “The CDS informed the PM that nursing personnel are being employed in large numbers to complement the doctors at the hospitals. The PM was also briefed that oxygen cylinders available with armed forces in various establishments will be released for hospitals,” the PMO statement said. The PM reviewed the operations being undertaken by the IAF to transport oxygen and other essentials in India and abroad. The IAF is making a significant contribution in the fight against Covid-19 by transporting much-needed empty oxygen containers to filling stations across the country to tackle the oxygen crisis. The IAF on Monday ferried six empty cryogenic oxygen containers from Dubai to Panagarh in West Bengal in a C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft, with the airlift of six more containers from Dubai planned on Tuesday. On Monday, the IAF also airlifted two containers from Jaipur to Jamnagar for refilling. The containers will be filled up and transported to different centres for Covid-19 relief by rail or road. Last week, the IAF airlifted four such containers from Singapore to Panagarh, apart from carrying out several domestic shuttles. The IAF is using a variety of aircraft for Covid-19 relief including C-17, C-130J, IL-76, An-32, Avro, Chinook and Mi-17 helicopters, as previously reported by Hindustan Times. General Rawat informed the PM that the armed forces are setting up a large number of medical facilities and, wherever possible, military medical infrastructure will be made available to civilians. “The PM also discussed with the CDS that Kendriya and Rajya Sainik Welfare Boards and officers posted in various headquarters in veterans’ cells may be instructed to coordinate the services of veterans to extend the reach to maximum extent possible including in remote areas,” the PMO statement added. The armed forces and other wings of the defence ministry can play an important role in the fight against Covid-19, Lieutenant General BK Chopra (retd), a former director general of the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS), said last week. “They have the manpower, resources and discipline to provide relief in these hard times. The military especially has a culture of quick response, be it enemy action or natural catastrophes. It can do a lot to alleviate the sufferings of our countrymen during the pandemic too,” Chopra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-starts-recalling-retired-medical-staff-for-covid-19-relief-as-crisis-worsens-101619450717813.html
26-04-2021||India||Jammu man breathing life in poor Covid patients with free oxygen||A gas manufacturer in Jammu is providing free oxygen to poor Covid-19 patients in Jammu and Kashmir at a time when its shortage has led to loss of lives across states and engendered a healthcare crisis in the country, grappling with the highly virulent second wave of Covid- 19, resulting in a record number of new patients being reported daily.Manu Rana, the proprietor of Raj Gas Industries, located in Jammu, has been providing oxygen cylinders free of cost to the poor.“On Sunday, we distributed approximately 80 oxygen cylinders. On an average, we are distributing over 100 cylinders free to the needy people. However, those who can afford are being charged for it,” said Rana. Though he launched the initiative about two weeks ago, enquiries picked up pace since Sunday after his message was put out on social media and he has given away nearly 500 oxygen cylinders so far till now. On Monday, he distributed around 40 to 45 cylinders.The number of Covid cases are also on the rise in Jammu and Kashmir but has not reached overwhelming proportions as seen in many other Indian states, where several patients have died after hospitals ran out of oxygen supplies, resulting in Central government diverting the life-saving gas to crisis-ridden states with the help of railways and air force aircraft among other modes of transport. The number of patients requiring oxygen support has drastically increased in the ongoing second wave of Covid-19, largely driven by the new double-mutant variant virus. Rana’s initiative at such a time is inspirational for many.Sunny Khajuria, a Covid patient’s relative, who came to Rana’s office to check if the free oxygen cylinder offer was true, was left pleasantly surprised. “It’s a very good initiative. Others should also get inspiration from them. These are difficult times and the people with means should chip in with their bit to save others.”Rana’s Raj Gas Tower office, located at Gandhi Nagar in the city, is currently the base of his philanthropic operation. He is currently giving 10 litres of free oxygen to each person, who must bring their own cylinders to get their quota.“...it is more than sufficient to meet the requirement of a Covid patient. How long it lasts depends upon its usage. If the oxygen level is less than 80%, the patient has to inhale oxygen for 10 to 15 minutes and the level will go up to 93 to 94%. They should use it judiciously,” said Rana.He says his plant at Samba industrial estate was presently filling over 300 cylinders daily and could easily scale up if the situation in J&K deteriorates.“We have 20 kl set up with us, biggest in J&K. We have two tanks of 20 kl capacity each,” said Rana. One kiloleter equals 10,000 litres. Rana says his move was driven by his desire to give back to society at a crucial time.“We just want to ensure people don’t die due to scarcity of oxygen,” he said before handing out his phone numbers--0191-2459144, 9419187356 and email address - gm.rajgas@gmail.com for anyone who needs help with oxygen.Financial commissioner health and medical education Atal Dulloo appreciated the initiative saying, “anyone who can be of help to the poor under these trying circumstances should come forward. ...Every drop matters but much more needs to be done.”Dulloo, however, clarified that there was no shortage of oxygen in hospitals across Jammu and Kashmir, but described the situation as “challenging.”The Jammu and Kashmir government has approved establishment of 36 oxygen generation plants to cater to the rising demand for oxygen. A total of 1743 Covid beds were also available out of the 3,062 across the UT. Similarly, 203 Covid ICU beds out of 338 were vacant. In Jammu region, there are 1,354 Covid dedicated beds, out of which 577 are occupied. The region has 227 Covid ICU beds, of which 126 were vacant till Monday.Kashmir has 1708 Covid dedicated beds, out of which 742 were occupied till Monday. Similarly, out of the 111 Covid ICU beds, 77 were lying vacant till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-man-breathing-life-in-poor-covid-patients-with-free-oxygen-101619449757853.html
26-04-2021||India||Rich Indians flee by private jet as Covid-19 infections spiral||India’s mounting crisis surrounding a surge in coronavirus infections is prompting wealthy families to flee the country by private jet.With reports of hospital bed and drug shortages sweeping social media, Indian tycoons and others able to afford fares running into millions of rupees are booking flights to boltholes in Europe, the Middle East and the Indian Ocean.“It’s not only the ultra rich,” said Rajan Mehra, chief executive officer at New Delhi-based private jet firm Club One Air. “Whoever can afford to take a private jet are taking private jets.”Watch: Top Biden official reveals how US is helping India battle Covid crisisIndia reported 352,991 new infections on Monday, the highest daily tally worldwide since the pandemic began. With the country’s health infrastructure creaking under the strain, Bollywood movie superstars were spotted escaping to destinations including the Maldives, while at least three Australian cricketers have quit the Indian Premier League, the sport’s leading club tournament.Some of the impetus for the wealthy to fly out of India has come from overseas nations taking measures to restrict travel from the South Asian state as the new wave of Covid-19 cases has taken hold.Canada, Hong Kong, the United Arab Emirates and the UK are among more than a dozen states that have imposed curbs, with others poised to announce measures. The Maldives will restrict Indians from visiting all but a handful of resort-only islands from Tuesday, leading to a last-minute rush in departures.“There was a huge surge to London and Dubai just before the restrictions took place, and the Maldives too before they announced the ban,” said Mehra, who was previously the head of Indian operations at Qatar Airways.A one-way flight from New Delhi to Dubai costs as much as 1.5 million rupees ($20,000), including ground handling and other fees, though private-jet operators also charge for the return leg if the plane is empty, Mehra said.The exodus has echoes of last year, when India banned medical evacuation flights amid concern that the super-rich might falsely claim they need treatment in order to jet around the nation during lockdown after the government banned commercial services.While private fares were already high and haven’t generally been bumped up, the cost of airline tickets has climbed.Nishant Pitti, co-founder of Easy Trip Planners India, said there’s limited availability to locations such as London following a surge in bookings for “immediate travel.”One-way economy-class trips to Dubai are going for the equivalent of $1,300, more than 10 times the regular price, according to Mehra.“That shows how desperately people are trying to get away,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rich-indians-flee-by-private-jet-as-covid-19-infections-spiral-101619448267544.html
26-04-2021||India||DGCA extends fare cap on domestic flights, operations at 80% of pre-Covid level||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Monday extended the capping of fares on domestic flights till May 31 and limited capacity at 80% of pre-pandemic levels due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country. Last year, the aviation regulator put a cap on airfares after the resumption of flights following a lockdown imposed by the government due to the first wave of coronavirus pandemic in the country. DGCA also raised lower and upper limits on domestic airfares by 10 to 30% in February owing to a price rise in aviation turbine fuel.“In partial modification of circular dated 26-6-2020, the competent authority has further extended the validity of circular issued on the above subject regarding Scheduled International commercial passenger services to/from India till 2359 hrs IST of April 30. This restriction shall not apply to international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by DGCA,” it said in a circular.The aviation body last month also allowed 18,843 flights per week from 108 airports to operate under the summer schedule. “It may be noted that 18,843 departures per week have been finalised to/from 108 airports. Out of these 108 airports, Bareilly, Bilaspur, Kurnool and Rupasi are the new airports proposed by the scheduled airlines,” the DGCA informed in a tweet. It said that the decision was taken keeping in mind the limited occupancy inside flights due to the Covid-19 situation in the country. DGCA has also banned international flights till April 30.The DGCA has also asked airport authorities to take steps against people who are flouting Covid-19 norms and has also requested airlines to consider deboarding passengers who disagree with the Covid-19 preventative measures put in place to break the chain of transmission. “During the surveillance of some airports, it has come to notice that compliance of Covid-19 protocols is not satisfactory,” the regulator had highlighted in March.There have not been any changes to air travel due to lockdown-like measures imposed across several states in the country. People travelling to and from airports will be allowed to travel on showing their tickets which will be considered as e-pass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-extends-fare-cap-on-domestic-flights-operations-at-80-of-pre-covid-level-101619444008638.html
26-04-2021||India||Centre tells Serum Institute, Bharat biotech to lower their Covid vaccine prices||The central government on Monday asked the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech to lower the prices of their vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) ahead of the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive from May 1, news agency PTI reported citing sources. Monday’s request by the Centre came after a row erupted over the vaccine prices ahead of the third phase of the vaccination drive from May 1, when all adults will be eligible for the jabs.SII along with British pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca is producing Covishield while Bharat Biotech is making Covaxin in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Both the vaccines were granted approval for emergency use by the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) on January 3 this year.Also Read| 141.9 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered till date: GovtUnder the third phase, there will be two segments with regard to the supply of doses—vaccine manufacturers will supply 50 per cent of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) doses to the central government and will also be free to supply the remaining 50 per cent doses to the states and in the open market. State government hospitals and private hospitals can now directly purchase vaccine doses from the manufacturers.SII has said Covishield will be sold to states at ₹400 per dose while private hospitals will have to pay ₹600 per dose. Covaxin will be sold at ₹600 per dose to the state government hospitals and ₹1,200 for private hospitals, Bharat Biotech has said. However, the central government will purchase doses of both vaccines at ₹150 per dose.Also Read| ‘No reason why states must complain now’: Vardhan’s clarification on vaccinationThis led to the leaders of several opposition parties slamming the central government of procuring vaccine doses at cheaper prices and also accused the manufacturers of profiteering from it.However, dismissing all allegations, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday the central government will continue to give vaccine doses from its 50 per cent quota to the states and Union Territories (UTs) free of cost. In a four-page letter, Vardhan added this quota is also open for the private and the corporate sector to pool in their resources so that the combined effort can be deployed to inoculate every adult in this country in the earliest possible time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-tells-serum-institute-bharat-biotech-to-lower-their-covid-vaccine-prices-101619444078473.html
26-04-2021||India||CJI Ramana files police complaint over fake Twitter account||Chief Justice of India NV Ramana lodged a police complaint after a Twitter account on his name surfaced spreading false information on the social media platform, reports said on Monday. Justice NV Ramana, who was sworn in as the country’s 48th CJI last week, does not have a Twitter account or any account on other social media platforms.The fake Twitter handle was operational under the name-@NVRamanna. The handle had more than 5800 followers. It has now been deleted but 98 tweets were sent out since its inception, which is shown as May 2020. The last activity from the account was shown to be 10 hours ago when the user retweeted news agency ANI's tweet on Burj Khalifa lighting up with Indian Tricolor to show support to the country amid the prevailing Covid-19 situation.The account is reported to also have tweeted appreciation of national security advisor Ajit Doval after the US agreed to 'immediately' help India with essential medical supplies, especially with the raw material to boost Covishield vaccine production in the country. The tweet was later deleted. "Due to Ajit Doval's diplomacy, the US decided to supply raw materials to India #vaccination @PMOIndia," the deleted tweet read, according to NDTV.CJI Ramana was sworn in as the 48th Chief Justice by President Ram Nath Kovind last Saturday in a brief ceremony at Rashtrapati Bhavan. Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad were among those who attended the ceremony.Hailing from Andhra Pradesh, Justice Nuthalapati Venkata Ramana will remain the top judge of the country till August 26, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-ramana-files-police-complaint-over-fake-twitter-account-101619441089195.html
26-04-2021||India||Hospitals in Puducherry fully equipped to treat Covid patients: Soundararajan||Hospitals in the Union Territory of Puducherry are fully equipped to treat pandemic stricken patients and government was bearing the expenditure for their treatment in private hospitals, Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said on Monday.Talking to reporters after receiving a paracycling team from Chennai which had arrived here to spread Covid vaccination awarenes,the Lt Governor said hospitals, including government institutions, are fully equipped with beds, oxygen beds, medicines and other requirements.There are however statements from a section of people alleging there was shortage of beds and other amenities in the government hospitals, she said."I appeal to these people to refrain from making such incorrect statements as the government is keen to tackle the pandemic situation through coordinated efforts," the Lt Governor said.Health Secretary T Arun had already held talks with managements of private medical colleges and hospitals and assured them that expenses would be borne by the government.She also said voluntary organisations were also playing a proactive role in implementing measures to combat coronavirus here.A private enterprise had also donated 10,000 masks for distribution to the people.The Lt Governor said the government had tightened restrictions in the context of the lockdown solely to ensure that Covid-19 was driven away from the soil of Puducherry.She said there was no shortage of oxygen, beds and medicines and sustained efforts have resulted in confidence among the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hospitals-in-puducherry-fully-equipped-to-treat-covid-patients-soundararajan-101619443120126.html
26-04-2021||India||2 containers from Dubai being brought to carry oxygen: Home Ministry||Two containers for transportation of oxygen are being brought from Dubai, amid an increasing demand for medical oxygen in the country, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said on Monday.Earlier, four cryogenic tanks for transportation of oxygen were brought from Singapore on Saturday."IAF C-17 aircraft reached Dubai today to airlift more empty O2 containers to supplement efforts to enhance oxygen availability in current COVID-19 surge. Effort is being coordinated by MHA," a home ministry spokesperson tweeted.India is struggling with a second wave of the coronavirus infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds.Since Friday, the home ministry has been coordinating efforts to deploy empty oxygen tankers and containers in various filling stations across the country to speed up the distribution of the much-needed medical oxygen in treating COVID-19 patients.The coronavirus situation continues to be grim in India with 3,52,991 people testing positive and a record 2,812 deaths being reported on Monday.The central government is trying to source oxygen from different parts of the country and making it available in the worst-hit states by running special trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-containers-from-dubai-being-brought-to-carry-oxygen-home-ministry-101619443520159.html
26-04-2021||India||1 Covid patient can infect 406 if physical distancing measures are not followed, says govt||Inability to follow proper physical distancing measures can result in one person infecting 406 people with the SARS-CoV-2, the virus which causes the coronavirus disease, in the span of just 30 days, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Monday. “Research has shown if no physical distancing measures are followed, one person can infect 406 people in 30 days,” an official during a press briefing on the steps taken, preparedness and updates on Covid-19.Dr VK Paul, Niti Aayog’s member (health), urged citizens to not go out until absolutely necessary, wear masks even when at home and cautioned people against inviting outsiders. "In this Covid-19 situation, please don't go out unnecessarily, and even within the family wear a mask. It is very important to wear a mask. Do not invite people into your home," Dr Paul said. "Social distancing is key and masks and sanitisers reduce risks," he added."If exposure through physical distancing is reduced by 50% 1 person ends up infecting only 15 people instead of 406, reducing it by 75% means 1 individual can infect only 2.5 people. We request everyone to understand this aspect, and pay attention to both clinical management and infection control," Dr Paul added.Also Read: It's time to start wearing masks inside homes to prevent Covid-19, says govtA study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) found that a Covid-19 patient can infect 406 people in 30 days if preventive measures such as lockdown and social distancing are not properly implemented.By adopting proper preventive measures the possibility of the infection can be reduced to an average of just two-and-a-half people per infected individual in the same period, Lav Agarwal, joint secretary with the Union ministry of health, told reporters during a press briefing on April 8. Terming social distancing a “social vaccine” for the masses in Covid-19 management Agarwal asked people to abide by proper social distancing norms. “Hence, again request you to follow social distancing, it is a social vaccine in management of Covid-19,” he urged.The officials also cautioned against occupying hospital beds out of panic, asking people to get admitted only when their doctors recommend. "We have to reduce the number of cases and use hospital resources optimally. The judicious use of oxygen is very important. Right now, there is an unnecessary panic," AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-covid-patient-can-infect-406-if-physical-distancing-measures-are-not-followed-101619441843605.html
26-04-2021||India||After Kejriwal’s SOS over oxygen, Himachal CM says will help||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur said on Monday said he will send emergency supplies of oxygen to Delhi after his counterpart in the national capital sought help amid a massive shortage of the gas used to treat critical patients of the coronavirus disease. "On the request of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, our government will make emergency supplies of oxygen to Delhi. There is a huge oxygen crisis in the national capital due to the Covid-19 epidemic, which is worrying. Himachal will provide all possible help to Delhi in this hour of crisis," Thakur's tweet, in Hindi, read. Delhi chief minister thanked Thakur for the help.दिल्ली के मुख्यमंत्री अरविन्द केजरीवाल जी के आग्रह पर हमारी सरकार दिल्ली को ऑक्सीजन की आपातकालीन आपूर्ति करेगी।कोविड-19 महामारी के कारण राष्ट्रीय राजधानी दिल्ली में ऑक्सीजन का भारी संकट चल रहा है, जो चिंताजनक है।संकट की इस घड़ी में हिमाचल दिल्ली को हरसंभव सहायता प्रदान करेगा।Last week, Kejriwal sought help from the chief ministers of all states as Delhi’s hospitals were crippled with the massive shortage of oxygen. "I am writing to all CMs requesting them to provide oxygen to Delhi if they have spare. Though Central govt. is also helping us, the severity of corona is such that all available resources are proving inadequate," the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader tweeted on April 24.Also read: Oxygen should be used judiciously, there should be no leakage : AIIMS directorThe national capital is struggling with a paucity of essential drugs like Remidesivir to ICU beds, ventilators and medical oxygen as it is facing its fourth and the worst wave since the beginning of the pandemic. More than 20 people died recently in one of the hospitals in the Capital due to lack of oxygen supply, while major hospitals counted hours before they run out of their supplies.Hospitals across Delhi have been sending out SOS messages on social media flagging out the acute shortage of oxygen supply. The hospitals in the national capital had also moved Delhi high court on the depleting supply.Delhi, which is one of the worst-hit cities in the country, reported more than 24,000 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours on Sunday.Meanwhile, the Indian Railways said one of its Oxygen Expresses carrying 64.55 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) has left for Delhi from Chhattisgarh’s Raigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-kejriwal-s-sos-over-oxygen-himachal-cm-says-will-help-101619439707499.html
26-04-2021||India||It's time to start wearing masks inside homes to prevent Covid-19, says govt||The Centre on Monday said it's time people started wearing masks inside their homes as well to keep the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at bay as the country is battling the second wave of the pandemic. "It's time people start wearing masks inside their homes as well," said Dr VK Paul, Niti Aayog’s member (health), while briefing the press. The statement comes at a time when India is dealing with the deadlier, more infectious new wave of the pandemic, with hospitals in several states across the country reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of the rising number of infections.It's time people start wearing masks inside their homes as well: Govt on second wave of COVID-19In view of the worsening oxygen crisis in India, the central government said that rational use of oxygen is important, as are appropriate prescriptions for drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab. Dr Randeep Guleria, the chief of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi, said that "misuse" of oxygen is a major factor contributing to "unnecessary panic" among people over oxygen, causing a rush outside hospitals and a shortage of essential drugs and oxygen. "If the saturation is 94% or above, then there's no need to worry," the doctor said during a press briefing over the ongoing Covid-19 situation in the country.To drive home the idea that the second wave of the pandemic is considerably more infectious than the last, officials from the Union health ministry said that inability to follow proper physical distancing measures can result in one individual infecting 406 people in the span of just 30 days. Dr VK Paul, Niti Aayog’s member (health), urged citizens to not go out until absolutely necessary and wear masks even when amongst family members. He also cautioned against inviting outsiders into family homes.India's new coronavirus infections hit a record peak for a fifth day on Monday, as countries including Britain, Germany, and the United States pledged to send urgent medical aid to help battle the crisis overwhelming its hospitals.Meanwhile, India on Monday recorded more than 300,000 daily Covid-19 cases for the fifth day in a row, reaching a new record peak. Ten states—Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Delhi, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh—account for 74.5% of the total Covid-19 recoveries in India. Daily infections, recorded in the past 24 hours, rose to 352,991, with overcrowded hospitals in Delhi reportedly turning away patients after running out of supplies of medical oxygen and beds. Several countries, including Britain, Germany, and the United States have pledged to send urgent medical aid to help tackle the crisis that is overwhelming India's hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-to-start-wearing-masks-inside-homes-says-govt-101619437794353.html
26-04-2021||India||GPS tracking enabled for oxygen tankers to boost preparedness, says govt||The government on Monday said it is enabling real-time tracking for trains and trucks carrying oxygen tankers in order to prepare hospitals and decrease the amount of time taken to administer oxygen to Covid-19 patients who need it the most. An official of the Union ministry of home affairs said the Union ministry of road transport and highways has devised a system to track the status of tankers in real-time. “We were facing difficulties as we did not have an idea regarding where the tankers were and lacked preparation when the tankers arrived. We wanted to devise a method where the distribution of oxygen was done efficiently and accidents are also averted. The GPS tracking system will help us know when the tanker has left the plant and how far away it is from the destination allowing us to prepare when it arrives,” additional secretary Piyush Goyal said.He also said that the Indian Air Force’s participation has helped in making oxygen available to states which are badly affected by coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Empty tankers which are carried by aircraft have shortened the time span. Earlier trains and trucks were used to send empty oxygen tanks to production plants which took two to three days to reach, the journey has now decreased to a matter of two to three hours,” he said. He also highlighted that fully filled oxygen tanks cannot be carried by aircraft as it is not technically feasible and is also risky. He added that road transport and railways ministries are working round the clock to decrease the amount of time it is taking for oxygen to reach hospitals from production plants while reiterating that at this point oxygen should be treated as ambulances.The crisis of oxygen in several states and cities of India has led to several deaths as the nation battles a second wave of Covid-19. The Prime Minister at a review meeting has asked states and Union territories to work together and help each other with oxygen procurement. Delhi High Court has also asked stakeholders to ensure that lack of oxygen should not lead to more deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gps-tracking-enabled-for-oxygen-tankers-to-boost-preparedness-says-govt-101619438673359.html
26-04-2021||India||141.9 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered till date: Govt||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India stood at 141.9 million on Monday, setting an all-new record, according to the data shared by the health ministry. On Sunday, the country’s massive vaccination drive completed 100 days since its launch on January 16.Of the 14,19,11,223 vaccine doses administered through 20,44,954 sessions till 7am on Monday, 92,98,092 were first doses given to healthcare workers, 60,08,236 were second-time doses administered to HCWs, 1,19,87,192 doses were given to frontline workers who have received the first dose and 63,10,273 second dose.Also Read: How to register for vaccination. All you need to knowAs many as 4,98,72,209 citizens above the age of 60 have received the first dose of the vaccine and 79,23,295 have been inoculated with the second dose. The health ministry also said that 4,81,08,293 and 24,03,633 people aged between 45 and 60 years have been given the first and second doses of the vaccine.The states of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala account for 58.78% of the cumulative doses administered so far in the country, said the health ministry. Many of these states also account for a majority of the new Covid-19 cases recorded in the country on Monday.On the 100th day of the vaccination drive marked on Sunday, 995,288 vaccine doses were given in total. Out of which, 685,944 people were inoculated in 11,984 sessions with their first dose and 309,344 beneficiaries were given the second dose.India recorded 352,99 Covid-19 cases on Monday, marking the fifth consecutive day of the country reporting upwards of 300,000 cases a day. And, 2812 people also succumbed to the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1419-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-till-date-govt-101619439236785.html
26-04-2021||India||Young need to be more careful, suggests doctor amid raging Covid-19 second wave||As the country is struggling to combat the second wave of coronavirus pandemic, medical experts are spreading awareness about Covid-19 and vaccines against the viral disease. Experts suggest that the second wave is majorly impacting the younger generation and it is important to get vaccinated."Younger generation need to be very careful now. Young people with no comorbidities are dying. The second wave is seeing more of the younger generation, including children, getting affected,” Dr Shekhar Salkar of Manipal Hospitals said. "They don't even have symptoms of fever," Dr Salkar added while addressing a webinar on 'Why you Need to Get Vaccinated'.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Urging citizens to be careful, Dr Salkar said, "Covid has challenged health care systems and the economy. The 2nd wave has now set in with all its fury, we need to be very very careful."The second wave has hit the country terribly with healthcare reaching its capacity as a fresh record of infections are reported every day. The country on Monday registered the highest single-day spike of 352,991 fresh Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to over 17.3 million, the Union health ministry's data showed.The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has taken more than 195,000 lives in India to date but the massive hike in the rate of infections in the last two months led the nation to gasp for breath as hospitals are overwhelmed with cases and patients die due to lack of oxygen supply.Dr Salkar also advised other measures to stay safe amid the raging virus. He said one should wear a two or three-layered mask or double mask and that the chance of getting infected is more than one per cent even if a simple mask is worn. In a scenario where there are two people and only one of them is wearing a mask, the chance of infections goes up to 10 per cent, while it is 95 per cent when both are not wearing a mask.Surgical mask enough? It is advisable to wear a 2 or 3-layered mask or double-mask. Even if one wears a simple mask, chance of getting infected is < than 1%If there are 2 persons, where only 1 wears mask chance goes up to 10%; when both don't wear chance of infection is 95% pic.twitter.com/6OR0RvX1bSVaccination and following Covid safety protocol like washing hands regularly, maintaining social distance and wearing a mask are the only shields that can protect against the fatal virus. "Vaccine not only gives you immunity but it prevents you from the second infection Even if there is a 2nd infection, the rate of infection is extremely less. Deaths due to Covid (after getting vaccinated) is negligible," Dr Salkar said.India will begin the third phase of its vaccination drive on May 1, which will make every adult in the country eligible for the vaccine against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/young-need-to-be-more-careful-suggests-doctor-amid-raging-covid-19-second-wave-101619431570219.html
26-04-2021||India||Oxygen should be used judiciously, there should be no leakage: AIIMS director||AAs hospitals across India are reporting a shortage of oxygen to treat critical patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria said on Monday that it has to be used judiciously and hospitals must ensure there is no leakage of the gas.Addressing a press briefing along with the official of the Union health ministry, Guleria said, “At present, there is an unnecessary panic created among people. If people test positive for Covid-19 and are asymptomatic and their oxygen saturation is normal, they hospitalise themselves with a fear that they might need oxygen or a hospital bed in the future. Due to this, there is a huge rush outside hospitals and genuine patients suffer as they are unable to get proper treatment. Such assumptions are wrong.”Guleria also said that oxygen is an important treatment strategy for the Covid-19 disease and its misuse is also an important factor. He advised there is no need for people to take it if their oxygen saturation is above 94. “There is no point in using oxygen if your saturation is at 94 or 95 and further take it to 98 or 99. This is a misuse. We should ensure there is no misuse of the gas as it will be needed for some other person with saturation less than 90,” he added.Reiterating the fact that the antiviral drug Remdesivir does not save the lives of Covid-19 patients, the AIIMS director said the benefits of the drug are not well-established and cited a study from the United States which pointed out Remdesivir might reduce hospital stay but there is no mortality benefit from it.India’s Covid-19 disease caseload on Monday breached the 17 million mark after a record jump of 352,991 new cases was recorded in the last 24 hours. More than 2800 people succumbed to the disease during the same period, taking the death toll to 195,123 while 14,304,382 have recovered so far.With the oxygen crisis deepening in the country day by day, the Centre is undertaking measures to ramp up its supply such as banning its non-medical use, transporting oxygen tankers through the Indian Railways’ Oxygen Expresses and taking help from countries such as the US, the United Kingdom, European Union.During the health ministry’s press conference, an additional secretary of the Union home ministry Piyush Goyal said the Centre is ordering oxygen tankers from abroad on a purchase or hiring basis and also using real-time tracking to monitor its movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-should-be-used-judiciously-there-should-be-no-leakage-aiims-director-101619437521621.html
26-04-2021||India||Fly ash utilisation deadline extended for thermal power plants||The Union environment ministry has extended the deadline for thermal power plants to ensure 100% utilisation of fly ash by 3 to 5 years, according to a new draft notification issued by the ministry on April 22.It also gives 10 years to thermal power plants to utilise the unutilised fly ash, or legacy ash which is stored. For the first time, the notification has a provision of imposing fines on thermal power plants that don’t comply with the new timelines.The previous deadline for 100% fly ash utilisation was December 31, 2017, as per a notification issued by the ministry on January 25, 2016. As per the new draft notification, thermal power plants (TPP) with fly ash utilisation of 60% to 80% will get 4 years while those with fly ash utilisation of less than 60% will get 5 years’ time to ensure 100% fly ash utilisation.Non-compliant power plants will be slapped a fine of ₹1,000 per tonne on unutilised ash during the end of the deadline. Coal or lignite plants which are not able to utilise 100% of ash in the third year of the next three-year cycle, would be liable to pay a fine of ₹1,000 per tonne on the unutilised quantity.For legacy ash, if the coal- or lignite-based thermal power plant has not achieved utilisation equivalent of at least 20% (in the first year), 35% (in the second year), 50% (from third to tenth year) as stipulated in the notification, a fine of ₹1,000 per tonne of unutilised legacy ash during that financial year will be imposed. And, if the utilisation of legacy ash is not completed at the end of 10 years, a fine of ₹1,000 per tonne will be imposed on the remaining unutilised quantity.Also Read | Earth Day: A reminder there’s no plan(et) B“The new deadlines have been decided based on the current utilisation of fly ash at thermal power plants. The provision of fines has been made under the ‘polluter pays’ principle,” said a senior environment ministry official.“The fine collected by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) from the thermal power plants and other defaulters shall be used towards the safe disposal of the unutilised ash. The liability of ash utilisation shall be with TPPs even after imposition of fines on unutilised quantities,” the notification states.Ash generated from thermal power plants can be utilised for manufacturing brick /blocks/tiles; cement manufacturing, ready mix concrete; construction of road and fly over embankment; ash and geo-polymer-based construction material; construction of dam; filling up of low lying areas; filling of mine voids; manufacturing of sintered/ cold bonded ash aggregate etc.All agencies (government, semi government and private) engaged in construction activities such as road laying, road and flyover embankments, shoreline protection structures in coastal districts and dams within 300 km from the lignite/coal-based TPPs shall mandatorily utilise fly ash, provided it is delivered at the project site free of cost and transportation cost is borne by the thermal power plants. Thermal power plants may charge for ash cost and transportation as per mutually agreed terms, in case the plant is able to dispose the ash through other means and agencies make request to procure it.Also Read | 8 states most prone to climate crisis: Study“This notification is the most elaborate than any previous fly ash utilisation notifications that have been in place since the late 1990s in that it acknowledges legacy problems of fly ash non-utilisation and introduces fines for non-compliance. But it also falls short on some significant questions. Fly ash management is a financial problem for generators of fly ash which is what leads to indiscriminate dumping. It is also a result of hiding the amount of ash that will be generated by making operations appear acceptable while seeking pollution consents and environmental approvals. In places where ash dykes routinely leak, pipelines regularly burst, and fly ash is habitually dumped indiscriminately, impacts of fly ash are not only about technical compliance. It is a reality that affects ecology, public health and food security,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research.The environment ministry had last month issued new norms which give an extension of 1 to 3 years to all thermal power plants to comply with the emission norms. A Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) analysis had found that the penalty charged to companies for not complying with the extended deadline is lower than the cost of complying. CSE’s analysis showed that while installing the equipment for pollution control would cost between ₹40-100 lakh/MW, the penalty that thermal power plants would have to pay to keep running without installing the equipment is only ₹5-11 lakh/MW as per the new amendment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fly-ash-utilisation-deadline-extended-for-thermal-power-plants-101619436851227.html
26-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Armed forces to build Covid-19 provisions for civilians and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm on Monday (April 26, 2021). Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Armed forces to recall retired medics, build provisions for civilians to battle Covid-19Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Monday called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review preparations and operations being undertaken by the Indian Armed Forces to deal with the raging coronavirus pandemic, according to a government statement. Read MoreElection Commission is BJP’s parrot: West Bengal CM Mamata BanerjeeWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday attacked the Election Commission of India (EC) by calling it “BJP’s parrot” even as she welcomed the Madras high court’s remarks earlier in the day where it pulled up the poll panel for allowing political rallies amid the raging coronavirus pandemic across the country. Read MoreIndia, Japan PMs discuss cooperation to overcome Covid-19 challengesPrime Minister Narendra Modi and his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga on Monday discussed cooperation in key areas, including creating resilient supply chains and ensuring a reliable supply of critical materials, to overcome challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. Read MoreWatch: ITBP’s Covid Care Centre opens in Delhi with 500 oxygen-supported bedsA Covid care centre with 500 oxygen-supported beds run by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) began functioning from Monday with the admission of at least 25 patients, officials said. The facility, named Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel COVID Care Centre (SPCCC), has been opened in view of Delhi registering a sharp rise in coronavirus cases. Watch hereRandeep Hooda opens up on Bollywood's cold reaction to Extraction last year: 'Maybe they didn’t like my acting'On the one-year anniversary of his film Extraction, Randeep has opened up on starring in the film with Chris Hemsworth, the warm reaction he got from the audience, and also on how Bollywood did not seem too excited for it. Read MoreAustralian pacer Pat Cummins donates $50,000 to PM Cares Fund to help India in battle against Covid-19Australia and Kolkata Knight Riders fast bowler Pat Cummins has donated $50,000 to the PM Cares Fund to help in India's fight against Covid-19. Cummins said that he made the contribution to the fund to help the country to purchase oxygen supplies for hospitals. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-armed-forces-to-build-covid-19-provisions-for-civilians-and-all-the-latest-news-101619435889599.html
26-04-2021||India||Armed forces to recall retired medics, build provisions for civilians to battle Covid-19||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Monday called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review preparations and operations being undertaken by the Indian Armed Forces to deal with the raging coronavirus pandemic, according to a government statement. In addition to deploying additional medical officers, doctors and nurses at the hospitals, the armed forces are aiming to make military-grade medical infrastructure available to civilians, CDS Bipin Rawat informed the Prime Minister.Also Read: Indian Air Force ferries oxygen containers for Covid-19 relief“The CDS briefed the PM that all medical personnel from armed forces who have retired or taken pre-mature retirement in the last 2 years are being recalled to work in Covid facilities within proximity of their present place of residence. Other medical officers who retired earlier have also been requested to make their services available for consultation through medical emergency helplines," General Bipin Rawat informed the Prime Minister, according to the statement. He added that other medical officers who had retired earlier are also being requested to provide consultation through medical emergency helplines.Moreover, all medical officers currently on staff appointments at command headquarters, Corps headquarters, Division headquarters, and similar headquarters of the Indian Navy and Indian Air Force will be employed at hospitals. Nursing personnel is also being employed in large numbers to accompany the doctors at the hospitals, the PIB release cited CDS Rawat as saying.Regarding the current oxygen crisis in the country, General Bipin Rawat said that oxygen cylinders available with the armed forces in various establishments will be released for hospitals. Not just this, the armed forces are also planning to build medical facilities in large numbers to make potential military medical infrastructure available to the civilians.Watch: Indian Air Force’s C-17 aircraft airlifts cryogenic oxygen containersPrime Minister Modi reviewed the operations being undertaken by the IAF to transport oxygen and other essentials in India and abroad. He also asked the CDS to instruct Kendriya and Rajya Sainik Welfare Boards and officers posted in various headquarters to coordinate the services of veterans to extend the reach to remote areas.India is currently struggling with a more infectious second wave of the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of rising Covid-19 cases. The country recorded more than 300,000 coronavirus cases for the fifth day in a row on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-forces-to-recall-retired-medics-build-provisions-for-civilians-to-battle-covid19-101619432613837.html
26-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Mask, traffic violations shoot up in Maharashtra's Raigad in April||A total of 6,317 people have been fined ₹13.99 lakh for not wearing masks amid the coronavirus outbreak in April this year in Raigad in Maharashtra, police said on Monday.This is a huge rise from the 1,302 people who were penalised a cumulative sum of ₹4.72 lakh for mask violations in the district between March 1 last year and March 31, 2021, an official said.The official said, during the 13-month period, police registered 2.06 lakh offences for traffic violations and collected fines to the tune of ₹5.32 crore, whereas the number of cases registered in April this year stood at 13,599, the official added.The district police also informed that 2,149 out of its 2,308 personnel have been vaccinated against Covid-19 so far, comprising 157 officers and 1,992 constabulary.Raigad Superintendent of Police Ashok Dudhe said 532 police personnel in the district had contracted the infection, and four had died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-mask-traffic-violations-shoot-up-in-maharashtra-s-raigad-in-april-101619433791515.html
26-04-2021||India||India, Japan PMs discuss cooperation to overcome Covid-19 challenges||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga on Monday discussed cooperation in key areas, including creating resilient supply chains and ensuring reliable supply of critical materials, to overcome challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. During a phone conversation, the two leaders discussed the Covid-19 situation in each other’s country and close India-Japan cooperation to overcome regional and global challenges due to the pandemic. Such bilateral cooperation includes “working together to create resilient, diversified and trustworthy supply chains, ensuring reliable supply of critical materials and technologies, and developing new partnerships in manufacturing and skill development”, the external affairs ministry said in a readout. Also Read | Distrust of China brought India, Japan, Australia and US together: ReportThe two leaders emphasised the need for early operationalisation of the Specified Skilled Workers (SSW) agreement signed recently to synergise their strengths and achieve mutually beneficial outcomes. They also highlighted the Mumbai-Ahmedabad high speed rail (MAHSR) project as a “shining example of their cooperation and welcomed the steady progress in its execution”, the readout said. Modi and Suga appreciated the support and facilitation provided to resident citizens in each other’s country during the pandemic and agreed to continue such coordination. Modi also thanked Suga for providing aid to India to combat the pandemic, and expressed the hope he would be able to receive the Japanese prime minister in India in the near future after the Covid-19 situation stabilises. Suga recently called off a planned visit to India and the Philippines because of the Covid-19 situation. In January, Japan provided a loan of up to 30 billion yen (about ₹2,129 crore) to support the Indian government’s efforts to mitigate the socio-economic impacts of the pandemic. This was the latest addition to Japan’s support to India in its fight against Covid-19. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, Japan has provided a 50-billion yen (about ₹3,549 crore) loan to implement health and medical policies and develop hospitals equipped with ICUs and infection prevention and management facilities, and a grant of a billion yen (about ₹71 crore) to provide oxygen generators to treat Covid-19 patients in critical condition. Japan has also partnered with international organisations such as UNDP, UNICEF and UNHCR to provide assistance worth more than $7.26 million to the Indian government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-japan-pms-discuss-cooperation-to-overcome-covid-19-challenges-101619431330745.html
26-04-2021||India||Former PM Gowda writes to PM Modi, offer suggestions to curb Covid-19 infection||Former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, offering suggestions in order to contain the spread of Covid-19 across the country."I will support all constructive decisions and initiatives that the union government may take under your leadership, to contain the pandemic, spread the vaccination program, and save lives," Gowda said in a letter.The letter carried various suggestions and stated that "if the government decides to give vaccines free to all citizens, that would be a great humanitarian gesture"."The deadlines have to be created for people to get vaccinated as soon as state governments are confident of its vaccine stocks. Elected representatives at all levels have to be given specific targets to ensure vaccination in their respective constituencies.""Pricing of the vaccination should be done keeping in mind the poorest in the land. All barriers of identity proof should be dropped for poor people who come forward to get themselves vaccinated, the letter read."We should provide government job to one family member of Covid warriors who have lost their lives. Three months leave with salary for pregnant women working in the government sector should be considered," the formers prime minister stressed."All large public gatherings should be banned for the next six months. Steps should be taken immediately to curtail election victory celebrations in states that have gone to polls this month," he added.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 14.19 crore on Monday, the union health ministry has stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-pm-gowda-writes-to-pm-modi-offer-suggestions-to-curb-covid-19-infection-101619429604460.html
26-04-2021||India||Stricter curbs in place for 14 days in Karnataka beginning April 27||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday announced that stricter regulations across the state for two weeks, beginning Tuesday, April 27, in an attempt to contain the spread of Covid-19.“Strict measures to control the pandemic will be taken. From tomorrow (Tuesday) night, for the next 14 day, only essential commodity shops will be open from 6am-10am,” Yediyurappa said in Bengaluru after an over two-hour meeting with his Cabinet.The Yediyurappa government has refused to use the word ‘lockdown’ as it had earlier remarked that there would be no chance the state would relapse into such a situation but has enforced lockdown-like rules -- that include curtailing free movement of people except from 6am to 10pm everyday. Public transport will remain shut.“Regarding control of the pandemic, the Cabinet has taken decisions after consulting with an expert committee,” Yediyurappa said.Also Read | Oxygen shortage will force many health centres to shut: Karnataka CM to PM ModiHe added that all sectors, such as manufacturing, agriculture, construction, medical and essential goods, will continue to function except the garment factories where lakhs of people work side-by-side.“Agriculture sector, manufacturing sector, except garments, construction, medical and essential sector will continue to operate. All DCs and tahsildars [have been instructed] to take strict measures,” Yediyurappa said.The decision comes a day after Karnataka and its capital, Bengaluru, registered record single-day spikes with 34,804 and 20,733 new infections respectively. The positivity rate in Karnataka reached almost 20% in 24 hours on Saturday, raising concerns about the health crisis.Bengaluru accounted for 77 of the 143 fatalities reported on Sunday.The active cases in Karnataka stood at 262,162 of which Bengaluru accounts for 180,542, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.Yediyurappa also said that the curbs could be extended if the situation does not come under control within these 14 days.The chief minister also said that free vaccination will be provided at government hospitals for all adults from May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stricter-curbs-in-place-for-14-days-in-karnataka-beginning-april-27-101619430371038.html
26-04-2021||India||Covid Crisis: 7 steps India took to ramp up oxygen supply amid shortage||After the first wave last year, it appeared as though India’s response against coronavirus pandemic – barring a few hiccups like the migrant crisis - had largely worked. The Centre imposed a 68-day lockdown, the citizens abided – and the Centre and state governments used that time to strengthen the healthcare infrastructure, stocked up on ventilators, PPE kits, planned and initiated the vaccine drive. By mid February, it seemed that India had weathered the Covid-19 storm with its vaccine program well underway.And then the second Covid-19 wave hit. To say that we as a nation were caught unawares about this second 'Covid Tsunami' will be an understatement. At the government level – both Centre and state - we had dropped the guard. Politicians held mega election rallies, states delayed putting in place curbs that would have prevented spikes in infections, and people like you and me had started partying and vacationing thinking the worst was behind us.The wakeup call came only when the Covid-19 caseload spiked to a worrying high; overcrowded hospitals started raising oxygen SOSes, even turning patients away for lack of oxygen and beds. The tragic death of at least 20 Covid-19 patients of Jaipur Golden Hospital in northwest Delhi following a dip in oxygen pressure at the facility highlighted the scarcity. Heartbreaking visuals of mass cremations in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat exacerbated the ugly face of the ongoing pandemic.Over the last several days, there has been anger and demands that the Centre ensure adequate oxygen supply. The Centre has since swung into action.Here’s a look at the urgent steps initiated to address the shortage so that at least India does not lose more lives for lack of access to treatment than the virus itself.STEP 1: BANNING NON-MEDICAL USE OF LIQUID OXYGENIn order to ease the oxygen supply situation at hospitals treating Covid patients, the government on Sunday restricted the use of liquid oxygen to only medical use. The order also applies to the existing stock of liquid oxygen with manufacturing units. The government in its order has clarified that ‘No industry will be exempt from this order’.STEP 2: 551 PSA MEDICAL OXYGEN GENERATION PLANTS OKAYEDAgain on Sunday, the Centre approved allocation of funds for installation of 551 dedicated Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSO) Medical Oxygen Generation Plants inside public health facilities in the country. These plants will be established in identified Government hospitals in district headquarters.STEP 3: STATES ADVISED ON LOCAL CONTAINMENT ZONESThe Union health ministry on Sunday also issued local containment guidelines for districts that have reported a test positivity of 10% or more in the last one week, or have more than 60% occupancy of oxygen-supported or ICU beds. The Ministry stressed on local containment zones for 14 days with clear boundaries and stringent controls to stop the spread of the virus.STEP 4: RAILWAYS GEARS UP WITH OXYGEN EXPRESSMeanwhile, Indian Railways has stepped up operations of the Oxygen Express trains to transport liquid medical oxygen to various states across the country. An ‘oxygen express’ train carrying about 70 tonnes of medical oxygen from the Jindal Steel Works plant in Raigarh is expected to reach oxygen starved Delhi by tonight. More such plans are being chalked out to ferry oxygen to the capital.STEP 5: NAVY, IAF HELP TACKLE OXYGEN SHORTAGEThe Navy has also kicked off oxygen express ferries to island territories. On Sunday, INS Sharda transferred essential medical supplies to the Lakshadweep administration including 35 Oxygen cylinders, Rapid Antigen Detection Test kits, PPE gear and other items. The IAF has also been airlifting oxygen containers to filling stations to tackle oxygen shortage.STEP 6: ITBP RE-OPENS COVID CARE FACILITY IN DELHIThe Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) today reopened its Covid care centre in south Delhi with 500 oxygenated beds. This was the world's largest centre and was closed down in February this year. The facility has now been re-opened on the request of Delhi government to the Home Ministry.STEP 7: GLOBAL SUPPORT POURS INAnd finally, international support. Over the last 24 hours, the United States, Germany, UK and the European Union have shared their respective plans to provide assistance to India battling this severe pandemic. While the US has agreed to send raw materials needed for vaccine production in India, the UK has also announced sending life-saving medical equipment including ventilators and oxygen concentrator devices. German Chancellor Angela Merkel has also said that her government is "urgently" preparing a "mission of support" for India.Some experts are of the view that these urgent measures are coming a little late in the day and we should have been better prepared for the second wave. But we will have time for recriminations and blame games later. Right now the need of the hour is to step up as a collective to battle this massive spike in cases and save as many lives as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-crisis-7-steps-india-took-to-ramp-up-oxygen-supply-amid-shortage-101619427560949.html
26-04-2021||India||Govt won't import Covid-19 vaccines, leaving it to states: Report||India's government will not import Covid-19 vaccines itself but expects states and companies to do so, two government officials told Reuters, a decision that may slow acquisitions of shots just as a second wave of the pandemic rips through the country.They said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government would instead aim to support domestic vaccine makers by guaranteeing purchases from them. The government this month paid Indian vaccine makers in advance, for the first time, for supply of doses.After cases began soaring this month, Modi's government urged Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson to seek permission to sell their shots in India, and he relaxed rules for them.But the sources said New Delhi was now leaving it up to India's states and companies to sign deals with foreign drugmakers while it buys in bulk most of the output of domestic producers - the Serum Institute of India, which is manufacturing the Anglo-British AstraZeneca vaccine, and Bharat Biotech, the maker of a home-grown shot.India's new coronavirus caseload hit a record daily peak for a fifth day on Monday as countries including Britain, Germany and the United States pledged to send urgent medical aid to help tackle the crisis overwhelming its hospitals.'The worst-hit state, Maharashtra, has said it will float a global tender to import vaccines. It is the richest state in India but many poorer ones may fall behind without financial support from the federal government to buy doses from abroad."The situation is desperate," one of the government officials, told Reuters. "India will allow import of vaccines" by local partners of the drug companies but the federal government "won’t buy".The second government official said: "I don't think the government will be buying foreign vaccines."Both officials have direct knowledge of the matter but declined to be named due to the sensitivity of the issue.The ministries of external affairs, health and commerce did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Pfizer has said it is talking to Modi's government about vaccines. J&J has sought approval to conduct a small local trial but made no plans to market its vaccine in India. Moderna has not commented.Under fire for his uneven handling of the world's worst Covid-19 surge, Modi has opened vaccinations for all adults from next month but supplies are already running short.India has administered nearly 140 million doses to its frontline workers and those aged above 45 years. About 118 million people have received at least one dose of the vaccine, which is only about a tenth of the 1.35 billion population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-won-t-import-covid-19-vaccines-leaving-it-to-states-report-101619428379471.html
26-04-2021||India||Claims of black pepper, honey, ginger curing Covid-19 is fake, tweets PIB||The Press Information Bureau (PIB) took to Twitter on Sunday to check the fact on a claim that has been going around on social media about black pepper, ginger, and honey offering cure for Covid-19 disease. The post claims that this home remedy was discovered by a student of Pondicherry University and has been approved by the World Health Organization (WHO). None of which PIB said were true.“It is being claimed in the news that a student of Pondicherry University has found home remedies for Covid-19 and it has also been approved by WHO. Do not share such confusing messages. Trust only the official sources for the correct information related to,” PIB tweeted on April 25.Although ginger, honey, and black pepper have been known to help with common cold there is no scientific proof of it helping to fight Covid-19. WHO has also not approved of any home remedies for Covid-19 till date.PIB had fact-checked a similar claim of onions and rock salt curing Covid-19. “In a viral post and audio on social media it is being claimed that intake of rock salt with raw onion helps in recovering from Covid-19. This claim is fake. There is no scientific evidence that raw onion and rock salt intake can treat Covid-19,” the bureau had tweeted on April 21.India recorded upwards of 3,00,000 daily Covid-19 cases for the fifth consecutive day. The country has been witnessing an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases as the second wave wreaks havoc on the nation’s healthcare. People everywhere are desperate for a cure and are settling for unvetted methods of prevention circulating online every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/claims-of-black-pepper-honey-ginger-curing-covid-19-is-fake-tweets-pib-101619427423854.html
26-04-2021||India||Australia to send oxygen, ventilators, PPE to India as part of immediate support package||Australia will send oxygen, ventilators and personal protective equipment to India as part of an immediate support package to the country which is battling with the latest surge of the Covid-19 cases, Health Minister Greg Hunt said on Monday.The federal government was in the process of considering what it could send to help, the Australian Broadcasting Corporation news channel quoted Hunt as saying."India is literally gasping for oxygen," the federal health minister said.“And while we can assist with the national medical stockpile, their particular request is for assistance with regards to the physical supply of oxygen. That will be one of the things we are looking at, in particular with the states,” the minister said.The federal government also confirmed to send oxygen, ventilators and personal protective equipment to India as part of an immediate support package to be announced on Tuesday, according to the report.However, Australia would not send vaccines.Hunt further said: ''We are in a strong position on that front because we don't need them at this point in time. We will still keep a reserve, but if they can be of assistance (they will be donated)."The National Security Committee of Cabinet is set to meet on Tuesday to discuss any assistance for India, as well as any extra steps that may need to be taken to minimise the risk of infections spreading to Australia.The government was also considering banning all flights from India following the massive spike of coronavirus cases in the country.The Cabinet meeting will discuss temporarily halting all repatriation flights out of India.The move could affect thousands of people, including Australian cricketers currently playing in the Indian Premier League in India.Foreign Affairs Minister Marise Payne, Australia’s ambassador to India Barry O’Farrell and officials from the Health Department, the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, and the Department of Home Affairs were holding discussions over recent days on how to deal with the emerging situation.India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds.India's tally on Monday climbed to 1,73,13,163 while active cases crossed the 28-lakh mark, with 3,52,991 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, the highest so far, the Health Ministry said.The death toll rose to 1,95,123 with a record 2,812 new fatalities, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australia-to-send-oxygen-ventilators-ppe-to-india-as-part-of-immediate-support-package-101619425049464.html
26-04-2021||India||Tamil Nadu allows Sterlite Plant in Thoothukudi to reopen for 4 months to produce oxygen||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday allowed Vedanta’s Sterlite copper plant in Thoothukudi district to reopen for the sole purpose of producing oxygen, officials said. The plant will be allowed to operate temporarily for only four months, which is subject to extension on a need basis, they added. The decision was taken after an all-party meeting.The Sterlite Plant in Thoothukudi was closed by the Tamil Nadu government in May 2018 for the violation of environmental norms.Officials said the production of oxygen in the plant will be monitored by a panel and supply to Tamil Nadu would be prioritised. While the state earlier opposed the plea by Vedanta Limited to reopen the plant, the change in stance comes after the demand for medical oxygen has increased due to the Covid-19 crisis in the country.Also read | Covid Crisis: 7 steps India took to ramp up oxygen supply amid shortage“As per the Supreme Court directive, the power supply may be allowed for Vedanta's Sterlite Industries in Tuticorin for four months to repair and operate oxygen producing and related equipment only,” it was resolved during an all-party meeting, news agency PTI reported.Earlier in the day, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami chaired the all-party meeting to discuss the re-opening of the plant for the production of medical grade oxygen, ANI reported. Leaders of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and other opposition parties attended the meeting in Chennai. The meeting came after a plea by Vedanta Limited in the Supreme court last Thursday (April 22) saying that the plant should be allowed to operate to produce 1000 tonnes of oxygen, which could be given for free to treat Covid-19 patients, according to news reports. However, the TN government opposed the plea and also mentioned that the top court earlier rejected appeals to reopen the plant.The Supreme Court last Friday also considered the possibility of the state government taking over the plant for the production of oxygen, highlighting that "people are dying due to lack of oxygen." Emphasising the need to produce oxygen, the bench headed by the then chief justice SA Bobde noted,” We are not interested that Vedanta or A, B or C runs it. We are interested that oxygen should be produced. Somebody should say something concrete because people are dying due to lack of oxygen," news agency PTI reported.“We have absolutely no problem if the state of Tamil Nadu take over the plant and produce oxygen. Why are they not producing oxygen when people need it?” the bench also asked, according to PTI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-allows-sterlite-plant-in-thoothukudi-to-reopen-for-4-months-to-produce-oxygen-101619426060391.html
26-04-2021||India||How Biden admin changed stance on supply of vaccine raw materials to India||US President Joe Biden on Monday took to Twitter to say that his administration is determined for India to tide over the crisis of coronavirus as the country has been witnessing more than 300,000 daily cases of infection for the fifth straight day. His administration has assured India to supply raw materials required by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) to ramp up the production of Covishield vaccines.“Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, we are determined to help India in its time of need,” Biden posted from the official Twitter handle of the POTUS.Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, we are determined to help India in its time of need. https://t.co/SzWRj0eP3yEarlier curbs on export of raw materialsThe United States had in February invoked the Defense Production Act, which gives the power to control the distribution of products, to curb the export of raw materials critical for vaccine production.External affairs minister S Jaishankar raised the matter with secretary of state Antony Blinken when they spoke on April 19; the same was also taken up in Washington by Indian envoy Taranjit Singh Sandhu.However, the US defended the curbs saying the Biden Administration’s priority is to meet the vaccine requirements of the American people.At that time, US state department spokesperson Ned Price had pointed to arrangements between the US and the members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad on vaccine production, including increasing production capacity in India, but did not say whether or when the US would ease curbs on export of vaccine raw materials.Why did the US block the export?In November last year, American pharmaceutical company Pfizer Inc. cut short its vaccine production target by half, citing a shortage of raw material. Pfizer, which is producing mRNA Covid-19 vaccines, had earlier planned to roll out over 1.2 billion shots in 2021 but reduced the target by half due to raw material shortage in the United States and Europe.The revised target was a major hindrance to Biden’s poll promise of administering 100 million vaccination shots in his first 100 days in office. The US government has purchased 600 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines from both Pfizer Inc. and Moderna Inc., which will be delivered in regular increments through the end of July 2021. In order to accelerate vaccine production, the Biden administration decided to invoke the Defense Production Act for the short term.Appeal by India to lift the banThe matter was taken up by Indian Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu soon after the Defense Production Act was invoked by President Joe Biden in February. External affairs minister S Jaishankar raised it with secretary of state Antony Blinken when they spoke last week.Hindustan Times reported that the US side has promised to “give the matter due consideration” and to work with India to “find appropriate solutions”, according to the people cited above.Earlier this month, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla had urged US President Joe Biden to lift the export ban on raw materials required for the production of vaccines against the coronavirus disease.Change of stance by Biden AdministrationPresident Biden’s post on the microblogging platform comes close on the heels of India’s national security advisor Ajit Doval's telephonic conversation with his US counterpart Jake Sullivan on Sunday.“The United States has identified sources of specific raw material urgently required for Indian manufacture of the Covishield vaccine that will immediately be made available for India,” said a statement issued by NSC spokesperson Emily Horne on Sullivan’s conversation with Doval.The statement also said the US is working “around the clock to deploy available resources and supplies”.The U.S. is deeply concerned by the severe COVID outbreak in India. We are working around the clock to deploy more supplies and support to our friends and partners in India as they bravely battle this pandemic. More very soon.A statement by the White House on the conversation between Doval and Sullivan further read, “To help treat Covid-19 patients and protect front-line health workers in India, the United States has identified supplies of therapeutics, rapid diagnostic test kits, ventilators, and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) that will immediately be made available for India. The United States also is pursuing options to provide oxygen generation and related supplies on an urgent basis.”Fund to boost vaccine productionThe US also said the US Development Finance Corporation (DFC) is funding a substantial expansion of manufacturing capability for BioE, the vaccine manufacturer in India, enabling BioE to ramp up to produce at least 1 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines by the end of 2022.“Additionally, the United States is deploying an expert team of public health advisors from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and USAID to work in close collaboration with the US Embassy, India’s health ministries, and India’s Epidemic Intelligence Service staff,” it said.The USAID and the CDC will also “fast-track the mobilisation of emergency resources available to India through the Global Fund”.Voices of solidarity for IndiaThe US Vice-President also took to Twitter to reaffirm her country’s support for India to fight the pandemic and lauded the healthcare workers.The U.S. is working closely with the Indian government to rapidly deploy additional support and supplies during an alarming COVID-19 outbreak. As we provide assistance, we pray for the people of India—including its courageous healthcare workers.Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi called the Biden Administration's commitment to export raw materials needed for life-saving vaccines to India as an “essential first step”.The Biden Administration's commitment to export raw materials needed for life-saving vaccines to India is an essential first step, but we must double down by also shipping AstraZeneca vaccine doses, oxygen concentrators, and other supplies in our stockpiles not being used. pic.twitter.com/YaZrGXOwzeLast week, the Indian-American Congressman called on President Biden's administration to release doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine to countries currently experiencing massive and deadly surges in the spread of Covid-19, including India."We are currently sitting on close to 40 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine in the US stockpile, a stockpile which we're not using and which we've already opened to combat Covid19 in Mexico and Canada," Krishnamoorthi said in a statement.India gets global supportMedical support to India from countries like the US, France, UAE, Denmark, Singapore Israel and some EU nations has started to come in as New Delhi stood firm with the democratic world in supply of much needed drugs and vaccines.On Monday, 318 oxygen concentrators were dispatched from New York to India on a special Air India flight to New Delhi.ALSO READ: Vaccine Maitri pays off, US medical supplies on way to IndiaIndian Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu thanked both US Secretary of State Tony Blinken and Sullivan for their prompt response. "Thank you Sullivan for your reach out and support. We will fight the global pandemic through our collective action!" he said in a tweet.He also praised US deputy secretary of state Wendy R Sherman for standing by the India.Thank you @DeputySecState . India and the US will work together to ensure health and safety for all! https://t.co/iCeEZBORTtMore than 141 million vaccine doses have been administered, including 995,288 in the previous 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare dashboard on Monday morning. Two vaccines that are being used currently include Oxford University-AstraZeneca shot, manufactured in India as Covishield by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, the country's only indigenous vaccine against the disease. A third shot, Russia's Sputnik V, was given emergency use authorisation earlier this month.India on Sunday reported 352,991 new cases of coronavirus infection and 2,812 fatalities, taking the active cases for the first time above the 17-million mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-biden-admin-changed-stance-on-supply-of-vaccine-raw-materials-to-india-101619422507220.html
26-04-2021||India||Odisha: 4 journalists succumbed to Covid in April so far||At least four journalists in Odisha succumbed this month to Covid-19, amid the second wave of the disease.Amjad Badshah, 45, died on Sunday afternoon after battling the virus for 18 days after testing positive on April 7. He worked for several TV channels and also wrote for fortnightly news magazine Down to Earth. He was also consulting editor for NFTV Media, a firm established in July last year.Two days earlier on Friday, two journalists from Ganjam district succumbed to the disease. One of them, 25-years old Govinda Behera, a resident of Kukudakhandi block, was employed with news portal News 6; while the second victim, Manoj Sahoo, a resident of Chikiti block, was a reporter for Odia daily ‘Nitidin’.Behera was first quarantined after showing Covid symptoms and then admitted to the Maharaja Krishna Chandra Gajapati (MKCG) Medical College & Hospital in Berhampur town after testing positive. He died later in the day after his oxygen level dropped. Fifteen minutes after his death, his uncle too succumbed to the virus.Manoj Sahoo also died while being treated at the MKCG Covid Hospital. The same day, 46-year-old Jatish Khamari, reporter of Odia daily Sambad in Balangir district, too succumbed to Covid in a private hospital in Bhubaneswar.Last year, four journalists, including a Bhubaneswar TV channel reporter, succumbed to Covid. The Naveen Patnaik government later gave ₹15 lakh ex-gratia to the families of three deceased journalists.According to the Press Emblem Campaign (PEC), since the beginning of March last year, 585 journalists have died in 57 countries due to Covid. India is the second-most affected with 53 deaths, preceded only by Peru with 93 deaths.On Sunday, Vivek Bendre, The Hindu’s senior Mumbai-based photojournalist, succumbed to Covid. Early this week, Chanchal Pal Chauhan of Economic Times too fell to the disease. In Puducherry, K Dharmaraj alias Bharath (34), a video journalist with Polymer TV died due to Covid-19 on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-4-journalists-succumbed-to-covid-in-april-so-101619426110340.html
26-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi says all countrymen should get Covid-19 vaccine for free||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday demanded the central government of providing free vaccination for all citizens against Covid-19, saying "do not make India the victim of the BJP system"."Enough of discussion. Countrymen should get the vaccine free. Do not make India the victim of the BJP system," Gandhi said in a tweet.Many states, including Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Haryana, Odisha, Jharkhand and West Bengal and others, have decided to provide free vaccines to the people in their respective states.The Centre on April 19 had announced a ''liberalised'' policy, making all above 18 years of age eligible to get vaccinated from May 1. It has also allowed state governments and private hospitals to purchase vaccines from manufacturers.As per the central government, manufacturers of Covid-19 vaccines will be free to supply 50 per cent doses to state governments and in the open market, for which they will have to make an advance declaration of the price before May 1.A total of 3,52,991 new Covid-19 cases, 2,812 related deaths and 2,19,272 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total active cases to 28,13,658, as per the health ministry update on Monday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-says-all-countrymen-should-get-covid-19-vaccine-for-free-101619424204182.html
26-04-2021||India||New Covid-19 restrictions in Tamil Nadu from today: List of what’s allowed and what’s not||Tamil Nadu state government on Saturday (April 24) announced new Covid-19 related restrictions which came into effect from 4am on Monday. Measures, including e-registration for travellers from other states have been brought back in the state which has been witnessing more than 10,000 cases of coronavirus disease since April 18.With the new restrictions in place now, here is a look at what is allowed and what is not in the southern state:What’s allowed?Also read | Tamil Nadu imposes new restrictions; gatherings at weddings, cremations cappedWhat’s not allowed?The state reported 15,659 new cases of the coronavirus infection on Sunday while 82 patients lost their lives. The total confirmed cases stood at 1,081,988 cases and the death toll rose to 13,557. A night curfew and a Sunday-curfew were imposed previously to control the spread of the disease in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-19-restrictions-in-tamil-nadu-from-today-list-of-what-s-allowed-and-what-s-not-101619424344962.html
26-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Puri bans funeral of bodies from other districts at Swargadwar, Sambalpur ramps up cremation capacity||The capacity of the main crematorium in Odisha's Sambalpur is being increased as the number of Covid deaths saw a steep rise, an official said.Three more crematoria beds are being added to the existing facility in Rajghat so that 13 bodies could be cremated at one go, he said.The waiting time for cremation will reduce considerably with the increase in the capacity, said Enforcement Officer of Sambalpur Municipal Corporation (SMC) Subhankar Mohanty.The civic body has also started cremating bodies of Covid patients at another crematorium, Santidham, so that the burden on Rajghat is reduced, he said.The crematorium is witnessing a huge rush since the onset of the second wave of Covid-19, said a staffer of Rajghat."I have never seen queues for cremation here before. On many occasions, the people are being forced to wait for hours. Under this circumstance, the electric crematorium of the Rajgaht has also gone out of order, making our job more difficult," he said.Around 20-22 bodies are being cremated at Rajghat daily, sources said.In Puri, the district authorities have imposed restrictions on the cremation of bodies from outside the district at Swargadwar, the 'divine' crematorium of the holy town.The decision was taken following a steady rise in Covid cases in the district, said Puri Sub-Collector Bhabataran Sahoo."Cremation of bodies from outside Puri district has been banned for now. The bodies from only Puri district will be allowed for cremation at Swargadwar on the condition that the person must not have died of Covid," he added.The district administration has also imposed restrictions on immersion of ashes or 'Asthi Visarjan' at 'Mahodadhi' (Bay of Bengal).The state government has also restricted the number of people who could take part in funeral rituals with only 20 persons being allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-puri-bans-funeral-of-bodies-from-other-districts-at-swargadwar-sambalpur-ramps-up-cremation-capacity-101619422652124.html
26-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Gurugram launches free consultation with doctors on Zoom and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Gurugram launches free doctor consultation for two hours on Zoom as Covid-19 cases growIn view of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in India, the district administration of Gurugram in Haryana announced it is launching a novel initiative for its citizens -- free doctor consultation for two hours, virtually on Zoom. Read MoreBihar Covid-19: Patna hospitals grapple with oxygen short-supplyOxygen shortage continued to cripple treatment of Covid patients in both private and government hospitals in Patna as attendants with patients ran from one hospital to another in search of the life-sustaining gas on Sunday. Read MoreUS returned the favour with Covid-19 aid package for India, says BidenUS President Joe Biden on Sunday made it clear that the assistance offered by his administration to India to combat Covid-19 is in exchange for India’s aid earlier. Read More2nd Oxygen Express reaches Uttar Pradesh with 60,000 litres of life saving gasThe second Oxygen Express loaded with 60,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) reached Charbagh Railway Station in Lucknow on Monday morning to meet a shortage of the life-sustaining gas in hospitals treating severe Covid-19 patients across Uttar Pradesh. Read MoreRCB bowlers Adam Zampa, Kane Richardson pull out of IPL 2021, set to return to AustraliaRoyal Challengers Bangalore received a big blow on Monday after two Australia stars Kane Richardson and Adam Zampa announced that they will be pulling out of the ongoing season of the Indian Premier League, and will be returning to Australia. Read MoreAnnoyed Chadwick Boseman fans turn on Anthony Hopkins for 'ruining' Oscars: 'It's the producers' fault'One of the biggest changes introduced to the 93rd Academy Awards was the restructuring of the sequence in which the categories were presented. Read MoreMalaika Arora suggests 3 Yoga exercises to say ‘hello’ to radiant skin | WatchEncouraging fans to purify blood as they workout this Monday, Bollywood actor and fitness enthusiast Malaika Arora spilled the beans on three Yoga exercises that say “hello” to radiant skin. Read MoreWatch: Indian Air Force’s C-17 aircraft airlifts cryogenic oxygen containersThe Indian Air Force airlifted cryogenic oxygen containers for recharging from Gwailor to Ranchi. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-gurugram-launches-free-consultation-with-doctors-on-zoom-and-all-the-latest-news-101619419696239.html
26-04-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 active caseload accounts for 16.25% of overall cases; 8 states add almost 70%, says govt||The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday said there are as many as 2,813,658 active cases of the coronavirus disease currently in the country, which constitutes 16.25% of the total confirmed cases so far. This is an increase of 130,907 cases from the 2,682,751 active cases reported on the previous day.Also, eight states contribute almost 70% to the national tally of active cases, the ministry noted. Maharashtra with 700,207 active cases, Uttar Pradesh with 297,616 cases, Karnataka with 262,181 cases, Kerala with 219,221 cases, Rajasthan with 136,702 cases, Chhattisgarh with 123,835 cases, Gujarat with 115,006 cases and Tamil Nadu with 105,180 cases remain the top eight contributors and account for 69.67% of India’s active caseload, the latest data from the ministry showed.Also read | India sees record 352,991 new Covid-19 cases, highest single day death toll of 2812Earlier on April 1, the active caseload stood at 614,696 and accounted for 4.78 per cent of India’s total confirmed cases. However, due to the rapid increase in the number of new infections in the second wave of the pandemic, it crossed the one-million-mark on April 10, when 1,046,631 active cases were reported.The daily increase in the active cases has remained upwards of at least 60,000 cases since April 8 and upwards of at least 100,000 cases since April 14 (with an exception on April 16, when active caseload surged by 97,866 cases). The worst single-day spike in active cases this month was reported on April 23, when it increased by 137,188 cases in a time span of 24 hours.Maharashtra continues to remain the worst-affected state in terms of the total confirmed cases as well as the active caseload. The state currently has 700,207 active cases which is 24.88 per cent of India’s active caseload as of date.Watch | Oxygen Express with 4 tankers to reach Delhi amid shortage in hospitals﻿Among its districts, Pune (107,503 cases), Nagpur (80,624 cases), Thane (79,888 cases), Mumbai (75,498 cases) and Nashik (42,898 cases) remained the top five contributors to the state’s active caseload tally, as shown by a state health department bulletin on Sunday.Meanwhile, India reported over 300,000 new infections (352,991 cases to be exact) of the coronavirus disease for the fifth straight day on Monday. So far, 17,313,163 positive cases have been detected in the country. Also, 2,812 patients lost their lives to the disease which pushed the death toll to 195,123, the Union health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-active-caseload-accounts-for-16-25-of-overall-cases-8-states-add-almost-70-says-govt-101619419257964.html
26-04-2021||India||Google to contribute ₹135 crore for Covid-19 fight in India: Sundar Pichai||Amid an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases in India, Google will be providing funding of ₹135 crore for medical supplies and to help communities in general, informed CEO Sundar Pichai on Monday.CEO of Google and Alphabet, Pichai tweeted, "Devastated to see the worsening Covid crisis in India. Google & Googlers are providing ₹135 Crore in funding to @GiveIndia, @UNICEF for medical supplies, orgs supporting high-risk communities, and grants to help spread critical information."India reported 3.52 lakh fresh coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours. This is the highest single-day spike registered since the onset of the pandemic.Pichai's tweet also had a link to a blog where Google detailed ways to help in with their efforts to fight the worsening situation.On the blog, Sanjay Gupta, country head and VP, Google India wrote, "Today we're announcing ₹135 crore (USD 18 million) in new funding for India. This includes two grants from Google.org, Google's philanthropic arm, totalling ₹20 crore (USD 2.6 million). The first is to GiveIndia to provide cash assistance to families hit hardest by the crisis to help with their everyday expenses. The second will go to UNICEF to help get urgent medical supplies, including oxygen and testing equipment, to where it's needed most in India. It also includes donations from our ongoing employee giving campaign -- so far more than 900 Googlers have contributed ₹3.7 Crore (USD 500,000) for organizations supporting high-risk and marginalized communities."Moreover, Gupta also informed about Ad Grant support for public health information campaigns."This funding also includes increased Ad Grant support for public health information campaigns. Since last year, we've helped MyGov and the World Health Organization reach audiences with messages focused on how to stay safe and facts about vaccines. We're increasing our support today with an additional ₹112 Crore (USD 15 million) in Ad Grants to local health authorities and non-profits for more language coverage options," said Gupta."Google is already helping India with its core information products like Search and Maps, YouTube and Ads. Covid features on Search are available in India, in English and eight Indian languages, that continue to improve localization and highlight authoritative information."This includes information on where to get testing and vaccines. Maps and Search surface thousands of vaccine sites. Google is also collaborating closely with the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, and with organizations like the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, to support vaccine awareness initiatives," he added.On YouTube, Google is supporting the Indian government in their vaccine communication strategy. It ran a workshop for 200 health officials to learn how they can use YouTube to reach audiences across Indian languages with vaccine information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/google-to-contribute-rs-135-crore-for-covid-19-fight-in-india-sundar-pichai-101619419039349.html
26-04-2021||India||US returned the favour with Covid-19 aid package for India, says Biden||US President Joe Biden on Sunday made it clear that the assistance offered by his administration to India to combat Covid-19 is in exchange for India’s aid earlier. He added the US was “determined” to help India, seeking to push back on narrative that his administration was late to come to India’s rescue.“Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, we are determined to help India in its time of need,” Biden wrote in a tweet Sunday, re-tweeting a post from his National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, who announced the assistance after a phone call with his Indian counterpart Ajit Doval.People familiar with the discussions leading up to the announcement on both sides echoed the framing of the assistance as a gesture between partners, with the US returning the favour this time.Biden did not specify in the tweet, but he meant the assistance announced by his administration Sunday was similar in nature — and reciprocal — to the lifting of an export ban by India to release a consignment of hydroxychloroquine by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in April last year at the personal urging of President Donald Trump.Hydroxychloroquine, an antimalarial drug, was being used as a prophylactic in some quarters against the virus that causes Covid-19. President Trump however, touted it as a “game changer” in his bid to put behind the epidemic, which he saw as a drag on his re-election chances.Trump forced Modi to release a consignment of hydroxychloroquine last April despite the export ban, with a threat of retaliation. India made an exception for Trump and released the consignment. He subsequently took a course of the drug after a possible exposure.Also Read | 10 states account for 74.5% of new Covid-19 cases in India. All you need to knowThe exception made by Modi then was similar to the one made by Biden to release raw materials for vaccines, in contravention of restrictions in force since February, when Biden had invoked the Defense Production Act to make it mandatory for American suppliers of these raw materials to prioritise orders placed by American buyers, over those by outsiders, such as India.“Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, the United States is determined to help India in its time of need,” US national security council spokesperson Emily Horne said, announcing US support and supplies for India.People familiar with these talks and developments said the first shipments of US supplies announced Sunday could be landing in India as earlier as this week, including the most urgently pressing of them all: oxygen, which has been in short supply in hospitals around the country in India.The United States and India are looking at four options currently on how best to address this issue: oxygen concentrators, which are fan-like devices that enhance oxygen content in a room; oxygen generator plants, small units to supply small clusters of recipient structures such as hospital; oxygen cylinders, which are apparently in short supply in India; and containers to ship oxygen, like the cryogenic container supplied to India by Singapore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-returned-the-favour-with-covid-19-aid-package-for-india-says-biden-101619417590144.html
26-04-2021||India||10 states account for 74.5% of new Covid-19 cases in India. All you need to know||The central government on Monday released the list of ten states and union territories in India which account for 74.5% of all the new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases being reported in the country. According to the government, Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 66,191. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 35,311 new Covid-19 cases and Karnataka with 34,804 daily cases. Kerala, Delhi, and West Bengal are next, with 28,469 cases, 22,933 cases, and 15,889 cases daily, respectively. Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh occupy the last four positions in the list of ten states with the highest new cases, showing a single-day spike of between 15,000 to 13,000 Covid-19 cases.Also Read: India sees record 352,991 new Covid-19 cases, highest single day death toll of 2812Here are the ten states with the highest daily spikes in Covid-19 cases in India:1. Maharashtra (66,191 cases)2. Uttar Pradesh (35,311 cases)3. Karnataka (34,804 cases)4. Kerala (28,469 cases)5. Delhi (22,933 cases)6. West Bengal (15,889 cases)7. Rajasthan (15,809 cases)8. Tamil Nadu (15,659 cases)9. Gujarat (14,296 cases)10. Madhya Pradesh (13,601 cases)#IndiaFightsCorona:Ten States report 74.5% of the new cases.Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 66,191. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 35,311 while Karnataka reported 34,804 new cases.#Unite2FightCorona #StaySafe pic.twitter.com/4K0cENZIvuAlso Read: Vaccine maitri pays off, US medical supplies on way to IndiaIndia on Monday recorded more than 3 lakh daily Covid-19 cases for the fifth day in a row, reaching a new record peak, while the central government said that 219,272 recoveries were recorded in the last 24 hours. 10 states -- Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala, Bihar, and Karnataka -- account for 79% of the total Covid-19 recoveries in India. Daily infections, recorded in the past 24 hours, rose to 352,991, with overcrowded hospitals in Delhi reportedly turning away patients after running out of supplies of medical oxygen and beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-states-account-for-74-5-of-new-covid-19-cases-in-india-all-you-need-to-know-101619415655878.html
26-04-2021||India||Covid-negative report must for air passengers to Bengal from 9 states starting today||Air passengers travelling to West Bengal from five more states will be required to produce a certificate stating they have tested negative for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), from Monday. Passengers from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh will have to present report of negative RT-PCR tests conducted within 72 hours before boarding the flights, to be allowed for entry into the state, the West Bengal government said in an order issued on Saturday."The test has to be carried out 72 hours prior to the passenger's departure for Bengal. There is no provision of getting the test done on arrival. The rule also applies for flights departing from the four states mentioned and are bound for Bagdogra and Andal (both in West Bengal)," an official familiar with the development told the news agency PTI.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe state had earlier made it compulsory for those travelling from Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana to carry native Covid-19 test reports.The fresh order mandating travellers from the five states with heavy caseloads to have proof of being Covid negative comes into effect on the day the state goes to the polls in the seventh phase of elections for its legislative assembly. Six rounds of the eight-phased elections have already taken place amid a raging second wave of Covid-19. The last phase is scheduled for April 29 and the votes will be counted on May 2.The poll-bound state registered its highest single-day spike of 15,889 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, pushing the infection tally to 7,43,950, a bulletin issued by the state health department said. The toll rose to 10,941 as 57 more people died due to the viral disease, it added.Meanwhile, India's Covid-19 tally on Monday crossed 17 million as the country recorded 352,991 fresh cases of the virus. As many as 2,812 more people died due to the infection in 24 hours, pushing the overall toll to 195,123.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covidnegative-report-must-for-air-passengers-to-bengal-from-9-states-starting-today-101619414662034.html
26-04-2021||India||Deep Sidhu, accused in Jan 26 violence, granted bail by Delhi court in 2nd case||Actor-activist Deep Sidhu, accused of violence in the national capital on Republic Day, has been granted bail in the second case against him by the Tis Hazari court in Delhi on Monday. Owing to this, Sidhu who was arrested on February 9 in connection with the Red Fort violence on January 26 during the farmers' tractor parade against the Centre's three farm laws, can walk free if not arrested in any other case. In its bail order, the court said that Sidhu's "further incarceration in the present case would bear no fruit and therefore would be unjustified." Sidhu was granted bail on a personal bond of Rs. 25,000 with one surety of like amount by the court. In its order, the court observed, "The prosecution seeks to make an example out of the case of the accused, he being a popular public figure, such an endeavour however hazards a failure of justice as a result of compromised objectivity’.""The sweeping power of investigation does not warrant subjecting a citizen each time to fresh investigation by the police in respect of the same incident, giving rise to one or more cognizable offences, consequent upon filing of successive FIRs whether before or after filing the final report," the order added. The court also noted that Sidhu had already been interrogated in police custody for 14 days and been in custody for about 70 days when he has been granted regular bail in the first case earlier this month by a local court in Delhi. After the bail then, Sidhu was arrested again on the same day on the basis of an FIR filed by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) in connection with Republic Day violence. Remarking on the bail granted to Sidhu on April 17, the court said in its order, "The need and timing of the arrest is highly questionable because despite knowing that the accused has been lodged in JC since 09.02.2021, he was arrested only on 17.04.2021, when he was granted regular bail in FIR No.96/2021. This clearly suggests that it was an attempt to defeat the bail order dated 16.04.2021 of the Ld. ASJ and is a grave affront to personal liberty of the accused and runs foul of rights guaranteed under Article 21."Sidhu, who is a Punjabi actor was arrested on charges of inciting protesters during the tractor rally which was organised by farmers protesting against the three contentious farm bills on Republic Day. The rally turned violent with farmers breaking police barricades and clashing with the personnel at several places. Hundreds of farmers also stormed Red Fort, damaged property and clashed with the policemen there.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three border points of Delhi- Singhu, Tikri (along Haryana), and Ghazipur- demanding a repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year. The three contentious laws include the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deep-sidhu-accused-in-jan-26-violence-granted-bail-by-delhi-court-in-2nd-case-101619415930575.html
26-04-2021||India||India has administered over 140mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 140 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Sunday morning, even as the country’s daily Covid tally stayed above 300,000 on Monday as well.In all, 140,916,417 vaccine doses have been given in the country by Sunday, 7am. This includes 9,290,528 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 5,995,634 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 11,950,251 frontline workers have had their first dose while 6,290,491 have got their second dose too.In the 45-59-year age group, 47,683,792 people have got their first dose and another 2,330,238 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 49,655,753 people have been administered their first dose while 7,719,730 have had their second dose as well.As many as 2,536,612 vaccine doses were given on Saturday, April 24. Of this, 1,643,864 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 892,748 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.Also Read | Germany will send oxygen, medical aid to India to help in Covid-19 crisisIndia witnessed the world’s highest single-day spike with 314,835 new cases and 2,104 fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to the latest data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday morning.Meanwhile, the country recorded more than 350,000 fresh infections in the last 24 hours for the first time on Monday. As many as 352,991 cases took the infection tally in India to 17,313,163, the Union health ministry dashboard showed.Also, 2812 more people succumbed to the viral disease during this period, taking the related death toll to 195,123. The toll, which is India’s highest single-day count, makes it yet another day when more than 2,000 people lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-140mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101619413750201.html
26-04-2021||India||Natco Pharma seeks approval for Molnupiravir for use in Covid-19 treatment||Natco Pharma Limited on Monday said it applied to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for approval of Phase-III clinical trial of Molnupiravir Capsules for the treatment of Covid-19 positive patients.American pharma major Merck along with Ridgeback Biotherapeutics has developed Molnupiravir(MK-4482).According to a press release from the city-based drug maker, pre-clinical data have shown that Molnupiravir has broad anti-influenza activity, including highly potent inhibition of SARS-CoV-2 replication."Patients treated with Molnupiravir achieved response within 5 days of therapy indicating that the duration of treatment with Molnupiravir is short, with the additional advantage of being an oral therapy," it said.NATCO is hoping that CDSCO would give emergency approval of this drug based on "compassionate use" for patients."Compassionate use" approval is given for investigational drugs so that a patient with an immediately life-threatening condition can gain access to the drug.The company is ready to launch the product this month if approval is given.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/natco-pharma-seeks-approval-for-molnupiravir-for-use-in-covid-19-treatment-101619412404574.html
26-04-2021||India||Vaccine Maitri pays off, US medical supplies on way to India||President Joe Biden’s tweet that the United States will stand by India as the latter stood with Washington during the first wave of Covid-19 infection is an affirmation that India’s “vaccine maitri” initiative paid off with US medical supplies already on its way.ALSO READ: US says it will provide India with raw material for vaccinesSince the Covid-19 pandemic started last year, India supplied hydroxychloroquine to the US and Europe with the total number of countries touching 150. India supplied 6.5 crore vaccine doses to 93 countries in Asia, Latin America and African countries apart from UK.The American interlocutors have already told their Indian counterparts that all medical support will be given after President Biden expressed his determination to reciprocate India for the help latter extended when the US hospitals were under strain.“It is quite evident now that Covid-19 virus will continuously hit the globe till the transmission chain comes to zero with full vaccination. Hence, all countries including India must be part of a global supply chain so that help is extended to the hit country …. we are expecting American supplies in next 48 hours,” said a former foreign secretary.US Secretary of Defense Llyod J Austin III took to Twitter to say he has directed the department of defense to use every resource at their disposal to support US interagency efforts to provide India’s frontline healthcare workers with the materials they need.I’m deeply concerned about the COVID-19 outbreak in India, and today, I directed the @DeptofDefense to use every resources at our disposal, within our authority, to support U.S. interagency efforts to provide India’s frontline healthcare workers with the materials they need. pic.twitter.com/v93iek3G2iMedical support to India from countries like the US, France, UAE, Denmark, Singapore Israel and some EU nations has started to come in as New Delhi stood firm with the democratic world in supply of much needed drugs and vaccine.Under the ‘vaccine maitri’ initiative, India supplied much needed drugs in the form of grants as well as on commercial basis.Earlier this week, Prime Minister of Dominica Dr Roosevelt Skerrit wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi where he said that as India stood by Dominica during its need, the island country will reciprocate by helping New Delhi in times of its unprecedented health crisis.“As Chairman of the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) and Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of Dominica, I wish to affirm that we stand united with India in her hour of need.” wrote PM Skerrit in his message to Indian PM Narendra Modi.India’s daily count of cases of the coronavirus disease stayed above 300,000 for the fifth consecutive day, the Union ministry of health and family welfare dashboard showed on Monday morning. The country recorded more than 350,000 fresh infections in the last 24 hours for the first time, as a record 352,991 cases took the infection tally to 17,313,163, the dashboard showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-maitri-pays-off-us-medical-supplies-on-way-to-india-101619410041293.html
26-04-2021||India||UP panchayat polls: Voting for 3rd phase begins today||Voting for the third and penultimate phase of UP panchayat polls began at 7am on Monday, even as the state government, facing flak for going ahead with the elections amid the pandemic, issued a statement that it was only complying with an Allahabad high court order. The State Election Commission (SEC) said voting for the third phase with more than 352,000 candidates in the fray for over 214,000 seats across 20 districts of the state will end at 6pm. The districts going to polls today are: Shamli, Meerut, Moradabad, Pilibhit, Kasganj, Firozabad, Auraiya, Kanpur Dehat, Jalaun, Hamirpur, Fatehpur, Unnao, Amethi, Barabanki, Balrampur, Siddharthanagar, Deoria, Chandauli, Mirzapur, and Ballia.In the first phase of the polls on April 15, the voter turnout was 71% and it rose to 73% in the second phase on April 19. In the third phase today, there are 10,627 candidates for the posts of 746 members of zila panchayats. For the 18,530 posts of members of kshetra panchayats, there are 89,188 candidates. As many as 1,177,89 candidates are in the arena for 14,397 village panchayats. For 180,473 village panchayat wards, there are 134,510 candidates. Also Read | Covid-19 vaccination camps in open spaces too: UP govtIn view of the coronavirus situation, the SEC had said last month that not more than five people would be allowed to accompany a candidate during the door-to-door campaigning for the panchayat elections. Additional election commissioner Ved Prakash Verma said three-member teams were formed under the additional district magistrates to ensure that directives issued by the SEC were being followed.With rising concern over panchayat polls amid the Covid’s intense second wave, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, at the Covid review meeting on Sunday, said: “Covid protocols must be implemented and adhered to strictly. There should be no unnecessary crowding anywhere. All polling parties must have masks, gloves, sanitisers and medical kits.” The state government, facing flak for holding the polls amid pandemic, issued a statement on Sunday that panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh were being held in compliance with Allahabad high court orders. “It was in compliance of the high court order that the UP government had to go through panchayat polls despite Covid scare. It is noteworthy that these elections were due in December 2020 itself. However, due to pandemic, the reorganisation and delimitation of panchayats was delayed. The writ petitions and subsequent decision of the high court compelled the state government to hold the election,” the statement said.For past some weeks, the state government has been facing criticism not only from the Opposition, but also from some of its own party members and legislators who demanded that the polls be cancelled.Counting of votes and declaration of result for the four-phase election will take place on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uppanchayat-polls-voting-for-3rd-phase-begins-today-101619410929918.html
26-04-2021||India||India sees record 352,991 new Covid-19 cases, highest single day death toll of 2812||India’s daily count of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) stayed above 300,000 for the fifth consecutive day, the Union ministry of health and family welfare dashboard showed on Monday morning. The country recorded more than 350,000 fresh infections in the last 24 hours for the first time, as a record 352,991 cases took the infection tally to 17,313,163, the dashboard showed.Also Read | India's close allies US, UAE and Saudi Arabia step forward in Covid fightAs many as 2,812 people succumbed to the viral disease during this period, taking the related death toll to 195,123. The toll, which is India’s highest in a single day period, makes it yet another day when more than 2000 people lost their lives. The country’s fatality rate due to the infection thus stands at 1.13%. The same period also saw 219,272 more people defeating the deadly disease, taking total recovered cases to14,304,382 with the national recovery rate registering a marginal drop to 82.62%. Active cases, meanwhile, rose by 130,907 infections to 2,813,658 increasing to 16.25% in the overall caseload.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said 1,402,367 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the preceding 24 hours, taking the number of samples tested till April 25 to 279,321,177.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/pf5t4uVBNaThe dashboard also showed 141,911,223 doses of vaccine against Covid-19 have been administered thus far of which 995,228 were given in the previous 24 hours. The country’s vaccination drive, which is the largest against the pandemic globally, and commenced on January 16, will enter third phase on May 1, when everyone of the age of 18 and above will become eligible to be inoculated against the disease. Registrations for the coming third phase are scheduled to begin from April 28.Also Read | Odisha announces free vaccine for 19.3mn people in 18-45 years groupIn its previous single day rise, the country recorded 349,691 new coronavirus cases and 2717 fatalities, both record for a 24-hour period, before being surpassed by the number released on Monday. The 100,000 daily case mark was topped on April 5, while the 200,000 mark was breached on April 15.With India’s daily new Covid-19 cases and deaths seeing record high every day, several countries, including the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, European Union (EU) etc. have either sent or offered to send materials to help healthcare workers here. The country’s infection tally is the second-highest globally, between the United States and Brazil, while the death toll is the fourth-highest, following the United States, Brazil and Mexico.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-record-352-991-new-covid-19-cases-highest-single-day-death-toll-of-2812-101619406815630.html
26-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rain, thunderstorms likely over western Himalayan region this week, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rain, thunderstorms likely over western Himalayan region this weekThere is likely to be widespread rainfall over the western Himalayan region from April 27, according to India Meteorological Department. Read moreWest Bengal polls Phase 7: PM Modi urges citizens to vote, be mindful of Covid-19Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday urged citizens to exercise their universal franchise as voting began in the seventh phase of the West Bengal assembly election at 7am. He also reminded voters to follow the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols. Read moreAirlines brace for turbulence amid wave of new travel bansThe revival of international flight operations from India is expected to be further delayed, with several countries imposing restrictions on travel to and from the country in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Read moreOdisha announces free vaccine for 19.3mn people in 18-45 years groupOdisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Sunday announced free vaccination for nearly 19.3 million residents, aged between18 and 45 years, in the third phase of the Covid-19 inoculation drive, at an estimated cost of ₹2,000 crore. Read moreOscars 2021 LIVE updates: Irrfan Khan honoured at the 93rd Academy Awards, Nomadland wins Best PictureAn Oscars ceremony unlike any other began Monday morning, with history on the line in major categories and a telecast that has been completely retooled for the pandemic. Read moreR Ashwin pulls out of IPL 2021 to help family fight against Covid 19Delhi Capitals off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin pulled out of the ongoing season of Indian Premier League 2021 on Sunday to support his family amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in the country. Ashwin, in a tweet, announced his decision, after DC defeated Sunrisers Hyderabad in the first Super-Over of the season. Read moreWatch: India’s Covid battle: Burj Khalifa lights up in tricolor to show support﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rain-thunderstorms-likely-over-western-himalayan-region-this-week-and-all-the-latest-news-101619406740879.html
26-04-2021||India||India's close allies US, UAE and Saudi Arabia step forward in Covid fight||Close allies United States, United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia have come forward to support India’s fight against Covid-19 pandemic with Washington asking its nearest bases to air-lift oxygen generators, concentrators, Remdesivir anti-viral drug and raw materials for vaccine in the next 48 hours. UAE is sending a huge shipment of oxygen concentrators and Saudi Arabia large number of oxygen generators to India.While both Indian and US interlocutors noted the insensitivity of US spokesperson's earlier remarks on supply of raw material, Washington’s decision to support India’s fight against the raging pandemic on Sunday night came after National Security Advisor Ajit Doval spoke to his US counterpart Jake Sullivan in a detailed conversation.“The United States has identified sources of specific raw material urgently required for Indian manufacture of the Covishield vaccine that will immediately be made available for India,” said a statement issued by NSC spokesperson Emily Horne on Sullivan’s conversation with Doval.The statement also said the US is working “around the clock to deploy available resources and supplies”.US President Joe Biden in his tweet said: “Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, we are determined to help India in its time of need.” The US President attached the conversation between Doval and Sullivan to his tweet.Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, we are determined to help India in its time of need. https://t.co/SzWRj0eP3yAt the instructions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, both Doval and external affairs minister S Jaishankar have been talking to the US and other Indian allies like UAE and Saudi Arabia. It is understood, that while Doval spoke to Saudi Arabia and UAE, Jaishankar has been in touch with EU, particularly France, for seeking help with oxygen concentrators, Remdesivir and raw materials for producing vaccines.According to official sources, UAE has informed India that it is sending a huge consignment of oxygen concentrators, while Saudi Arabia is sending oxygen generators with promise of more support. However, the US has offered all support and shipments will be flying from its bases in the Indo-Pacific. “The India-US ties remain as close as ever,” said a top official.A statement by the White House on the conversation between Doval and Sullivan further read, “To help treat Covid-19 patients and protect front-line health workers in India, the United States has identified supplies of therapeutics, rapid diagnostic test kits, ventilators, and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) that will immediately be made available for India. The United States also is pursuing options to provide oxygen generation and related supplies on an urgent basis.”The US also said the US Development Finance Corporation (DFC) is funding a substantial expansion of manufacturing capability for BioE, the vaccine manufacturer in India, enabling BioE to ramp up to produce at least 1 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines by the end of 2022.“Additionally, the United States is deploying an expert team of public health advisors from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and USAID to work in close collaboration with the US Embassy, India’s health ministries, and India’s Epidemic Intelligence Service staff,” it said.The USAID and the CDC will also “fast-track the mobilisation of emergency resources available to India through the Global Fund”.US Vice-President also took to Twitter to reaffirm her country’s support for India to fight the pandemic.The U.S. is working closely with the Indian government to rapidly deploy additional support and supplies during an alarming COVID-19 outbreak. As we provide assistance, we pray for the people of India—including its courageous healthcare workers.Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi called the Biden Administration's commitment to export raw materials needed for life-saving vaccines to India ad an “essential first step”.The Biden Administration's commitment to export raw materials needed for life-saving vaccines to India is an essential first step, but we must double down by also shipping AstraZeneca vaccine doses, oxygen concentrators, and other supplies in our stockpiles not being used. pic.twitter.com/YaZrGXOwzeIndia on Sunday reported 349,691 new infections of the disease, creating a new world record of highest single-day rise in cases, taking the active cases tally to 16,960,162. It was for the fourth straight day that India recorded more than 300,000 cases in a 24-hours’ span. The fatalities from the infection-related disease touched 2,767 on the same day, pushing the death toll to 192,311.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-close-allies-us-uae-and-saudi-arabia-step-forward-in-covid-fight-101619405753838.html
26-04-2021||India||Covid cases continue to rise, Maharashtra tally surges by 66,191||Maharashtra on Sunday reported 66,191 fresh infections, taking its tally to 4,295,027, and 832 deaths.Of the 832 deaths, 360 occurred in the past 24 hours, and 244 in the past week, said the state health department.Nagpur’s rural areas reported the highest toll on Sunday, with 69 deaths, followed by Pune district, which comprises Pune city, its rural areas and Pimpri-Chinchwad, with 69 deaths. Solapur district reported 62 deaths. Health experts attribute the rise in deaths to late arrivals at the hospital. However, they maintain that the case fatality rate of the state is in control.Also Read | 16 critical Covid-19 patients rescued after fire at Gujarat hospitalDr Subhash Salunkhe, former director general of health services in the state and advisor to the state on the Covid-19, said with sheer number of infections, a large chunk of them will land up in hospitals. “Roughly 10% of the cases usually are clinical cases. In that, there are late arrivals which make it difficult for doctors to save lives. There could be some stray cases of deaths due to oxygen shortage, but it is not the main factor.”Dr Shashank Joshi, state Covid task force member, said the sheer load on the healthcare infrastructure could hinder providing treatment to all, which could result in deaths. “The deaths, in absolute numbers have gone up, but compared to last year, our case fatality rate is lower. When you see the healthcare infrastructure clobbered, due to lack of ability to provide healthcare, deaths tend to go up,” he said.Mumbai, meanwhile, continued to see a dip in daily cases, with 5,498 fresh cases on Sunday. Over the past three days, the city saw a steady decline in cases 7,367 (April 22), 7,199 (April 23), and 5,867 (April 24). It also reported 64 deaths, pushing death toll to 12,790.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-cases-continue-to-rise-maharashtra-tally-rises-to-66191-101619406970321.html
26-04-2021||India||Odisha announces free vaccine for 19.3mn people in 18-45 years group||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Sunday announced free vaccination for nearly 19.3 million residents, aged between18 and 45 years, in the third phase of the Covid-19 inoculation drive, at an estimated cost of ₹2,000 crore.It was announced even as state officials feared the number of daily infections could go past the 10,000-mark by May first week, registering higher mortalities than the first wave, before declining significantly from June first week. With 6,599 new cases reported on Monday, the number of active cases in the state raced towards 50,000-mark, far higher than last year's peak.So far 17 Indian states including Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Goa, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar and Tamil Nadu have decided to vaccinate their population against the coronavirus disease free of cost. As on Sunday, the disease has killed 192,311 people in the country. The third phase of vaccination will begin from May 1.Health department officials said the state has placed orders for 37.7mn Covishield doses from Serum Institute and 1.034mn doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech. Odisha State Medical Corporation will procure the vaccines from the two manufacturers at the prices fixed by them. Covaxin was being administered only to people in Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation area while Covishield was being used in the rest of Odisha.Patnaik said if the people do not become aware of their responsibilities, the government will not be able to fight against the pandemic all on its own. "I request you with folded hands to religiously follow all Covid appropriate protocols. Wear masks, maintain social distancing at all costs. Until very necessary, do not go out of the house. I request everyone to realise (that) this (is) a grave situation that we are currently going through. For me each and every life is precious,” he saidDue to the massive rise in Covid cases, the daily oxygen consumption in the state has surpassed the peak demand during the first wave of the pandemic last year. The peak oxygen demand in the Covid-ICUs was 23 metric tonne (MT) per day last year, but it has now gone past 37 MT per day."We expect the daily cases to cross 10,000 by the first week or latest by the second week of May and then plateau out for the entire month. Cases would start declining significantly from June first week," said a senior health official, giving a sense of the challenges ahead.While Odisha has ample oxygen supply due to the presence of steel plants in the state, officials said the surge in Covid cases would still overwhelm the health infrastructure. "Though we have over 20,000 Covid beds in dedicated hospitals, Covid care centres, the caregivers are tired after battling the pandemic for over a year. There is a limit to which the healthcare workers can be stretched. They are trying their best to deal with the rising cases, but it is not easy," said a senior health official.State industry secretary Hemant Sharma said Odisha is currently producing 350 tonne of liquid medical oxygen everyday in public sector and private sector steel plants at Rourkela, Angul, Dhenkanal and Kalinga Nagar. "Of the 350 tonne, we need 70 tonne everyday while 80 tonnes are being kept as dead storage. The rest 200 tonne are being sent to other states through tankers. If necessary, the oxygen production can be ramped up in no time," said Sharma.Dr Sarit Kumar Rout, additional professor of Public Health Foundation of India, said though the health infrastructure in Odisha is adequate for the time being, it may not stand up to scrutiny when the expected peak comes in May first week."If we would have 10,000 cases and half of them require hospitalisation, the current bed availability may not be enough. But more importantly, we don't have adequate medical manpower to deal with rising cases. As it is, the distribution of medical manpower is skewed with urban areas having all the experts such as medicine specialists and pulmonologists. How would critical Covid patients get treatment in rural areas where pulmonary doctors and medicine specialists are almost absent," asked Rout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-announces-free-vaccine-for-19-3mn-people-in-18-45-years-group-101619406370412.html
26-04-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms likely over western Himalayan region this week||There is likely to be widespread rainfall over the western Himalayan region from April 27, according to India Meteorological Department.A fresh feeble Western Disturbance affecting the region will cause isolated to widespread rainfall/snowfall with thunderstorm and gusty winds over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand till April 30.Also Read | Mercury rises slightly, light shower possible this week in MumbaiA north-south trough (area of low pressure) runs from Marathwada to south coastal Tamil Nadu across North Interior Karnataka, Telangana and Rayalaseema. Under its influence, scattered to fairly widespread rainfall or thunderstorm is very likely over Kerala and Mahe and isolated to scattered rainfall/thunderstorm over Maharashtra and remaining parts of south peninsular India during the next 4-5 days. Heavy rainfall is also likely over north Kerala on April 28 and 29 and over south Interior Karnataka on April 28 and 29. Strong surface winds (speed reaching 20-30 kmph) are very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and north Rajasthan on April 26. Heat wave conditions are very likely in isolated pockets over Gujarat and coastal Odisha on April 25 and 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-likely-over-western-himalayan-region-this-week-101619405530170.html
26-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Netherlands suspends flights from India till May 1||The Netherlands has said it is suspending all passenger flights arriving from India starting Monday amid a surge in coronavirus infections in the country."A flight ban will take effect for passenger flights from India at 6 p.m. on Monday, April 26... The flight ban will be in place until at least 00:01 a.m. on May 1," Sputnik quoted Dutch Aviation Ministry's statement.India is witnessing a deadly Covid-19 wave, with the country reporting over three lakh daily cases from the last few days. The country on Sunday reported 3,49,391 new Covid-19 cases and 2,767 deaths According to the union health ministry, five states -- Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat and Kerala -- contribute 54 per cent of the cases.The flight ban was announced on Sunday night after the Cabinet received new advice from public health agency RIVM, NL Times reported citing Infrastructure Minister Cora van Nieuwenhuizen in a letter to Parliament."The epidemiological situation on the ground is very serious," she wrote. The minister noted that there are several variants of the coronavirus there, and there are many uncertainties about their "infectivity, pathogenic capability, and possible reduced protection of antibodies after vaccination or a previous infection".The flight ban is set to expire on May 1, unless the Cabinet decides to extend it during meetings next week. Cargo flights and flights with medical personnel will be exempted from the ban.With the Covid-19 situation worsening, many countries have imposed travel restrictions on travellers from India.France had on Wednesday imposed a 10-day quarantine for travellers arriving from India in the coming days to prevent the spread of a Covid-19 variant found in India.Recently, the United Kingdom added India to its travel "red list" on a precautionary basis after reporting 103 cases of a coronavirus variant first identified in India.The Russian Embassy's visa section temporarily ceased its operations until further notice due to India's Covid-19 situation, it announced on Monday.As Covid-19 cases soar, the United States has also issued a 'Level 4 (Very High)' warning for potential travellers to India asking them to "avoid all travel" to the country even if they are fully vaccinated.Hong Kong had on Tuesday announced the suspension of all flights connecting with India for 14 days amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the region. The authorities have also suspended flights from Pakistan and the Philippines.Canada has also temporarily banned passenger flights from India for 30 days from Thursday amid rising coronavirus cases in the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-netherlands-suspends-flights-from-india-till-may-1-101619404230246.html
26-04-2021||India||Indian and French navies begin 3-day wargame in Arabian Sea||The Indian and French navies on Sunday kicked off a three-day mega wargame in the Arabian Sea in the backdrop of rising concern over China's growing maritime presence in the Indian Ocean region.The French Navy has deployed its nuclear-powered aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle, and its entire carrier strike group in the exercise, reflecting the seriousness of the drill.The French Embassy said the 19th edition of the Varuna exercise underscores the shared interests and commitment of both nations in promoting maritime security in the Indo-Pacific and bears testimony to the vitality of the bilateral strategic partnership."The joint exercise comprises various drills across the spectrum of maritime operations, with the goal of fostering interoperability and mutual learning between the two navies and reinforcing their capability for joint action in a strategic area," it said in a statement.The Indian Navy has deployed guided missile stealth destroyer Kolkata, guided missile frigates Tarkash and Talwar, fleet support ship Deepak, a Kalvari class submarine and a sleet of P-8I long range maritime patrol aircraft, officials said.Besides Charles de Gaulle, the French naval assets at the exercise included multi-mission frigate Provence, air defence destroyer Chevalier Paul, and command and supply ship Var.The Charles de Gaulle with a displacement of 42,500 tons (four times the weight of the Eiffel tower), carries a crew of 1200, 15.4 per cent of whom are women, and an air wing consisting of 20 Rafale marine jets, two E-2C Hawkeye aircraft and several helicopters.Its 75-meter deck with catapult launching enables the launch of Rafale marine jets in less than three seconds every 30 seconds.Indian Navy Spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said both the navies will endeavour to enhance and hone their war-fighting skills to demonstrate their ability as an integrated force to promote peace, security and stability in the maritime domain.The embassy said Varuna exercise is part of the French carrier strike group's 'CLEMENCEAU 21' deployment, which the French Navy is conducting from February to June 2021 in the eastern Mediterranean, the Gulf and the Indian Ocean."Its goal is to contribute to the stabilisation of these strategic zones and strengthening cooperation with the navies of partner countries, in particular India for the Indian Ocean component," it said.As part of this deployment, the carrier strike group is also taking part in anti-ISIS operations," the embassy said.Initiated in 1983, Indo-French naval cooperation plays a key role in the two countries' joint vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific, it said."It has intensified in recent years with increasingly ambitious joint exercises that have raised the degree of the two navies' interoperability to a new level," the embassy said."In early April, the Indian Navy took part for the first time in the France-led naval exercise 'La Perouse' with the navies of the United States, Australia and Japan," it added.The Indian side at the exercise is being led by Rear Admiral Ajay Kochhar, Flag Officer Commanding Western Fleet, while the French side is headed by Rear Admiral Marc Aussedat, Commander Task Force 473."The three-day exercise will see high tempo-naval operations at sea, including advanced air defence and anti-submarine exercises, intense fixed and rotary wing flying operations, tactical manoeuvres, surface and anti-air weapon firings and other maritime security operations," Commander Madhwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-and-french-navies-begin-3-day-wargame-in-arabian-sea-101619403747305.html
26-04-2021||India||16 critical Covid-19 patients rescued after fire at Gujarat hospital||As many as 16 critical Covid-19 patients were rescued and shifted to safer places after a fire broke out in the ICU of a private hospital here on Sunday night, officials said.No casualty was reported due to the blaze, they added.A fire broke out in Ayush Hospital located on the fifth floor of a multi-storey building on Station Road in Surat at around 11.40 pm Sunday, after which sixteen patients admitted in the ICU were rescued and shifted to safer places with no casualty being reported in the incident, the officials said."There were sixteen patients in the ICU of the hospital located on the fifth floor of the building where the fire broke out. The fire department team rescued 11 patients, and the remaining five were shifted to safer places by the hospital staff before the fire team arrived," said Basant Pareek, In-charge Chief Fire Officer of Surat Municipal Commission (SMC).The fire broke out after a blast in the air conditioner caused either due to the short circuit or overloading, he said.Out of 11 patients rescued by the fire department personnel, five were taken to the SMIMER, a hospital run by the city cvic body, four to Sanjeevani Hospital, and the remaining two to other floors of the Ayush Hospital, Pareek said.The officials were trying to find out the whereabouts of the remaining five patients who were rescued by the hospital staff, he said.As many as fifteen fire tenders were rushed to the hospital after the fire was reported at around 11.40 pm, and the fire was brought under control within half an hour with the help of two tenders, Pareek said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-critical-covid-19-patients-rescued-after-fire-at-gujarat-hospital-101619401795311.html
26-04-2021||India||A 'last resort' measure||Delhi creates oxygen portal; seeks help from industriesDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal said the govt has developed a portalwhere stakeholders in the supply chain of oxygen will have to feed real-time updates on consumption, stock ,arrival and departure of tankers,etc. even as he wrote to India's top industrialists seeking their help in addressing the shortage.Kejriwal said, "The situation is concerning..In the light of the current situation, we have decided to increase the lockdown by another week. The lockdown now applies till 5am next Monday."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-last-resort-measure-101619391486585.html
26-04-2021||India||2nd wave a storm: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday assured people that the central government is helping states overcome the Covid pandemic with all its “might” and urged citizens to get vaccinated at a time when the “storm” of infections has “shaken the country”.The explosion of cases is “testing our patience; it is testing the limits of all of us at enduring misery…”, the Prime Minister said in his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat, adding: “After successfully confronting the first wave of corona, the country was full of enthusiasm, full of self-confidence, but this storm has shaken the country.”PM Modi’s remarks come at a time India has topped all global records of daily new cases and several states – including the national capital – are reeling under a massive caseload of infections amid scarcity of hospital beds and oxygen supplies. India on Sunday breached the 350,000 mark for daily Covid-19 cases, and daily deaths linked to the viral illness (at 2,808) neared 3,000 per day threshold, according to HT’s dashboard.Asserting that the Centre is backing the efforts of the state governments, Modi said: “The Government of India is applying its entire might to give a fillip to the endeavours of State Governments. The State Governments too are trying their best to fulfil their responsibilities.”The Centre and state governments across the country have been criticised for being caught off-guard by the recent surge of infections. Last week, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to PM Modi to direct neighbouring states not to obstruct the supply of medical oxygen to the Capital city. The city administration has also sought the Centre’s help to get its full quota of oxygen supply to meet rising demand for the element that is crucial for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.Hospitals and medical facilities across the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) on Sunday continued to send distress calls seeking replenishment of their oxygen stocks. A day before, a hospital in Delhi’s Rohini said 20 Covid-19 patients, mostly in the critical care unit of the facility, died as oxygen pressure dipped while they were waiting for their stock to be renewed.Modi has chaired several high-level meetings to discuss boosting the supply of medical equipment and on Sunday, the Prime Minister’s Office announced that 551 oxygen generation plants financed by the PM CARES fund will be set up in states and Union territories across India.Separately, the Centre also scrapped basic customs duty and health cess on oxygen and oxygen-related equipment to ease imports and ramp up supply.In his 30-minute address on Sunday, Modi spoke to doctors, nurses and frontline workers who shared their experience and views on battling the viral illness that has infected over 17.3 million people in India so far.He also said that the 76th edition of his address was focused only on the pandemic because the country’s “biggest priority is to defeat the disease”.In this regard, he urged all people to get vaccinated at the earliest as phase 3 of the drive – covering all adults – begins on May 1, and warned against heeding rumours against inoculations.“In this period of Corona crisis, all are getting aware of the importance of vaccine … so it is my appeal that don’t get swayed by any rumour about the vaccine... I once again urge all of you to get vaccinated and we also have to take full care. Dawai bhi, Kadai bhi – (get vaccinated and maintain all precautions),” Modi said.The Prime Minister reiterated that people should avail the Centre’s “free vaccine” programme, which is “going on” and “will continue further” too.From May 1, all people over the age of 18 will be eligible to get the coronavirus shots and the vaccines can be sold by manufacturers directly to the state governments and to private hospitals at pre-decided prices. Along with this, the central government will continue to procure vaccines and administer jabs for free at government-run medical facilities.“I appeal also to the states to extend the benefit of this free vaccine campaign of government of India to maximum number of the people of their state,” he said, adding: “This time, for emerging victorious in this battle, we have to accord priority to expert and scientific advice.”While Prime Minister Modi’s address was ongoing, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi launched an offensive with his “Jan ki Baat” tweet as he urged his party workers to provide aid to people at this difficult time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-wave-a-storm-pm-modi-101619389439422.html
26-04-2021||India||Daily caseload hits all-time high as 3,54,709 test Covid-19 positive||New Covid-19 cases in India continued to shatter global records on Sunday, as India’s daily infection tally crossed the 350,000 mark for the first time, even as new deaths due the disease soared past the 2,800 mark, amid a crippling shortage of medical amenities in dozens of states with high caseloads.India reported 354,709 new cases on Sunday, taking the total number of infections in the country to 17.3 million. A total of 2,808 new deaths were reported due to Covid-19 on Sunday, the highest ever in the country, pushing the total number of people who have lost their lives to the disease to 195,137, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.Sunday was the fifth day running that the single-day cases in the country have broken all previous global records. India’s outbreak became the world’s largest ever on record earlier this week when the country’s daily tally breached the 300,00 mark for the first time on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-caseload-hits-all-time-high-as-3-54-709-test-covid-19-positive-101619389211981.html
26-04-2021||India||Covid-19: What really matters||What really matters? No, it’s not what you think.When a country is faced with a pandemic such as the coronavirus disease, the priorities (for both State and individuals) write themselves — health, well-being, economy, education, then everything else. The phrasing may vary, but the priorities, and their order, largely remain the same.In India, for some time, it looked like the response of the Union and state governments, and also of people, was ideal. Governments scrambled to strengthen health infrastructure. And people, at least those who could afford to, hunkered down to stay safe and abided by the 68-day lockdown. The Centre announced a stimulus programme, although it was criticised by some for an over-emphasis on monetary measures over fiscal ones. It also tried to make life better for the poor, although it mishandled the migrant labour situation till at least May 1 (when it launched special trains for migrant workers to return home).Case numbers rose sharply after the lockdown, despite restrictions remaining in place, but by September, India had seen off the peak of the first wave. The festive season passed without incident. The Bihar elections came and went, and cases continued to fall. By early February, India’s cases were well off their peak, and its vaccine programme was underway. The economy was almost where it was before the pandemic (Nomura’s NIBRI, a business resumption index, touched 99.3 in the week of February 21; 100 indicates pre-pandemic level of business activity).But, by then, things had already started to go wrong.By the end of 2020, people were partying and vacationing. Schools reopened for physical classes in many parts of the country. Restaurants, bars, malls, and multiplexes all rushed to make up for lost time (and money). Emboldened by the low Covid-19 footprint of the Bihar elections — the state’s testing has always been suspect given the predominant use of rapid antigen tests — the Election Commission decided to hold elections in four states and a Union territory.All parties participated enthusiastically. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), especially, pulled out all the stops, scenting victory in West Bengal, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi donning the avatar of campaigner-in-chief. It was only in the third week of April that the BJP finally decided it would no longer hold large rallies. And it was only on April 22 that the PM decided the situation warranted his presence in New Delhi, and cancelled a campaign trip — this was a day after India crossed 300,000 daily cases for the first time, and recorded 2,102 deaths, its highest till then.Uttarakhand decided to go ahead with the Mahakumbh, which had a high probability of turning into a classic super-spreader event. The Centre did nothing to stop the state. A belated appeal from the PM to observe the festival in spirit (and without the usual crowds) went out only on April 17.The second wave broke in late February, and is continuing to rage. On Thursday, cases touched 332,394 and the death toll was 2,255. By Saturday, it went up to 349,158 and 2,759, respectively. Both numbers are likely under-reported; the first because many of those infected remain asymptomatic and testing is inadequate, and the second because states appear to have instructed hospitals to not record Covid-19 as the cause of death. And NIBRI’s latest value, for the week ending April 18, stood at 83.8.The one thing that could have delayed, may be even prevented, the second wave was a more aggressive vaccine drive. Challenging as the logistics are, the reason why India didn’t push for more vaccinations was perhaps because no one saw the second wave coming. India’s approach to vaccines was unlike that of the United States, which pumped billions of dollars into companies developing vaccines — it was among the few things the Trump administration got spectacularly right. Only on April 19 did the finance ministry sanction ₹4,500 crore as credit to the two vaccine makers (SII and Bharat Biotech).And the one thing that could have warned of a coming second wave was sequencing of enough viral genomes to track the mutating variants of the virus that are clearly responsible (in some measure), for it — and India wasn’t and isn’t sequencing enough.All decisions involve trade-offs and those made by India’s political leadership, officials, and citizens, are accurate indicators of what really matters to them.For the leadership, this has clearly been politics and the economy. It’s almost as if it was alright for India to lose if that’s what it took for elections to be held in four states. And as cases surged, states delayed instituting curbs that would have prevented spikes in infections (they didn’t, the spikes happened, cases overran health systems, and then the states locked down, resulting in even more damage to the economy).For those managing India’s Covid-19 response, the only thing that matters appears to be validation. For some of the rich, or young, or both, it was having a good time even amid the pandemic. For the faithful, it was religion, and few political leaders dared criticise them for fear of offending an existing or potential vote bank. Even a state that touts its progressiveness, Kerala, hemmed and hawed before finally deciding to scale down the Thrissur Pooram festival.And so, at a time when only science and data should have driven all decisions, we allowed ourselves to be driven by politics and religion and short-term economic concerns, sought instant gratification by flocking to Goa or Nainital, and when challenged, validated our actions by pointing to dubious science or data that showed India was doing better than other countries.The results of this are all around. As a famous band once sang, “If you plant ice, you’re gonna harvest wind.” This is a whirlwind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-really-matters-101619387950824.html
26-04-2021||India||Defence PSUs, OFBs go full steam ahead to fight Covid||Defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) and the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) are firing on all cylinders to help state governments fight the Covid-19 crisis that is worsening by the day and has stretched the country’s health resources, people familiar with the developments said on Sunday.State-run plane maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) has started work on setting up a 250-bed Covid-19 hospital in Lucknow, with the facility expected to be functional in early May, the defence ministry said in a statement, detailing steps being taken by DPSUs and OFB to help state governments deal with the deadly second wave of the pandemic.HAL has already set up two Covid-19 facilities in Bengaluru with 250 and 180 beds each. It will now focus on providing more ventilators and oxygen points at both Lucknow and Bengaluru.It has also operationalised a 70-bed facility in Odisha’s Koraput and a 40-bed hospital in Maharashtra’s Nashik.The OFB is providing Covid-19 care at its medical facilities in 25 locations scattered across Maharashtra, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha and Uttarakhand, the official statement said.“It (OFB) has earmarked nearly 60% its existing strength for Covid care…813 beds out of a total of 1,405 are now reserved for Covid patients… In this hour of crisis, they (OFB and DPSUs) are catering to the civilian population from their existing services in coordination with the state governments,” it added.The OFB is the country’s main producer of military arsenal. It controls 41 ordnance factories engaged in the production of tanks, armoured personnel carriers, bombs, rockets, artillery guns, anti-aircraft guns, parachutes, small arms and clothing for soldiers.DPSUs are fast-tracking the procurement of oxygen plants for state government hospitals under their corporate social responsibility (CSR) scheme. These include Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL), BEML Limited, HAL, Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited (MDL), Garden Reach Shipbuilders & Engineers (GRSE) Limited and MIDHANI.On Saturday, defence minister Rajnath Singh said the armed forces and the defence ministry “will leave no stone unturned in providing all possible assistance to the civilian administration”.The DRDO is among the organisations that are at the forefront of fighting the pandemic that has ripped through the country.It has so far set up or is in the process of setting up state-of-the-art Covid-19 hospitals in six cities to treat more than 3,100 critical patients.The Indian Air Force (IAF) has also intensified its efforts for Covid-19 relief, with its transport aircraft ferrying large oxygen containers to filling stations in different parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-psus-ofbs-go-full-steam-ahead-to-fight-covid-101619387722158.html
26-04-2021||India||Free vaccines for all in Rajasthan, Maharashtra decision soon||Rajasthan on Sunday joined at least 17 other states and Union territories in India to have announced to administer vaccine against the coronavirus disease free of cost to all adult population in the third phase of the vaccination drive starting on May 1, even as the Maharashtra government said that a decision on the matter was likely soon.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday announced the state government will provide free Covid-19 vaccine to people above 18 years of age. He said the state government will spend about ₹ 3,000 crore on the exercise. “The state government will provide free coronavirus vaccine to all people above 18 years of age in the state at the cost of about ₹3,000 crore,” Gehlot said.Maharashtra minority affairs minister Nawab Malik, meanwhile, said that the issue was discussed at a cabinet meeting and a consensus regarding free vaccination for the state’s adult population was reached. “The state will require around 140 million vials to get this done and are planning it accordingly… Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday has said that they will call a global tender and will select the bidder that will provide the best vaccine at a lower price,” Malik said.“We all had urged that the vaccine should be free for all. However, the decision has to be taken by the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray,” said revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat.The statements from the two ministers came hours after a series of tweets by various state ministers announcing the government’s decision of providing free vaccinations were deleted.Last week, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Sikkim said they will vaccinate the adult populations for free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-vaccines-for-all-in-rajasthan-maharashtra-decision-soon-101619381513008.html
26-04-2021||India||UP to procure 10mn Covid vaccine doses||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday informed that an order for 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses has been placed for the third phase of the vaccination drive beginning May 1.“Uttar Pradesh government has placed an order for 1 crore doses of anti-Covid vaccines for the vaccination drive beginning May 1,” the CM tweeted.“An order of 50-50 lakh doses has been placed for both indigenous vaccine manufacturers. In addition, the dose will be made available by the Government of India. A comprehensive action plan is being prepared in this regard,” he added.The Centre on April 19 had announced a ‘’liberalised’’ policy, making all above 18 years of age eligible to get vaccinated from May 1. It has also allowed state governments and private hospitals to purchase vaccines from manufacturers.Meanwhile, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday wrote to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, urging for an increase in the state’s medical oxygen quota. This is the second time in as many days when the chief minister has written to the Centre, highlighting depleting supplies.Currently, the daily consumption of medical oxygen in the state is around 200 metric tonnes (MT), which is expected to rise to around 250-300 MT in the next two weeks. The CM directed chief secretary Vini Mahajan to pursue the matter with the Centre, with the caseload increasing due to an influx of patients from neighbouring states, pushing up the demand for medical oxygen, a statement said.Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Sunday announced free Covid vaccination for all above the age of 18, days before the nationwide drive to inoculate a vast population is launched.Immediately after Patnaiks announcement, the state government placed an order for over 38 million doses of vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-to-procure-10mn-covid-vaccine-doses-101619380793648.html
26-04-2021||India||Why the second wave nudges us to Bhopal||We have all spent sleepless nights during the last few weeks, as the second wave of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) unfolded. We tried being useful, without becoming infected. Even for a healthy person, it’s been a difficult time.Amidst all of this, one is reminded of the 1984 Bhopal Gas Tragedy. What was it like to wake up, choked? To be attacked by a killer in the air? Watch your loved ones die? My father would routinely quiz me on the news of the day, before dinner, after school homework. The day after the gas leak, he asked what I thought about it. He answered the question himself, saying approximately that it was a tragedy of the highest order.Looking around today at the intensity of the pandemic, I wonder if Indians would have reacted differently if the Bhopal Gas Tragedy happened not in the past, but after COVID? Would there be more empathy, help and voice? We can’t sequence history differently, but we can lend heft to the needs of the Bhopal Gas victims.The toxics still flow in their water, leaving multiple generations gravely ill. Genuine compensation and punishment is still elusive. Toxics still flow unabated into the ecosystem, poisoning people. Having collectively experienced loss and injustice in recent times, do we not owe support to those who need it to recover and move on from the world’s worst industrial disaster? As we heal from the pandemic, shall we not seek healing for all others?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-the-second-wave-nudges-us-to-bhopal-101619380407511.html
26-04-2021||India||SC judge Mohan Shantanagoudar dies after prolonged illness at 62||Supreme Court judge Mohan M Shantanagoudar, 62, passed away on Saturday night at a hospital in Gurugram after a prolonged illness, the apex court’s administration said on Sunday.He was elevated to the Supreme Court in February 2017 from the Kerala high court, where he served as the chief justice. He had a tenure in the apex court till May 5, 2023.One of his closet colleagues in the Supreme Court, justice Vineet Saran, with whom justice Shantanagoudar shared the Supreme Court bench in his last working days, still remembers the last coffee he had with justice Shantanagoudar. “When I went over for a cup of coffee with him recently, he (justice Shantanagoudar) was as lively as he always had been... although not as strong. I had known him since our days at the Karnataka high court which was his parent high court. We shared an excellent rapport. Even as Supreme Court judges, our houses were right opposite each other in Delhi. And the deal was to meet as often as we could,” recounted justice Saran.Recalling some fond memories about justice Shantanagoudar, justice Saran told HT that he was enamoured by the late judge’s sense of humour. “Off the bench or on it, justice Santanagoudar would often come up with a great sense of humour. He brought liveliness to the regular court proceedings. We would break into laughter along with the lawyers and the pressure of the proceedings was out. I feel privileged to have sat with him on the bench during his last days,” he said.Justice Shantanagoudar, who was suffering from lung cancer and was also infected with Covid-19 last year, sat with justice Saran during the last four months. He was not able to speak properly after one side of his vocal cord was paralysed due to the cancer.“But justice Shanatanagoudar would still want to sit on the bench, hear arguments and will also want to write judgments. I would advise him not to exert so much. But he used to tell me that the court and the judgments kept him going. He said this kept him occupied,” reminisced justice Saran, who was there at Gurugram’s Medanta Hospital when justice Shantanagoudar breathed his last on Saturday at around 10.15pm. Justice Saran said he will remember justice Shantanagoudar as a compassionate man and an excellent, thorough judge.Chief Justice of India NV Ramana also issued a statement at his demise, expressing grief: “I was hoping for his speedy and complete recovery and his return to the bench at the earliest. The news of his passing has come as a rude shock. I have lost a valuable colleague.”Justice Shantanagoudar, during his short tenure, was associated with many significant judgments.Through a ruling in February, justice Shantagoudar obligated the banks to ensure safe custody of valuables in their lockers, holding that the banks cannot wash off their hands and claim that they bear no liability towards their customers for the operation of the locker.Authoring another important judgment, he showed his concerns for private liberty and said that trial courts were duty-bound to inform the accused about their right of default bail when the investigating agencies fail to complete the probe within the time limit mandated by law. In yet another judgment evoking concerns for personal liberty, a justice Shantanagoudar-led bench ruled that courts must not punish an accused if they have not been provided proper legal aid.When a man filed a habeas corpus petition for his wife who was lodged in a shelter home in Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly against her wishes, justice Shantanagoudar recorded that a major woman must “live as per her wish” and ordered for her immediate release.Coming to the rescue of small farmers, justice Shantagoudar held in a judgment in March 2020 that a farmer is entitled to file a consumer complaint against a seed company for deficiency of service.Within a year of coming to the top court, he made his presence felt by going against the majority of two senior judges in a bunch of cases relating to land acquisition. While the two senior judges in February 2018 held an old judgment delivered by a bench of same strength of three judges as per incuriam (lacking in care), justice Shantanagoudar dissented with the majority view and said the case should be referred to a larger bench. This case was eventually decided by a larger bench of five judges, as he had opined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-judge-mohan-shantanagoudar-dies-after-prolonged-illness-at-62-101619378108431.html
26-04-2021||India||Set up Covid helpline for hospital beds, states told||The Centre has directed the states to set up a centralised call centre-based service for allocation of hospital beds for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, as people are facing acute bed shortages in many parts of the country because of rising cases.The states have also been asked to maintain a real-time record of available beds for the convenience of people looking for a hospital bed.Rajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary, held a high-level meeting with representatives of all states and Union territories regarding infrastructure augmentation for effective clinical treatment of hospitalised Covid-19 patients.The states were advised to review their existing hospital and other Covid-19 treatment infrastructure in the light of daily new cases, daily fatalities and those that would require hospitalisation.“Identify additional dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and prepare field hospital facilities either through DRDO, CSIR or similar agencies in the public and private sector… Deploy requisite Human Resources with proper Training & mentoring of doctors and nurses for management of patients and Strengthening ambulance services. Establish sufficient referral linkages for districts with deficit infrastructure through deployment of additional ambulances...,” the states were told.In terms of Covid-19 vaccination, the states were asked to make suitable arrangements for accommodating a large crowd as the cohort of eligible beneficiaries has been substantially increased to include those 18 years and above from May 1.“The states and UTs would have to make the necessary preparations, well in advance, to ensure that the eligible citizens are able to access the vaccination services seamlessly and conveniently. Since, the cohort of eligible beneficiaries has been significantly enhanced, suitable arrangements must be made to avoid overcrowding and consequent law and order situations at the vaccination centres,” Bhushan wrote to all states and Union territories.It will be mandatory for all government and private vaccination centres to register on the CoWIN platform, regardless of the source of vaccine doses. It will also be mandatory for all centres to record all vaccinations, issue digital vaccination certificates, and report all adverse events following immunisations on the Co-WIN system that is the backbone of the vaccine delivery management system.The eligibly criteria for any centre to conduct Covid-19 vaccinations remain the same. The facility should have sufficient cold chain equipment and capacity; sufficient room to act as the waiting, vaccination, and post vaccination observation area; sufficient number of vaccinators and verifiers; and ability to manage the adverse events following immunisation as per the norms.There is a special provision for registration of industrial establishments as vaccination centres provided they fulfil the criteria laid down by the Union health and family ministry.“Wherever an industrial establishment has a hospital that is eligible for registration as a Covid vaccination centre… it can register on CoWIN as an industrial establishment CVC, with mapping to any other existing private CVC… The state government may designate an appropriate authority at state/district level that will ensure only eligible facilities as per the criteria are registered on CoWIN as CVC.The designated authority must take a decision on registration, within in two days of the receipt of application…,” the health ministry has directed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/set-up-covid-helpline-for-hospital-beds-states-told-101619377931772.html
26-04-2021||India||After Rahul’s appeal, Cong sets up control rooms for Covid aid||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed his 76th Mann Ki Baat, a radio broadcast, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday launched an offensive against the PM with his “Jan ki Baat” tweet as he urged his party workers to provide aid to people. Hours later, the party announced the setting up of control rooms in Delhi and the states to assist people affected by Covid-19.“‘System’ failed, so it’s important to do Jan ki baat: In this crisis, the country needs responsible citizens. I request my Congress colleagues to leave all political work- just provide all help and ease the pain of our countrymen. This is the Dharma of the Congress family,” Gandhi appealed to his party colleagues.In another tweet, Gandhi posted a front page of The New York Times and criticised Modi. “Shroud the truth Deny oxygen shortage Underreport deaths GOI is doing everything... ...to save his fake image!” he tweeted.The Congress party has set up a four-member control room to assist people amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic as many call party leaders or local offices every day seeking help. The central control room, to be managed by Manish Chatrath, Pawn Khera, Ajoy Kumar and Gurdeep Sappal, will coordinate daily with the state units.Earlier, Indian Youth Congress (IYC) chief BV Srinivas set up a core team to help families of Covid-19 patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-rahul-s-appeal-cong-sets-up-control-rooms-for-covid-aid-101619377087120.html
26-04-2021||India||Gopalkrishna Gandhi supports Yechury’s free Covid jabs appeal||In urging the Prime Minister to provide vaccines to state governments for free, Sitaram Yechury has spoken for the nation, public intellectual Gopalkrishna Gandhi said on Sunday.“His appeal goes on to ask for uninterrupted supply of oxygen to all hospitals. Both these steps are contingent on availability which, in turn, depends on technological prowess. But the most important clarification needed is this: Can the Government of India make funds needed for this enterprise available by suitable budgetary re-appropriations?” Gandhi said.“If yes, then surely it ought not to be necessary to make state governments buy the vaccines for free or subsidised distribution. And if no, will it divert the funds needed from all money-guzzling projects that can wait for better times?”Gandhi joined Communist leader Yechury in his plea and urged the government to suspend such projects and re-appropriate those sums to making , procuring and supplying vaccines to the states free of cost and make oxygen cylinders available as a national priority.“The production and distribution of vaccines and oxygen cylinders is more urgent today than the production and distribution of any product has ever been in independent India. And certainly more urgent than the building of refurbished government precincts, not to mention temples and mosques,” Gandhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gopalkrishna-gandhi-supports-yechury-s-free-covid-jabs-appeal-101619376787148.html
26-04-2021||India||ED money laundering probe likely against Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is likely to launch a money laundering probe against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on the basis of a case registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), people familiar with the developments said on Sunday.Mandated to probe financial aspects in a scheduled offence, the central anti-money laundering agency is currently analysing the CBI case, which claims that Deshmukh and “unknown others” used their official position to obtain undue advantage, as well as influenced the transfers and postings in the Mumbai Police, as alleged by former city police commissioner Param Bir Singh.Singh said that Deshmukh asked suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, currently behind bars in the February 25 Antilia explosives scare case as well as the alleged murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran on March 5, to collect ₹100 crore every month from hotels, bars and restaurants in Mumbai.The Bombay high court had asked CBI to look into the allegations as part of a preliminary enquiry. The premier anti-corruption agency found “prime facie” truth in these allegations after which the PE was converted into a regular case (FIR) on April 21 and agency teams raided Deshmukh’s residences in Mumbai and Nagpur on Saturday.“According to the allegations, the amount involved ( ₹100 crore every month) is huge and it is a case of public importance. We are looking into the CBI FIR. A call will be taken very soon,” said an ED officer who didn’t want to be named.Unlike CBI, ED can record statement of any person in a case under section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and it is admissible as evidence in the court.CBI has alleged that Deshmukh not only took undue advantage in his position as the state home minister but was also aware of the fact that Vaze was being entrusted with all sensational and important cases of Mumbai Police, something officers want to further investigate as it may involve a money angle, said a CBI officer, requesting anonymity.The “unknown others” named by CBI in its FIR are suspected to be other government officials in Maharashtra who will now be probed formally. Several officers of the Mumbai Police are likely to soon receive summons from CBI.Nationalist Congress Party spokesperson and state minister Nawab Malik on Saturday called the action being taken in the alleged extortion racket case as politically motivated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-money-laundering-probe-likely-against-deshmukh-101619376607148.html
26-04-2021||India||Ensure liquid oxygen not used for any non-medical purpose: Centre to states||The Centre on Sunday directed states and Union territories to ensure that use of liquid oxygen is not allowed for any non-medical purpose and all manufacturing units must maximise their production to make it available for medical use only with “immediate effect until further orders.” There will be no exception for any industry, according to the order issued by the ministry of home affairs.Even the existing stock of liquid oxygen will also be diverted for medical purposes, the Centre ordered.This the government’s latest measure to ensure the uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen across the country as several states have reported a shortage of the gas to treat critically ill coronavirus disease patients amid rising deaths.“The Central Government has reviewed the oxygen supply situation and has decided that with immediate effect, use of liquid oxygen, including the existing stock, will be allowed for medical purposes only, and that all manufacturing units may be allowed to maximise their production of liquid oxygen, and make it available to the Government, for use for medical purposes only,” the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) letter to the states said.It added that “no exception is allowed to any industry with regard to use of liquid oxygen”.The ministry said it was considered necessary to restrict industrial usage of oxygen for ensuring availability of adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen across the country for management of Covid-19 patients and necessary order in this regard was issued on April 22 to restrict the use of industrial oxygen.Several states have been reporting a shortage of oxygen supply amid the Covid-19 surge.The government has also exempted customs duty on medical-grade oxygen, oxygen-related equipment and Covid-19 vaccines till July 31, 2021. It has granted full exemption from basic customs duty and health cess on import of 16 items related to oxygen and oxygen-related equipment.The government also said on Sunday it has directed all major ports to waive all charges for ships carrying oxygen and related equipment amid a massive surge in coronavirus infections across the country.The ministry of ports, shipping and waterways said it has directed all major ports to accord the highest priority in the berthing sequence to the vessels carrying consignments of medical grade oxygen, oxygen tanks, oxygen bottles, portable oxygen generators and oxygen concentrators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-liquid-oxygen-not-used-for-any-non-medical-purpose-centre-to-states-101619376427153.html
26-04-2021||India||Warship carries medical supplies to Lakshadweep for Covid relief||Pitching in to fight the Covid crisis that has overwhelmed the country’s health care set-up, an Indian warship on Sunday left Kochi with essential medical supplies to provide assistance to the Lakshadweep administration.“As part of the nation’s fight against Covid, Indian Navy ships under Headquarters Southern Naval Command at Kochi are progressing with the mission of Oxygen Express in order to render support to the local administration of the Lakshadweep…INS Sharda, based at Kochi, undertook transfer of essential medical supplies to the capital Kavaratti,” Indian Navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said on Sunday.The stores carried by INS Sharda consisted of 35 oxygen cylinders, Rapid Antigen Detection test (RADT) kits, personnel protective equipment (PPE) and other items to fight the pandemic. From Kavaratti, the ship continued with its mission to the Minicoy island for disembarkation of oxygen cylinders and medical supplies, Madhwal said.“Additionally, 41 empty oxygen cylinders from the islands have been embarked onboard Indian Navy hired vessel Meghna. The vessel is now headed to Kochi for refilling of the empty cylinders and will head back to Lakshadweep with filled cylinders soon to ensure that the Oxygen Express continues unabated,” he added.The navy has also reserved 10 beds for patients from Lakshadweep at INHS Sanjivani, Kochi, to cater to shortage of beds at the islands.The Indian Air Force (IAF) continued to ferry empty oxygen containers to filling stations on Sunday. “One C-17 aircraft airlifted two cryogenic oxygen tankers of 15000 litres capacity each from Gwalior air base to Ranch,” a defence ministry official said.The IAF has intensified its efforts for Covid-19 relief with its transport aircraft ferrying large oxygen containers to filling stations in different parts of the country, as previously reported by HT. The containers will be filled up and transported to different centres for Covid relief by rail or road. The IAF also ferried three containers from Jodhpur and Udaipur to Jamnagar as well as another three from Indore to Jamnagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/warship-carries-medical-supplies-to-lakshadweep-for-covid-relief-101619376367083.html
26-04-2021||India||Can declare districts containment zones: Centre||The Centre has asked the states to declare cities, towns or districts reporting high disease burden as containment zones that would include those with a test positivity rate of 10% or more in the past one week, or bed occupancy of more than 60% on either oxygen-supported or intensive care unit beds, and impose measures such as night curfews.Focus will be on containment as a major approach to flatten the current curve of the disease.In a letter written to the states on Sunday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, “...fulfilling any one of the above two criteria should be considered for taking intensive action and local containment measures… primarily focusing on restricting intermingling of people for a period of 14 days for breaking the chain of transmission duly following epidemiological principles. Classification of districts requiring intensive action and local containment may be undertaken by the state on a weekly basis…”The State Nodal Officer should submit details of all such areas identified for local containment to the state government for approval.Intensive containment measures would include night curfew, which means movement of individuals shall be strictly prohibited during night hours, except for essential activities. The local administration shall decide the duration of the night curfew hours and issue orders, in the entire area of their jurisdiction, under appropriate provisions of law, and ensure strict compliance.Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious, festival-related and other gatherings and congregations will be prohibited. All shopping complexes, cinema halls, restaurants and bars, sports complexes, gyms, spas, swimming pools and religious places will remain closed.Essential services and activities such as health care services, police, fire, banks, electricity, water and sanitation, regulated movement of public transport including all incidental services and activities needed for a smooth functioning of these activities will be allowed in both the public and the private sector.Public transport (railways, metros, buses, cabs) will operate at a maximum capacity of 50%; and there will be no restrictions on interstate and intrastate movement, including transportation of essential goods.The restrictions will continue for a period of 14 days.However, the Centre has asked states to make a public announcement, outlining the rationale for the same and the kind of restrictions that will be in place by also distributing a leaflet in the local language, if possible, highlighting the gravity of the situation and restrictions to be followed, before declaring a containment area.All offices, both government and private, will function with a maximum staff strength of 50%. All industrial and scientific establishments, both government and private will be allowed subject to the workforce following physical distancing norms. They shall also be tested through rapid antigen test, in case of individuals identified with flu-like symptoms, from time to time.Weddings (attended by up to 50 persons) and funerals or last rites (attended by up to 20 persons) will be allowed.All these measures will be in conjunction with the Centre’s fivefold strategy of test, track, isolate, treat, vaccinate strategy.A daily status report will be submitted by the district and municipal authorities to the state, and also shared with the central government on a regular basis.“A very high number of daily new Covid cases are being reported for the past few days. Considering this unprecedented surge, there is an urgent need for states to consider strict Covid management and control measures in surge areas to bring the situation under control,” the health secretary said in his letter.Experts in the field of epidemiology agreed.“The transmission rate is already high in some states. The reproduction number is 3.01 in Bihar, 2.81 in UP, over 2 in 8 other states. We need to implement aggressive containment strategy in avoiding 3 Cs: Crowd prevention and control strategies along with enforcement of masks and physical distancing closed spaces and close contact settings,” said Dr Giridhara R Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-declare-districts-containment-zones-centre-101619376247859.html
26-04-2021||India||551 O2 plants to be set up via PM-Cares: PMO||The Prime Minister’s Office on Sunday gave “in-principle approval” for 551 dedicated medical oxygen generation plants at public health facilities across the country using the PM Cares fund, which was set up last year to collect donations to battle Covid-19, as cases of the infectious disease continued to see a steep rise across the country, with the health care infrastructure overwhelmed by the caseload, and life-saving supplies running low.Hospitals across the country are reporting shortages of medical oxygen and hospital beds as cases of Covid-19 continue to climb at an alarming rate.“In line with Prime Minister’s direction of boosting availability of oxygen to hospitals, the PM CARES Fund has given in-principle approval for allocation of funds for installation of 551 dedicated Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) Medical Oxygen Generation Plants inside public health facilities in the country. PM has directed that these plants should be made functional as soon as possible,” the PMO said in a statement. “He said that these plants will serve as a major boost to oxygen availability at the district level,” the statement added.The Centre and state governments have faced criticism for being unable to provide ample medical oxygen as the health care infrastructure in the country continues to crumble under the weight of new infections, which have crossed the world’s highest single-day tally with nearly 350,000 cases. The Centre has held several high-level meetings to address the shortages and asked states to ensure the ease of supply across borders.The government’s press statement added that the dedicated plants will be established in identified government hospitals in district headquarters in various states and Union territories. “The procurement will be done through Ministry of Health and Family Welfare,” it said.The PM Cares fund earlier allocated ₹201.58 crore for the installation of 162 dedicated PSA medical oxygen generation plants inside public health facilities in the country, the statement said. “The basic aim behind establishing PSA Oxygen Generation Plants at Government hospitals in the district headquarters is to further strengthen the public health system and ensure that each of these hospitals has a captive oxygen generation facility. Such an in-house captive oxygen generation facility would address the day-to-day medical oxygen needs of these hospitals and the district.”According to a Scroll.in report, the central government took eight months into the pandemic to float a tender for the 162 plants. “Six months later, only 33 of 162 plants have been installed despite a deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic sweeping through the country,” the report said.After Sunday’s announcement, a government official familiar with the matter said: “In view to increase medical oxygen capacity of the State, eight Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) Oxygen Generation plants are being installed in Delhi by the support of PM CARES Funds. These plants would enhance capacity of medical oxygen by 14.4 Metric Tonnes.” “Eight PSA Plants to be installed in Delhi, one Plant in Burari Hospital, Kaushik Enclave has already been installed on 17.3.2021,” the official added on condition of anonymity.The official added that four plants, one each at Deen Dayal Upadhya Hospital, Lok Nayak Hospital, Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital Rohini and Deepa Chand Bandhu Hospital Ashok Vihar, were expected to be completed by April 30. “The site readiness of these hospitals was delayed by the State Government despite weekly reviews with them since November 2020. For Ambedkar Nagar Hospital, Dakshinpuri, the site has been readied as late as only 19th April,2021 by the State Government. Site readiness certificate of Satyawadi Raja Harishchandra Hospital, Narela has not yet been submitted by the Delhi Government,” the official said.In a statement, the Delhi government said: “It is well known that Central government decided to setup 162 PSA plants all over India and issued tenders for the same in October 2020. The plants were to be setup by Union Health Ministry through PM Cares fund, and not a single rupee was given to State governments. All these plants were supposed to have been installed by December 2020 and handed over to State governments. However, Central government gave the contract for 140 of these plants to a single vendor, who ran away. As a result, across India not even 10 of these 162 plants have been made operational till date. In Delhi, 7 of the 8 plants were to be set up at Delhi government hospitals, and one at Central government hospital - Safdarjung. After multiple follow-ups with Central government, plants for 5 hospitals were delivered in early March 2021. Typically these plants take 3-4 days for installation. However, once again, the vendor was non-responsive and after multiple follow-ups with Centre, only 1 of the 5 plants has been made operational till date. As for the remaining 2 hospital locations, the plants have not even been received on site. We are shocked to learn that Central government is now making the excuse of site certificate not being available from the Delhi government as a reason for delay in plants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/551-o2-plants-to-be-set-up-via-pm-cares-pmo-101619376187168.html
26-04-2021||NA||Covid-19 Highlights: Pune reports 10,193 new cases, 139 deaths in last 24 hours||India recorded 349,691 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections on Sunday taking the country’s tally to 16,960,172, according to Union ministry of health and family welfare. The single-day death toll also made a new record as 2,767 people died during the same period taking the total death tally to 192,311. While the recovery rate stood at 83.49 per cent as 14,085,110 people recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the country were 2,682,751, comprising around 15.37 per cent of the total cases.Worldwide, a daily record of more than 893,000 Covid-19 cases was recorded on Sunday, according to new agency AFP. The previous daily high was some 819,000 cases on January 8. Over the course of a week, more than 5.5 million cases were recorded worldwide. Other countries trailing India with the most new infections are the US (490,000 cases in one week), Brazil (459,000) and Turkey (404,000).Follow all the updates here:Jharkhand reports 5,903 new Covid-19 casesJharkhand reports 5,903 new Covid-19 cases, 3,287 discharges and 103 deaths.Active cases: 48,105Total discharges: 1,51,651Death toll: 1,991Assam reports 1,844 new Covid-19 casesAssam reports 1,844 new Covid-19 cases, 558 discharges, and 14 deathsActive cases: 15,470Death toll: 1,200Total recoveries: 2,19,516Pune reports 10,193 new Covid-19 cases, 139 deaths in last 24 hoursPune district reported 10,193 fresh Covid-19 cases, 139 fatalities and 10,607 recoveries in the last 24 hours.Himachal Pradesh reports highest single-day rise of 32 deathsHimachal Pradesh recorded 32 Covid-19 deaths on Sunday, the highest single-day rise so far, taking the total fatality count to 1,323, while 1,363 new cases pushed the infection tally to 87,501, PTI quoted a top official as saying.Punjab reports 7,014 fresh Covid-19 casesPunjab on Sunday reported 7,014 new Covid-19 cases, 5,315 discharges, 76 deaths in the last 24 hours.Delhi reports 22,933 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursDelhi on Sunday reported 22,933 fresh Covid-19 cases and 350 deaths in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra records 66,191 new cases of Covid-19, 832 deathsMaharashtra on Sunday recorded 66,191 new cases of Covid-19, taking the state-wide tally to 4,295,027. 832 deaths were also recorded, the death toll now stands at 64,760.Odisha chief minister announces free Covid-19 vaccination for adults Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik announced free Covid-19 vaccines for all eligible adults from the age of 18 till 44 in the state, reported ANI. Vaccination for adults 18 and above is slated to commence from May 1. Bangladesh closes land border with India for 14 days as Covid-19 cases spikeBangladesh closed its land border with India for 14 days as Covid-19 cases spike in the latter, Bangladeshi Foreign minister A K Abdul Momen announced on Sunday, reported PTI.Jammu and Kashmir records 2,381 new Covid-19 cases, 21 deathsJammu and Kashmir records 2,381 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state-wide tally of cases to 19,558. 21 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 2,147, reported news agency ANI.Uttarakhand records 4,368 new cases of Covid-19, 44 deathsUttarakhand reports 4,368 fresh #COVID19 cases, 1,748 recoveries, and 44 deaths in the last 24 hours Active cases: 35,864Total recoveries: 1,10,664Death toll: 2,164 pic.twitter.com/qyhjpoLrmEAaditya Thackeray deletes tweet on free vaccination to avoid 'confusion'Maharashtra tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray deleted his tweet on free vaccination in Maharashtra 'to not cause confusion', the Shiv Sena leader clarified in a later tweet.Bharat Biotech seeks permission to extend shelf life of CovaxinBharat Biotech has written to the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) seeking extension on the shelf-life of its Covid-1vaccine, Covaxin, from 6 to 24 months, reported news agency PTI.4 oxygen tankers being loaded at Raigarh for Delhi4 oxygen tankers are being loaded at the Jindal Steel Plant in Raigarh, Chhattisgarh, for Delhi, Railway board chairman said at a press conference. This is the first Oxygen Express train for Delhi after the state government requested Centre.Railways aiding oxygen transportation from steel plantsRailways have been aiding in transporting life-saving oxygen from steel plants and other areas to affected areas. This process was started to aid Maharashtra, which was experiencing an oxygen shortage, encouraged by the response 4 more tankers have been moved from Bokaro to Lucknow, the Railway board chairman said at a press conference on Sunday.4176 train coaches available for Covid-19 isolation4176 train coaches have been made available for isolating Covid-19 infected individuals. 50 such coaches are currently available in Delhi's Shakurbasti and 25 coaches are available in Anand Vihar, chairman and CEO of Railway Board said in a press conference.Govt asks major ports to waive charges for ships carrying oxygen and related equipmentsThe Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways has asked all major ports to waive charges for ships carrying Medical Grade Oxygen, Oxygen Tanks, Oxygen Bottles, Portable Oxygen Generators and Oxygen Concentrators as Covid-19 cases rise in the country, reported PTI.Union minister Babul Supriyo tests positive for Covid-19Both me & my wife have tested positive😩Me for the 2nd time!! V Sad that I won't be able to vote in Asansol. I needed to be there on the road too for the 26th Polls where 'desperate' @AITCofficial Goons hv already unleashed their terror machinery to disrupt free & fair polls 1/2Puducherry adds 1,008 new Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths push toll to 748The union territory of Puducherry logged 1,008 fresh coronavirus cases during the last 24 hours pushing the overall tally to 53,279, a senior Health department official said on Sunday. Eleven patients (seven men and four women) succumbed to the virus during the last 24 hours ending 10 AM taking the toll to 748.116 new Covid-19 cases in Arunachal Pradesh, tally rises to 17,546At least 116 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Arunachal Pradesh, pushing the total caseload in the northeastern state to 17,546, a senior health official said here on Sunday. The Covid-19 death toll remained at 56 as no fresh fatality was reported, State Surveillance Officer Dr Lobsang Jampa said.Telangana logs 8,126 new Covid-19 cases, 38 deathsTelangana witnessed the highest number of Covid-19 cases as well as deaths in a single day spike with 8,126 fresh infections and 38 more fatalities, the state government said on Sunday. The case tally stands at over 3.95 lakh while the toll rose to 1,999.India sees over 300,000 Covid-19 cases for fourth straight dayIndia’s new daily cases of the coronavirus disease (covid-19) crossed 300,000 for the fourth straight day as the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said on Sunday morning that 349,691 fresh infections were detected across the country in the last 24 hours, taking the infection tally to 16,960,172. Read moreAndamans reports 45 new Covid-19 cases, 1 more deathForty-five more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, pushing the coronavirus tally in the union territory of 5,614, a health department official said on Sunday. The Covid-19 death toll rose to 66 as one more person succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours, he said. Thirty-eight new Covid-19 cases were detected during contact tracing while seven were airport arrivals, the official said.Thailand reports 2,438 coronavirus cases, daily record of 11 deathsThailand reported 2,438 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, bringing the total number of infections to 55,460 since the pandemic started last year. The country also reported a daily record of 11 new deaths, bringing the total fatalities to 140.Deeply concerned by India's current Covid-19 situationPresident Biden-led US government on Sunday said that it was in active talks on Covid-19 situation in India at high levels. "US deeply concerned by current Covid-19 situation in India, plans to quickly deploy additional support to Indian government, health care workers," White House said in a statement.Covid-19 positivity rate falls below 2 per cent in New YorkNew York’s positive test rate dipped to 1.8%, one of the lowest in the nation as the state’s outbreak continues to ease. Hospitalizations, which had been stuck above 4,000 for weeks, fell to 3,294, the lowest since Nov. 27, Governor Andrew Cuomo said in a statement. The state reported 4,164 new cases and 40 more deaths.First billion Covid-19 vaccine doses administered worldwideOne billion syringes. A billion alcohol-soaked cotton balls, jabs to the skin and tiny bandages. One billion exhalations of relief. The first Covid-19 vaccine was approved for widespread use in the UK on December 2, and 143 days later the first billion doses have been administered to a pandemic-weary world. Today, more than 96% of the world’s people live in countries with active Covid-19 vaccine campaigns. That breadth marks an end to the start-up phase of the biggest public-health effort in history. What comes next won’t be easy. It will take another 19 months to vaccinate 75% of the world’s population at the current pace of 18.5 million shots a day.Japan declares 3rd state of emergency in 4 prefectures over Covid-19A nearly three-week state of emergency, the third one since the outbreak of the pandemic, enters into force in Japan's prefectures of Tokyo, Osaka, Kyoto and Hyogo on Sunday amid a spike in Covid-19 cases. On Saturday, the number of daily coronavirus cases in Japan surpasses the 5,600 threshold, becoming the largest one in three months.China reports 13 new Covid-19 casesChina reported 13 new Covid-19 cases on April 24, up from nine cases a day earlier, the national health authority said on Sunday. All of the new cases were imported infections originating from overseas, the National Health Commission said in a statement. The number of new asymptomatic cases, which China does not classify as confirmed cases, rose to 14 from 12 a day earlier. The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Chinese mainland stands at 90,588, while the death toll remains unchanged at 4,636.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-april-25-2021-101619313062931.html
