28-04-2021||India||As over 80 lakh people register in 3 hours for Covid-19 vaccine, Centre says Co-Win is robust, dependable||The Centre on Wednesday dismissed the reports of Co-Win software crashing around 4pm and said the software is robust and dependable. "It is clarified that the media reports that the server has crashed are incorrect and are without any basis," the Centre said issuing a statement, adding that more than 80 lakh people registered themselves on Wednesday."The server supporting the Co-Win digital portal continues to work smoothly at its highest efficiency. People are registering on the platform, mostly of age-group 18-44. It witnessed more than 80 lakh people registered themselves on the portal, with 3 hours from 4pm to 7pm," the Centre said.75 lakh vaccine registrations today, no glitch, says Co-Win chief RS SharmaThere have been 383 million API hits, initially as high as 2.7 million his per minute. Countering claims of users that there was a delay in sending out OTPs, the Centre said as many as 1.45 crore SMSs were successfully delivered."These statistics indicate that far from crashing or performing slowly, the system is performing without any glitches. It is recording 55,000 hits per second and is completely stable," the Centre said.Co-WIN server 'crashes' at 4pm as vaccine registration for 18+ begins, 'Minor glitch,' says Aarogya SetuCo-Win offers registration for Covid-19 vaccination any time, anywhere, the Centre said adding that the capacity of the servers and other parameters have been ramped up ahead of the registration. "Inclusivity, speed and scalability have been kept in mind while designing the unique digital platform with all components being portable, synchronous without excessive and unnecessary dependencies," it said.Registration for people in the age group between 18 and 44 years was thrown open at 4pm on Wednesday. Several users claimed the site crashed while many reported there was a delay in sending the OTP through which one could register. At around 4.35pm, the verified Twitter handle of Aarogya Setu claimed that there was a minor glitch that was resolved. National Health Authority CEO RS Sharma said the software has registered about five million people in a day, in the past phases of vaccination. It is prepared to handle the double, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-over-80-lakh-people-register-in-3-hours-for-covid-19-vaccine-centre-says-co-win-is-robust-dependable-101619630499161.html
28-04-2021||India||Remdesivir vials worth ₹5 lakh seized in Gujarat; 5 nabbed||Five persons were arrested on Wednesday in Gujarat with 90 Remdesivir injections worth ₹4.86 lakh which they were planning to sell in the black market, police officials said.Four of them were arrested from Vadodara city, while the fifth one was nabbed from Anand town, they said.This was the biggest haul of Remdesivir injections recovered by the police in Gujarat from black marketeers so far, said Vadodara police commissioner Shamsher Singh.Remdesivir injections, widely used to treat critical coronavirus patients, are in high demand nationwide after the recent surge in Covid-19 cases.While 45 vials were recovered from four residents of Vadodara city, the remaining 45 injections were seized from the fifth accused, Jatin Patel, a native of neighbouring Anand town, Singh told reporters in Vadodara.The other accused were identified by the police as Rishi Jedhe, Vikas Patel, Pratik Panchal and Manan Shah, all residents of Vadodara.All the five accused are into trading of pharma products, the police officer said.Based on a tip-off, the Vadodara crime branch nabbed Jedhe as soon as he reached the Subhanpura area of the city to deliver Remdesivir injections to a person, said Singh."We then nabbed the four others. In all, we recovered 90 vials worth ₹4.86 lakh (each costing ₹5,400) from the five persons."They were selling each vial for up toRs 20,000. They confessed to have sold around 300 injections till now and had planned to sell another 300 in the black market," he said.He said the kingpin of the racket was Jatin Patel, who runs a pharmaceutical agency in Anand and used to procure Remdesivir from one Vivek Shah, who runs a pharmacy.The alleged role of Vivek Shah in the racket is under investigation, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remdesivir-vials-worth-rs-5-lakh-seized-in-gujarat-5-nabbed-101619630383194.html
28-04-2021||India||Re-registration of passenger vehicles becomes easier with 'IN' series. Know how||The ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) issued a new notification on Wednesday for draft rules to make the process of re-registration of vehicles easier for those shifting from one state to another, through the introduction of an ‘IN series’ of vehicles. This move marks the efforts of the government to introduce citizen-centric steps and IT-backed solutions for vehicle registration, the ministry said“The step comes in the context of several citizen-centric steps and an IT-based solution for vehicle registration taken by the government,” the ministry said in a press release.Issues of re-registration of vehicles on relocating from one state to another fall under section 47 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. The act allows the owner to keep their vehicle in any state other than the state where the vehicle is originally registered (parent state) for a period of 12 months, as new registrations have to be made with the authorities concerned within 12 months.Under the existing rules, individuals need a no-objection certificate from the parent state and the road tax has to be paid in the new state on a pro-rata basis. Owners also have to start the process of refund of the road tax paid for the vehicle in the previous state on a pro-rata basis. This process is often cumbersome and the rules vary from one state to another.Keeping this in mind, the ministry has proposed a new system of vehicle registration on a pilot basis -- wherein vehicle registration would be marked as ‘IN’ series instead of bearing the parent state’s initials, which is applicable at present. The draft rule has been put up on the ministry's website inviting comments from states and UTs in the next 30 days.“Vehicle registration facilities under ‘IN series’ will be available to Defence personnel, employees of the Central Government, State Governments, Central/ State PSUs and private sector companies/ organisations, which have offices in five or more States or Union Territories,” the ministry said in the release.The motor tax on ‘IN series’ vehicles will be levied for two years or in multiple of two. The ministry expects this move to facilitate free inter-state movement of vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reregistration-of-passenger-vehicles-becomes-easier-with-in-series-know-how-101619629787833.html
28-04-2021||India||'Appalled,' says Chidambaram on govt’s denial of oxygen shortage, vaccines||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday criticised the government over its handling of the pandemic and asked if all media reports as well the cries for help ringing out of every adversely affected state were fake.“Are all the television channels telecasting fake visuals? Are all the newspaper stories incorrect? Are all the doctors lying? Are all the family members making false statements? Are all the visuals and photographs fake?” the former finance minister said via a series of tweets.He also said that he was ‘appalled’ by health minister Harsh Vardhan’s statement that the country is not facing a shortage of oxygen or Remdesivir. Both oxygen and Remdesivir are considered vital for critical Covid-19 patients as timely administration is vital for saving the life of the person infected by Covid-19. He also said he was surprised by the claim made by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath that the state was not facing a shortage of vaccines.“I am appalled by the statement of the Union Health Minister that there is no shortage of oxygen or vaccines or Remedesivir. I am also appalled by the statement of the UP. Chief Minister that there is no shortage of vaccines in UP,” Chidambaram said. Earlier on Monday, health minister Harsh Vardhan had said that India is better prepared to tackle Covid-19 this year compared to 2020.The government on Monday during the Covid-19 briefing highlighted that there is enough oxygen in the country but transportation remains a major challenge. Chidambaram also said that people need to ‘revolt’ against any government which assumes that all Indians are foolish. “People must revolt against a government that is assuming all the people of India are fools,” he said.Several nations have come to India’s aid to help it tide over the crisis presented by the second wave of Covid-19. The US, UK, Germany, Taiwan, Australia and France along with several other nations have come forward to bolster India’s response to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/appalled-says-chidambaram-on-govt-s-denial-of-oxygen-shortage-vaccines-101619629628423.html
28-04-2021||India||BRO’s first woman commanding officer to handle road project near China border||The Border Road Organisation’s (BRO) Vaishali S Hiwase has taken over as the first woman commanding officer (CO) of a Road Construction Company (RCC) responsible for providing forward connectivity along the India-China border, officials familiar with the development said on Wednesday. She holds the rank of an executive engineer. Vaishali will be discharging her duties in a challenging environment. “With two air- maintained detachments located at #10000ft and above, the alignment of road is going through some formidable passes and treacherous terrain of hard rock with vertical cliffs,” the BRO said on Twitter, giving the description of the work lying ahead for the woman officer. Vaishali, who has an M Tech degree, is from Wardha in Maharashtra. She is taking over the new assignment as CO after a successful stint in the Kargil sector, the officials said. “This is a humble beginning by @BROindia that will usher a new era of #Women Empowerment that will see women officers taking over most arduous tasks. #History in making,” the BRO said in another tweet. Last year, the BRO constructed key roads and tunnels in forward areas along the China border amidst the Covid-19 pandemic and the border standoff between India and China in the Ladakh sector. BRO is building strategic roads in Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim. It plans to complete all 61 strategic roads assigned to it along the China border by December 2022 to allow swifter mobilisation of troops and stores to forward areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bros-first-woman-commanding-officer-to-handle-road-project-near-china-border-101619628399779.html
28-04-2021||India||First US consignment of support materials expected by Friday, India asks for vaccines||With the first consignment of US support materials for India’s Covid-19 response expected to arrive by Friday, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday that India has sought ready-to-use vaccines from the Biden administration. The government’s international procurement programme is currently focused on critical medicines such as Remdesivir and oxygen-related equipment, especially concentrators, cylinders and large and small liquid oxygen tanks, that can be used to ramp up the supply of oxygen across the country. The first Russian consignment of support materials too is expected to arrive in the country on Thursday and the first batch of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine is set to reach India by the end of the month, the people said on condition of anonymity. Details of the first consignment being sent by the US are still being worked out, though it is expected to contain a mix of equipment and supplies and some of the materials that could be sourced from US military bases in different parts of the world, the people said. Asked about reported comments by senior US officials at a recent background briefing that India hadn’t made any request for ready-to-use vaccines from the Biden administration, the people said this matter was raised on a couple of occasions with the American side. “The Indian side has said it would be useful to have US vaccines, may not be specifically the AstraZeneca vaccine, since India now has a fast track mechanism for approving vaccines. The US is aware of our interest in procuring vaccines, AstraZeneca or otherwise,” said one of the people cited above. The people also noted that the US does not currently have a large stockpile of the AstraZeneca vaccine – some 10 million doses had been produced so far and about 50 million doses are expected to be manufactured in May and June. There is also no clarity on how many doses from this stockpile will be provided to the country though President Joe Biden has himself mentioned that some of it will be sent to India, the people said. The Indian side has managed to get support from a large number of people in the US, including the administration, members of Congress and private businesses, and this is expected to be reflected in the materials that are set to arrive in the coming days, they said. India’s missions around the world are focusing on procuring critical medicines such as Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, and Favipiravir, and the Indian side’s ability to convinced pharmaceutical major Gilead to donate 450,000 doses of Remdesivir is being seen as a “big success”. More supplies of Remdesivir are also expected from other countries, the people said. The current focus on oxygen-related equipment such as concentrators and cylinders is because it is difficult to import oxygen. “Liquid oxygen can’t be airlifted and has to be brought in by ship. Even there, we need special cryogenic tankers and their numbers are limited across the world. So far, there is one commercial shipment coming from Saudi Arabia,” said the first person cited above. Large oxygen generating plants, such as the ones being sent by Germany and France, are useful though they need considerable time to be installed and set up, the people said. On the other hand, large and small liquid oxygen tanks can help move the commodity from points of production to healthcare facilities across the country, they added. The people said there had been no formal response to offers of assistance from Pakistan and China. There are no problems with commercial procurements from China by private Indian firms, such as the purchase of large numbers of oxygen concentrators from Hong Kong, the people said. The Indian government, especially the external affairs ministry and health ministry, is accelerating the procurements from abroad by relaxing import procedures and waiving duties and also ensuring the supplies speedily reach the places where they are needed the most and are also used properly, the people said. All supplies from foreign governments and partners are being routed through the Indian Red Cross Society and countries are also free to provide aid directly to NGOs or other entities in India. The people reiterated that there had been no international appeal for assistance and India was looking to procure specific products from around the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-us-consignment-of-support-materials-expected-by-friday-india-asks-for-vaccines-101619626360094.html
28-04-2021||India||Nearly 3,000 Covid-19 patients in Bengaluru missing: Karnataka Revenue Minister||Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Wednesday claimed that around 3,000 people infected with Covid-19 are missing from Bengaluru. He told reporters that the government has asked the police to track the missing people, even though many of them have switched off their mobile phones. “We are giving free medicines to people, which can control 90% of cases, but they have (Covid-19 infected people) switched off their mobile phones. They reach the hospitals in a critical stage to desperately look for ICU beds. This is what is happening now,” the minister said in Bengaluru. He requested those who have tested positive for the viral disease to keep their cell phones on so that the official responsible for contact tracing and follow-ups could reach them. “I pray to them with folded hands that Covid-19 cases will only increase due to this. It is wrong when you try for ICU beds at the last moment,” the minister said. He said that several patients are trying to hide their whereabouts by turning their cell phones off. “At least 2,000 to 3,000 people in Bengaluru have switched off their phones and left their houses. We don’t know where they have gone,” the minister added. The Karnataka government had recently increased its contact tracing activity after it was found that the officials in Bengaluru and other districts were tracing only 4 contacts per infected person, while the guidelines mandate tracing at least 20 contacts. Karnataka on Wednesday reported 39,047 new Covid-19 cases and 229 deaths taking the total active infections to 3,28,884 and the toll to 15,036. Out of the 39,047 new cases on Wednesday, 22,596 were from Bengaluru, while 137 lost their lives due to the virus. The government has imposed a lockdown for 14 days restricting the unnecessary movement of people starting from Tuesday night to contain the spread of the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-3-000-covid-19-patients-in-bengaluru-missing-karnataka-revenue-minister-101619624799234.html
28-04-2021||India||Peace talks hampered by continious incareceration: NSCN(IM) leader tells court||Naga insurgent group NSCN (IM) leader Alemla Jamir, arrested in a terror funding case being probed by the NIA, told a Delhi court on Wednesday that her continuous incarceration is hampering the ongoing 'Naga peace talk' between the group and the Centre.She made the submission before Special Judge Parveen Singh while seeking interim bail for two months on the ground that she has to take care of her minor daughter during the ongoing pandemic.The judge issued notice the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and sought its response by May 18 on Jamir's interim bail application.Jamir was arrested in December 2019 by the special cell of Delhi Police here on the charges of carrying ₹72 lakh and the case was later transferred to the NIA.The accused told the court through her advocate M S Khan that due to her arrest and continuous imprisonment, intermediaries of the 'Naga Peace Process' are losing faith in the approach of the Government of India.“That ever since the applicant has been in jail, the Intermediaries of the Naga Peace Process are losing faith in the approach of GOI because the arrest of the applicant and continued detention have been a major violation of the conditions for the ceasefire and talks,” the accused said in the application. The application claimed that “it appears, the GOI seems to be changing its colour and in total contravention of the agreement between the GOI and the NSCN (IM), it is evident that the applicant has been arrested as a vendetta since the husband of the Applicant, who is a member of the organisation, is not currently accessible to anyone.”Jamir said in the application that her 16-year-old daughter “requires motherly love, care and guidance especially since she is growing up and requires physical presence and psychological support in her formative years, more so during this trying times of pandemic”.It also added that some of her inmates have been tested positive for Covid-19.Jamir's application for regular bail is pending in the Delhi High Court and is scheduled to come up for hearing on May 13.The NIA had lodged a case under various sections of stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), including 17 (raising funds for terrorist act), 18 (conspiracy related to terror activities) and 20 (membership of a terror organisation).It had alleged that Jamir was taking the money from Delhi to Nagaland on the instructions of Icrak Muivah, wife of Muivah, general secretary of the NSCN (IM).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peace-talks-hampered-by-continious-incareceration-nscn-im-leader-tells-court-101619623199521.html
28-04-2021||India||Bengal to upgrade crematoriums, take stock of hearse vans as Covid-19 toll mounts||On April 20 when Bholanath Pal, a resident of Singur in Hooghly district died after being detected with Covid-19, his body was left for nearly 18 hours in his house before it could be cremated. “After being detected with Covid-19 on April 17, he had to be kept in home isolation as we couldn’t arrange a bed in any hospital. He died. Later repeated phone calls to the district administration to help us for the cremation went unanswered. We had to wait for 18 hours before help arrived,” said Babin Pal, the victim’s son. It was not a stray incident. Reports of such cases, where families of Covid-19 victims are facing harassment even after the death of their kin, have started to pour in almost every day. In the face of an exponential rise in the death toll over the past few weeks, the West Bengal government has directed district administrations to augment infrastructure at crematoriums, appointing a nodal officer who would coordinate the cremation process and take stock of the fleet of hearse vans among others. “It has to be ensured that bodies are disposed preferably within three hours and for this each block and subdivision has been asked to appoint a nodal officer who would get in touch with the victims’ families and coordinate the entire cremation process,” said a senior official. The district administrations have been directed to identify areas where more deaths were taking place and categorise them in three categories – A, B and C with A getting the top priority. “Officials have been asked to augment the infrastructure at crematoriums and burial grounds, augment man power, and find new spaces for burial. Also they have been asked to take stock of hearse vans, both government and private among others,” said the official The daily death toll of Covid-19 victims touched 73 on Tuesday, almost 25 times higher than what it was on February 26, when the Election Commission of India announced the assembly polls in West Bengal. The daily count of Covid-19 cases has shot up 75 times in the state. On Tuesday, the state registered 16,403 new cases up from 216 on February 26. The positivity rate -- the proportion of people testing positive to those tested – has also shot up from 1% to nearly 30% during the same period. Kolkata registered the maximum deaths – 24, followed by North 24 Parganas where 13 people died on Tuesday. The three crematoriums in the city, meant for Covid-19 victims, are all stressed and the civic body is looking to augment infrastructure by designating more crematoriums for Covid-19 victims. “If you go by official figures, then 50% of the victims dying every day in the city are cremated at the crematorium at Dhapa in east Kolkata, while the rest are sent to the other two crematoriums at Nimtala and Birjunala. But, actually the numbers are much higher. All the furnaces are burning constantly, and the crematorium staff are all overworked,” said a senior official of the Kolkata civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-to-upgrade-crematoriums-take-stock-of-hearse-vans-as-covid-19-toll-mounts-101619623118826.html
28-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rajasthan CM goes into isolation after wife tests Covid-19 positive and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot goes under isolation after wife tests Covid +veRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday isolated himself after his wife Sunita tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Sharing the news on Twitter, Gehlot said, "My wife Sunita Gehlot has tested positive for Covid-19 and is asymptomatic. As per protocol, her treatment under home isolation has started." Read moreCoast Guard locates missing fishing boat in Arabian Sea after 4 daysThe Indian Coast Guard on Wednesday announced that it has located missing Tamil Nadu fishing boat Mercedes after a four-day search operation. The boat was located in the Arabian Sea at a distance of about 1,100 km from Goa, the coast guard said in a statement. Read moreUS Supreme Court arguments begin in cheerleader's free speech caseUS Supreme Court justices on Wednesday began hearing arguments on whether public schools can punish students for what they say off campus in a case involving a former Pennsylvania cheerleader's foul-mouthed social media post that could impact the free speech rights of millions of young Americans. Read moreSaudis in talks to sell Aramco stake to global energy firmSaudi Arabia’s crown prince said the kingdom is in talks to sell a 1% stake in state oil giant Saudi Aramco to a “leading global energy company” as he forecast an economic rebound after the coronavirus pandemic. Read morePrincess Diana's iconic wedding gown to go on display at Kensington PalaceThe memory of Princess Diana is etched in people's minds till date, and of the many instances one can think of which made Lady Di unforgettable, the sight of her in her stunning and huge taffeta wedding dress is surely one for the books. Read more'He is three players packed into one': Ajit Agarkar's huge praise for CSK player, says 'there's nothing he can't do'After a disappointing season last year, Chennai Super Kings have roared back in IPL 2021 and in some style. Having lost their season opener, MS Dhoni's CSK have registered four straight wins in a row, having beaten Punjab Kings, Rajasthan Royals, Kolkata Knight Riders and Royal Challengers Bangalore. Read moreDharmendra says he is a loner and is 'living with remembrance of those touching memories'. See picActor Dharmendra on Wednesday said he was a loner and that he now lives with the memories of times gone by. The veteran actor was replying to a tweet by Apne director Anil Sharma. Read moreWatch| Covid crisis: Oxygen, Remdesivir black market as patients gasp & hospitals choke||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rajasthan-cm-goes-into-isolation-after-wife-tests-positive-101619621992755.html
28-04-2021||India||Karnataka reports 39,047 new Covid-19 infections in highest single-day spike||Karnataka recorded 39,047 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, its highest single-day spike, taking the state-wide tally of active cases to 3,28,884, according to the health bulletin released by the state health department. This marks a significant jump from the 31,830 new cases the state recorded on Tuesday.About 229 infected individuals also succumbed to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, with the death toll standing at 15,036. As of today, the case fatality rate in the state stands at 0.58%. A total of 1,71,997 tests were conducted on Wednesday, resulting in a positivity rate of 0.58%.Bengaluru Urban contributed the highest number of cases to the state’s tally and recorded the highest single-day spike of 22,596 new Covid cases on Wednesday. Mysuru and Kolara trailed Bengaluru with 1,759 and 1,194 cases, respectively.Karnataka is currently under a 14-day lockdown which came into force from Tuesday night. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa urged people on Twitter to follow lockdown rules and stay indoors to help break the chain of virus transmission"The 2 weeks of strict rules to break the chain of Covid virus have begun. My appeal to everyone: follow the guidelines, cooperate with the government, stay indoors, and step out only if it's an emergency. Together, we all can defeat the Covid-19 pandemic," Yediyurappa tweetedThe state government asked returnees from Covid-19-affected countries and their contacts to isolate at homes for a period of 14 days from arrival in India even if they do not exhibit any Covid-related symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-reports-39-047-new-covid-19-infections-in-highest-single-day-spike-101619621065784.html
28-04-2021||India||Covid-19: First consignment of support from US to reach India tomorrow||The first consignment of the United States’ support to India in its response to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) second wave is expected on Thursday, people familiar with the developments told HT. India had earlier raised the issue of procuring AstraZeneca vaccines as well as raw materials for production of vaccines in India with the US.India focused on procuring oxygen-related equipment such as oxygen generation plants, oxygen cylinders and oxygen concentrators which can be used to speed up the process of producing and distributing oxygen. Hospitals in several states and cities, which have been hard-hit by Covid-19, raised the issue of patient deaths due to shortage of oxygen. Other than the US, Germany, Australia and France will also send oxygen-related equipment to bolster India’s response to the second wave of Covid-19.Covid-19 aid to India: What’s being provided by countries, private organisationsThe first consignment of support from Russia is also expected to reach India on Thursday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian president Vladimir Putin discussed the evolving situation of the pandemic and thanked Putin for extending its support in India's fight against the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday.As relief material comes in, India sets up procedures for prompt delivery of equipmentIndia has not yet responded to offers of support made by China and Pakistan. Indian companies in China are purchasing supplies and equipment. India has not yet made an appeal for international aid. Indian missions in several countries have prepared a list of necessary equipment required to fight Covid-19 and procedure to procure such equipment have been relaxed. (with inputs from Rezaul Laskar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-first-consignment-of-support-from-us-to-reach-india-tomorrow-101619618511983.html
28-04-2021||India||Coast Guard locates missing fishing boat in Arabian Sea after 4 days||The Indian Coast Guard on Wednesday announced that it has located missing Tamil Nadu fishing boat Mercedes after a four-day search operation. The boat was located in the Arabian Sea at a distance of about 1,100 km from Goa, the coast guard said in a statement. The fishing boat had sailed for deep sea fishing from Tamil Nadu on April 6 with an 11-man crew. “After four days of continuous search amidst challenges of distance from mainland and weather, the missing boat was located around 370 kilometres from Lakshadweep Islands. ICG Dornier aircraft located and corroborated presence of the fishing boat on Wednesday morning,” the statement said. The Maritime Rescue Co-ordination Centre (MRCC) of coast guard established communication with the fishing boat on satellite phone onboard the boat and ascertained the crew to be safe, officials said. A coast guard ship is escorting the boat to its base port in Tamil Nadu where it is expected to arrive on May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coast-guard-locates-missing-fishing-boat-in-arabian-sea-after-4-days-101619619158900.html
28-04-2021||India||Serum Institute's Adar Poonawalla to get Y category security across India||Serum Institute of India's CEO Adar Poonawalla will get Y category security across India, the ministry of home affairs notified on Wednesday. The security category generally comprises 11 personnel, including one or two commandoes and police personnel.The move comes ahead of the third phase of the vaccination scheduled to begin from May 1. Pune's Serum Institute of India, which is the largest vaccine producer in the country by the number of doses produced in a year, is one of the lynchpins in India's expansion of the vaccination drive. Apart from SII's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is the other vaccine to be made available in the private market.The Central Reserve Police Force will provide him with security and it will be applicable across India, wherever he travels.SII reduces Covishield prices for states from ₹400 to ₹300 per doseOn April 16, the director of SII, Prakash Kumar Singh, wrote to the ministry seeking security for Adar Poonawalla. In his letter, Singh mentioned that Poonawalla was getting threats from various people regarding the supply of Covid-19 vaccines. "We are working shoulder-to-shoulder to fight against Covid-19 pandemic with the government of India under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji," the letter said.In the past few days, Poonawalla has received flak for "profiteering" as his vaccine company was offering one dose of Covishield to the Centre at ₹150, while charging ₹400 from the state governments. On Wednesday, after the Centre opened registration for vaccination of people between the age group of 18 and 44 years, Poonawalla announced a reduction in the price as he slashed the price by ₹100. Instead of ₹400 per dose, states will now have to pay ₹300 per dose of Covishield. However, the reduction is not fully assuaging the concerns of the state governments as the difference between the prices still remains."As a philanthropic gesture on behalf of Serum Institute of India, I hereby reduce the price to the states from ₹400 to ₹300 per dose, effective immediately; this will save thousands of crores of state funds going forward. This will enable more vaccinations and save countless lives," Poonawalla tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-s-adar-poonawalla-to-get-y-category-security-across-india-101619618760837.html
28-04-2021||India||Light combat aircraft Tejas fires Python-5 missile for first time||The indigenous Tejas light combat aircraft (LCA) on Tuesday fired the Israeli-origin Python-5 air-to-air missile (AAM) for the first time, paving the way for the short-range missile to be carried on the plane, officials familiar with the development said. “Trials were also aimed to validate enhanced capability of already integrated Derby beyond visual range (BVR) AAM on Tejas. The test firing at Goa completed a series of missile trials to validate its performance under extremely challenging scenarios,” the defence ministry said in a statement on Wednesday. The Derby missile achieved direct hit on a high-speed maneuvering aerial target and the Python missiles also achieved 100% hits, validating their complete capability, it added. The missiles were fired from Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA) Tejas aircraft flown by IAF test pilots from the National Flight Test Centre. The defence ministry in February awarded a ₹48,000 crore contract to Hindustan Aeronautics Limited for 83 LCA Mk-1A jets for the IAF. The deal took the total number of Tejas variants ordered to 123. The 40 LCAs already ordered by IAF are in the initial operational clearance (IOC) and the more advanced final operational clearance (FOC) configurations. The LCA Mk-1A will come with additional improvements over the FOC aircraft, making it the most advanced Tejas variant so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-combat-aircraft-tejas-fires-python-5-missile-for-first-time-101619618018673.html
28-04-2021||India||Maharashtra may face 3rd Covid-19 wave if vaccination slows: Experts||A slowdown in the ongoing vaccination drive in Maharashtra, battling a savage surge in Covid-19 cases, will potentially pave the way for a third wave of the infection in the state, health experts warned on Wednesday.The warning came on a day when the Maharashtra government said it is not going to start the vaccination drive from May 1 for the 18-44 age group because of unavailability of sufficient doses.Health Minister Rajesh Tope has already expressed concern over the inadequate supply of vaccines for Maharashtra, the state worst-hit by the pandemic, amid reports of a shortage of doses for the existing beneficiaries (45-plus people), putting the inoculation drive on a slow track.The true curbing of Covid-19 can happen only if two thirds of the population eligible for vaccination is covered under the inoculation drive."Out of 9 crore people eligible for vaccination in Maharashtra, we have just covered over 1.50 crore so far, which is negligible," said a senior official from state health department.He pitched for fast-tracking the inoculation drive which began on January 16 with healthcare professionals and was later extended to cover frontline workers and people in the 45-plus age group."If we do not accelerate the pace of vaccination, sooner or later people will venture out for jobs and other work and this could invite the third wave of Covid-19, he warned.Relaxation of measures in December made people careless and this triggered the second wave of Covid-19 from February. We are still suffering from it."If we do not vaccinate a major chunk of the population quickly, we will be rolling out the red carpet for the third wave, the health department official said.In April so far, the state has added 15,53,922 fresh Covid-19 cases and 11,281 deaths.Tope on Wednesday said, The Maharashtra government is unlikely to get vaccines from Bharat Biotech or Serum Institute of India before May 20."In that case, we can not start vaccination for the 18-44 age group from May 1. We will have to wait for the third week of May.A member of the state task force on Covid-19 said with more vaccines in hand, Maharashtra could have inoculated a large number of people."There will be several hurdles in the monsoon to carry out the drive, including heavy rains and landslides," he said.A Congress leader said the Covid-19 situation is alarming but "we are wasting a golden opportunity to inoculate as many people as possible in the summer".If we go by the health ministers projection of six- month period required to inoculate 5.5 crore population in the state, then we can not expect current strict measures to remain in force for such a long period," the leader said.A scientist involved in genome sequencing of the novel coronavirus said if the virus keeps mutating, it will defeat the purpose of vaccination.If we spend such a long time for vaccination, we may find new mutations or variants of Covid-19 which would be immune to the vaccine," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-may-face-3rd-covid-19-wave-if-vaccination-slows-experts-101619616385795.html
28-04-2021||India||Manipur medical institute starts producing oxygen to guard against Covid surge||Manipur’s top medical college has added capacity to produce up to 350,000 litres of medical oxygen daily, when its shortage has taken lives of many Covid-19 patients across the country, swept by the second wave of the disease. Located in Imphal, the Regional Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) began oxygen production on April 24 at its manufacturing unit at Lamphelpat .The institute’s director professor A Santa said, “We have started to produce D- type oxygen (in Jumbo cylinders) since April 24 onwards.” Each Jumbo cylinder contains around 7,000 litres of oxygen and according to Santa, RIMS was producing enough oxygen daily from the atmosphere to fill up 40-50 such jumbo cylinders with the help of five PSA (Pressure swing absorption) oxygen generator plants, installed recently to deal with any medical emergency in the landlocked state. “Each of these five generators can produce around 10 jumbo cylinders daily,” he said.“Many experts, including director AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Sciences) have appreciated our initiatives,” professor Santa said proudly.RIMS is ranked 38th in National Institutional Ranking Framework on Human Resource Development (NIRF) 2019-20, released by the Union ministry of human resource development. The institute is also busy harvesting water for its sustainable use through different innovative ideas.Earlier, the medical college and hospital, with more than 1000 beds, used to purchase water from private tanker operators.The oxygen generator plants at RIMS were inspected by chief minister N Biren Singh on Monday. Earlier during the day, Singh had inspected another oxygen manufacturing unit at the state-run JNIMS hospital in Imphal.On Tuesday, Manipur reported 175 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s infection tally to 30,742 including 1,032 active cases, officials said. 29,317 patients have recovered so far. With three more deaths reported on Tuesday, the state’s death toll rose to 393.As of now, 662,531 persons have been screened at entry points and another 607,553 have been tested at other centres across the state.So far, 139,457 persons including healthcare and frontline workers have received the first dose of Covid vaccine. Out of these, 65,020 healthcare and frontline workers had also received the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-medical-institute-starts-producing-oxygen-to-guard-against-covid-surge-101619615798511.html
28-04-2021||India||PM Modi speaks to Russian president Vladimir Putin on several issues, including Sputnik-V vaccine||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday spoke to Russian president Vladimir Putin and discussed the evolving situation of the pandemic and thanked Putin for extending its support in India's fight against the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).PM Modi in a tweet also said that both leaders held a discussion on Sputnik-V vaccine and highlighted that the partnership between both countries in production of the vaccine will help the world in battling Covid-19.Had an excellent conversation with my friend President Putin today. We discussed the evolving COVID-19 situation, and I thanked President Putin for Russia's help and support in India's fight against the pandemic. @KremlinRussia_ETo add further momentum to our strong strategic partnership, President Putin and I have agreed to establish a 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue between our Foreign and Defence Ministers."Had an excellent conversation with my friend President Putin today. We discussed the evolving COVID-19 situation, and I thanked President Putin for Russia's help and support in India's fight against the pandemic. @KremlinRussia_E," PM Modi said in a series of tweets. PM Modi also said that both nations have decided to further their strategic partnership and have established 2+2 ministerial dialogue between India's foreign and defence ministers. "To add further momentum to our strong strategic partnership, President Putin and I have agreed to establish a 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue between our Foreign and Defence Ministers," PM Modi said. Singapore, Canada send support material, funds for India’s Covid-19 response"We also reviewed our diverse bilateral cooperation, especially in the area of space exploration and renewable energy sector, including in hydrogen economy. Our cooperation on Sputnik-V vaccine will assist humanity in battling the pandemic," he further added. India and Russia have decided to jointly manufacture Sputnik-V vaccines. Sputnik-V was added to India's arsenal of vaccines on April 12 when an expert panel approved Sputnik-V, the vaccine against Covid-19 developed by Russia. The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) partnered with Dr Reddy's, Virchow Biotech Private Limited, Stelis Biopharma Pvt Ltd and Panacea Biotec this year to produce more than 700 million doses of vaccine.The government opened the registration for vaccination to those above 18 years of age on Friday. People aged above 18 years of age have been brought under the ambit of vaccination as the government tries to battle the second wave of Covid-19 which has led to record surges in daily cases as well as death toll. Along with Russia, the US, UK, Canada, Germany, Australia, South Korea as well as China have extended their support to India in order to help the nation turn the tide in its fight against the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-russian-president-vladimir-putin-on-several-issues-including-101619615479793.html
28-04-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir: Increased compliance to SoPs as Covid cases at all time high||More and more Kashmir residents were now seen following Covid appropriate behaviour in the face of unprecedented number of infections and deaths, recorded during the second wave of the disease, crippling medical infrastructure in several states.Most people were seen wearing masks in public places with some even wearing double masks. While the markets operated at 50% capacity, the number of people venturing outside had also reduced substantially, said officials.Dr Naveed Nazir said the improvement in people’s attitude could perhaps be due to repeated warning that the fight against Covid was not over yet.“It needs to be appreciated,” he said referring to the increased public adherence to the Covid containment standard operating procedures (SoPs). “There is hardly anyone who doesn’t wear a mask. This is a good sign,” said, Dr Nazir, head of the Chest Medicines department at Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar.He reiterated the need for people to take all the precautions to prevent the spread of the virus.Another senior doctor claimed to have done a rough calculation of the increase in compliance compared to the pattern seen at the end of the last month.“On the 30th of March, out of 109 people I observed, only 51 (47%) were wearing a mask and half of them were actually wearing it on their chin. But on 26th of April, out of the 155 people observed, 144 (93%) were wearing a mask, that too properly. Let’s pledge to increase the percentage of compliance even further,” said Iqbal Saleem, professor of surgery at GMC, Srinagar,On Tuesday, Jammu and Kashmir reported 25 deaths and 3,164 fresh novel coronavirus infections, the highest spike in daily case since the pandemic began. Of the new cases, 2,134 were from Kashmir while 1,030 were from Jammu. April has already seen over 35,000 new cases and 203 deaths in J&K.Not just wearing masks, many people in the UT are now lining up for vaccination after a lukewarm response shown till now.Shakeela Begum, a 48-year-old home maker, got herself vaccinated this week even though her husband, a Covid frontline worker, was not bothering to get inoculated.“After thinking a lot, I decided to go for the vaccination as it is for our safety. There are a lot of misconceptions about the vaccine among the people. But as images of people dying for want of oxygen go viral, many have changed their mind,” she said.Although the religious places are open and people have been praying in congregations due to Ramadan, the compliance to SoPs in these places have also increased.“After Kashmir reported a record number of cases and deaths this week, I decided to pray at home for the safety of my parents and children. I offer Tarawih (special Ramadan) prayers at home now,” said Ishfaq Ahmad, a government employee based in Srinagar.A prominent religious scholar, Mufti Nazir Ahmad urged that very few people should offer prayers at mosques. “There is no lockdown this time so people can offer prayers in mosques but [need to] bring down the number to a minimum. People should take all precautions both inside and outside the mosques. The situation is very bad,” he said.Many have been urging religious scholars to ask people to offer prayers at home. “Why should we wait for a government lockdown? Last time the scholars asked people to offer prayers at homes. This time the level of threat has increased. Researchers are saying that the virus spreads more in closed spaces,” said Abdul Majeed, a 61-year-old city resident.The Srinagar administration on Tuesday evening imposed section 144 CrPC barring assembly of five or more people.“The rush in public transport is a challenge. We are trying to find a solution by taking transporters on board to reduce the crowding,” said Srinagar superintendent of police, Sandeep Choudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-increased-compliance-to-sops-as-covid-cases-at-all-time-high-101619615438442.html
28-04-2021||India||75 lakh vaccine registrations today, no glitch, says Co-Win chief RS Sharma||The Co-Win website started Covis-19 vaccine registration for everyone between the age of 18 and 44 years. After an initial hiccup of OTP delay and server crash, Cowin.gov.in started taking registration and 3.5 million people were registered in one hour, though several users found no hospitals offering vaccines to people below the age of 45 years. National Health Authority CEO RS Sharma clarified why this is happening and when people will be able to book appointments.Slots depending on statesSharma said the availability of slots depends on states and private hospitals. When states and private hospitals come on board with the details of their centres, vaccine prices etc., people will be able to book appointments. Some states and hospitals may come on board on May 1 and later, he said to news agency ANI.In fact, after the registration process was open on Wednesday, Pune-based Serum Institute of India announced a reduction in the Covishield price from ₹400 to ₹300 per dose. So states are in the process of ordering vaccine doses from the makers. Once they are ready, slots will be shown on Cowin.gov.in.Difference between registration and appointment bookingSeveral users were allowed to register themselves on Co-WIN on Wednesday through OTP received on their mobile numbers. For registration, one has to mention the type of photo ID card (for example Aadhaar), the number mentioned on the card, name, gender, year of birth. With this information, the registration will be done.So the next time you log on to cowin.gov.in after registration, you will have to again give your phone number and an OTP will be received, but you will be taken straight to the page of booking appointment."We will continue to announce as and when States come on board. We will provide information in public. The advice to people is that you log in and get an appointment only when you see vacancies available," Sharma said.Can Cowin take the load?Before the website crashed for a few minutes on Wednesday at 4pm, Sharma told ANI that Cowin has registered about five million people in a day. The platform is prepared for a double number, he said. On Wednesday, 3.5 million people were registered in one hour. "We delivered 8.7 million SMSes in 1.5 hours," Sharma said. Why Central government hospitals are not mentioned on CowinIn the third phase of vaccination scheduled to begin on May 1, Central government hospitals will provide free vaccination for people between the age of 18 and 44 years. There will be no online booking of slots in these hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowin-chief-explains-why-users-can-t-find-covid-19-vaccine-slots-for-18-after-registration-101619614746373.html
28-04-2021||India||5 of family killed after house collapses in Uttar Pradesh's Mirzapur||Five members of a family died in their sleep after the roof of their house collapsed here early on Wednesday, police said.The incident happened around 3 am in the Choti Gudri area.The victims have been identified as Umashankar (50), his wife Gudia (48); their sons Shubham (22) and Saurabh (18); and daughter Sandhya (20), police said, adding they were informed about the incident by the family's neighbours.Five bodies were recovered from the debris, police said.Umashaknar was a motor mechanic, they said, adding his second daughter is the only surviving member of the family. She was not here when the tragedy struck."She studies in Varanasi. Her wedding was scheduled in November this year," a senior official said.According to locals, the family had been living in the house for almost three generations.District Magistrate PK Lakshkar said they used to pay a minimal rent of around ₹200 for the back portion of the house.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has condoled the loss of lives in the incident and announced ₹2 lakh of financial assistance for each casualty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-of-family-killed-after-house-collapses-in-uttar-pradesh-s-mirzapur-101619614287242.html
28-04-2021||India||Covid spreading more than anticipated: Haryana CM after record jump in new cases||As Haryana on Tuesday registered the highest single-day spike in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at 11,931 fresh cases, chief minister Manoharlal Khattar said on Wednesday the disease is spreading more than anticipated. “Yesterday, 11,931 Covid-19 cases were reported in the state, which is four times more than before,” Khattar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Haryana’s caseload has climbed to 447,754 of which 3,926 people have died, nearly 360,000 have recovered and the active cases are at 84,129, according to the health department’s bulletin. Gurugram added the most towards Tuesday’s tally with 3,684 cases followed by Faridabad (1,330), Sonipat (940), Karnal (725) and Hisar (642).Amid the recent spike in daily cases, the health infrastructure in Harayana is overburdened leading to a shortage of oxygen beds, medicines etc.Senior Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Singh Chautala on Wednesday accused the Khattar government of mismanaging the pandemic and said the situation in Haryana is worse than that of neighbouring Delhi. Chautala also demanded health minister Anil Vij’s resignation for failing to handle the situation. But the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government has assured it is doing its best to deal with the crisis and has assured residents on availability of beds, oxygen, vaccines etc.Also Read| Delhi Covid patients putting strain on Haryana hospitals: KhattarKhattar said on Wednesday one of the primary reasons for this crisis in Haryana’s health infrastructure is the large number of patients coming to Haryana from Delhi and getting themselves hospitalised in Gurugram and Ambala. He added the situation in Haryana will normalise, once the Covid-19 figures in Delhi start reducing.The Haryana chief minister is also facing heat from the public and opposition parties over his remarks that it is pointless to argue over Covid-19 deaths as the dead won’t come back to life and the focus should be on providing relief to those who are suffering at present. He made this statement on Tuesday after he was asked by reporters about the alleged under-reporting of virus-related deaths in the state.Also Read| PM asks IAF to increase speed, scale of Covid relief operationsMeanwhile, the central government on Wednesday increased Haryana’s oxygen quota from 162 metric tonnes (MT) to 232 MT per day. The state government recently instructed all factory-owners in Haryana to deposit cylinders in their possession to the government, according to ANI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-spreading-more-than-anticipated-haryana-cm-after-record-jump-in-new-cases-101619612919451.html
28-04-2021||India||Almost 3,000 Covid-infected people untraceable in Karnataka, says minister||Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka made a rather shocking disclosure on Wednesday as he said at least 2,000-3,000 Covid-19-infected individuals have become untraceable after they switched off their phones and left their homes, adding that the administration is clueless about their whereabouts“I feel at least 2,000 to 3,000 (Covid-infected) people have switched off their phones and left their homes. We don't know where they have gone,” PTI said quoting Ashoka.The minister urged infected citizens to keep their phones turned on, and expressed concerns about the damage these untraceable individuals will inflict on the state’s mounting toll of daily Covid cases."I pray to them with folded hands that Covid cases will only increase due to this,” the minister told reporters according to PTI.India has been reeling under the second wave of coronavirus and, from time to time, essential supplies like vaccines and medications are running out of stock. About 48 vials of Remdesivir injections went missing from a healthcare facility run by Aurangabad Municipal Corporation in Maharashtra. On April 15, about 320 doses of Covaxin had gone missing from Hari Bux Kanwatia Government Hospital in Jaipur.Karnataka reported 31,830 new cases of Covid-19 and 180 fatalities on Tuesday. At 17,550, Bengaluru Urban contributed the highest number of cases to the state’s tally. A 14-day lockdown has been imposed in the southern state from Tuesday night with a view to curb the surge in cases. "The 2-week strict rules to break the chain of Covid virus have begun. My appeal to everyone: follow the guidelines, cooperate with the government, stay indoors, and step out only if it’s an emergency," chief minister B S Yediyurappa told citizens on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/almost-3-000-covid-infected-people-untraceable-in-karnataka-says-minister-101619612699844.html
28-04-2021||India||SII reduces Covishield prices for states from ₹400 to ₹300 per dose||Pune-based pharmaceutical company Serum Institute of India (SII) reduced the prices of Covishield vaccine for states from ₹400 to ₹300 per dose on Wednesday. The SII CEO in a tweet said that this move will further save the funds of states going forward."As a philanthropic gesture on behalf of@SerumInstIndia, I hereby reduce the price to the states from Rs.400 to Rs.300 per dose, effective immediately; this will save thousands of crores of state funds going forward. This will enable more vaccinations and save countless lives," Poonawalla tweeted.The Serum Institute of India on April 21 announced that the Covishield vaccine will cost private hospitals ₹600 per dose and state governments ₹400, while the Centre clarified it will continue buying vaccines at ₹150 per dose.The government on April 26 requested the SII and the Bharat Biotech to lower their vaccine prices after the discrimination between the Centre and the state governments drew flak.Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Punjab among others had raised the issue of the differential pricing and said that it was not the time for profiteering.Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech priced its vaccine Covaxin at ₹600 per dose for state governments and said that private hospitals will be charged ₹1,200 per dose.Several states and Union Territories all over the country have allocated funds to ensure free vaccination for people over the age of 18. Vaccination for people over 18 will begin from May 1 and registration for beneficiaries began on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-reduces-covishield-prices-for-states-from-rs-400-to-rs-300-per-dose-101619612512693.html
28-04-2021||India||War-rooms and oxygen: India's IT companies scramble to handle Covid-19 surge||India's giant IT firms in Bengaluru and other cities have set up Covid-19 "war-rooms" as they scramble to source oxygen, medicine and hospital beds for infected workers and maintain backroom operations for the world's biggest financial firms.Banks including Goldman Sachs and Standard Chartered, who run much of their global back office operations from large office parks in Bengaluru, Chennai or Hyderabad, have put in place infrastructure to vaccinate thousands of employees and their families when age restrictions are lifted on May 1.Workers at huge technology service providers Accenture and Wipro say teams are working 13-14 hours daily, under growing pressure and struggling to deliver on projects as staff call in sick and take time off to care for friends and relatives.They play down any threat of a collapse in operations - but at stake if the surge continues is the infrastructure put in place by the world's biggest financial companies in cost-cutting drives that have left them deeply reliant on the big Indian offices."Employees have contracted Covid-19 since the second wave began, causing severe pressure for projects that are nearing deadlines," said one employee at Accenture, asking not to be named because he was not authorised to speak to the media.Five other sources at Accenture confirmed the growing issues with pressure of work. Accenture said it was providing some medical care and covering the cost of vaccinations for its employees but did not comment on the impact on productivity.Wipro said about 3% of its 197,000-odd employees are currently working from office on critical projects and expects more of those employees to work from home going forward. For the employees working on those projects, Wipro said it has made living arrangements at the company's guest houses and hotels close to its offices.Infosys, India's second largest software services firm, said it was operating remotely across all offices and had not seen any disruption to client projects, despite the deteriorating health situation in the country in recent weeks.Tata Consultancy Services, India's top information technology (IT) services firm, similarly said its operations had not been affected.India's second wave of infections has seen at least 300,000 people test positive each day for the past week, overwhelming healthcare facilities and crematoriums and driving an increasingly urgent international response.Asia's IT capital Bengaluru, desperate to calm a daily infection rate five times higher than in last year's first wave, on Monday ordered a full lockdown that allows ordinary residents to leave their homes only briefly between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m.Local IT managers say they struggled to get global chiefs outside India to recognise the seriousness of the outbreak.Covid-19 'War Rooms'India's gigantic IT and call centre service industry employs more than 4.5 million people directly and relies substantially on thousands of graduates under the age of 30.They are paid a fraction of Western salaries and had largely ridden out the Covid-19 pandemic working from home until the relaxing of restrictions in recent months spurred companies to call more employees back to the office.Managers at Goldman Sachs' massive complex in Bengaluru, for example, told staff in early March to prepare to return to full-scale office working.Chief Executive Officer David Solomon said then that the bank owed it to its incoming class of analysts and interns to have them come to work in offices for at least part of the summer.The company quickly U-turned, sending all but essential employees home on March 27 as cases began to rise.New strains of the virus have since sent India's case numbers soaring to global records and brought more infections among younger Indians.But all 15 of the large companies Reuters spoke to this week said that they now had vaccination schemes in place and several outlined Covid-19 "war-rooms" they had launched to support staff and secure oxygen and other supplies."The problem was that those outside India were anxious not to be seen to be jumping the queue," says a senior manager who runs a workforce of more than 600 staff at a global bank in Bengaluru, asking not to be named."The India CEO and others here said: we don't care what it looks like, people are dying."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/warrooms-and-oxygen-india-s-it-companies-scramble-to-handle-covid-19-surge-101619609332142.html
28-04-2021||India||Maharashtra likely to extend Covid-19 lockdown||The Covid-19 lockdown is likely to be extended in Maharashtra for another 15 days until May 15 as the state Cabinet has taken an in-principle decision in this regard.“The issue of extending the lockdown was discussed at the state Cabinet meeting and all the ministers unanimously said that it should be extended to break the transmission chain. It is likely to be extended for 15 days. Decision on the number of days will be taken by April 30,” health minister Rajesh Tope told reporters after the meeting held on Wednesday.Also Read | How an IAS officer made a Maharashtra tribal district oxygen-sufficientTope said the lockdown, which was imposed as the fresh Covid-19 wave has overwhelmed hospitals, has helped. “Lockdown has brought stability in cases to some extent as there were concerns that the daily figures may cross the 70,000-mark which is not happening as of now. The daily cases are hovering around the 60,000-mark. We are hoping that this was the peak in cases in the state and the daily cases will start declining in the next few days.”On April 22, the state government imposed the complete lockdown across Maharashtra amid a surge in Covid-19 cases. A partial lockdown was imposed earlier on April 14. The ongoing lockdown is due to end on May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-likely-to-extend-covid-19-lockdown-101619608898109.html
28-04-2021||India||Co-WIN server 'crashes' at 4pm as vaccine registration for 18+ begins, 'Minor glitch,' says Aarogya Setu||Social media platforms were flooded with screenshots of cowin.gov.in not responding after registration for Covid-19 vaccines began at 4pm on Wednesday. Many social media users complained that the Aarogya Setu app and UMANG app — the other two platforms from where the Co-Win platform can be accessed — were also not responsive. The official handle of the Aarogya Setu clarified that there was a minor glitch at 4pm which was fixed immediately. "Cowin Portal is working. There was a minor glitch at 4 PM that was fixed. 18 plus can register," it said with a screenshot of the website opening. Cowin Portal is working. There was a minor glitch at 4 PM that was fixed. 18 plus can register. pic.twitter.com/c94fpoURcTA huge rush to get registered as soon as the registration begins on April 28 was anticipated given the Covid-19 situation in the country. It was also being speculated that not many slots will be available for booking on the first day as many state governments and private hospitals are not yet ready to begin the vaccination drive from May 1 as they are in the process of placing an order to procure vaccines directly from the vaccine makers. More vaccine slots to be added soon, says Centre before Co-Win registration for 18+ beginsCowin vaccine registration is not working. I am not able to schedule appointments because all centers have a minimum age limit of 45 years. Ask your developers to change it and test the website properly. @MoHFW_INDIA@PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/SEqRaOdZ6fPlease check your Majotr glitch Minimum age limit for booking 45+There is no option for booking slots for 18+#CoWin pic.twitter.com/JMzGVioTmwOn cowin.gov.in, the registration is supposed to be through OTP, sent to the mobile number entered by a user. While many users complained of a delay in receiving the OTP, many said they received the OTP, but the website was not allowing them to 'verify and proceed' even after they put the OTP.Some social media users said they could log in but could not find any nearby hospital offering vaccines to people above the age of 18 years. The old data of hospitals offering vaccination to people above the age of 45 years was on display.Clarifying why slots for people below the age of 45 years are not showing up on the platform, Aarogya Setu's Twitter handle said vaccination appointments for 18 plus will be possible once the state governments and private vaccination centres schedule vaccination sessions. Earlier in the day, the Centre told that more centres will be added at regular interval on the site and so users should keep checking the Co-Win website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowin-server-crashes-as-registration-for-18-for-covid-19-vaccines-begins-101619608719677.html
28-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rahul Gandhi slams Centre over Central Vista Project and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt with vision essential, not Central Vista project: Rahul GandhiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday slammed the Centre for the ongoing construction of the 2,000 crore Central Vista Project which is listed among “essential services”. Read MoreBeijing sees lowest birth rate in 2020, China’s population to decline: ReportsBeijing recorded its lowest number of births in 2020, official data has revealed, with a top expert saying the Chinese capital’s population could start shrinking from 2022, and China’s by 2027. Read MoreCurbs in Maharashtra likely to continue, vaccination from May 1 doubtfulThe Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday discussed the ongoing pandemic situation of the state and health minister Rajesh Tope said the restriction period is likely to be extended by 15 days, though no final decision has been taken on the days yet. Read More'Seeds being sowed': Ravi Shastri believes IPL 2021 could have a new winner after DC-RCB game, tweets Kohli, Pant photoIndia head coach Ravi Shastri believes IPL 2021 could potentially see a first-time winner following RCB and DC's mouth-watering clash on Tuesday. Read MoreRollercoaster in UK stops midway forcing people to climb it down. Watch shocking videoIn a hair-raising incident, a huge rollercoaster named The Big One at Blackpool Pleasure beach in UK suffered a breakdown midway through a ride, stranding some people in it. Read MoreMaruti Suzuki to shut down Haryana plants to make oxygen availableMaruti Suzuki on Wednesday has announced that it will stop producing cars in the company's plants in Haryana between 1st and 9th May 2021 to make Oxygen available for the healthcare and medical sector. Read MorePriyanka Chopra on US President Joe Biden pledging support to India to fight Covid-19: ‘This is a crucial step’Days after Priyanka Chopra urgently sought Covid-19 vaccines for India, and tweeted about the US ordering ‘more vaccines than needed’, she shared a follow-up post on the situation. Read MoreSunny Leone on wearing a face mask during boxing workout: ‘safety over comfort’Always the one to serve fashion and fitness inspiration to fans with equal panache, Sunny Leone was seen opting for a full body workout recently while doing her bit to spread awareness about wearing a face mask. Read MoreCovid vaccination registration opens for all above 18 years: How to registerIndians above 18 years of age can start registering themselves for Covid-19 vaccination from 4 pm today as the government gears up to launch the third phase of immunisation drive on May 1. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rahul-gandhi-slams-centre-over-central-vista-project-and-all-the-latest-news-101619607104476.html
28-04-2021||India||PM Modi sanctions procurement of 1 lakh portable oxygen concentrators||Prime Minister Narendra Modi sanctioned the procurement of 1 lakh oxygen concentrators from the PM-CARES fund on Wednesday in a bid to increase the supply of medical oxygen in hospitals. The announcement comes after several hospitals reported crisis of medical oxygen as coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and deaths soared in states and Union Territories worst affected by the pandemic's second wave. The decision for the procurement was taken during a high-level meeting chaired by the Prime Minister on Wednesday. PM Modi also instructed officials that states high case burden should receive these oxygen concentrators as soon as possible. "1 lakh portable oxygen concentrators will be procured, 500 more PSA oxygen plants sanctioned from PM-CARES. This will improve access to oxygen, specially in district HQs and Tier-2 cities," the Prime Minister said in a tweet. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday also held meetings with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria. Both assured the Prime Minister that they are working towards mitigating the shortage faced by states facing difficulties due to lack of medical oxygen. The DRDO on Wednesday said that it will set up 500 medical oxygen plants within the next three months from the funds allocated by the PM Cares Fund. The Indian Air Force (IAF) also set up a dedicated 'Covid Air Support Cell' to ensure faster coordination with different ministries and agencies with connection to Covid-19.Several hospitals in major cities and adversely-affected states have reported an acute shortage of medical oxygen which has led to the death of several patients infected with Covid-19. India's allies have also extended their helping hand in a bid to help the nation tide over the crisis presented by the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-sanctions-procurement-1-lakh-portable-oxygen-concentrators-from-pmcares-101619608367702.html
28-04-2021||India||PM asks IAF to increase speed, scale of Covid relief operations||In the midst of Covid-19 pandemic sweeping across the country and steps being taken to fight the outbreak on a war footing, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday reviewed the Indian Air Force’s efforts towards Covid relief and stressed on the need to increase the speed, scale and safety of operations in transporting oxygen tankers and other essential material to fight the disease. Briefing the PM on the air force’s efforts to help fight the outbreak, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said the IAF has ordered 24x7 readiness of its entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of its medium-lift fleet to operate in a hub and spoke model to swiftly meet all Covid-related tasking across the country and overseas, the PMO said in a statement. “Aircrews for all fleets have been augmented to ensure round-the-clock operations,” the statement quoted the IAF chief as saying. Bhadauria also told the PM that the IAF has set up a dedicated Covid air support cell to ensure faster coordination with different ministries and agencies. The IAF is making a significant contribution in the fight against Covid. For more than a week, it has been ferrying empty cryogenic oxygen containers to filling centres in India from different domestic locations and even abroad to help hospitals tide over the oxygen crisis. Multiple IAF sorties were underway on Wednesday as well, officials familiar with the development said. Oxygen tankers are being airlifted in C-17 heavy-lift planes from Bangkok to Jamnagar; Agra, Chandigarh, Hindan, Bhopal and Gwalior to Ranchi, Indore to Raipur, Bhopal to Surat, and Jodhpur and Indore to Jamnagar.Also Read | PM Modi asks officials to ensure ‘rapid upgradation of health system’“PM spoke about the need to ensure that the IAF personnel engaged in Covid-related operations remain safe from infection. He also spoke about the need to ensure safety of all Covid-related operations,” the PMO statement said. The PM enquired about the health of IAF personnel and their families during the briefing. The IAF chief informed him that “near saturation vaccination coverage has been achieved in the IAF,” the statement said. On Monday too, the PM reviewed the military’s preparations to assist the government in Covid management. Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat gave a detailed presentation on the subject to the PM on April 26. He informed him that all military medical personnel who retired or took pre-mature retirement in the last two years are being recalled to work in Covid facilities near them. Medical officers who retired more than two years ago have also been requested to make their services available for consultation through medical emergency helplines.The armed forces, the Defence Research and Development Organisation and defence public sector undertakings are working overtime for Covid relief. They have set up Covid hospitals, ramped up oxygen production and airlifted medical staff and oxygen containers and liaised with state governments to help deal with the rising number of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-asks-iaf-to-increase-speed-scale-of-covid-relief-operations-991619608129841.html
28-04-2021||India||Maharashtra Cabinet okays free Covid vaccination for age group of 18-44 yrs||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday okayed free vaccination of all in the age group of 18-44 years. It would cost the state government ₹6,500 crore to vaccinate around 57.1 million citizens in this age group.The decision comes in the wake of the Centre expanding the vaccination drive to all adults. The state, however, will not be able to roll out phase 3 on May 1 for want of enough stock. The state government has said the drive will be rolled out as per the availability of the vaccine.Public health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state government is trying to procure stocks on a war-footing. “We have been tapping all sources, but the companies manufacturing the vaccines have expressed their constraint in supply. To avoid crowding of beneficiaries at vaccination centres, we are further dividing the age group into three -- 18-25 years, 26-35 years, and 39 to 44 years -- to prioritise the older age group and those with co-morbidities. Vaccination will be done only by registering the beneficiaries on Co-WIN app,” he said.Also Read | How an IAS officer made a Maharashtra tribal district oxygen-sufficientTope said free vaccine will be available only at the government facilities. “We have 13,000 vaccination centres in Maharashtra, through which we are targeting to complete vaccination of 57.1 million people in the next six months,” he said.“Bharat Biotech has told us that they will be providing 1 million doses of Covaxin per month for the next two months and 2 million doses per month from July onwards. Serum Institute of India has assured us the supply of 10 million doses per month. We are also tapping the possibility of exporting Sputnik vaccine,” Tope said.He said rolling out the drive from May 1 would not be possible. “We do not want to start the drive in haste, and then shut the centres in case stocks run out. Instead, we will roll out the drive after the doses are available in expected quantity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cabinet-okays-free-covid-vaccination-for-age-group-of-18-44-yrs-101619607398196.html
28-04-2021||India||Goa: Weekend lockdown from Thursday evening as Covid beds run out||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant announced a weekend lockdown beginning 7pm on Thursday till Monday morning with the aim to break the chain of Covid-19 transmissions and reduce the pressure on hospitals.Sawant asked people, especially the migrant labour force, not to panic or leave the state, as routine activity will resume on Monday. He also instructed the tourists to stay inside their hotels during the 3-day long lockdown.“From Thursday night to Monday morning, there is a lockdown in the whole state. Essential services and restaurant kitchens will remain open for home deliveries. Industries will continue [to function], but public transport and markets will remain shut,” Sawant said.Sawant added that the Covid vaccination drive will continue as planned. The announcement follows increasingly louder calls for restrictions as hospital beds in the state were occupied and the queue of patients awaiting hospital beds was getting longer and longer.Goa recorded 2,110 fresh cases and 31 deaths on Wednesday, taking the number of infections to 81,908 and the death toll to 1,086. Around 16,591 people, close to 1% of Goa’s population, were currently infected with the virus, including more than a thousand, who were currently hospitalised. Several states have imposed weekend lockdowns as part of restrictions to curb the steep rise of cases in the second Covid wave, which has partially paralysed the health infrastructure.“We have to work towards reducing the mortality rate and the pressure on hospitals and doctors at the moment. We have taken this decision after consulting medical professionals in the field,” Sawant said.Sawant said late admission to hospitals was resulting in the loss of several lives that could have been saved.“Maximum deaths are taking place within 24-hours (of admission) with at least four patients expiring per day. At least two people are being brought dead to hospitals every day,” he said.Sawant stressed that those with symptoms should approach hospitals and not stay at home without treatment. “Start your treatment early,” he added while specifying that the Covid-19 treatment protocol had been modified in the state, recommending administration of medicines at the time of testing without waiting for the results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-weekend-lockdown-from-thursday-evening-as-covid-beds-run-out-101619605658710.html
28-04-2021||India||Curbs in Maharashtra likely to continue, vaccination from May 1 doubtful, says Rajesh Tope||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday discussed the ongoing pandemic situation of the state and health minister Rajesh Tope said the restriction period is likely to be extended by 15 days, though no final decision has been taken on the days yet. Strict restrictions barring non-essential movement of people are in force in the state till May 1. Though the daily Covid-19 infections in Pune, Mumbai and Thane are coming down, the situation is not yet under control as the state on Tuesday recorded 895 deaths — the highest since the onset of the pandemic. While the Cabinet on Wednesday cleared the proposal to prove free vaccines to everyone between the age of 18 and 44 years, it is not yet clear whether the state will be able to start full-fledged vaccination from May 1, the health minister said.Vaccine shortage in MaharashtraReports of a shortage of vaccines from various districts of Maharashtra, including Mumbai, surfaced on Wednesday. Mumbai's Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo Covid-19 vaccination centre ran out of stock on Wednesday and was not operational. "It will open for vaccination as soon as the stock is replenished," Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said. However, the Centre on Wednesday reasserted that there is no shortage of vaccines as the state has around 1 crore doses with them.Watch: 'Maharashtra lockdown will be extended by 15 days': Health Minister Rajesh TopeWhy is Maharashtra delaying May 1 drive? How many doses of vaccines does the state need?Health minister Rajesh Tope has said the state will need about 12 crore vaccines to fully vaccinate the adult population. The state has written to both Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech detailing its vaccine requirement.Over 1.53 crore vaccinated in MaharashtraSince the beginning, Maharashtra has inoculated over 1.53 crore people against Covid-19, a health official said on Wednesday.Ongoing restrictions in MaharashtraThe Maharashtra government on April 4 announced a weekend lockdown and night curfew till April 30. Currently, the weekend lockdown is in force from 8pm on Fridays to 7am on Mondays.Later, the state government issued another directive curbing public and private transport, Mumbai local services etc. The curbs are likely to be extended till||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curbs-in-maharashtra-likely-to-continue-vaccination-from-may-1-doubtful-says-rajesh-tope-101619604724890.html
28-04-2021||India||PM Modi speaks to IAF chief RKS Bhadauria, takes stock of efforts by the Indian Air Force to mitigate Covid-19 situation||As the Indian Air Force has been deployed to help out in tacking the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic of the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wedesday met Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria and took stock of the efforts of the Indian Air Force.PM Modi also asked him about the health of the IAF personnel and their families as he said it is crucial that IAF personnel engaged in Covid-related operations remain safe from the infection. Bhadauria told him that almost all IAF personnel have been vaccinated.Briefing PM Modi about IAF's preparedness, Bhadauria said the IAF has ordered its entire heavy lift fleet and a substantial number of medium lift fleets to be prepared round the clock “to operate in a hub and spoke model” for meeting all Covid-19 related needs of the nation and overseas.“Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria informed the Prime Minister that the IAF has ordered 24x7 readiness of the entire heavy lift fleet and substantial numbers of the medium lift fleets to operate in a hub and spoke model to rapidly meet all Covid related tasking across the country and overseas,” said the press release.The IAF has been using a variety of aircraft like C-17, C-130J, IL-76, An-32, Avro, Chinook and Mi-17 helicopters in their Covid-19 relief efforts. On Monday, the air force airlifted six empty cryogenic oxygen containers from Dubai to Panagarh in West Bengal for refilling. Last week, it had airlifted four such containers from Singapore to Panagarh.IAF has also been actively assisting in domestic efforts to tackle the Covid-19 crisis. It has dispatched aircraft to different parts of the country for ferrying oxygen containers to filling stations. On Saturday, IAF flew one such aircraft from its Hindan airbase outside Delhi to Pune for ferrying two empty cryogenic oxygen containers to the Jamnagar airbase which was then refilled and flown back to Pune. Similar journeys were also made to Bhopal and Ranchi. The IAF has also flown Covid testing equipment from Jammu to Leh and Kargil on Saturday.Bhadauria informed PM Modi about a dedicated Covid Air Support Cell set up by the IAF for better coordination with different ministries and agencies for Covid related emergencies. He also apprised the Prime Minister that hospitals under IAF have ramped up Covid facilities and treated civilians whenever possible. Defence minister Rajnath Singh had said on April 24 that the armed forces and the defence ministry "will leave no stone unturned in providing all possible assistance to the civilian administration".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-iaf-chief-rks-bhadauria-takes-stock-of-efforts-by-air-force-101619604014426.html
28-04-2021||India||Fighter aircraft Tejas cleared to carry Python-5 air-to-air missile: Centre||Tejas, India's indigenous Light Combat Aircraft (LCA), has been cleared to carry the 5th generation Python-5 air-to-air missile (AAM) as a part of its weapons package which would significantly enhance its combat abilities, the Centre said on Wednesday.The decision was taken on Tuesday after a series of trials were conducted to validate the performance of the aircraft.Tejas added the Python-5 AAM in its air-to-air weapons capability on Tuesday, according to a statement issued by the defence ministry.The trials were aimed to validate the enhanced capability of the already integrated Derby Beyond Visual Range (BVR) AAM on Tejas. The test-firing of the missile was done in Goa on Tuesday which completed missile trials to validate its performance under extremely challenging conditions.The Derby missile achieved a direct hit on a high-speed manoeuvring aerial target, while the Python-5 missile also managed to achieve 100 per cent hits which validated the complete capability of these missiles, the statement said.Tejas, India's indigenous Light Combat Aircraft, added the 5th generation Python-5 Air-to-Air Missile (AAM) in its weapons capability yesterday, 27th April 2021. Trials were also aimed to validate enhanced capability of already integrated Derby Beyond Visual Range (BVR) AAM. pic.twitter.com/HrvtlGefVZBefore the trials were conducted, extensive missile carriage flight tests were done in Bengaluru in order to assess the integration of the missile with Tejas’ aircraft systems such as avionics, missile weapon delivery system, flight control system and fire-control radar.After successful separation trials in Goa, the live launch of the missile on a Banshee target was done, the defence ministry statement said. The Python-5 missile’s live firing was carried out to validate target engagements from all aspects and also beyond the visual ranges. The missile hit the aerial target in all live firings.“The missiles were fired from Tejas aircraft of Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA) flown by Indian Air Force (IAF) Test pilots belonging to National Flight Test Centre (NFTC),” the statement said.Union defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO, the air force, the ADA as well as the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) along with others involved in the trial. DRDO chairman Dr G Satheesh Reddy, meanwhile, lauded the efforts of the scientists, engineers and technicians from various organisations and industry, the defence ministry statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fighter-aircraft-tejas-cleared-to-carry-python-5-air-to-air-missilecentre-101619603768642.html
28-04-2021||India||Govt with vision essential, not Central Vista project: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday slammed the Centre for the ongoing construction of the 2,000 crore Central Vista Project which is listed among “essential services”. Taking to Twitter, Gandhi urged the Central government to work with a vision to curb the growing Covid cases and not spend money on Central Vista during these challenging times. “Central Vista -not essential. Central Govt with a vision- essential,” he tweeted. Last week also, Gandhi questioned the government’s priorities in handling Covid and the Central Vista project. “No test, no vaccine, no oxygen and no ICU,” he tweeted. The Opposition has been demanding that the fund for the project be devoted towards the country’s Covid response. Meanwhile, reports suggest that 180 vehicles have been granted permission to ferry workers to the Central Vista site even as the National Capital has been under lockdown for ten days now to flatten the Covid curve. New Delhi saw its first weekend curfew on April 16, when the Central Public Works Department, which is overseeing the project, wrote to the Delhi Police that “the project is time bound in nature and has to be finished by 30th November 2021” and the work is going on in three shifts.On Sunday, Srinivas BV, the president of Indian Youth Congress, tweeted his disappointment about how the government is spending ₹2,000 crore on the Central Vista Project instead of buying beds and ventilators. “It’s unfortunate how the Central Government is spending money on the Central Vista Project instead of buying ventilators and ICU beds which would have saved the lives of lakhs of people. It’s sad how the government is rooting for their own comfort over the lives of people.”The Central Vista Redevelopment Project, which would include a triangular parliament building, common central secretariat and a refurbished 3km Rajpath, was announced in 2019. On January 5, 2021, the Supreme Court gave a go-ahead to it.NO GOVT RESPONSEThere are currently 2,978,709 active Covid cases in the country and 201,187 deaths. Under the vaccination drive, 147,727,054 vaccine doses have been given. From May 1, the drive will be open to all adults.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-with-vision-essential-not-central-vista-project-rahul-gandhi-101619603497793.html
28-04-2021||India||More vaccine slots to be added soon, says Centre before Co-Win registration for 18+ begins||As registration for the Covid-19 vaccine for everyone above the age of 18 years begins from 4pm on Wednesday, a huge rush on cowin.gov.in is anticipated, making slots on Cowin run out soon. Urging people to be patient and understanding, the Centre said more appointment slots will go on offer soon and if slots are not currently available, one may check again after some time.The much-awaited third phase of vaccination against Covid-19 in India will begin from May 1. While the first and the second phases were limited to specific age groups, this is the first time that the vaccination drive will be expanded to everyone above the age of 18 years. Vaccine makers have also been allowed to sell vaccines directly to state governments and private hospitals.3. More Appointment slots will soon be offered. If slots are not currently available, please check again after sometime. We request your patience and understanding.#IndiaFightsCoronaThe booking will be done only online — through the Co-win website, or Aarogya Setu and Umang app. As the government earlier announced that the registration will begin from April 28, people started trying to register themselves on the Co-win website on Tuesday midnight. On Wednesday, the government clarified that the window will be open at 4pm.Phase 3 Covid-19 vaccination registration for all above 18 opens today. How to registerThe Centre has also clarified that the appointment will be based on slots made available by the private vaccination centres as well as the state government hospitals.Both Pune's Serum Institute of India and Hyderabad's Bharat Biotech have announced the open-market price of their vaccines and state governments are in the process of placing orders. It is not yet known whether by May 1 state governments will be prepared to start the vaccination process. Several states, including Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Kerala, West Bengal, Delhi and Chhattisgarh among many others, have announced free vaccination for people between the age group of 18 and 44. Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday cleared the proposal of free vaccination and confirmed that the drive will begin from May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-slots-to-be-added-soon-says-centre-before-registration-for-all-above-18-years-for-covid-19-vaccine-begins-101619602030752.html
28-04-2021||India||How an IAS officer made a Maharashtra tribal district oxygen-sufficient||The district collector of a small tribal-inhabited district in Maharashtra saw the deadly second wave of coronavirus disease coming and prepared a series of contingency plan, at a time when the country, including the western state, struggled to meet the logistical challenges that a gasping healthcare system posed.A doctor-turned-bureaucrat, Dr Rajendra Bharud, the collector of Maharashtra’s Nandurbar has managed to keep the district running with an adequate supply of medical oxygen, hospital beds, isolation wards for Covid-19 patients and a well-planned vaccination drive.ALSO READ: EU comes to India's aid amid Covid-19 crisis; member states to help with oxygen, medicinesToday, the district has 150 vacant beds and two oxygen plants that have a combined capacity to produce 2,400 litres per minute. Not only did the district manage to control the positivity rate of the infection but it also slashed it by around 30%. Its robust healthcare system has led many from the neighbouring region in Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat to seek admission in Nandurbar.Vision of the second waveNandurbar didn’t have any oxygen plant when the pandemic struck early last year. But Bharud got down to setting up a liquid oxygen plant in the tribal-inhabited district in September last year when the cases of coronavirus infection gradually began to go down.He had anticipated that there the cases could go up any moment and that an oxygen plant could come in handy if more people fall sick because of the disease. Without much ado, he got a plant set up with a capacity of 600 litres per minute.His fears came true in no time. According to media reports, when the second wave of Covid-19 hit Maharashtra this year, Nandurbar reported as many as 1,210 cases in a single day. Dr Bharud and his team felt that one oxygen plant was not enough, given how the people were contracting the disease.He mobilised funds to set up two more plants at the district hospital, pushing the capacity of the oxygen plant to 1,800 litres per minute. He said the district is expecting to ramp up the capacity to 3,000 litres per minute.Dr Bharud said the money was a crucial requirement in setting up a robust healthcare system that needs adequate ambulances, ventilators, beds, oxygen plants, vaccines, medicines, trained medical staff among others. The officer used a combination of resources, including district planning and development funds, state disaster relief funds, and mobilised the CSR units to meet expenses.He said his team provided the doctors in the district with all the resources they need to set up oxygen plants in the district. Not only that but his team also made sure that oxygen pipes were given as soon as saturation levels started dropping, instead of waiting for the critical stage.“This way, patients use only 30% of oxygen, as against 90% in the latter situation. When oxygen starts dropping, it directly affects the brain and kidney, which makes it harder for patients to recover fast. Hence, oxygen levels need to be managed and taken care of in the early stages itself,” Dr Bharud told a news portal recently.ALSO READ: Maharashtra reports 895 Covid-19 deaths in last 24 hours, highest since onset of pandemicThe 2013 batch IAS officer wishes that no patient should suffer for the want of oxygen.Optimum use of available resourcesTo prepare for exigencies, the district administration converted schools and community halls into Covid-19 centres and set up 7,000 beds just for isolation while equipping 1,300 beds with ICU or ventilator facilities.The district administration next set up a situation room and created a website to help control the panic and guide the citizens.Not only that but the district administration roped in local doctors and trained them to perform vital medical procedures such as intubating a patient and monitoring their oxygen level.Isolation coaches, but with comfortDr Bharud then requested the Western Railway to provide them with isolation coaches. In no time, the Indian Railways provided a 21-coach isolation ward train for Covid-19 patients in Nandurbar. Each coach can accommodate 16 patients who are provided with bedrolls, pillows, napkins. The facility has nine coolers, two oxygen cylinders and one bathroom with three toilets per coach.Union railway minister Piyush Goyal responded to Dr Bharud's call on Twitter. "Railways is devoting all its resources for fighting COVID-19. Isolation coaches has started functioning at Nandurbar, Maharashtra with COVID-19 patients being admitted," he wrote on the micro-blogging site.Railways is devoting all its resources for fighting COVID-19. Isolation coaches has started functioning at Nandurbar, Maharashtra with COVID-19 patients being admitted. pic.twitter.com/BLmFzrfs6cALSO READ: Railways deliver 450 tonnes of liquid oxygen so far, Delhi receives 70 tonnesLast-mile vaccination driveHe has also made sure that vaccination drives against Covid-19 do not run into any roadblock. Of the 300,000 people in the district above the age of 45, as many as one lakh have already received their first dose of vaccine despite the lack of awareness around inoculation drives among the tribal populace in the district.“Instead of calling people to us for vaccination, we allotted 16 vehicles to every part of the district to give the vaccine. This way, people didn’t have to travel on hilly terrains. We roped in teachers and sarpanches to spread the word about the seriousness of the situation, and it worked,” the collector told the news portal.Dr Bharud has received kudos from people from all walks of life. From filmmaker Nandita Das, Biocon chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, entrepreneur Amit Paranjape, to bureaucrats, IAS officers and doctors, many took to Twitter to praise Bharud for this initiative.Maharashtra human rights commission secretary Tukaram Mundhe, himself an IAS officer, gave the example of Dr Bharud's initiatives to highlight how inspired leadership contributes to social well-being.This is how inspired Leadership contributes to social well being . Kudos to team Nandurbar led by @IASRajBharud @IASassociation Here is what a dedicated officer can do: https://t.co/rB9ipFOgu6Meanwhile, Biocon chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw went a step ahead to say how pandemic preparedness and rapid response is largely missing in India.It’s about pandemic preparedness n rapid response which is missing in our country. Kudos to this far thinking IAS officer Dr Rajendra Bharud 👏👏👍 https://t.co/mie2fhyE24Dr Bharud's life is a tale of wonder, too. He was raised by his widowed mother. Battling all odds, Dr Bharud completed his schooling in a small village in Dhule. His father died of malaria before he was born while his mother worked as a labourer on farms to fund his studies. He earned his medical degree from Mumbai's KEM hospital and Seth GS Medical College and has been an inspiration to the public health department and district collectors across Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-a-ias-officer-made-a-maharashtra-tribal-district-oxygensufficient-101619599643512.html
28-04-2021||India||DRDO to set up 500 oxygen plants under PM-CARES fund in 3 months||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will set up 500 medical oxygen generating plants across the country within three months under the PM-CARES fund to ramp up oxygen production to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis ripping through the country, the defence ministry announced on Wednesday. In addition, the DRDO has also started work to set up oxygen generating plants in four government hospitals in Delhi -- AIIMS, RML, Lady Hardinge, and Safdarjung -- by May 10 to help tackle the oxygen crisis amid the second Covid wave, officials familiar with the developments said on Wednesday. Another oxygen generating plant will be set up at AIIMS, Jhajjar. The DRDO has transferred oxygen generation technology to the industry, which has now stepped in to provide oxygen plants to state governments and hospitals. The technology transferred to the industry is based on the onboard oxygen generation technology developed for Tejas light combat aircraft. The oxygen generation plants can produce 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute. The DRDO has transferred technology to Tata Advanced Systems Limited, Bengaluru, and Trident Pneumatics Pvt Ltd, Coimbatore, which will be producing 380 of the 500 plants for installation across various hospitals in the country, the defence ministry said in a statement. The remaining 120 plants will be produced by the industry in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Petroleum, Dehradun, it added. “Each oxygen plant is designed for a capacity of 1,000 litres per minute (LPM). The system can cater to 190 patients at a flow rate of 5 LPM and charge 195 cylinders per day…. Hospitals will be able to generate on-site medical oxygen in a cost-effective manner,” the ministry said. Also Watch | Indian Air Force carrying oxygen tankers between 7 cities amid CovidAs the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis spins out of control and the military responds to it on war footing, chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Tuesday said it was time for the armed forces to rise to the occasion and support the civil administration in creating Covid mitigation facilities in a time-bound manner. Rawat said the military still has “long distances to travel” in the fight against the pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday reviewed the military’s preparations to assist in Covid management. He was briefed by Rawat. The armed forces, the DRDO and defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) are working overtime for Covid relief. They have set up Covid hospitals, ramped up oxygen production and airlifted medical staff and oxygen containers and liaised with state governments to help deal with the rising number of Covid-19 cases. The PM on Monday also reviewed the operations undertaken by the IAF to transport oxygen and other essentials to fight the crisis. For more than a week, the IAF has been ferrying empty cryogenic oxygen containers to filling centres in India from different domestic locations and even abroad to help hospitals tide over the oxygen crisis. The IAF is using a variety of aircraft for Covid relief, including C-17, C-130J, IL-76, An-32, Avro, Chinook and Mi-17 helicopters. The containers will be filled up and transported to different centres for Covid relief by rail or road. The Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) is importing 23 mobile oxygen generation plants from Germany to address the oxygen crisis precipitated by the second wave of the pandemic -- 23 such plants will arrive this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-to-set-up-500-oxygen-plants-under-pm-cares-fund-in-3-months-101619601157628.html
28-04-2021||India||Fertiliser firms to supply 50 metric tonnes oxygen for Covid-19 patients every day||Fertiliser companies across the country will contribute 50 metric tonnes of medical oxygen for seriously ill Covid-19 patients every day, Union minister of state for chemicals and fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya said on Wednesday.“Mandaviya called upon the firms to help the society during this pandemic time by reorienting their existing capacity of oxygen production and augmenting the supply of medical grade oxygen to the hospitals,” the ministry of chemicals and fertilisers said in a statement.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereThe move comes against the backdrop of a shortage of oxygen being reported from several regions across the country, especially Delhi, for the treatment of critical patients. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also been holding several meetings to ensure the availability of the gas which is key to Covid-19 treatment and its shortage has caused panic among citizens.The decision came after Mansukh Mandaviya chaired a meeting with fertiliser companies of the public sector, private sector as well as co-operative sector to explore the possibility of production of oxygen in their plants. “The fertiliser companies welcomed the initiative of MoS and readily showed interest to join the efforts of Government of India to fight Covid -19 situation in the country,” according to the ministry’s statement.In order to increase supply, the Centre said that IFFCO is setting up an oxygen plant with a capacity of 200 cubic meters per hour in its unit in Gujarat’s Kalol. The total capacity of the plant would be 33,000 cubic meters per day.Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals (GSFS) and Gujarat Narmada Valley Fertilisers & Chemicals (GNFC) have already started the process to enhance their oxygen production capacities, the ministry said, adding that other fertiliser firms will also set up medical plants in hospitals and designated areas at selected locations across the country through corporate social responsibility (CSR) funding.“Altogether it is expected that approximately 50 metric tonnes (MT) of medical oxygen per day can be made available for Covid patients by the fertiliser Plants. These steps will augment the medical grade oxygen supply to hospitals in the country in the coming days.” the statement read.Meanwhile, the Centre has also waived customs duty and health cess on the import of oxygen and equipment related to the gas with immediate effect for three months after Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting to discuss ways to boost the battle against the pandemic on Saturday.India is also getting oxygen from other countries including Canada, Dubai and Singapore. The United States is also providing a range of emergency assistance, including oxygen-related supplies, vaccine materials, and therapeutics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fertiliser-firms-to-supply-50-metric-tonnes-oxygen-for-covid-patients-every-day-101619598693470.html
28-04-2021||India||Supreme Court directs UP govt to shift arrested journalist Siddique Kappan to Delhi for Covid-19 treatment||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to shift arrested Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan to a Delhi government hospital for Covid-19 treatment. Earlier, the Yogi Adityanath-led UP government had strongly opposed the Supreme Court's suggestion to shift the 42-year-old journalist outside the state for treatment, contending that "similarly-placed accused" are getting treated in state hospitals. The government said that Kappan had tested negative for coronavirus disease and can be treated at a jail hospital in Mathura.The Supreme Court took up the matter at 1pm on Wednesday and asked solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government, to take instructions from the administration on treating journalist Siddique Kappan outside the state. A bench headed by Chief Justice NV Ramana also made it clear that Kappan be sent back to Mathura jail after recovery. The top court, however, granted liberty to the journalist to approach an appropriate forum challenging his arrest or for any other relief and disposed of the plea filed by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ).“Taking into consideration facts of the case, we dispose of the writ petition. Even though Solicitor General Tushar Mehta very seriously opposes, we are directing the state to shift the accused to RML or AIIMS or wherever treatment can be done,” said the bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and A S Bopanna.Mehta, representing the UP government, asked the bench to mention in its order that a hospital bed be vacated in Delhi for Kappan as the health care facilities are already full of patients. The apex court, however, declined to say anything on the issue.Siddique Kappan, a journalist from Kerala, was arrested last year on his way to Hathras where a 19-year-old Dalit woman had died after being gang-raped on September 14, 2020, in a village in the district. Her cremation at night by the authorities, allegedly without the parents' consent, had triggered widespread outrage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-directs-up-to-shift-journalist-siddique-kappan-to-delhi-govt-hospital-101619598442765.html
28-04-2021||India||IAF officer accuses colleague of sexual harassment, moves court||A 33-year-old Indian Air Force (IAF) officer posted in Jammu has accused a colleague of sexually harassing her and moved the Jammu & Kashmir high court, which has issued a notice seeking the Centre’s response to the complainant’s plea for a fair probe and protection to witnesses. The court also onMarch 31 barred the IAF’s Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) constituted from looking into the case from proceeding further in the matter.The complainant has alleged intimidation and harassment during the ICC proceedings and said she was asked “obscene and dishonourable questions”. She has also sought the transfer of the accused to prevent him from allegedly threatening and harassing her and other witnesses.Judge Sanjeev Kumar has given four weeks to the respondents, including the colleague, to file their objections. “Subject to objections and till next date before the Bench, it is provided that the Internal Complaints Committee, which is looking into a complaint of sexual harassment at workplace filed by the petitioner, shall not proceed further,” said Kumar’s order on March 31. The case has been listed for the next hearing on May 10.Also Read | Teacher fraternity will conduct online classes from home: JK govtThe complainant has accused the colleague of repeatedly demanding sexual favours, passing lewd remarks and touching her inappropriately. She has also expressed reservations over the manner in which ICC was conducting “lopsided” proceedings over her complaint. “That on January 25, 2021, the ICC started and during the ICC the respondent number 8 [the accused] and few other officers again started intimidating and harassing petitioner and her witnesses and total 6 days cross examination of petitioner by respondent number 8 has taken place which is unheard of in a fact finding committee i.e. the ICC. About 300 questions were put to the petitioner and even obscene and dishonourable questions were put to the petitioner without ICC’s intervention and without objecting on irrelevant and obscene questions...”The petitioner called the Air Force Order under which the ICC proceedings were being held violative of Article 14 (equality before the law) of the Constitution. She said the complainant does not get the right to cross-examine the accused or his witnesses under the order. But the complainant and her witnesses can be cross-examined, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iafofficer-accuses-colleague-of-sexual-harassment-moves-court-101619598457407.html
28-04-2021||India||States, UTs got over 156mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India has provided over 156 million doses of Covid vaccine to its states and Union Territories till now even as the country braces for the third phase of its vaccination drive which has been expanded to include all of the adult population, beginning May 1. Registration for vaccination has begun.A total of 156,526,140 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been received by states and UTs. Of these, 146,478,983 doses have already been administered (this figure includes wastage), while another 10,047,157 remain with states and UTs as on Tuesday morning, according to government data accessed by HT. Another 8,640,000 doses, meanwhile, are in the pipeline.Maharashtra, the worst-hit state where the daily cases have dipped marginally,received 15,862,470 doses and it consumed 14,939,410 of those, leaving it with 923,060 in stock. Another 300,000 doses are in the pipeline.Also Watch | Indian Air Force carrying oxygen tankers between 7 cities amid CovidThe national Capital of Delhi, which is the worst-hit city in the country and is grappling with oxygen shortage and an overstretched health infrastructure, got 3,490,710 doses and used up 3,187,791 doses.There are another 350,000 doses in the pipeline.Chhattisgarh got 5,916,550 vaccine doses and reported consumption of 5,544,403 doses. There are another 200,000 doses in the pipeline.Uttar Pradesh received 13,396,780 doses, it consumed 12,386,199 of them, and has 1,100,000 in the pipeline.Karnataka was sent 9,447,900 doses, it used up 8,905,175, and there are another 400,000 doses in the pipeline.Punjab received 3,336,770 vaccine doses of which it used 3,247,827 doses and has another 350,000 doses in the pipeline.To be sure, individual centres may run out of stock on account of how the states manage their replenishment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-uts-got-over-156mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101619597257485.html
28-04-2021||India||Former Maharashtra minister Eknath Gaikwad dies of Covid||Congress leader and former Maharashtra minister Eknath Gaikwad, 81, on Wednesday passed away at a Mumbai hospital, where he was under treatment for Covid-19. A two-term Lok Sabha and three-time Maharashtra assembly member, Gaikwad was hospitalised over two weeks ago. Also Read | Maharashtra seeks 120mn doses for 18+Gaikwad was a Dalit face of the Congress, who enjoyed much sway in Dharavi, where one of Asia’s largest slums is located. He was the health, medical education, social justice minister when Vilasrao Deshmukh was the chief minister from 1999 to 2004.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-maharashtra-minister-eknath-gaikwad-dies-of-covid-101619596897407.html
28-04-2021||India||India has administered over 147mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 147 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Tuesday, on a day the country’s Covid death count crossed the grim milestone of 200,000.The Supreme Court took note of the situation and said it could not remain “a mute spectator in the times of a national crisis”, and sought details of availability of medical oxygen, essential medicines, and the rationale of vaccine pricing from the Centre.In all, 147,727,054 vaccine doses have been given in the country by Tuesday,8pm. This includes 9,347,103 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,105,159 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 12,217,762 frontline workers have had their first dose while 6,523,520 have got their second dose too.Also Read | Singapore, Canada send support material, funds for India’s Covid-19 responseIn the 45-59-year age group, 50,234,186 people have got their first dose and another 2,918,305 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 51,062,959 people have been administered their first dose while 9,318,060 have had their second dose as well.As many as 2,455,869 vaccine doses were given on Tuesday alone. Of this, 1,501,002 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 954,867 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.The country is days from launching the third phase of its Covid-19 vaccination drive under which all adults will be eligible to take the jab. Some states, including Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Punjab and Rajasthan, however, said they won’t be able to begin the inoculation campaign on May 1 due to a shortage of vaccines stock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-147mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101619595577392.html
28-04-2021||India||Singapore, Canada send support material, funds for India’s Covid-19 response||Singapore and Canada on Wednesday joined the list of countries that have announced support for India’s response to a devastating second wave of Coronavirus infections that has hit healthcare facilities across the country. The Singapore government despatched a consignment of 256 oxygen cylinders on two C-130 military transport aircraft to West Bengal. “Last yr, [India] helped the world and [Singapore] by exporting essential medicines & supplies. Now, we stand with [India] as you fight Covid,” Singapore high commissioner Simon Wong tweeted. Singapore is among the first countries to send oxygen supplies to India amid reports of a severe shortage of the commodity in several cities. The cylinders will support last mile oxygen delivery and more consignments are expected in the coming days. In Singapore, second minister for foreign affairs Maliki Osman formally handed over the assistance to Indian high commissioner P Kumaran at Paya Lebar airbase. Maliki said Singaporeans stand in solidarity with the people of India in the fight against the pandemic. Also Read | Canada reports first death linked to AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine“We have all witnessed in the past year how this pandemic is a trans-boundary threat. It gives no regard for country, nationality, or race. This is exactly why we must work collectively to support each other,” he said. On Saturday, the Indian Air Force airlifted four cryogenic tanks from Changi airport that will be used to transport oxygen. Canada announced it is providing $10 million for humanitarian assistance to the Canadian Red Cross to support the Indian Red Cross Society’s response to the devastating situation in India. This contribution will support the procurement of essential supplies and medicines, including oxygen cylinders and ambulances, said a statement from Canada’s foreign ministry. Canada’s international development minister Karina Gould said, “Canada stands with the people of India as they go through these difficult times. This funding will help meet some of the most urgent medical needs like purchasing and distributing essential supplies as well as supporting vital blood and ambulance services.” Foreign minister Marc Garneau also spoke with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on Tuesday to convey Canada’s solidarity with the people of India, and said Canada is “exploring all options to support India’s urgent needs”. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau also extended his support in a tweet. “Right now, the people of India are facing a tragic situation. To help with everything from ambulance services to buying personal protective equipment, we’re contributing $10 million to @IndianRedCross through @RedCrossCanada. We stand ready to donate extra medical supplies, too,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singapore-canada-send-support-material-funds-for-india-s-covid-19-response-101619594857242.html
28-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Singapore sends planeloads of medical oxygen to India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm on Wednesday (April 28. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Singapore sends two planeloads of medical oxygen to India amid Covid-19 surgeSingapore has sent a consignment of medical oxygen cylinders to support India's fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The Indian Air Force also deployed its C-17 aircraft to bring three oxygen containers from Singapore to the Panagarh Air Base. Read MoreL-G Anil Baijal now ‘government’ in Delhi as Centre notifies amended GNCT ActDelhi’s lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal is now the ‘government’ in the Union territory after the Centre notified the amended Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021 on Tuesday. Read MoreBengal to ramp up oxygen supply as Covid-19 cases continue to riseThe West Bengal government plans to set up 55 oxygen plants at state-run hospitals treating Covid-19 patients as many of them are succumbing to the virus due to a lack of oxygen. The daily Covid-19 cases in West Bengal have shot up 75 times since February 26 when the Election Commission announced the state polls. Read MoreWATCH: 6.4 magnitude earthquake hits Assam; PM Modi assures help from CentreAn earthquake of magnitude 6.4 on the Richter scale struck Assam's Sonitpur on Wednesday morning, said the National Center for Seismology. The epicenter of the quake was 43 km west of Tezpur at a depth of 17 kilometers. Watch here'He makes your jaw drop, why don't you send him to open?': Sunil Gavaskar mesmerized by RCB 'genius' AB de VilliersFormer India captain Sunil Gavaskar described AB de Villiers’ unbeaten 75-run innings against Delhi Capitals in an IPL 2021 in Ahmedabad on Tuesday as ‘amazing’ and ‘magical’. Read MoreKangana Ranaut compares herself to Shah Rukh Khan, says he was 'convent educated' while she came from 'remote village'Actor Kangana Ranaut on Wednesday spoke about her struggles in the film industry as her film Gangster clocked 15 years. She compared herself to actor Shah Rukh Khan, adding that they have the 'biggest success stories ever', but also pointed out the differences in their journeys. Read MoreKia aims 7-seater SUV segment in India, 2022 model may rival Alcazar, SafariKia India, formerly known as Kia Motors India, is planning to enter the 7-seater SUV segment in the country early next year with a brand new model. The Korean carmaker, while revealing its future plans for India, said it is not looking into the sedan segment right now. It is aiming for the segment in which it still does not have a presence in the country. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-singapore-sends-planeloads-of-medical-oxygen-to-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101619592870648.html
28-04-2021||India||Odisha hopeful Covid graph plateauing||The Covid-19 graph in Odisha is plateauing, feel health officials, even as the total positivity rate (TPR) and R0 value continued to be high in the state. The second wave of the pandemic has been wreaking havoc across the country, and on Wednesday, the state reported an all-time high of 8,386 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, up from 6,073 cases reported the previous day.The TPR on Wednesday was 19.77 while R0 was 1.71, second only to Uttar Pradesh that has the highest R0 value among all the states. TPR is the total tests reports returning positive out of the total number of tests while R0 value is the average number of people who will contract the virus from an infected person.Director of medical education and training CBK Mohanty said on Tuesday, “In medical science, there is nothing absolute. Hence, we can say that we are in the plateau stage as the state has not witnessed a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases in the past few days. We hope that the Covid graph will start witnessing a declining trend soon.” As per the mathematical models that the Odisha health department is using, the peak is supposed to come in the 1st-2nd week of May with a maximum of 10,000 cases. Accordingly, the state government claimed that it has lined up around 20,000 beds in Covid Care Centres as well as dedicated Covid hospitals in public and private sector.Also Read | Singapore sends two planeloads of medical oxygen to India amid Covid-19 surgeEpidemiologists, however, point out that the number of tests too have come down. On most of the days, the number of RT-PCR tests is around 40% of the total number of tests against the ICMR-mandated 70%.Former member of ICMR Dr Tribhuban Mohan Mohapatra said Odisha needs to accelerate testing. “The golden principles of testing, tracing and treating should be followed. At least 60,000 tests, including 30,000 through RT-PCR, should be conducted. Identification and isolation of cases followed by treatment should be the strategy,” he said.Renowned doctor Niroj Mishra said that high TPR is a cause of worry, even if the night curfew and the weekend lockdown may have helped plateau the graph. “In districts like Kalahandi and Nuapara that are close to Chhatisgarh, the TPR is in the range of 35-45 indicating high transmissibility. Unlike the first wave, the quarantine norms are not being enforced well by the municipal authorities and that’s the reason we are seeing a high TPR,” said Mishra.“We should be ready for a rise and try to increase our health infrastructure to deal with it,” said Jayprakash Mulyil, a renowned epidemiologist.Director of National Health Mission, Shalini Pandit, said tests declined due for want of kits. “RT-PCR tests this month are the highest they have ever been in the state. We are using our full laboratory capacity, 24 hours (three shifts). Rapid Antigen Test kits are in short supply nation-wide. However, availability is expected to improve in a week. We will ramp up as kits become available,” she said.Drugs Controller Annada Sankar Das said the state is now facing a shortage of Remdesivir injections. “Odisha will be allocated 21,000 vials of Remdesivir for April 21-30 period. The requirement was nearly 2,000 vials on Monday, but the state received only 92 vials. We have got information that even fewer vials are reaching today, but we have no information about the exact quantity,” he said.However, the state does not have shortage of medical oxygen. Industry secretary Hemant Sharma said against daily requirement of 40 tonnes, Odisha produces around 350 tonnes a day and sends 300 tonnes of oxygen to other states everyday.Meanwhile, chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who chaired a review meeting of the Covid fighting measures of the state said oxygen supply logistics plan should be monitored to ensure sufficient and timely supply of oxygen to the patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-hopeful-covid-graph-plateauing-101619592097136.html
28-04-2021||India||'Didn't experience anything like this before', say locals after Assam earthquake||The 6.4 magnitude earthquake, that hit Assam's Sonitpur on Wednesday morning, shook Guwahati too.A lot of walls of buildings in Guwahati developed cracks soon after the earthquake hit Sonitpur around 8 am.State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and Assam police reached Laxmi Apartments to review the damage caused to the building.Speaking to ANI, police official Abhishek Sinha, who was inspecting the apartments, said, "We have seen three buildings that have developed cracks. There are more buildings and we are yet to assess, as it will take a lot of time.""We can't ask people to leave their buildings. The structural engineer will have to assess that. Moreover, where will they go if they leave their houses? That also poses another problem," he added.Raj Berman, who lives in the apartment complex said, "The ones who lived here on rent have left. But we have our own houses here and we cannot leave. We are seeking answers if this place is okay to live in. We haven't seen such an earthquake before."Sikha, a housewife described her terrifying experience and said, "I have not experienced anything like this before. It was still early in the morning and everybody was asleep. I had to carry my one and a half-year-old daughter downstairs in my arms while things kept falling on us.""This is an old building. We live here on rent. Now we are shifting somewhere else. This place is not in a condition to live," she added.According to the National Center for Seismology, the epicentre of this earthquake, which struck at 7.51 am, was 43 km west of Tezpur at a depth of 17 km.Strong tremors were felt in parts of the northeast as well as north Bengal. While are there are no reports of anyone being injured so far, photos emerged on social media of broken walls and windows, and walls developing cracks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/didnt-experience-anything-like-this-before-say-locals-after-assam-earthquake-101619591320756.html
28-04-2021||India||Singapore sends two planeloads of medical oxygen to India amid Covid-19 surge||Singapore has sent a consignment of medical oxygen cylinders to support India's fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the country's foreign affairs ministry said on Wednesday. The second minister for foreign affairs Dr Maliki Osman flagged off two of the Singapore Air Force's C-130 aircraft, arriving in India with 256 oxygen cylinders, said Singapore's diplomatic missions in New Delhi, Mumbai, and Chennai.Minister Maliki Osman flagged off 2 of the Singapore Air Force's C-130s, arriving in India today with 256 Oxygen cylinders: Singapore's diplomatic missions in New Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/6MltQ7NkJqThe Indian Air Force also deployed its C-17 aircraft to bring three oxygen containers from Singapore to the Panagarh Air Base, an official statement on Wednesday said.The critical supplies of medical oxygen of Singapore come amid the deadly, more infectious second wave of the coronavirus disease, with which India is currently struggling. Several hospitals across the country, including at the national capital, have reported serious oxygen deficit, even as patients scramble to get ICU beds and essential drugs. On Wednesday, India saw a record single-day rise of 3,60,960 Covid-19 cases, which pushed the total infection tally to 1,79,97,267, while the death toll crossed two lakh following 3,293 fresh fatalities.The oxygen supplies from Singapore are arriving in two C-130 aircraft, which were handed over by Dr Maliki Osman to India's High Commissioner P Kumaran at the Paya Lebar Air Base on Wednesday morning.“We have all witnessed in the past year how this pandemic is a transboundary threat,” news agency PTI quoted Dr Maliki as saying at the airbase. Singapore and India share a close relationship, the minister said, thanking the Indian government for continuing to work with Singapore throughout the pandemic by “keeping supply chains open and essential goods flowing”.Singapore investment firm Temasek has also sent medical equipment while India's Tata Group donated four cryogenic oxygen cylinders sourced from Singapore. That consignment landed in West Bengal over the weekend.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singapore-sends-two-planeloads-of-medical-oxygen-to-india-amid-covid-19-surge-101619589810604.html
28-04-2021||India||Bengal to ramp up oxygen supply as Covid-19 cases continue to rise||The West Bengal government plans to set up 55 oxygen plants at state-run hospitals treating Covid-19 patients as many of them are succumbing to the virus due to a lack of oxygen. The daily Covid-19 cases in West Bengal have shot up 75 times since February 26 when the Election Commission announced the state polls. On Tuesday, the state registered 16,403 new cases, up from 216 on February 26. “We are ramping up infrastructure and even rationing our resources. We have around 12,500 beds with an around-the-clock oxygen supply in 105 state-run hospitals up to the sub-divisional level. Until May 15, another 3,000 such beds in at least 41 hospitals would be added,” said a health department official, who did not want to be named.Also Read | West Bengal: 75 times spike in daily cases after poll announcementA second official said industries have been asked to convert their argon and nitrogen tankers into oxygen tankers. “The state is purchasing 5,000 cylinders of industrial oxygen. The state health department has been asked to buy cylinders with 200-litre capacities as many as possible while oxygen production units have been asked to double their production,” said a second official, requesting anonymity. “We have also brought out detailed guidelines on judicious use of oxygen in hospitals and to avoid hoarding. Police have been asked to take stern actions against hoarding. One can buy small oxygen cylinders only after producing a prescription from a registered medical practitioner.”Chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced last week that industrial oxygen would be diverted to hospitals to deal with the crisis amid the second Covid-19 wave that has overwhelmed hospitals. She blamed the Centre for depriving the state of its quota of medical oxygen by diverting the supply to Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-to-ramp-up-oxygen-supply-as-covid-19-cases-continue-to-rise-101619590537004.html
28-04-2021||India||No decision yet on calling off Amarnath Yatra amid calls for cancellation||The governing body of the annual 56-day Amarnath pilgrimage to the cave shrine in South Kashmir Himalayas may have last week temporarily suspended the registration of pilgrims in views of a surge in the Covid-19 cases, but it is yet to take a decision on cancelling it, officials said on Wednesday.There have been calls for calling off or curtailing the pilgrimage, which was cancelled last year, and is scheduled from June 28 to August 22. Political and religious gatherings have been cited among the reasons for the worst surge of Covid-19 infections that India faces. The second wave of the pandemic has pushed the death toll in the country close to 200,000 and starved hospitals of life-saving medical oxygen and beds.“The SASB [Shri Amarnath Shrine Board] has temporarily suspended the registration of pilgrims in view of the spike in Covid 19 cases. There has been no decision yet to call off the pilgrimage,” said an official, requesting anonymity. “...decisions [such as calling off the pilgrimage] are taken at the board meeting. ...last year, the pilgrimage was cancelled on July 21 because of the rise in Covid 19 cases.”The official said the final decision will depend on how the Covid situation evolves. “Our intention is that if the situation improves, we will try and conduct the pilgrimage strictly in accordance with the Covid... [protocols].”Niteshwar Kumar, the chief executive officer of SASB, did not respond to calls and messages for comments.On April 17, the Mahamandleshwar, or head of Juna Akhada, the largest of the 13 sects of seers, Swami Avdheshanand Giri, was forced to declare the conclusion of the Mahakumbh in Haridwar amid the surge in Covid-19 cases. The announcement came after a phone call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting only symbolic participation in the fourth and last Shahi Snan (holy dip) on April 27 at the mega fair.The SASB last year arranged a live telecast of rituals from the cave shrine of Amarnath. In 2019, the pilgrimage was curtailed ahead of the nullification of Jammu & Kashmir’s semi-autonomous status as the erstwhile state was locked down and a communications blackout was imposed.In 2018, 285,006 pilgrims undertook the pilgrimage, and this year the government has been making arrangements for 600,000 devotees, officials said. On Tuesday, Jammu & Kashmir reported 25 Covid-19 deaths that pushed the toll from the pandemic to 2,197 in the region.Also Read | J&K’s daily Covid caseload crosses 3,000 mark, Section 144 imposed in SrinagarFormer Jammu & Kashmir police chief S P Vaid said given the magnitude of the pandemic, the pilgrimage should be curtailed but important rituals should be held strictly in accordance with the norms like wearing of masks, social distancing, and hand sanitisation. “We should not commit the blunder of what happened in Kumbhmela.”National Conference leader Israr Khan echoed Vaid and said no religious gatherings, electioneering, etc should be allowed. “We have to be very careful. Let us be alive first…this is not the time to hold any pilgrimage. Saudi Arabia called off Haj... everybody understood the gravity of the situation. If Haj can be cancelled, why cannot this [Amarnath] pilgrimage.” He called for curbs on gatherings such as weddings.Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader MY Tarigami said the country is in the middle of an unprecedented crisis. “We do not want to politicise the miseries and suffering of the people, but we have to hold accountable those in authority. They have to realise the situation and their blunders. Unfortunately, they do not have an iota of concern for the people, and I feel terribly shocked.”Tarigami hoped the Centre and the local administration will realise the gravity of the situation. “As of now, it may not be as bad as it is in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, but we have to be prepared for the ongoing crisis, which may take a bad turn. Undoubtedly, [Amarnath] Yatra is pious and provides livelihood to many people in Kashmir, but human life is more important than anything else. Therefore, wisdom should prevail on those in authority,” he said. “...the Yatra should be called off and it will be in the best interest of pilgrims, and all of us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-final-decision-yet-on-calling-off-amarnath-yatra-101619588317126.html
28-04-2021||India||India logs 360,960 new Covid cases taking tally to 17.99mn, toll above 200,000||India’s Covid-19 tally surged past 17.99 million with the world's biggest one-day spike of 360,960 cases while the death toll due to the viral disease crossed the 200,000 mark with 3,293 fatalities recorded during the same period, according to the latest data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Wednesday.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here India, which is only second to the United States in terms of the total number of Covid-19 cases, has been reporting over 300,000 new infections daily for the past one week amid a scarcity of health infrastructure. The active cases in the country stand at 2,978,709, which accounts for 16.34% of the total confirmed cases. A total of 17,23,912 samples were tested for coronavirus disease across the country on Tuesday.The figures come days before the nation is set to launch the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive under which all adults, where all citizens above the age of 18 years will be eligible to take the jab. Some states, including Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Punjab and Rajasthan, however, said they won’t be able to begin the inoculation campaign on May 1 due to ‘shortage’ of vaccines stock.As the nation battles the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting with top officials to review the situation in the country in terms of oxygen availability, medicines, health infrastructure, etc. “The PM instructed the officials to work closely with state governments to start the PSA Oxygen plants at the earliest,” his office said in a statement.Several nations have pledged support to India amid the Covid-19 second wave crisis. US president Joe Biden on Monday spoke to PM Modi and assured that his country will be sending machinery to manufacture vaccine and also vaccines at a later stage. “We’re sending immediately a whole series of help that he (Modi) needs, including providing remdesivir,” Biden added, referring to his phone call with Modi.Meanwhile, Australia has also offered assistance, including 500 ventilators, as part of its initial support package. Prime Minister Scott Morrison said that more medical equipment, including 100 oxygen concentrators, will be procured and shipped to India over the next week.The Indian Air Force (IAF) also airlifted nine cryogenic oxygen containers from Dubai and Singapore and has brought them to the Panagarh air base in West Bengal, according to an official statement issued on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-360-960-new-covid-cases-taking-tally-to-17-99mn-toll-above-200000-101619583728410.html
28-04-2021||India||‘India was headed for a very severe second wave yet there was no action’||India is facing the worst surge of Covid-19 infections as a second wave of the pandemic has pushed the death toll close to 200,000 and starved hospitals of life-saving medical oxygen and beds. Ashish K Jha, Dean, the Brown University School of Public Health, spoke to Sunetra Choudhary about the crisis. Edited excerpts:A few weeks ago, the world was celebrating India as a global vaccine manufacturer and today we are looking for help from other countries. As someone who has been following the Covid scenario in India, did you see this coming?Unfortunately, many of us saw it coming. By mid-February, you could start seeing cases rise and by early March, it was very clear that India was headed for a very severe second wave, and yet there was no action. The rallies continued. There were no real efforts for public health mitigation until the numbers were horrible and that is where we are now. One of the lessons of this pandemic is if we wait too long, we are going to have a much bigger crisis. It is very unfortunate that India could have easily stemmed this by acting a few weeks earlier, but it did not.You saw it coming, can you elaborate on the signs?A lot of it is the numbers and a lot of what was happening. I was looking at pictures of mass rallies, I was looking at cinemas opening up, cricket stadiums, and I just thought the pandemic Is not over. And then in the numbers. Around February 8, the number of cases bottomed to near 10,000 which was very low and two weeks later the cases jumped to 20,000 which was a double increase in just two weeks. For those of us watching, that was a very concerning sign. ...by early March, the numbers started to climb. At that point, alarm bells should have gone off, people and policymakers should have started changing the behaviour. Certainly, by mid to later part of March, I and other people were on TV saying this is a problem and India was heading for a second wave but there was still not enough action.Also Watch | Indian Air Force carrying oxygen tankers between 7 cities amid CovidDuring the first wave, election rallies were held in Bihar. Why was there no visible rise of cases given such huge gatherings? Do you think this encouraged the Election Commission (EC) to take another chance?That probably contributed and that makes sense to me. Look no one piece of information is ever alone. The other factor is that by February- March, you were starting to see a major wave of infections in Europe and Brazil, and other parts of the world. The US and UK too were coming off of major waves, a lot of this being driven by B117, the variant originally found in the UK. So, India should have also had a perspective of this risk as we live in a global economy. You can look at any one piece of information and ignore it. But when you put the whole thing together, by late February, early March, it was starting to become very clear.Do you agree with the Madras high court which held the EC responsible?While I do not want to get into the politics of culpability, I do think policymakers are held to account through the ballot box. But I do believe that policymakers should have acted earlier. That is clear to every expert who has been watching India. What happened with Kumbh Mela was very irresponsible and surely has been a major source of infections across the country. So, there are many contributing factors, not just the political rallies. The bottom line is here we are now, and we have got to find a way to save lives now and reduce suffering as much as possible.Do you think the US is finally responding to the crisis?I think the Biden administration is taking everything happening in India very seriously and there are lots of signs of it... When we have all the major leaders, publicly talking about something that means that the issue has reached the highest level and they are taking it very seriously. I am very happy with the list of the things that they are doing. The thing that I had tried to point out is that allies come to each other’s aid in a moment of crisis and India and America, two major democracies, have a special obligation to each other, as friends and as allies. And therefore, in this moment of crisis, it is essential that America acts, and America does as much as it can. I am hopeful and optimistic that we are going to see some real action from the US government.What kind of help can India expect from America?I have been speaking confidentially to various senior policymakers in India’s health ministry and its states to get an assessment of what does India really needs. It is very clear to me looking at the data that India does not have enough testing capacity for the level of infection that exists. Test positivity rates are way too high, and America has a lot of capacity for testing kits. That is an area where America should absolutely be helping. We have been manufacturing a lot of high-quality masks and PPE kits. Universal masking is a very essential part of the pandemic that needs to happen in India. High-quality masks are an important part, which should be sent. We have talked about vaccines, the raw materials as well as finished vaccines, oxygen, and medicines that hospitals are running out of. Then there is this conversation about field hospitals. India can do that on its own, but the size of the problem is such, that any country would need help from others.Masks like N95 are very expensive and people here cannot afford them. What kind of masks do you suggest that people should be using?N95 masks are essential for health care providers. But there are other high-quality masks like KF94s, which are largely made in South Korea, and I have recommended that for the American public. The US government has been working for many months under the Biden administration for the production of high-quality surgical masks. There are a lot of private companies too which make masks not as good as N95 but very close. I personally do not use N95 mask when I am moving around but high-quality surgical or cloth masks. They are all going to be very useful especially with the very contagious set of variants that are out there right now. So, there are many options as long as they are well fitting and have high filtration capacity.There is a perception in India that since the Modi government was seen to be close to the Trump administration, Biden is cold towards it... I do not agree with that. I have been speaking to people very high up in the administration. The administration understands that these are not issues of Donald Trump or Joe Biden or Narendra Modi. These are long-standing relationships between two countries, two peoples and they have to transcend who the political leaders are at any given moment. That is the attitude that Biden is taking, and Modi too. ...we have to put politics aside and focus on the issue at hand. The issue at hand is not about helping Biden or Modi, but it is helping the Indian people at a moment of crisis, where friends come to each other’s aid, whoever is in charge.Also Read | Covid-19: Registrations for phase 3 of vaccine drive to open at 4pm, says CentreA lot of people here say that the international attention, showing cremation sites, and other visuals are portraying the situation in India incorrectly...India has a lot of capacity. I talk publicly about how it is the manufacturing capital of the world for vaccines. But the bottom line is those cremations, those pictures seen outside the hospitals or those cremations, those are also the reality of India right now. I do not think it is unfair in any way to show any weakness of India. It is a complex and wonderful country. But the idea that everything in India is perfect and nothing negative should be shown is neither helpful nor is it true. In general, the global media have done a good job. They did the same for the US as well when patients here were struggling to find a bed in Los Angeles. The media tends to do that a little, but I think showing the broader picture is important. India has strengths and weaknesses, and we need to see all of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-was-headed-for-a-very-severe-second-wave-and-yet-there-was-no-action-101619585196914.html
28-04-2021||India||Ladakh Covid 19: 140 new cases reported on Tuesday, death toll goes up to 139||The Union Territory of Ladakh registered 140 new Covid cases on Tuesday night, taking the number of active infections in the region to 1,703, according to the daily Covid-19 bulletin released by the UT’s health department. 129 of these patients were detected in Leh and the remaining 11 were found in Kargil, the bulletin said.One Covid-19 patient’s death was also reported from Leh yesterday, taking Ladakh’s death toll to 139 including 95 in Leh and 44 in Kargil.On the positive side, 293 recovered Covid patients were discharged yesterday from hospitals in the UT. The bulk of these—285, were discharged by the chief medical officer (CMO), Leh and the remaining eight were discharged by CMO Kargil. 1601 currently active Covid cases are in the Leh district and 102 in Kargil district.735 passengers were screened for Covid-19 infection at the Kushok Bakula Rimpochee (KBR) Airport at Leh yesterday and 61 others were screened at the Khaltsi check post on Monday.Ladakh lieutenant governor (L-G) RK Mathur has decided to provide free vaccination to all residents of the UT, eligible for Phase 3 of the inoculation drive beginning May 1, said an official spokesman. He added that the administration was in the process of procuring vaccines for the third phase of the drive.L-G Mathur has asked for increasing the daily number of samples tested for the infection including 100% testing at all entry points at Meenamarg, Upshi and KBR airport.“As Ladakh also gears up to receive tourists from other parts of the country, L-G Mathur stated that all incoming tourists must produce a negative RT-PCR report at the airport and that the hotels and travel agencies must take responsibility in ensuring the same,” said the official spokesperson.The L-G asked for ramping up healthcare infrastructure in the UT including the number of beds, oxygen cylinders, medicines etc on an urgent basis, the official statement added.Eom....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-covid-19-140-new-cases-reported-on-tuesday-death-toll-goes-up-to-139-101619585136593.html
28-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Registrations for phase 3 of vaccine drive to open at 4pm, announces Centre||Registrations for the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will open at 4pm, the central government said on Wednesday.Also Read | Phase 3 Covid-19 vaccination registration for all above 18 opens today. How to register“Registration for 18 plus to begin on cowin.gov.in, Aarogya Setu app and Umang app at 4pm on 28th April. Appointments at state government centres and private centres depending on how many vaccination centres are ready on 1st May for vaccination of 18 plus,” the official Twitter handle of Aarogya Setu, the government’s official mobile application for Covid-19, shared on Wednesday morning.Registration for 18 plus to begin on https://t.co/S3pUooMbXX, Aarogya Setu App & UMANG App at 4 PM on 28th April. Appointments at State Govt centers & Private centers depending on how many vaccination centers are ready on 1st May for Vaccination of 18 plus. #LargestVaccineDriveUnder the third phase of the drive, everyone above the age of 18 is eligible to be vaccinated against the viral disease. The third phase is scheduled to begin from May 1, as announced by the government on April 19. The decision to open up vaccination for all adults was taken after a high-level meet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that day amid an alarming rise in the country’s daily new cases of the disease. Days later, it was announced that registrations for this phase will open on April 28.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccine: All 18+ can sign up from today, but May 1 launch under cloudIn this phase, states can also directly deal with vaccine manufacturers. In the first two phases, the Centre was sending vaccine doses to states as per their requirement. The vaccine drive, which is the largest in the world, began on January 16, and Covishield and Covaxin are the two shots which are currently being used. The former is developed by Oxford University-AstraZeneca and is being manufactured in India as “Covishield” by Pune-based Serum Institute of India, while the latter is the country’s first home-made shot, developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited. Both were given emergency use authorisation (EUA) in January.A third shot, Russia’s Sputnik V, was granted EUA earlier this month.Also Read | Sputnik V, ‘world's first' Covid-19 vaccine, gets experts' nod in IndiaAccording to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s dashboard, 147,827,367 vaccine doses have been administered across the country since the beginning of the drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-registrations-for-phase-3-of-vaccine-drive-to-open-at-4pm-announces-centre-101619582868493.html
28-04-2021||India||Tripura CM seeks report on wedding venue raid over violation of Covid-19 norms||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb has sought a report from chief secretary Manoj Kumar over district magistrate Shailesh Kumar Yadav’s alleged misbehaviour with people at a wedding venue for flouting Covid-19 norms. Yadav apologised after a video that went viral showed him purportedly forcing even the bride and groom to vacate the wedding venue on Monday night. He ordered the arrest of the people present amid the Covid-19 curfew. He threatened to close two marriage halls.Also Read | Tripura hikes transport tariff by up to 25%, three years after last revisionThe government has imposed a seven-hour night curfew until April 30 in view of the second Covid-19 wave.“ I did not mean to insult or humiliate anyone... Whatever was done was for people’s welfare amid the Covid-19 pandemic. If anyone has felt pain due to the action... I apologise...,” said Yadav on Tuesday.Opposition leader Manik Sarkar condemned the incident and hoped the government will act against Yadav. “It is not fit for a person holding the post of a district magistrate. I condemn the incident and hope that the government will take required action against the district magistrate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-cm-seeks-report-on-wedding-venue-raid-over-violation-of-covid-19-norms-101619583096485.html
28-04-2021||India||When Justice Chandrachud talked about his 4pm tea ritual||There is an unswerving distraction Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud has when the clock hits four in the evening. “Don’t you feel the urge for a cup of tea at 4pm?” he unfailingly ends up asking the lawyers before his court at that crucial time.Tuesday was no different. While senior lawyers Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Parag P Tripathi were engaged in a war of words over toll collection by a company, justice Chandrachud was wanting to get up for his cup of tea. “I don’t know how you all can go on at 4pm without having the urge for a cup of tea? At least, I cannot. I must have my tea. That keeps me going for the rest of the day,” he told the senior lawyers. Justice Chandrachud went on to share an anecdote from Mumbai where he first practised as a lawyer and then became a judge. Also Read | Can’t watch national crisis silently, says Supreme Court“On the first floor of the Bombay high court, there is a courtroom in one corner next to which is the staff canteen. As a lawyer, I would go and have my tea in that canteen. But the problem occurred when I became a judge there and was sitting in the courtroom adjacent to this canteen. At 11 every morning, tea would start brewing in the canteen and I could smell fresh tea in my courtroom. But I was a judge and could not get up before 2pm, before the lunch break. And also, as a judge, I could not simply enter the canteen anymore,” reminisced the judge.Justice Chandrachud added that he has an irresistible craving for tea at 4pm, which is also the time for the Supreme Court to wrap up its proceedings. “Brother, don’t you feel the urge for tea in the evening?” he asked justice MR Shah, who was sharing the bench with him on Tuesday. Justice MR Shah quipped that the word “tea” may mean something different for the senior lawyers who were willing to go on even as it was time to get up.“But brother, I come from Gujarat where you get only tea and nothing else,” retorted justice Shah, leaving everyone in splits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-justice-chandrachud-talked-about-his-4pm-tea-ritual-101619582256172.html
28-04-2021||India||Eminent Odia and English writer Manoj Das dead||A Padma awardee and an eminent 20th century Odia and English writer, Manoj Das, died at a nursing home in Puducherry on Tuesday evening following prolonged sickness. He was 87. He was under treatment for old-age related ailments at the nursing home at Sri Aurobindo Ashram in Puducherry, his home for several decades.For his work in Odia, Das is best known for ‘Shesha Basantara Chithi’, ‘Manoj Dasanka Katha o Kahani’, ‘Dhumabha Diganta’, ‘Manojpancabimsati’ (short stories), ‘Tuma Gam o Anyanya Kabita’ (poetry). His notable English works include, The crocodiles lady: A collection of stories, The submerged valley and other stories, Farewell to a ghost: Short stories and a novelette, Cyclones, A tiger at twilight, Mystery of the Missing Cap and other short stories.In 2004, he wrote his memoir Chasing the Rainbow: Growing up in an Indian Village.A number of his short stories were translated into major Indian and foreign languages. He received numerous national awards, including the Padma Bhushan last year. He was also awarded with the Kendriya Sahitya Akademi Award, Odisha Sahitya Akademi Award, Sarala Award, Sahitya Bharati Award, Bharatiya Bhasha Parishad (Kolkata) Award, Sri Aurobindo Puraskar (Kolkata) and BAPASI (Booksellers and Publishers Association of South India) Award as the best writer in English in the South.A prolific bilingual writer, Das was known for his dramatic expression as well as satire. Das’ writings dealt with various social and psychological problems, such as the problems of displaced people, natural calamities such as floods, people’s belief in ghosts and spirits, double dealing politicians, psychological disorders etc. In his writings, he mainly focussed on the rural life.Paying tribute to Das, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Das distinguished himself as a noted educationist, popular columnist and prolific writer. “He made rich contributions to English and Odia literature. He was a leading exponent of Sri Aurobindo’s philosophy. Pained by his demise. Condolences to his family. Om Shanti,” he tweeted.Odisha governor professor Ganeshi Lal said he would continue to inspire generations through his timeless literary works. State chief minister Naveen Patnaik said Das not only left an indelible mark in the field of literature but also a void which may never be filled.Born in sea-side village of Shankari in Balasore district of Odisha, the literary genius of Das was first known when his collection of poetry, Satavdira Artanada was published in 1949, when he was in class 10. His first collection of short stories came out a year later, when he was in class 11. The title story, Samudrara Kshudha (The Hunger of the Sea) is considered a classic in Odia literature for its content and narrative style.He was ideologically a Marxist and played a very important role in students’ movements during his college days, when he also published three books, several collections of short stories and a collection of poems. Later, Das taught English along with his wife, Pratijna Devi, a scion of the Kujang zamindars. In 1963, he joined the Sri Aurobindo Ashram at Puducherry and stayed there permanently.Das started as English writer in 1967 with his first collection of short stories-- A Song for Sunday and Other Stories.Graham Greene, the great British novelist, once said, “I have now read the stories of Manoj Das, with very great pleasure. He will certainly take a place on my shelves beside the stories of Narayan (R K Narayan). I imagine Odisha is far from Malgudi but there is the same quality in his stories with perhaps an added mystery”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eminent-odia-and-english-writer-manoj-das-dead-101619581296457.html
28-04-2021||India||IAF set to lease A330 mid-air refueller from France for training||The Indian Air Force (IAF) has approached the French government to lease one Airbus A330 multi-role tanker transport aircraft for training purposes as a precursor to lease five more mid-air refuellers for increasing the combat capability and radius of its multi-role fighters.The leasing will be done on government-to-government basis with the IAF already issuing a request for information (RFI) for a single aircraft while a request for proposals route will be used for the additional five refuellers on lease. The issue was discussed during Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria’s visit to France last week.“With IAF looking towards A330 refuellers for its future, it is only natural that its pilots are trained in advance to handle the aircraft as mid-air refuelling is a precision process with zero margin of error and huge stakes,” said an IAF official.The A330 refuellers of France and UAE air force have been used to ferry as many as 17 Rafale omni-role fighters to India from Merignac-Bordeaux air base since July 2020. Another seven fighters are due to arrive in India in May with a batch being deployed at the new Hashimara air base in West Bengal with Ambala being the first base.ALSO READ: 6 Rafale fighters to land in India on April 28, 4 more in MayWhile IAF has six Russian origin IL-78 M mid-air refuellers, the A330 refuellers out-power the existing aircraft in terms of its versatility as the latter can not only carry fuel load but also carry troops and weapon pay-load on roll-on-roll-off basis. In case of IL-78 M, there have been limitations on load carrying as well as taking off with payload from high mountain bases like in Leh and Thoise.The A330 can not only operate with load in thin atmosphere of Ladakh and beyond but also supply fuel to Indian fighters at Himalayan heights with combat radius of 1800 km and 50 tonnes of fuel for four hours. The A330 has a ferry range of 14,800 kilometres.With top-of-the-line Rafale aircraft in its inventory, the IAF needs compatible mdi-air refuellers so that it is ready to counter any move from the north. The IAF has to be in a state of readiness as the Chinese army is reluctant in restoring status quo ante in Gogra-Hot Springs area of Eastern Ladakh while the PLA beefs up all along the Line of Actual Control till Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-set-to-lease-a-a330-mid-air-refueller-from-france-for-training-101619580441806.html
28-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Polls over, fuel rates likely to increase again and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Polls over, fuel rates likely to increase againPetrol and diesel prices, stationary for almost two months on account of the assembly elections in four states and one Union territory, could start seeing small increments starting as early as the end of the month, people familiar with the matter said. Reads more Phase 3 Covid-19 vaccination registration for all above 18 opens today. How to registerAll citizens above the age of 18 years can register themselves for getting vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) starting Wednesday as the government gears up to launch the third phase of the immunisation drive on May 1. Read more Centre increases Haryana’s daily oxygen quotaThe Union government has increased the oxygen quota of Haryana from 162 MT to 232 MT a day, an official spokesperson said on Wednesday. Two days ago, Haryana urged the Centre to increase the oxygen quota to 270 MT amid the surge in Covid-19 infections in the state bordering the national capital. Read more Irrfan Khan's son Babil reveals what actor told him in his final days: 'I'm going to die'Ahead of the first death anniversary of Irrfan Khan, his son Babil and wife Sutapa Sikdar opened up about the late actor and revealed some of his last words. Read more IPL assures overseas players of safe return homeIPL has assured all franchises, players, support staff and commentators that their safe exit from the bio bubble back home would be taken care of by the BCCI once the tournament was over. Read more Mumbai Police’s ‘Melody of safety’ post wins hearts. Seen the pics yet?Creative and important, this is how Mumbai Police often designs their social media posts. More often than not, their posts are about putting forth messages to create awareness among people. Read more Watch: Indian Air Force carrying oxygen tankers between 7 cities amid Covid||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-polls-over-fuel-rates-likely-to-increase-again-and-all-the-latest-news-101619579603247.html
28-04-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid cases rise again; 895 deaths in a day||After a significant drop in daily Covid-19 cases (48,700) on Monday, the daily caseload went up again to 66,358 on Tuesday, although authorities said the state has reached its peak and a downward trend is expected soon. The state, however, reported its highest single-day spike in fatalities with 895 deaths which took the toll to 66,179. The state Cabinet is likely to take a decision on extending the existing lockdown, which is till May 1. The state has also sought an expression of interest from global supplies for oxygen, Remdesivir and oxygen concentrators.Also Watch| Indian Air Force carrying oxygen tankers between 7 cities amid CovidMumbai continued to see a drop in cases for a second day in a row, logging 3,999 cases, although the testing was also lower at a little over 30,000. The city has seen the dip over the last two days, after clocking more than 5,000 cases daily for over a month since March 24, when it reported 5,190 cases. The city’s case tally stands at 635,483 and toll at 12,920.“The drop in state’s cases on Monday was a ‘weekend effect’, as the number of cases and their reporting goes down on weekends. They went up on Tuesday, but have not crossed the average mark of daily caseload, which has been hovering around 66,000. We can easily say the Covid-19 case trend has stabilised,” a health department official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-cases-rise-again-895-deaths-in-a-day-101619579375989.html
28-04-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorm likely over parts of NW India till May 1||There is likely to be thunderstorm activity over western Himalayan region and adjoining northern plains on April 30 and May 1, according to India Meteorological Department.Due to a feeble Western Disturbance, isolated rainfall or snowfall is likely over the upper reaches of Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand till April 29. Thunderstorm activity is likely to increase subsequently and is likely to be accompanied by gusty winds over adjoining plains of Punjab, north Haryana and northwest Uttar Pradesh on April 30 and May 1. Thunderstorm or dust storms (speed reaching 40-50 kmph) are also likely over west and north Rajasthan during April 29 to May 1.Also Read | Germany, China to increase cooperation on climate changeA north-south trough (area of low pressure) runs from sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim to south coastal Odisha in the lower levels. Another north-south trough runs from north Interior Karnataka to Comorin area across interior Kerala in the lower levels. Along the region of wind discontinuity associated with the trough, scattered to fairly widespread thunderstorms accompanied by gusty winds is very likely over south and east peninsular India, during the next 4-5 days. Along the region of confluence of winds from the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal over North interior Karnataka and south Maharashtra, thunderstorm activity is likely to be intense and accompanied by hail storms at isolated places. As the north-south wind discontinuity strengthens over the next five days, thunderstorm activity is likely to intensify over central, east and northeast India during April 29 to May 1 and will be accompanied by gusty winds at isolated places. Heat wave conditions are very likely in isolated pockets over Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura during April 27-28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorm-likely-over-parts-of-nw-india-till-may-1-101619577935760.html
28-04-2021||India||Earthquake of magnitude 6.4 shakes Assam, CM Sonowal asks citizens to remain alert||An earthquake of magnitude 6.4 on the Richter scale shook large parts of lower Assam on Wednesday morning. According to initial reports, buildings in Guwahati and other areas were damaged, however, there were no immediate reports of any casualties.The National Centre for Seismology said the quake, with its epicentre in the state’s Sonitpur district, struck at 7.51am. Two aftershocks, one measuring 4.3 on the Richter scale struck at 7.58 am with its epicentre 30km from Tezpur town, while the second one, measuring 4.4 on Richter scale occurred 8.01am some 39km from Tezpur.Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal asked citizens to remain alert. "Big earthquake hits Assam. I pray for the well-being of all and urge everyone to stay alert. Taking updates from all districts," he said in a tweet.Pictures and videos from the northeastern state surfaced on social media in which cracks on roads could be seen in the aftermath of the earthquake. In one of the videos, a building in Nagaon, a district close to Sonitpur where tremors were felt, could be seen tilted and leaning against its adjacent building.Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Sonowal and took stock of the damage and has promised all possible assistance. “Spoke to Assam CM Shri @sarbanandsonwal Ji regarding the earthquake in parts of the state. Assured all possible help from the Centre. I pray for the well-being of the people of Assam,” PM Modi wrote on Twitter.Union home minister Amit Shah also enquired about the situation and wished for the well-being of the people in the area. “Have spoken to the Chief Minister of Assam, Shri @sarbanandsonwal ji, to assess the condition in different parts of the state after an earthquake. The central government stands firmly with our sisters and brothers of Assam. Praying for everyone’s safety and well-being,” he tweeted.“Just experienced a massive earthquake in Assam. Waiting for details,” Assam’s health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted soon after tremors were felt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-of-magnitude-of-6-4-hits-assam-s-sonitpur-101619577618502.html
28-04-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 death count crosses 200,000||The total number of people who have lost their lives to Covid-19 in India crossed 200,000 on Tuesday, with the number of daily deaths in the country crossing the 3,000 mark for the first time as the country struggled to fight off a devastating second wave of infections that has sent the rate of daily deaths rising at one of the worst-ever recorded rates in the world.On Tuesday, India reported 3,286 new fatalities, taking the total number of deaths in the country since the start of the pandemic to 201,187. The country also set a new record for daily infections, with 362,850 new cases, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 17,988,476.Meanwhile, active cases in the country continued to inch towards the 3 million mark – as on Tuesday night, there are 2,979,642 such cases in the country, the highest-ever recorded since the start of the outbreak in March last year, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.India has thus far been one of the better-performing nations in terms of case fatality rate (CFR) – the proportion of confirmed cases that result in deaths. Of all confirmed cases in the country, 1.1% have resulted in deaths – the second-highest (after Turkey’s CFR of 0.8%) among the world’s 10 worst-hit nations. On average, nearly twice as many (2.1%) of all confirmed Covid-19 cases have died in the world. Brazil and the US – the only two countries with caseloads comparable to India – have CFRs of 2.7% and 1.8%, respectively.However, India’s brutal second wave of infections is threatening to undo much of India’s progress in this aspect. The second wave has sent the rate of daily deaths rising at one of the worst-ever recorded rates in the world, data shows.For the week ending Tuesday, 2,657 people lost their lives in the country every day on average. A week ago, this number was 1,490 – meaning average deaths in the country have increased at 78% in just the last week. Even during the brutal third wave in the US and Brazil, daily deaths never grew at a rate that exceeded 50%. India’s daily deaths have now been increasing above the 50% threshold for four straight weeks.The seven-day average of deaths (2,657) on Tuesday is now more than 2.3 times the worst fatalities trajectory witnessed during India’s first Covid wave, when this number topped out at 1,169 for the week ending September 15, 2020.India’s first Covid-19 death was reported on March 12, 2020, when a 76-year-old man who died in Karnataka’s Kalaburgi tested positive for the virus posthumously.Meanwhile, the number of active cases in India on Tuesday neared the 3 million mark as the mammoth surge of new infections continued to push the overburdened health care system to its limits.Active cases is a crucial metric representing the country’s battle against the viral disease because it directly reflects the pressure on the health care system in a region and shows the number of people who are currently carrying the disease. As such, the higher the active cases, the more duress the health care system faces, which may lead to higher daily deaths if the former is not brought under control.The metric is even more crucial in current circumstances because the country’s health care system is being weighed down by regions with high caseloads such as Maharashtra, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, many of which have been reporting not only shortage of supplies such as oxygen tanks, but are also running out of ICU beds, and even space in morgues and funeral homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-death-count-crosses-200000-101619576871459.html
28-04-2021||India||Phase 3 Covid-19 vaccination registration for all above 18 opens today. How to register||All citizens above the age of 18 years can register themselves for getting vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) starting Wednesday as the government gears up to launch the third phase of the immunisation drive on May 1. Even as the Covid-19 vaccination campaign will be rolled out nationwide, some states may not start inoculating all adults on Saturday amid reports of a shortage of vaccine doses.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereChhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Punjab and Rajasthan previously said that they may not open up the vaccination programme from May 1, but several others, including Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Bengal and Tamil Nadu said they were expecting more doses in order to cater to additional recipients.In this phase of inoculation, the Centre has allowed Covid-19 vaccines manufacturers to provide 50% of their supply in open-market to states and private hospitals. While the Serum Institute of India has priced Covishield vaccine at ₹400 per dose for states and ₹600 per dose for private hospitals, Bharat Biotech has decided to sell its Covaxin at ₹600 per dose to states and ₹1,200 per dose to private hospitals. The Centre, however, has asked the drug makers to lower their prices.The government will continue to provide the vaccines free of cost to citizens but for those availing the service at state government-run or private hospitals, the price will depend on whether the hospitals impose any additional service charge.As things stand, starting May 1, those above the age of 45 will continue to get free doses that are distributed by the Union government to states, while those below 45 will need to either pay for doses at private hospitals (if available) or wait till their state governments acquire and make them available at a price or for free.Like the first and the second phase, registration would be done through the cowin.gov.in website and also through the Aarogya Setu mobile app but there won’t be any walk-in registration in this phase.Here is how you can register for Phase 3 vaccination1. Open https://www.cowin.gov.in/home on web browser.2. Click on “Register/Sign in”3. Enter your mobile number and click on ‘Get OTP’ button4. Once the OPT is generated, enter it and click ‘Verify’5. On the Register for Vaccination page, enter details about name, age, gender as on accepted photo ID proof6. Click on ‘Register’7. After registering, click on the ‘Schedule’ option next to the name of the person8. Enter your pin code, or select from the list of states and then the districts, following which the vaccination centres will show up9. Select the vaccination centre, date and time and click ‘Confirm’10. One can also reschedule appointments and as many as four people can register for vaccination using a single mobile number.How to register via Aarogya Setu app:1. Click on the CoWIN tab on the home screen of the Aarogya Setu app.2. Click on Vaccination Registration3. Enter phone number to receive the OTP4. After the OTP is verified, Aarogya Setu will lead to Registration of Vaccination page5. Enter details like the Photo ID card type and number along with the name of the beneficiary6. Next, enter the pin code to get the list of the vaccination centres and click on the desired vaccination centre7. Enter date to check availability8. Select a time slot9. Confirm appointment||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-3-covid-19-vaccination-registration-for-all-above-18-opens-today-how-to-register-101619573760512.html
28-04-2021||India||Indian Covid-19 variant found in at least 17 countries: WHO||The World Health Organization said Tuesday that a variant of Covid-19 feared to be contributing to a surge in coronavirus cases in India has been found in over a dozen countries.The UN health agency said the B.1.617 variant of Covid-19 first found in India had as of Tuesday been detected in over 1,200 sequences uploaded to the GISAID open-access database "from at least 17 countries".Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here "Most sequences were uploaded from India, the United Kingdom, USA and Singapore," the WHO said in its weekly epidemiological update on the pandemic.The WHO recently listed B.1.617 -- which counts several sub-lineages with slightly different mutations and characteristics -- as a "variant of interest".But so far it has stopped short of declaring it a "variant of concern".That label would indicate that it is more dangerous that the original version of the virus by for instance being more transmissible, deadly or able to dodge vaccine protections.India is facing surging new cases and deaths in the pandemic, and fears are rising that the variant could be contributing to the unfolding catastrophe.The explosion in infections in India -- 350,000 new cases were recorded there on Tuesday alone -- has driven a surge in global cases to 147.7 million.The virus has now killed more than 3.1 million people worldwide.The WHO acknowledged that its preliminary modelling based on sequences submitted to GISAID indicates "that B.1.617 has a higher growth rate than other circulating variants in India, suggesting potential increased transmissibility".It stressed that other variants circulating at the same time were also showing increased transmissibility, and that the combination "may be playing a role in the current resurgence in this country.""Indeed, studies have highlighted that the spread of the second wave has been much faster than the first," the WHO said.It highlighted though that "other drivers" could be contributing to the surge, including lax adherence to public health measures as well as mass gatherings."Further investigation is needed to understand the relative contribution of these factors," it said.The UN agency also stressed that "further robust studies" into the characteristics of B.1.617 and other variants, including impacts on transmissibility, severity and the risk of reinfection, were "urgently needed".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-covid-19-variant-found-in-at-least-17-countries-who-101619572922138.html
28-04-2021||India||CEOs of 40 US companies create global task force to help India fight Covid-19||In a show of solidarity, the CEOs of about 40 top American companies have come together to create a first-of-its-kind country-specific global task force to mobilise resources and coordinate efforts to help India fight the battle against Covid-19.A collective initiative of the US-India Business Council of the US Chamber of Commerce, and the US-India Strategic and Partnership Forum and Business Roundtable, the task force during its meeting here on Monday committed to get 20,000 oxygen concentrators to India in the next few weeks, Deloitte CEO Punit Renjen told PTI.The new US public-private partnership to provide India critical medical supplies, vaccines, oxygen and other life-saving assistance amid an unprecedented surge in coronavirus cases is called the 'Global Task Force on Pandemic Response: Mobilising for India'.The first-of-its-kind country-specific global task force to address a public health crisis in another country was addressed by US Secretary of State Tony Blinken.The conversation showed how the United States and India can leverage the expertise and capabilities of the US private sector towards solutions for India's Covid-19 crisis, Blinken said in a tweet."A number of American companies have come together over the weekend. We are focused on doing our very best to help in any way that we possibly can. As the prime minister said, we were very confident, our spirits were up after successfully tackling the first wave, but this storm has shaken the nation. It is up to us to help in any way possible," Renjen said in response to a question.Observing that the first issue is around oxygen and its concentrators, Renjen said they have commitments to get 20,000 oxygen concentrators to India in the next few weeks.The first 1,000 will arrive in the middle of this week, he said, adding that by May 5, they expect another 11,000 oxygen concentrators to reach the country."Our goal is to get 25,000, and maybe even a number higher than that," he added.The second issue is to look at oxygen cylinders with 10-litre and 45-litre capacity and to get other supplies like monitoring kits, Renjen said."I am very pleased with the fact that these companies have come together. We're working with the USISPF, as well as the USIBC … and with the Business Roundtable to coordinate this effort to help India in any way that that is required,” he said.Welcoming the call between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Joe Biden and the decision of the US to urgently send supplies to India, the Deloitte CEO reiterated that the two countries are natural allies."I'm very heartened by the fact that the US government is going to step up and do its part," he said.The fight against Covid-19 is personal for Renjen as several family members of Renjen, who comes from Rohtak, Haryana have contracted the disease.Around 2,000 of Deloitte's employees in India have been infected, he said."We are facilitating individuals getting the vaccines. We are providing them medical assistance, home testing kits. This is being consistently done by all entities that have big footprints in India. That is really important to do," Renjen said."We will do everything on our part to take care of our employees, like I believe every one of the multinationals that were on the call with me are committed to doing. But they have really stepped up," he said."This is a real kudos to Indian talent," Renjen said.The task force also comprises representations from retail sector, e-commerce, pharmaceutical, technology industry and large manufacturing entities."This global crisis requires a global response, and the American business community could not be better positioned, or more determined, to help lead the way,” said Suzanne Clark, president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce.“It was wonderful to see everybody focused on making sure that they do their part, that they contribute. Out of that discussion, the first step that we came up with was these oxygen concentrators,” Renjen said.“Our point to the US government is to provide assistance (to India), wherever it's requested,” he added.These US companies are coordinating with the Indian ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu.“Earlier in the week, he gave us the list of items that are of critical need,” Renjen said.The list includes oxygen concentrators, oxygen generators, two critical medicines that he wanted to see if the US government can release, monitoring kits, and encouraging the US government to ease supply of critical materials for vaccines.Responding to a question, Renjen exuded confidence that India would overcome this.“This too shall pass. I am very confident in my Indian brothers and sisters; we will overcome this,” he said.“I don't think we need to panic. We listen to the scientists and listen to the people that are managing this in the country. I think we just have to navigate through it. We will have two or three weeks of very difficult times."It is a tragic situation, particularly for people that have COVID or who have lost loved ones. My heart goes out to them, but we are going to do our part,” Renjen said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ceos-of-40-us-companies-create-global-task-force-to-help-india-fight-covid19-101619569669999.html
28-04-2021||India||Can’t watch national crisis silently, says Supreme Court||"We cannot remain a mute spectator in the times of a national crisis”, said the Supreme Court on Tuesday as it sought details of availability of medical oxygen, supply of essential medicines, ramping up of critical medical infrastructure, and the rationale of vaccine pricing from the central government to assess its readiness.“This is a national crisis and the Supreme Court of India, being the national constitutional court, cannot be a silent spectator... the intervention of this court has to be appreciated in proper perspective. The court has jurisdiction under Article 32 towards the protection of fundamental rights. In the face of a national crisis, the court cannot stand silent as a mute spectator,” said a bench, led by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, while hearing the matter registered suo motu (on its own).The bench, which included justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, also put the record straight that the Supreme Court was concerned about the national issues that are beyond state boundaries while the jurisdictional high courts can continue to issue suitable directives in the cases being heard by them on the resurgence of the pandemic.“By the pendency of these proceedings, the high courts are not restrained from continuing to deal with the issue that they are seized of... High courts are best situated to assess the ground realities in each state and come up with flexible solutions for practical concerns of the citizens. The high courts are in a better position to monitor the territorial situation. At the same time, it is also important for the Supreme Court to intervene to look into the systemic, national issues and ensure the coordination at a national level and between the states, which the high courts may find difficult to deal with,” it said.Fixing the next hearing on Friday, the bench added it wants a “unified national plan” from the central government to serve the needs of citizens of this country. “What have you done till date is one thing but what you plan to do for the future is what we want to know from you...Where do we stand and what have we planned for the future,” the bench told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the Centre.Mehta replied that the government has filed a detailed affidavit on Tuesday, elucidating how all available resources are being put to their optimum use in assistance with the state governments, and that the Prime Minister was personally looking into the efforts to deal with the sudden surge in the infection.Last week, a controversy ensued after a bench led by then CJI SA Bobde took a suo motu cognisance of the surge in infections the day before his retirement and appointed senior advocate Harish Salve as the amicus curiae to assist the court. This, even as Salve represented Vedanta, which wanted to operate its controversial shuttered plant in Tamil Nadu. Several senior advocates such as Indira Jaising, Vikas Singh, Dushyant Dave and Sanjay Hegde questioned the move, asking if this was an endeavour by the Supreme Court to hold the hands of the high courts that were already supervising these issues in their jurisdiction, keeping the Centre and state governments on their toes.On Friday, justice Bobde had clarified that they had not restrained the high courts from taking up the matters while Salve withdrew as the amicus in the wake of the controversy surrounding his possible conflict of interest.Meanwhile, various senior advocates appearing for different state governments and stakeholders on Tuesday raised issues pertaining to the supply and transit of oxygen, and the differences in prices of the two vaccines – Covishield and Covaxin -- between the Centre and states.Senior advocate Anand Grover, appearing for People’s Health Movement, suggested suspension of intellectual property rights of the companies so that shortage and pricing of essential medicines could be taken care of, while senior counsel Siddharth Dave, appearing for another applicant, said there should be a uniform policy across states for admission in hospitals.Calling them “relevant issues” for consideration by the Centre, the bench also sought to know from the Centre basis and rationale of pricing of the vaccines while pointing out that the Union government apparently has powers under the Drug Price Control Order and the Patents Act to regulate the prices during a national emergency.“If this is not a national emergency, then we fail to understand what is... If you clarify this, a lot of issues would be resolved at the level of the high courts,” observed the bench, asking the Centre to also explain the steps that the Union is taking to ensure everyone above 18 is vaccinated once the new drive begins May 1.In Phase 3 of the vaccination programme, in which everyone above 18 can get the jab from May 1, the manufacturer has fixed the prices for Covaxin at ₹150 for the Centre and ₹600 for the states, while it is ₹1200 for private hospitals. Covishield will cost ₹150 to the Centre, ₹400 for the states, and ₹600 to private hospitals.New Covid-19 cases in India continued to shatter global records on Tuesday, as the country saw 362,850 single-day infections, its highest ever, taking the total number of cases in the country to nearly 18 million, even as new deaths due the disease soared past the 3,000 mark -- also for the first time -- amid a crippling shortage of medical amenities in dozens of states with high caseloads.The top court bench also clarified that by hearing these issues, the top court is not taking over the functioning of the government but will rather play a complementary role by giving valuable suggestions and inputs.“Recrimination won’t save people’s lives. Let us all find solution and that is my appeal to all the members of the Bar. Let this not be adversarial,” the bench told all the counsel.In its order, the court underlined five focus areas. These included projected demand and distribution for oxygen in the country at present and the future and the steps being taken to augment it; enhancement of the critical medical infrastructure such as number of beds, and Covid treatment centres equipped with health care professionals; availability of essential drugs such as remdesivir; the projected requirement of vaccines and the modalities to ensure that any deficit will be catered to apart from rationale of their pricing; and a system of seamless communication from a district-level officer to the Union ministry of health.Adjourning the matter to Friday, the court said that it will go through the affidavits submitted by the Centre and that the S-G may file an additional response to the queries being underscored by the bench.Centre’s affidavitIn its affidavit, the Centre has said that a national disaster management plan is already in place since November 2019 and that this plan specifically deals with “biological and public health emergencies” while providing for a broad framework in terms of the response to be provided in pursuance in case of any disaster.“A national plan does not and cannot contain step by step instructions or specific directions for the day-to-day management by government agencies in the situation of any particular and unforeseen disaster...the decisions taken till date by the central government, as per the national plan, and as per the procedure laid down therein, have been according to the contemporaneous knowledge about the nature, efficacy and the effect of Covid-19 on large populations,” stated the affidavit.About the production of remdesivir, the Centre said that owing to a limited demand for the antiviral drug during the preceding months, the seven licensed manufacturers in India produced 2.7 million vials of remdesivir per month whereas the total installed capacity was 3.88 million vials per month.On medical oxygen, the Centre told the court that the resource cannot be unlimited in any country, and the government was augmenting oxygen supply on a war footing with the active and constant supervision of the Prime Minister.It added that oxygen supplies available at any given time is meant to be distributed to the states, especially those which are critically burdened with high number of active Covid-19 cases, in a balanced manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-watch-national-crisis-silently-says-supreme-court-101619562241221.html
28-04-2021||India||Pandemic rages, but farmers defy odds with winter harvest||As a devastating Covid-19 second wave tears through the country, farmers have defied the odds -- even in states with high daily cases -- to nearly complete harvesting of most winter-sown crops, as they prepare for the oncoming kharif, or summer sowing, season.Timely agricultural operations despite surging Covid-19 infections have ensured stable food supplies and farm incomes, although there have been reports of farm markets functioning with lower capacities in states such as Maharashtra, government officials aware of the developments said.According to the second official advance estimates, issued in February 2021, India’s foodgrains production in 2020-21 is estimated to be a record 303.34 million tonne — up from the 297.5 million tonne produced in 2019-20.Farmers have already harvested a total of 82% of wheat, the key winter staple, said an agriculture ministry official who asked not to be named. Wheat had been sown in 31.5 million.Harvesting has reached 99% in Rajasthan, 96% in Madhya Pradesh, 80% in Uttar Pradesh, 65% in Haryana and 60% in Punjab, according to agriculture ministry data.Farmers have also wrapped up sugarcane harvesting in Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Telangana. Chhattisgarh and Karnataka are among states worst hit by the Covid-19 surge.In Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Maharashtra – which saw one of the deadliest spikes in coronavirus cases this month – farmers have completed harvesting of lentils, such as gram, urad, mung and peas. Harvesting is at its peak in Haryana, Punjab, and UP. “It is likely to be completed by the end of April,” an official said.Experts say the rural India may not have escaped the current Covid-19 surge, which set off once again in urban centres such as Mumbai, and has crippled several cities, including Delhi and Bengaluru, which are experiencing their worst outbreaks.According to a health ministry briefing this week, there were 146 districts across the country where the positivity rate, (positive cases against tests), was more than 15 per cent. Some of the worst-hit states, such as Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, have predominantly rural populations.In Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal, 92 to 98% harvesting was complete, the data showed.In Uttar Pradesh, 84% harvesting was done.Agriculture forms the backbone of the India economy and is one of its key drivers.Last year, when a strict lockdown crushed the economy, stoking a recession, the agriculture sector, which employs half of all Indians, demonstrated remarkable resilience to register positive growth. Agriculture grew 3.4% in the June 2020 quarter, when the overall economy registered a 24.4% drop.Growth returned to positive territory in the December 2020 quarter, the latest available data, expanding 0.4%. Agriculture grew at 3.9% in the same period, compared to 3% in the previous quarter.Experts say the exemption of the agriculture sector from Covid-19 restrictions has enabled farm operations to continue unhindered.For sugarcane, out of the total sown in 4.8 million hectares (sugar season 2020-21), harvesting has been completed in Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Telangana. In the oilseeds category, harvesting of rapeseed and mustard sown in around 7 million hectares has fully done in Rajasthan, UP, MP, WB, Jharkhand, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Assam. It is almost complete in Haryana (99.95%) and also Punjab (77%).Ajit Kesari, principal secretary, Madhya Pradesh farmers welfare and agriculture department, said, “According to the latest data, the harvesting has been completed in MP. We are glad that Covid-19 did not impact harvesting of wheat, lentils and mustard. Now, we have started the procurement process and have procured at least 5.6 million MT wheat till now.”A senior Uttar Pradesh government official also said that harvesting has been completed in India’s most populous state. “Wheat procurement is going on in full swing at procurement centres across the state. Covid-19 had no adverse impact on economic or other activities in villages. Till April 22, a total of 524,000 MT of wheat has been purchased at the procurement centres,” the official, who did not want to be named, said.“I have completed wheat harvests in my 20 acres land through hired equipment. I have not faced any difficulty in selling it through agricultural market committees,” said Amarjeet Pal, a farmer from Punjab’s Hoshiarpur, who is affiliated to the Bharatiya Kisan Union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-rages-but-farmers-defy-odds-with-winter-harvest-101619561948324.html
28-04-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine: All 18+ can sign up from today, but May 1 launch under cloud||All adult Indians will be able to sign up for coronavirus vaccines beginning Wednesday, April 28, but several states and the Union government differed on whether there was a shortage of doses, reinforcing concerns that the May 1 roll-out of the third phase of the drive for everyone above the age of 18 could be patchy and uncertain.Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Punjab and Rajasthan have said previously they are unlikely to open up the vaccination programme from May 1, but several others – Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Bengal and Tamil Nadu — said they were expecting more doses in order to account for the additional number of recipients.The arithmetic is complicated due to the second doses that will be due, even as many open negotiations with the manufacturers or await confirmation of delivery timelines.Punjab was among states that raised fresh concerns over availability on Tuesday. State health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that Punjab has roughly 250,000 doses at hand for the 45-plus category and those eligible for the second doses, and, at an average utilisation rate of 90,000 per day, stocks were likely to run out over the next two-to-three days. “Existing doses cannot be used as Centre’s supply has remained very limited,” said Sidhu.Shortage was also reported from Tamil Nadu, where uptake is high and the Greater Chennai Corporation in the state capital opened temporary vaccination centres this week to avoid overcrowding. But the agency later decided that due to a shortage in supply of Covaxin, these centres will administer doses only to those who are up for their second shot.In certain centres, several people have complained of not being able to get a second dose as well.A similar rush and shortage was also reported from Kerala, where people eligible for their second doses are now queuing up at centres.In Thiruvananthapuram, three people collapsed while waiting in long queues and were shifted to a hospital on Monday.The Union government, however, denied that there was a shortage.In a statement, it said at least 15 crore (150 million) Covid-19 vaccines were given to states free of cost since the drive began and at least 10 million are still available with the States. Approximately 8 million doses are in the pipeline to be provided to them in the next 3 days, the government said.“Government of India has so far provided more than 15 crore vaccine doses (156,526,140) to States/UTs Free of Cost. Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 146,478,983 dose,” the statement added.According to detailed figures released, Punjab was scheduled to get 350,000 doses in the pipeline.The figures showed that Uttar Pradesh, with 1.1 million, and Bihar, with 700,000, were scheduled to receive the highest numbers of doses from the pipeline over the next few days.Both these states said they will allow all adults to take doses form May 1, although Bihar was yet to announce if it has placed any direct orders for doses from the manufacturers.UP has placed orders for 5 five million doses each of Serum Institute’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, and an official said the roll-out of Phase 3 could depend on the supply of these and the pending doses.Beginning May 1, the coronavirus vaccinations will follow two tracks – those above the age of 44 will continue to get free doses that are distributed by the Union government to states, while those below 45 will need to either pay for doses at private hospitals (if available) or wait till their state governments acquire and make them available at a price or for free.From Wednesday, anyone aged 18 or above can use the CoWIN website or the Aarogya Setu application will allow anyone above the age of 18 to register for coronavirus vaccines to register for doses.Officials in several states have raised concerns over lack of clarity from manufacturers for the delivery timeline, while some others said they were yet to open discussions or hear back from the companies.An official in Madhya Pradesh, where the government is otherwise confident of launching the next phase from May 1 itself, said an order of 4.5 million doses of Covishield has been placed but deliveries are only expected by mid-May.Officials in Chhattisgarh said they had placed orders for 5 million doses in an even split between the two manufacturers, but were informally told that deliveries could take till July, according to an official who asked not to be named.These issues with deliveries and an expected rush as is typical whenever new groups of people are made eligible has shrouded the May 1 launch in uncertainty. The problems are complicated by concerns over pricing – both manufacturers said they will offer the lowest doses to the Union government – and calls by experts and states to make it free.In Bengal, which will launch the drive after the election results are out, an official said that private hospitals will not be allowed to use any of the stocks distributed till now, in keeping with the government guidelines.This has, however, raised questions over the options for people who took their first doses at these facilities, since private centres will now need to directly procure doses and administer them at retail prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-all-18-can-sign-up-from-today-but-may-1-launch-under-cloud-101619561317301.html
28-04-2021||India||A woman with a cat||She lives with Hayati, her cat. This is her parents’ house in Noida’s Sector 19. Both passed away last year.Sitting in the bedroom, Saumya Mallika Mathur, 26, recalls on a WhatsApp video chat that this is the very room “where I slept with my mother, while she fought her third cancer battle.” At this time last year, both were in the hospital hoping “we would make it through this one too”. Her mother died four months ago; her father died early last year after a prolonged illness.“I feel Mummy in this room.”Earlier working in digital marketing, Ms Mathur is on a sabbatical “focusing on grieving and healing while getting used to taking care of myself”.In the morning she wakes to her cat’s “cute meows” when “it hits me that I can’t ask mummy anymore to feed the cat. I put on the TV and play the prayers she used to listen.”Being alone, Ms Mathur often skips her meal hours. “Eating alone isn’t a pleasant experience.” She keeps “microwaveable” food around so that she doesn’t have to spend a lot of time in the kitchen, for being in the kitchen is a reminder to her of her mother’s passing, she says.“I don’t know how the day passes, or when the sun sets. I sleep when my eyes are so tired that they shut by themselves, as even trying to close my eyes voluntarily gives me anxiety attacks.”Ms Mathur does have some friends and relatives but she feels they aren’t emotionally available to her. “Maybe it’s because of Covid that everyone has become so distant.”Some might imagine her to be extraordinarily strong for dealing with such profound losses at such a young age. But she argues that “being strong means no one will be willing to see you break down. I have lost the comfort that I’ll be looked after.”As she gets used to a new life, Ms Mathur hopes to find happiness.On being complemented for her ear danglers, she confirms with a smile that the little things hanging in them indeed are teeny-weeny tea kettles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-woman-with-a-cat-101619556932858.html
28-04-2021||India||Panel to monitor air quality in Delhi-NCR reconstituted||The Union environment ministry has reconstituted the Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas after having disbanded it in March, just five months after it was created.On April 13, the Union government promulgated the Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance 2021 and on April 23 issued a notification to constitute the commission.The chairperson of the commission continues to be MM Kutty, former secretary in the ministry of petroleum and natural gas and former chief secretary of Delhi.Mukesh Khare, a full-time technical member (before the previous ordinance lapsed) and IIT Delhi professor, and Ajay Mathur, director general of the International Solar Alliance, who was an independent member from an NGO, are not part of the commission anymore.Ashish Dhawan of the Air Pollution Action Group is the only NGO member, while Ramesh KJ, former secretary, earth sciences, is the only full-time technical member in the commission now.Among the associate members inducted in the commission are Soumita Biswas, joint secretary, agriculture ministry; Amitabh Kumar, joint secretary, commerce and industry; Kailash Chand Gupta, additional secretary, ministry of road transport and highways; Vivek Kumar Dewangan, additional secretary, power ministry; and Navneet Mohan Kothari, joint secretary, ministry of petroleum and natural gas. A member of the commission said these associate members have been inducted to represent views of farmers, industry bodies, and the transport sector.Initially, the Commission for Air Quality Management ordinance was promulgated by the President on October 28, but the bill to replace the ordinance was not passed in the budget session of Parliament, as a result of which the commission ceased to operate from March 12.Since Parliament is not in session, the President has promulgated another ordinance to bring the commission into action.After the previous ordinance lapsed, and the commission was shut down, independent environmental experts criticised the Union environment ministry for not being serious about tackling air pollution in Delhi-NCR. The issue has gained even more importance in recent days with reports of farm fires in certain parts of the northern plains.The newly constituted commission continues to have sweeping powers in controlling air pollution in Delhi-NCR.“It’s good news that we are back in action. Now members from farmers bodies, construction sector and industries have also been included in the commission. A provision has also been made so that serving professionals can be appointed as members. Earlier only retired professionals were to be considered. The Centre had assured farmers’ groups that the clause regarding penalising farmers will be withdrawn. So, it has been withdrawn now,” said a commission member on condition of anonymity.“This new ordinance is as much an opportunity as it is a mirage. While there are powers to take all measures, issue directions and entertain complaints, it is left to what the discretion of commission considers expedient and necessary,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-to-monitor-air-quality-in-delhi-ncr-reconstituted-101619556473139.html
28-04-2021||India||First batch of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine to arrive in India by May 1||The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) on Tuesday said it will export the first batch of Sputnik V vaccine to India from May 1, the day India expands its Covid-19 immunisation drive to cover all adults.“The first doses will be delivered on 1 May,” RDIF chief executive officer Kirill Dmitriev said.However, a spokesperson for the company’s partner in India, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, said it is not providing a specific date for the launch, adding that while the company had earlier indicated that delivery will start from the end of May, that timeline has now been shifted to anytime in May.“Discussions over pricing and the number of doses are still ongoing between Dr Reddy’s, RDIF and the government,” the spokesperson said.RDIF had last year said that the company will price the vaccine at less than $10 ( ₹750) per dose in international markets. Pricing of the vaccine varies in different countries.Dr Reddy’s management has earlier said that the initial quantity of vaccine that will be supplied in India will be limited as they will primarily be imported from Russia. However, RDIF’s manufacturing partners in India will start producing the jabs locally by July, after which the supplies will be scaled up.RDIF is in partnership with six companies in India— Hetero Biopharma, Gland Pharma, Stelis Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Virchow Biotech and Shilpa Medicare—to collectively contract manufacture more than 850 million doses of Sputnik V. Dr Reddy’s pact with RDIF is for supply of 250 million doses. Supply of the vaccine is crucial for meeting the increased demand when vaccination will be opened up for adults from Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-batch-of-russia-s-sputnik-v-vaccine-to-arrive-in-india-by-may-1-101619556126076.html
28-04-2021||India||UP panchayat polls: HC seeks SEC’s explanation over deaths, Covid violations||The Allahabad high court on Tuesday took note of reports related to deaths of government employees on panchayat election duty and directed the State Election Commission (SEC) to explain by the next hearing as to why it failed in checking non- compliance with Covid-19 guidelines during various phases of the panchayat elections in the state.The court also asked the SEC to explain why action may not be taken against it and 27 of its officials for the same, including prosecuting those responsible for such violations. The court mentioned a news report which alleged there were 135 deaths of government employees on panchayat election duty due to Covid-19.The state is witnessing four-phase panchayat elections that began on April 15 and will end on April 29.Fixing May 3 as the next date of hearing in the case, the court directed the state government to place before it by then the details of beds for Covid-19 patients, medicines and oxygen supplied in various hospitals of Prayagraj, Lucknow, Varanasi, Agra, Kanpur Nagar, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Gorakhpur and Jhansi.The high court also directed the state government to ensure health bulletin, twice a day, in major government hospitals of Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Agra, Kanpur Nagar, Gorakhpur and Jhansi, giving health updates of the patients.The hospitals were asked to use large screens to give details of patients and their oxygen saturation levels.Further, the state government was directed to declare on the district portals of these cities the number of beds that were occupied and vacant in Covid-19 wards and ICUs of all government and private hospitals.The bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar passed the order on a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) on the spread of Covid-19 in the state and the condition of quarantine centres.The court said that mere antigen negative report should not be a ground to discharge a patient as such patients could still infect others. They needed to be shifted to non-Covid wards for at least a week. For this, the government needed to gear up to set up makeshift wards on the campuses of hospitals, the court said.The court directed that government hospitals be provided with sufficient medicines and injections, including Remdesivir, for patients. The oxygen supply to hospitals should remain uninterrupted, the court said.On the difficulties faced by Covid-19 patients, the court observed, “If even after seven decades of our attaining freedom with so many heavy industries set up, we are not able to provide oxygen to our citizens, it’s a matter of shame.”The court said the authorities concerned must ensure proper management of doctors, medical and paramedical staff as they were all working day and night and getting infected as well.On certain reports of attacks on medical staff by the public, the bench said, “When near and dear ones die, they go frustrated at the system of healthcare in the state and soft targets of their ire are the medical and paramedical staff.”“The situation overall in the major cities of Uttar Pradesh has gone very chaotic for the current Covid surge. Whether it is day or night, the ghost of Corona is marching on the roads and streets of the major cities of the state and it can be anybody’s fate. Those who are resourceful will survive and the rest as histories of past pandemics tell us may die for want of proper healthcare. As the government in its wisdom has resolved to only two days’ weekend lockdown to break the chain and has further proceeded with some measures as a sequel to that, but mere fact that number of positive cases, as have been shown to have been reduced a little in numbers due (to) two weekend lockdown days, nothing remarkable seems to have been achieved on the front of public health care to the satisfaction of the people,” the bench observed.The state government was asked to increase the number of ambulances immediately and to ensure that ambulances must be well equipped with life-saving devices.The bench also directed the government to ensure that every Covid related death was reported to a judicial officer to be appointed by district judge at the end of the day. The government should also ensure the correctness of the data forwarded to the officer concerned each day. Further, cremation in Covid death cases must be done as per the guidelines issued by the government.The bench observed, “We make it clear that we will not tolerate any paperwork or public announcements to show account of the steps taken and its sufficiency as it is now an open secret that government had gone complacent due to weakening of virus impact by the end of 2020 in the state and the government got more involved in other activities, including panchayat elections.”“Had it been constantly vigilant, it would have prepared itself to face the onslaught of the pandemic in its second wave. Posterity would never forgive us if we remain oblivious to the real public health issues and let the people die for want of adequate health care,” the bench added.The court said, “Though we acknowledge the fact that government alone cannot fight with its available resources and needs people’s cooperation and active participation of various other non-government bodies, but those in power must shun the attitude of ‘my way or no way’ and should welcome suggestions from all the quarters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-panchayat-polls-hc-seeks-sec-s-explanation-over-deaths-covid-violations-101619555880917.html
28-04-2021||India||‘Furore won’t bring back dead’: Haryana CM Khattar’s remark sparks row||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar came under sharp criticism from the Opposition Congress over his comment that “it was pointless to argue over Covid-19 fatality figures as the dead won’t come back to life, and the focus should be on providing relief to those suffering now”.Khattar was replying to questions on the alleged under-reporting of deaths due to coronavirus as the figures of crematoriums and burial grounds do not match with the official numbers. “The kind of difficult situation we are going through, we don’t have to play with data. Our entire focus should be on how people will recover and how we can provide them relief,” he told reporters in Rohtak on Monday.“And those who have died will not come back by creating a furore over it,” he said at one point, arguing that there was no point in getting into a debate on whether or not the official number of deaths was correct.The opposition Congress was quick to slam his remarks with party general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala saying, “These can only be the words of a merciless ruler. There is a need to make a noise over every death which is the result of the government’s inefficiency so that the deaf BJP government can hear the echo.”Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja also slammed Khattar for such an “irresponsible” statement. “The people are suffering from serious disease and waiting for medicines, oxygen supply and ventilators and Haryana chief minister is making irresponsible statements on Covid patients’ deaths. Congress condemns his statement,” she said.Adampur MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi also condemned the CM’s comment. “These remarks are shameful. I strongly condemn the thinking of the chief minister,” the Congress leader tweeted.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/furore-won-t-bring-back-dead-haryana-cm-khattar-s-remark-sparks-row-101619554644918.html
28-04-2021||India||US’s Gilead to donate 450k remdesivir vials||US pharma company Gilead Sciences on Tuesday announced that it will donate 4,50,000 vials of its injection remdesivir to India, and providing its voluntary licensing partners in the country with technical assistance to rapidly scale up production in the wake of the surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country and the scramble for the antiviral drug.“The recent surge of Covid-19 cases in India is having a devastating impact on communities and has created unprecedented pressure on health systems,” Johanna Mercier, chief commercial officer, Gilead Sciences said in a statement.“We are committed to doing our part to help tackle this crisis. Our immediate focus is to help address the needs of patients in India who may benefit from remdesivir as quickly as we can by working together with the government, health authorities and our voluntary licensees.”Gilead sciences holds patent for remdesivir that is one of the investigational drugs prescribed under restricted emergency use in treating Covid-19 patients in India. WHO has previously said that there is no evidence that the drug reduces mortality or obviates the need for ventilation in hospitalised patients, although it has been found to help those in early stages of the infection requiring supplemental oxygen.“…the company is providing its voluntary licensing partners with technical assistance, support for the addition of new local manufacturing facilities and the donation of active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) to rapidly scale up production of remdesivir. Remdesivir is approved in India for restricted emergency use for the treatment of suspected or laboratory confirmed Covid-19 in adults and children hospitalized with severe disease. In addition to providing support to its licensees to expand their local manufacturing capacity, Gilead will also donate at least 450,000 vials of Veklury (remdesivir) to help address the immediate needs of Indian patients,” the company added in its statement.Gliead sciences has seven licensing partners based in India, and all seven of the licensees have significantly accelerated production of remdesivir by scaling up their batch sizes, adding new manufacturing facilities and/or onboarding local contract manufacturers across the country.The central government has also taken several measures to tide over the problem of remdesivir shortage in India, including extending support to manufacturers.According to the government, production capacity of remdesivir in the country is being ramped up from the current level of 3.8 million vials per month to 7.4 million vials per month, and 20 additional manufacturing sites have also been approved.Many states have channelised remdesivir sales after reports of widespread black-marketing. Companies too, have been trying to work directly with hospitals. The Union ministry of health, in coordination with department of pharmaceuticals, has made an interim allocation of remdesivir for 19 States for the period up to April 30, 2021.Experts say that remdesivir is no magic bullet and needs to be used selectively.“In a US study it was shown that if given to moderate to severe patients there is a chance hospital stay will reduce somewhat. Therefore, stable patients who are in home isolation, with oxygen saturation of 94% and above, they don’t require remdesivir. If mild cases take remdesivir then there is a chance of more harm than good. It is no magic bullet, and should be given only to hospitalized patients,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India institute of Medical Sciences (AIMS), Delhi.The government on April 11 also banned export of remdesivir that, according to the ministry of chemicals and fertilisers’ statement, diverted approximately 4 lakh vials meant for export to fulfil domestic requirement.Meanwhile, another pharma company Merck & Co.’s Indian subsidiary MSD Pharmaceuticals has announced that it will enter into non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreements for its anti-viral drug, molnupiravir, with five established Indian generic manufacturers.Molnupiravir is an investigational oral antiviral agent currently being studied in a Phase 3 trial for the treatment of non-hospitalized patients with confirmed Covid-19.“MSD has entered into these agreements to accelerate availability of molnupiravir in India and in other low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) following approvals or emergency authorization by local regulatory agencies,” the company said in a statement on Tuesday.The agreements have been signed with CIPLA Limited, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Limited, Emcure Pharmaceuticals Limited, Hetero Labs Limited and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited.“The scale of human suffering in India at this moment is devastating, and it is clear that more must be done to help alleviate it. These agreements, toward which we have been working as we have been studying molnupiravir, will help to accelerate access to molnupiravir in India and around the world,” Kenneth C. Frazier, chairman and CEO, Merck & Co added in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uss-gilead-to-donate-450k-remdesivir-vials-101619550979812.html
28-04-2021||India||Less crowd, but no Covid-19 norms on last shahi snan||The last of the shahi snans (holy dips) of the Mahakumbh was a largely symbolic affair, with only a few tens of thousands of seers and pilgrims participating in the event on account of Covid-19, much lower than the millions that did in the previous shahi snans, although those that did still ignored protocols such as wearing a mask or social distancing.Seers from all the 13 Akhadas (sects) participated in the shahi snan with a major focus on the three Bairagi Akhadas. It was also Lord Hanuman’s birth anniversary on Tuesday -- Hanuman is the deity of the Bairagi Akhadas -- and there was quite a buzz in the Baiaragi camp and Hanuman temples.Prime Minister Modi made a plea on April 17, asking the Akhadas to observe the Kumbh (April 1 to 30) and the last of the shahi snans in spirit only. His plea came amidst the surging second wave of the pandemic , and after the complete breach of all Covid-19 safety protocols in the previous shahi snans. The union government has come under criticism for allowing the mass event to go ahead during the pandemic, and the state government , for not following Covid safety protocols. Infections have claimed the lives of two chief seers during the Kumbh, and many others have been infected. Pilgrims have also carried back infections from the event to other parts of India.On Tuesday, Niranjani and Anand Akhada seers were the first to head towards the sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund,Har-Ki-Pauri followed by Juna , Agni and Aahwan Akhada in pre scheduled order set by Kumbh Mela administration in consultation with the Akhada Parishad, the apex body of seers.Maha Nirvani Akhada and Atal Akhada seers were followed by three Bairagi Akhadas, Nirvani, Digambar and Nirmohi.Pilgrims were allowed to take a dip in the Ganga at Har-Ki-Pauri prior to the arrival of the seers at 9 am.Kumbh Mela officer Deepak Rawat, Kumbh Mela Force Inspector general Sanjay Gunjiyal, SSP Mahakumbh Janmejaya Khanduri and ADM Mela Harbeer Singh welcomed the seers at Har-Ki-Pauri and urged them to wear masks and practice social distancing.“ Kumbh Mela Force personnel were themselves in protective gear and also distributed free face masks and sanitizers at Ganga ghats and Akhadas’ processison route,” said Kumbh Mela officer Deepak Rawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/less-crowd-but-no-covid-19-norms-on-last-shahi-snan-101619550968801.html
28-04-2021||India||Australia unveils Covid-19 support package for India, suspends flights||Australia on Tuesday unveiled an initial support package for India’s Covid-19 response, including 500 ventilators, even as it suspended all flights between the two countries for two weeks to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.The assistance was announced jointly by foreign minister Marise Payne and Prime Minister Scott Morrison, who said more medical equipment, including 100 oxygen concentrators, will be procured and shipped to India over the next week.Though the Australian government had earlier planned to temporarily reduce flights from India by 30% after recording a spike in incoming travellers testing positive for Covid-19, Morrison announced the National Security Committee had decided to pause all direct passenger flights from India until May 15.Australia has joined a growing number of countries rushing medical equipment, supplies and oxygen to India, which recorded 362,850 new coronavirus infections on Tuesday. A total of 3,286 people succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 201,187.The initial support package will include 500 non-invasive ventilators, one million surgical masks, 500,000 P2 and N95 masks, 100,000 surgical gowns, 100,000 goggles, 100,000 pairs of gloves and 20,000 face shields.The supply of ventilators will be scaled up 3,000 and the Australian government will procure 100 oxygen concentrators, along with tanks and consumables. All the equipment will be shipped to India over the next week.“I stress this is an initial package, there will be more to follow, of support and to deliver this as soon as possible,” Morrison told the news conference.“We recognise the challenging Covid-19 crisis that India is currently battling and we stand ready to provide more support to our friends in India and Indian Australians during this difficult time,” Morrison and Payne said in a statement.The statement noted that Australia’s Chief Medical Officer had designated India a “high-risk country” for travel arrangements. The suspension of flights will have an immediate impact on two passenger services to Sydney and two repatriation flights to Darwin, affecting around 500 people.When flights from India resume, passengers will be required to have both a negative Covid-19 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test result and a negative rapid antigen test result prior to taking off.Indirect flights from India through the United Arab Emirates, Singapore and Malaysia have already been paused by the respective governments.“Once flights restart, the government will prioritise the return of vulnerable Australians. Already almost 20,000 registered Australians have returned from India since the pandemic began,” the statement said. A hardship program and consular support is already in place for Australians in India.Morrison described the situation in India as a “very significant outbreak” and said: “From the scenes we are seeing from India, they are truly heartbreaking. India is a great friend of Australia and a comprehensive strategic partner. We share so much in common as peoples, as democratic nations, and we extend our deepest sympathies and condolences and our support to the nation of India and the people of India and...Prime Minister [Narendra] Modi.”Payne pointed to India’s generosity throughout this pandemic and the export of more than 66 million vaccines, including gifts of doses to Nauru and Fiji. “It has also manufactured vaccine doses for Papua New Guinea, for the Solomon Islands, being delivered though the COVAX facility and we warmly acknowledge that generosity,” she said.There are currently a little more than 9,000 Australians registered in India, including 650 registered as vulnerable, Payne said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australia-unveils-covid-19-support-package-for-india-suspends-flights-101619551082827.html
28-04-2021||India||Supreme Court permits Vedanta to operate Tamil Nadu plant for oxygen||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre and the Tamil Nadu government to refrain from “political bickering” while it permitted Vedanta to operate its shuttered copper plant in Thoothukudi only for the production of medical oxygen at a time when there is a shortage of critical supplies amid the second Covid-19 wave in the country.A bench led by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud said that the oxygen production unit will function on a stand-alone basis, and that Vedanta will not be allowed to access the copper and power plants in the precinct.Oxygen is a crucial medical intervention against Covid-19, which causes respiratory distress in some cases. The surge in infections has sharply accelerated its demand in several parts of the country.The bench, which also included justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, said that Vedanta could operate the oxygen plant under the supervision of a committee, which will also decide the number of personnel allowed to run the unit. It will include Thoothukudi’s district collector, sub-collector, superintendent of police, district environmental engineer, two government officials with technical knowledge of the subject, and two experts to be nominated by those aggrieved by pollution from Vedanta’s copper smelter. The two experts will be picked from three suggested by the Union environment ministry.The court said the committee will be at liberty to involve local residents and members of the local community. It also asked the state to expedite the supply of power and water to Vedanta so that oxygen production could commence as soon as possible.Vedanta’s lawyer, Harish Salve, said the production could start in 10 days once other logistical requirements were fulfilled and the capacity could go up to 200 metric tonne (MT) per day. The court said its order will operate till July 31.Vedanta moved the Supreme Court last week for permission to operate the oxygen producing unit at the Sterlite copper plant, which was shut down in May 2018 by the state government days after 13 protesters were killed in police firing during a protest against pollution caused by the facility in the southern Tamil Nadu district.Tamil Nadu on Monday granted temporary permission to a shuttered plant to reopen for the production of medical oxygen production for four months.The Madras high court in August 2020 rejected Vedanta’s petition to reopen the plant. The Supreme Court also rejected Vedanta’s plea to reopen the plant for a trial run in December and January.Responding to Vedanta’s fresh plea, senior advocate CS Vaidyanathan and additional advocate general Balaji Srinivasan, who appeared for Tamil Nadu, said that after an all-party meeting a day ago, the state government was agreeable to let Vedanta temporarily reopen the plant for access to its oxygen production unit.The state also suggested that representatives from the local community, social activists, and NGOs should be included in the committee constituted to oversee the oxygen production to ensure law and order. But Salve opposed it. “We are not opposed to the state government’s oversight in coordination with the Centre, but we cannot let locals enter the plant. There have already been many problems in the past,” said Salve.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, supported Salve and submitted that a state could not say it is dependent on some social activists to maintain law and order.Vaidyanathan said he was surprised that the central government was supporting Vedanta, which was found in breach of the central laws on air and water pollution.The court said: “We do not want political bickering in the court. These are times of crisis. We are here as a national court to protect lives in these times of grave crisis. We are here to ensure lives are protected... Let us keep everything else out. Let us develop these matters in the spirit of dialogue.”The court said it understands the concerns of the local community. “...but we are looking at the national crisis where people are dying for the want of oxygen. There is a national demand. When the nation is facing such a crisis, we will have to balance everything.” The bench decided to replace local social activists with two environmental experts, preferably from Tamil Nadu, in the panel.The court accepted Mehta’s statement that Vedanta will supply the oxygen to the Centre’s pool for an equitable distribution across the country.“Nation stands together in this moment. At present, Tamil Nadu’s oxygen demands are met. In case of any future need, they can approach us for changes in the order.”Small groups of people including families who were affected due to the plant’s pollution protested in different parts of Thoothukudi district following the court’s verdict. “When they conducted the public hearing (last Friday) we had expressed that the smelter should be demolished, and the state government can take over the oxygen plant and run it,” said V Gunaseelan, an anti-Sterlite activist. “For the past 25 years since the plant came to Thoothukudi, we have been suffering and we know of the company’s attempts to somehow gain a backdoor entry. It’s like telling a murder accused- you be good for four months and produce oxygen. How can we believe them? Even if they were to start work, what infrastructure do they have to produce medical oxygen? Hasn’t the state told the Madras high court just yesterday that the plant is designed to produce industrial oxygen? We will continue to protest, and our numbers will increase.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-permits-vedanta-to-operate-tamil-nadu-plant-for-oxygen-101619552496707.html
28-04-2021||India||In Chennai, people throng govt counter selling Remdesivir for critical patients||After making several distress calls and running around to source six vials of antiviral drug Remdesivir for his 70-year-old father-in-law, who was on a ventilator in a private hospital, his attendant was finally able to buy it directly from the government. “Those who have family and friends can go and buy, we don’t know what senior citizens, who are admitted and have no one, are doing,” he said, requesting anonymity.On Monday, the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) opened a special counter at Chennai’s government-run Kilpauk Medical College Hospital where it began selling the drug for ₹1,400 plus GST per pack. Doctors have been prescribing Remdesivir drug but with stocks dwindling in several private hospitals, it leaves the onus on a critical patient’s family to source it. This has led to hoarding and black-marketing of the drug with soaring prices.As news spread through word of mouth and social media, attendants and relatives of patients began thronging the counter. After the initial chaos, people began forming long queues and some even waited from early morning. Five documents are required to be produced to buy the drug - a letter or prescription from the treating doctor, a report stating that the patient is on oxygen support, CT chest report, RT-PCR positive report and Aadhaar card. Other than the patients’ kin, hospitals can also purchase the drugs from the TNMSC.“Yesterday the crowd was manageable but today it is out of control,” said state health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “This was done to prevent black marketing, we were told it was being sold from Gujarat to private hospitals here. We got a lot of response since it is being sold at government prescribed prices. We are taking steps to streamline the process. We have sufficient stock of the drug at TNMSC,” he added.The Centre has allotted 59,000 vials of Remdesivir till April 30 To Tamil Nadu against pending orders of the state totalling 2.5 lakh. Four days ago, chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi against directions being issued by national and certain state regulators, prioritising supplies by individual manufacturers to certain states and restricting Remdesivir sales only within the state where the drug is being produced. “This would be very damaging to the availability of such valuable life-saving drugs in places of need. At this stage, any restrictive orders by individual states should be strictly barred to ensure easy accessibility of Remdesivir,” he said in his letter.Remdesivir, an antiviral injection used to treat Ebola virus, is being used to treat oxygen-dependent Sars-CoV-2 patients with severely affected lungs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-chennai-people-throng-govt-counter-selling-remdesivir-for-critical-covid-19-patients-101619552612104.html
28-04-2021||India||PLA sets up joint defence units near Indian border||The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has, for the first time, inducted the army’s air defence units in its air force command chain in a region which borders India to form a combined air defence system.The setting up of the new, joint system is part of the Chinese WTC’s (Western Theatre Command) focus on war preparation and exploring the establishment of a joint air defence system, the PLA’s mouthpiece, PLA Daily reported on Tuesday.The Western Theatre Command is responsible for the border with India, and continues large-scale deployment in the region – despite partial disengagement -- amid the year-long border friction in eastern Ladakh.The mouthpiece called the new formation “a solid step… taken in the joint combat and joint training.”The new system was tried out at a drill in the western theatre, the report said without sharing details about the location.The high-level exercise was a drill for checking the combat readiness of the army’s air defence forces but the orders, during the drill, were given by the PLA’s air force command stationed in the area -- a likely first for PLA.According to a senior officer of the WTC’s Air Force Staff Headquarters, more than 10 army air defence force units have entered the PLA Air Force (PLAAF) command chain in the WTC to share early warning information, to test combat readiness, to participate in major exercises and, overall, to form a “preliminary alliance”.“The integration of air defence across services and arms is a solid step to deepen joint operations,” the PLA Daily article said.The WTC’s air force took the initiative to implement joint operations and organised troops from ground defence, radar and communications to “…work together with army commanders to tackle key problems, unify information interfaces, and formulate relevant standards and specifications.”The formation of the joint command is in line with a military training order issued by President Xi Jinping, also the head of the Central Military Commission (CMC), in January.The order said that military training in 2021 will focus on actual combat training to raise combat readiness, joint command and joint specialised training, new equipment and force training, and operational system of systems integration training.Xi had then said that PLA must be ready to “act at any second” as the armed forces had kicked off the year’s military training and drills in January”.“[PLA must] increase the integration of new equipment, new forces and new combat realms into training and combat systems,” Xi was quoted in reports as saying.Following the formation of the new system, the changes in training modules have enabled the joint combat and joint training at all levels to be launched and improved simultaneously, Tuesday’s PLA Daily article said.In the final analysis, whether an army can win modern wars is determined by the level, level, and effectiveness of joint training, it added.Last week, state media reported that PLA deployed advanced rocket launchers with an artillery brigade stationed above 17,000 feet in the WTC.The front-page article published in the PLA Daily said the brigade is located more than 5,200 metres above sea level in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR) but did not share its exact location.India and China have held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks to resolve the nearly year-long friction along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh.The 10th meeting of the senior military commanders was held on February 20 after the two sides completed the withdrawal of frontline troops with armoured formations and artillery from the banks of Pangong Lake.However, subsequently, the two sides were unable to make progress on efforts to disengage from other friction points such as Gogra, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains.The 11th round of military talks held on April 9 failed to resolve the differences.At the end of the 11th round, Beijing said the Chinese military will maintain diplomatic communication with its Indian counterpart to jointly safeguard peace and stability in the border region.“China hopes the Indian side can cherish the positive trend of de-escalation in the region and uphold the consensus reached by previous meetings, and work together with China to safeguard peace and tranquillity in the area,” senior colonel Long Shaohua, PLA’s WTC was quoted as saying in the Chinese readout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-sets-up-joint-defence-units-near-indian-border-101619551258791.html
28-04-2021||India||HC commutes 34-yr-old’s death sentence to life term in 2019 rape case of minor||The Madras high court on Tuesday reduced the death sentence awarded by a lower court to a 34-year-old man to life term for the rape and murder of a seven-year-old girl in Coimbatore on March 25, 2019. The division bench, however, ordered that the life imprisonment should be for at least 25 years of actual imprisonment. “We are satisfied that this case does not come within the category of `rarest of rare cases’ by applying the principles laid down by the Supreme Court,” ruled the bench of justices P N Prakash and V Sivagnanam, while commuting the death sentence. “It has not been demonstrated to us that the appellant (Santosh Kumar) was addicted to crime and that he is a menace to society, thereby ruling out any possibility of reformation. In the facts of this case, we are unable to persuade ourselves to hold that a sentence lesser than the death penalty is completely foreclosed. As life imprisonment is the rule and death sentence is the exception, the sentence of death awarded by the trial court is commuted to imprisonment for life with the rider that the appellant will not be entitled to any statutory remission or commutation until he has completed 25 years of actual imprisonment,” the court observed. The bench said it was entitled to say so ‘in law in the light’ citing a Supreme Court judgment in Union of India vs. V. Sriharan @ Murugan and others case in 2016. Since the DNA reports disclosed the involvement of an unidentified male other than the convict in the crime, the bench upheld the order of the trial court directing the Coimbatore superintendent of police to appoint a female investigating officer for further investigation in the case. The bench ordered a compensation of ₹10 lakh awarded by the trial court to the mother of the victim to be paid within three months. The bench then disposed the referred trial by the Thudiyalur police, seeking to confirm the sentence and a criminal appeal from the convict, challenging the order dated 27 December, 2019 of the special POCSO court in Coimbatore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-commutes-34-yr-old-s-death-sentence-to-life-term-in-2019-rape-case-of-minor-101619551772097.html
28-04-2021||India||HC seeks Centre, TN govt’s replies on PIL urging aid amid job loss||The Madras high court on Tuesday directed the Centre and the Tamil Nadu government to consider representation on a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking constitution of a high-level committee to sanction an economic stimulus package for employees who lost their jobs or faced pay cuts due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The petitioner, S Kalimuthu Mylavan, an advocate, sought the package for employees belonging to the private and unorganised sector, private industrial establishments, private educational institutions and teachers among others. The petitioner argued that the losses suffered during the 2020 lockdown continued this year and has created more uncertainty amid the raging pandemic in the second wave. The first bench comprising chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy admitted the plea and recorded the submissions of the petitioner. The bench, after hearing the arguments, sought the responses of the Ministry of health and family welfare and Tamil Nadu government on Mylavan’s representation made on April 16 within 12 weeks and disposed off the petition.The petitioner had sent this representation to the state and Centre on April 16. Since there was no response, he approached the high court. In his plea, Mylavan argued that the monetary loss incurred by each person in the unorganised sector should make the state government, as well as the central government, constitute a high-level committee to distribute an economic stimulus to (such) persons, similar to ones in developing countries. He also quoted efforts of the US in introducing the Employee Retention Credit and America Rescue Plan which offered financial stimulus. In his affidavit, the petitioner alleged a 70% increase in the number of people suffering from depression amid fears of contracting the infection along with prolonged uncertainty over finances and employment. “The financial crisis is continuing in the lives of the citizens as the pandemic is on its second wave,” he said. “Government of various states started implementation of partial lockdown and Tamil Nadu is also on a daily basis announcing stricter lockdown procedures and Standard Operating Procedures, and thus made the private employers in peril in running their factories or schools etc., which in turn have direct implication and effect on the salary of the workforce engaged by the private employers in the state of Tamil Nadu and in the country,” the PIL read.Stating that the right to livelihood is guaranteed under the Constitution, the petitioner said the state and central governments must compile a list from Employees’ Provident Fund Organization and on war footing, compensate those who incurred monetary losses. As of April 27, Tamil Nadu reported 15,771 new cases with an active caseload of 1,08,855 -- which is twice more than what the state registered during its peak in 2020. While no lockdown has been announced as of now, strict restrictions are in place such as night curfew and complete shutdown on Sundays to contain the surge. On Monday, the Madras high court had suggested the government consider imposing a lockdown on May 1 and 2 to ensure the counting of votes for the assembly elections didn’t lead to crowding and a spurt in cases. The court, however, asked the state to take a call by April 28 to ensure people get ample time to plan. Fearing a repeat of last year’s lockdown, several migrants have been queueing at railway stations across the state to return home. Last year, the government had provided free ration and cash assistance to ration card holders during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-seeks-centre-tn-govt-s-replies-on-pil-urging-aid-amid-job-loss-101619551712627.html
28-04-2021||India||Covid spike due to rapid spread of mutant variants: Kerala CM||In its biggest single-day spike ever since the outbreak began, Kerala on Tuesday recorded 32,819 coronavirus cases with a test positivity rate of 23.34 per cent, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. The state also reported 32 deaths, taking the overall toll to 5,170.Addressing newsmen in the state capital, the chief minister attributed the surge to the rapid spread of mutant variants and urged citizens not to lower their guard against the infection at this critical juncture. “In the last two weeks, there has been a 250 per cent hike in cases. Mutant variants of the virus are triggering such a spread. All hospitals have been asked to increase beds and ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen. The situation remains critical,” Vijayan said, adding that studies confirmed the intense spread of variants in the state. The chief minister added that risk assessment studies of three variants (UK, South African and double mutants) revealed that these strains carried multiplying effects andcan increase the death rate in proportion to the mounting infection rate. Medical experts believe that the B.1.1.7 variant, which was first detected in the UK, is 45% to 90% more contagious than the original virus and that the state will have to observe utmost caution as this variant was detected in 40% of the samples tested“True, the situation is really serious. But still, people can contain the surge by observing basic precautions like double masking, physical distancing and hand hygiene,” public health expert Dr T S Aneesh said, adding that going by the present surge, cases may drastically increase inthe next two weeks. Echoing similar sentiments, several experts said the next two weeks were critical for the state. According to data released by the state health ministry, as many as 141,199 tests were conducted out of which 32,819 tested positive on Tuesday.The active caseload is nearing the 250,000 mark. Among those infected on Tuesday were 96 health workers. Kozhikode (north Kerala) topped the list (daily cases) with 5,025 cases followed by Ernakulam district with 4,270 cases on Tuesday.The only silver lining is the state’s fatality rate which is still the lowest in the country, below 0.4 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-spike-due-to-rapid-spread-of-mutant-variants-kerala-cm-101619551652692.html
28-04-2021||India||Army chief Gen Naravane visits eastern Ladakh||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Tuesday reviewed the army’s operational readiness in eastern Ladakh, where India and China have been locked in a standoff for nearly a year and are currently negotiating a withdrawal of frontline troops and weapons from friction points on the contested border, a senior official familiar with development said on.This is his first visit to eastern Ladakh after the Indian and Chinese armies wrapped up the disengagement process in the Pangong Tso sector in February, with both sides pulling back forward-deployed troops, tanks, infantry, combat vehicles, and artillery guns from strategic heights where rival soldiers last year fired shots for the first time at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) after 45 years.The disengagement process between the two armies has hit a wall at other friction points as a result of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) unexpected reluctance to pull back its forward deployed troops from Hot Springs, Gogra, and Depsang.The army chief will visit forward areas, including the Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) sector, near the LAC on Wednesday, he said. The army chief also visited Siachen Glacier, where two soldiers were killed in an avalanche on April 25.Naravane’s visit to India’s farthest frontiers comes at a time when the country is reeling under the Covid crisis and the military is at the forefront of providing relief.“Gen Naravane interacted with the troops and complimented them for their steadfastness and high morale, while being deployed in some of the harshest terrain, altitude and weather conditions,” the army said in a statement. Lieutenant General PGK Menon, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps and the man leading the military dialogue with China, briefed the army chief on the prevailing security situation in the sensitive sector.“As far as internal Covid situation is concerned, it should not affect the territorial integrity of the country for which the armed forces have to remain prepared all throughout. It warrants that the army chief reviews operational plans on ground and also boosts the morale of the troops,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).The swift pace of disengagement in the Pangong Tso area in February -- it began and ended in less than 10 days -- raised hopes of positive outcomes at the remaining flashpoints on the LAC.But the initial optimism appears to have waned after the latest 11th round of military talks on April 9, during which the PLA demonstrated a lack of commitment to restore the status quo of April 2020.Disengagement of frontline troops on the LAC is the first crucial step to restore peace and tranquillity in eastern Ladakh. Until that happens, there is no question of de-escalation of the border conflict and the eventual de-induction of rival soldiers in the sensitive theatre.Days after the mutual withdrawal of frontline troops and weapons from the Pangong Tso heights in February, Naravane cautioned that the disengagement process with China would be a long-drawn one.He described disengagement as a “win-win situation” for both sides but added that de-escalation of conflict and de-induction of rival forces was “still a long way to go”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-gen-naravane-visits-eastern-ladakh-101619551269765.html
28-04-2021||India||SC panel against rail expansion project in Goa||PANAJI: In a big win for environmental activists in Goa the Central Empowered Committee constituted by the Supreme Court has said that there is “no justification” for undertaking the doubling of the existing single line railway track between Tinaighat in North Karnataka and the port town of Vasco da Gama in Goa -- that cuts across the ecologically sensitive Western Ghats-- and recommended that the permissions granted to the project be revoked. In its report, which was submitted to the Supreme Court , with a copy given to the Goa Foundation, the environmental group that filed the petition, CEC also recommended that the Goa-Tamnar 440KV power line be set up along the alignment of the existing powerline so that fresh forest areas are not intruded into. The four-laning of the existing highway has however, been given the go ahead with additional recommendations that it be constructed as an elevated corridor so that it does not cause harm to wildlife. The trio of projects was opposed by civil society and environmental activists in Goa who feared that if allowed to go ahead, the projects would irreversibly damage the sensitive and biodiverse ecosystems of the region recognized as one of the world’s top biodiversity hotspots. “CEC does not find any justification for undertaking a project of this nature which will destroy the fragile ecosystem of the Western Ghats which is an internationally recognised Biodiversity hotspot and also one of the most important wildlife corridors of the Country. Moreover this doubling project will only be marginally enhancing the capacity of the most inefficient section of the Railway Network passing through ecologically sensitive and biodiversity rich tiger Reserve, two Wildlife Sanctuaries and a National Park,” the Central Empowered Committee headed by P V Jayakrishnan, said. “In these circumstances it is recommended… to revoke the permission granted by the Standing Committee of National Board for Wildlife (SC NBWL) for doubling of the railway track,” the CEC said. The Standing Committee of National Board for Wildlife (SC NBWL) in April last year, in a meeting chaired by Union Minister of Forests Prakash Javadekar, granted its approval for the three projects sparking an uproar in Goa. The railway line passes through the ecologically sensitive Western Ghats from Tinaighat-Castlerock in Karnataka to Kulem in Goa involving 120.875 ha. of land from the Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary (BMWLS) in the State of Goa and 10.45 ha. in the State of Karnataka. CEC in its findings, recorded that the “doubling of the existing rail line will not have any positive impact on the gradient and curvature of the new line and it will operate at the same inefficient level as the existing line and will be operating with all the existing severe limitations on running of trains as that of the existing line railway line that was laid in 1890s when there was no other rail connectivity available to Goa”. CEC also observed that the railway line cuts across the most important animal corridor in the Western Ghat landscape between Karnataka and Maharashtra through the state of Goa and will be a serious impediment for movement of long ranging animals such as tigers and elephants. “At present the Konkan railway line gives excellent connectivity to Northern and Southern parts of India the connectivity between Goa and Karnataka is being strengthened/improved by way of four-laning of NH-4A along the same route and by development of a new airport,” CEC said. The report will now be filed before the Supreme Court which will then decide whether to accept or reject the recommendations. The Goa Foundation has welcomed the findings of the CEC, but said that it will deliberate with other environmental activist groups on what the final stance will be when the matter comes up before the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-panel-against-rail-expansion-project-in-goa-101619550992598.html
28-04-2021||India||Covid-19 aid to India: What’s being provided by countries, private organisations||The record-breaking second wave of the Coronavirus disease pandemic has led to support pouring in from around the world for the country’s Covid-19 response, including massive oxygen generation plants and other equipment aimed at plugging crucial gaps in the supply chain. Here’s a look at the support packages announced so far by different countries: European Union: The 27-member bloc activated its Civil Protection Mechanism, which responds to emergencies in Europe and beyond, in response to a request from India on Sunday. UK: Announced it will send nine consignments of supplies, including 495 oxygen concentrators, 120 non-invasive ventilators and 20 manual ventilators, this week. A total of 100 ventilators and 95 oxygen concentrators arrived on Tuesday. France: Announced it is sending supplies in two phases. The first phase this week will see the supply of eight large oxygen generating plants that can each meet the needs of a 250-bed hospital, five containers of liquid oxygen that can meet the needs of 10,000 patients a day, 28 respirators and 200 electric syringe pumps. Phase two to be launched next week will include the supply of five liquid oxygen containers. Germany: Announced it is sending a mobile oxygen production plant that will be made available for three months, 120 ventilators and more than 80 million KN95 masks. It will also organise a webinar on testing and RNA sequencing of the Coronavirus. Ireland: Announced it is providing 700 oxygen concentrators that will reach New Delhi on Wednesday. It will also provide one oxygen generator and 365 ventilators. Belgium: Announced it is sending 9,000 doses of Remdesivir. Romania: Announced it is sending 80 oxygen concentrators and 75 oxygen cylinders. Luxembourg: Announced it is sending 58 ventilators. Portugal: Announced it is sending 5,503 vials of Remdesivir and 20,000 litres of oxygen per week. Sweden: Announced it is sending 120 ventilators. Australia: Announced it is sending an initial support package that includes 500 ventilators, one million surgical masks, 500,000 P2 and N95 masks, 100,000 goggles, 100,000 pairs of gloves and 20,000 face shields. It intends to supply up to 3,000 ventilators and will procure 100 oxygen concentrators that will be shipped next week. US: Unveiled a proposed package of assistance that will include oxygen generation systems, both small and large-scale, and components for oxygen supply chain such as transport and cylinders. The assistance could include oxygen generation systems for field hospitals that cater for 50 to 100 beds. The US is also finalising options for contracting liquid oxygen and providing training for using the equipment. The US will also supply therapeutics, personal protective equipment and rapid diagnostic test kits, and approve the supply of vaccine raw materials such as filters needed to manufacture Covishield. India is also expected to benefit when the US begins donating up to 60 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine after it clears federal safety approvals. The private sector Gilead, the maker of Remdesivir, has offered to supply 100,000 vials of the antiviral medication free of cost, and the first two consignments are expected this week. It could supply an additional 200,000 vials by May 31. Institutions in India will also be provided raw materials by Gilead for local production. Google has offered ₹135 crore in funding for GiveIndia and UNICEF for medical supplies and organisations supporting high-risk communities. US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF) is assisting with 12 containers to transport oxygen in India and will also be airlifting cylinders. It is also sourcing 100,000 portable oxygen concentrators for use at home and hospitals, and has approached companies in the US to supply or donate ICU beds, Covid-19 test kits, N-95 masks and medical equipment. Procter & Gamble will contribute towards the vaccination of more than 500,000 Indians by pledging ₹50 crore in partnership with government and local authorities in India. For every employee in India, P&G is contributing towards the vaccination of 100 Indians. Amazon is working with ACT Grants, Temasek Foundation, Pune Platform for Covid-19 Response and other partners to airlift more than 8,000 oxygen concentrators and 500 BiPAP machines from Singapore. It is also procuring 1,500 oxygen concentrators and critical medical equipment for hospitals and medical facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-aid-to-india-what-s-being-provided-by-countries-private-organisations-101619550992112.html
28-04-2021||India||Had to use influence to secure bed for Covid +ve relative: Siddaramaiah||BengaluruFormer chief minister and senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Tuesday said he had to use “influence” to secure a bed for his brother-in-law, who was tested positive for Covid-19, as there was an acute shortage of medical facilities in the state to deal with the raging second wave of the pandemic.“My brother-in-law was admitted in a hospital (in Mysuru), Pristine, they were not good and he got discharged. There were three people in a ward and were not taking care very well. I had to call (MR) Seetharam and got a bed in MS Ramaiah (hospital in Bengaluru) by using influence,” Siddaramaiah told reporters in Bengaluru on Tuesday.Seetharam is a former minister in the Siddaramaiah-led government between 2013 and 2018, and is part of MS Ramaiah groups of medical and other educational institutions.Bengaluru is fast running out of hospital beds due to the sharp spike in cases, leaving relatives and others running from one place to another in search of critical medical care for their loved ones, said health experts.The statement came when Karnataka reported 31,830 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total number of active infections in the state to 301,899. Bengaluru accounted for 17,550 new infections, taking the city’s total cases so far to 475,525, of which 206,223 are active. A total of 180 deaths were reported from the state, including 97 in Bengaluru, taking the death toll in Karnataka and its capital to 14,807 and 6,002, respectively, according to the health department’s daily bulletin. Positivity rate was at 18.71%, according to the government.According to an expert, Siddaramaiah’s story also highlighted the inaction by chief minister BS Yediyurappa-led state government in dealing with the second wave of the surge despite warnings from the technical advisory committee (TAC) in November last year.The Congress in Karnataka, as well as nationally, has attacked both the state and Centre over its “glaring inefficiency” in handling the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/had-to-use-influence-to-secure-bed-for-covid-ve-relative-siddaramaiah-101619550871423.html
28-04-2021||India||Govt yet to take call on financial aid for workers||Bengaluru As Karnataka goes into a two-week curfew on Tuesday, a minister in BS Yediyurappa-led state cabinet said it was unlikely that the government will extend any financial assistance to residents who are facing the brunt of a surging second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. “We are giving free vaccines. Free rice is being given. We are giving everything. All of us have to take collective responsibility. This is some form of sacrifice. There will be losses but that is how this pandemic is,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s health, family welfare and medical education minister told Hindustan Times. The statement comes even as the opposition Congress in the state has demanded compensation for daily wage earners. “The Congress party had demanded that ₹25,000 be debited to the accounts of those hardest hit by the lockdown. These are people who depend on daily wages for livelihoods like carpenters, garment workers, plumbers, those working in gyms and other places. We thought that the government would at least debit ₹10,000 or ₹15,000, but nothing so far,” said Ramalinga Reddy, working president of the Congress in Karnataka. Chief minister Yediyurappa on Monday announced a 14-day closed down, in which all businesses that are not listed as essential will remain closed, and movement of people will be restricted. The government has allowed shops dealing in essential commodities to operate for four hours from 6 am to 10 am. Soon after the announcement, several industry bodies, including those representing the garment sector, requested the government to allow businesses to operate with the reduced workforce while the curfew is in force. “In the two months of lockdown last year, all garment workers had to forgo their wages and even lost jobs. Workers are yet to recover from the impact, now all of a sudden only the garment industry has been asked to close down and this is an assault on women workers,” Prathiba R, the president of the Garments and Textile Workers Union (GATWU) wrote to the chief minister on Tuesday. The union also said they were yet to hear from the government on compensation for the loss of wages of people working in garment sector. “There are over 500,000 workers dependent on this profession for their livelihood. Of these, 85% are women and nearly 50% of them single-handedly have the responsibilities of their families,” the letter read. Bengaluru Chamber of Industry and Commerce (BCIC) has also requested the state government to allow the garment companies to operate. “We understand the decision of not allowing garment-making industries to function since the density of the workforce is high and it is very difficult to follow the Covid protocols. We suggest that the garment companies can be allowed to work with a reduced workforce between 30% and 50% and adequate social distancing and appropriate COVID protocols…,” BCIC said in a release soon after the government announced 14-day restrictions in the state on Monday. BCIC president TR Parasuraman said the industry was fully prepared in adhering to Covid protocol with the appropriate behaviour of people. “Strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour is a must and law breakers should be strictly dealt with,” said Parasuraman. “BCIC feels that it is very important that the operating workforce across the nation should be vaccinated on priority to ensure industries are working without any interruption compared to the people working from home to ensure that the economy is not affected due to loss of production,” Parasuraman added. The lockdown, which the state government prefers to call guidelines to “break the chain of Covid-19 transmission in the state”, has come at a time when Karnataka and its capital Bengaluru in particular have reported a record surge in the number of infections over the last two weeks, indicating the deteriorating health crisis in the state. Karnataka reported 31830 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total number of active infections in the state to 301899. Bengaluru accounted for 17550 new infections, taking the city’s total cases so far to 475525, of which 206223 are active. A total of 180 deaths were reported from the state, including 97 in Bengaluru, taking the death toll in Karnataka and its capital to 14807 and 6002, respectively, according to the health department’s daily bulletin. Positivity rate was at 18.71%, according to the government.Several other cities, including Delhi, have enforced lockdown to contain the unprecedented surge of Covid-19 cases. The restrictions have come down hard on the pandemic-hit residents of Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka, who, experts said, were paying the price of the lack of preparedness by the state government that was warned in November last year by the technical advisory committee (TAC) of an imminent and more infectious second wave of Covid-19 infections in February or March. A member of the TAC said they had made no specific reference to financial assistance as it was a policy matter. While employees of most multinational corporations (MNCs) and other corporate organisations have been directed to work from home, the same cannot be followed by those employed in sectors like manufacturing and other small units. The Yediyurappa government has been accused of refraining from using the word ‘lockdown’ to avoid giving any compensation to the workers, an expert said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-yet-to-take-call-on-financial-aid-for-workers-101619550811433.html
28-04-2021||India||IMA scam: CBI names former minister Roshan Baig in supplementary charge sheet||Bengaluru: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday filed a supplementary charge sheet against former Karnataka minister Roshan Baig in connection with I-Monetary Advisor (IMA) ponzi scam case. Baig was the minister for urban development in the Congress-led state government between 2014 and 2018. In the charge sheet filed before a special CBI court in Bengaluru, the central agency has also named the then MD of IMA Group, Mansoor Khan, the company, Baig’s company Daanish Publications and others. “It was alleged that the accused former minister received several crores of rupees from IMA funds for election expenditure. It was further alleged that the accused was also utilising the said funds for day-to-day expenditure, including salaries of employees of his firm. It was also alleged that the accused has spent the funds for various social and cultural activities in his constituency to increase his popularity,” read a statement from CBI. IMA was an investment banking company run by Mahommed Mansoor Khan, who claimed it was a sharia-compliant operation run on Islamic principles and which took huge deposits primarily from members of the Muslim community. When IMA stopped paying dividends in March 2019, investors lodged complaints with the police and in June 2019, the Karnataka government set up an SIT to investigate the more than 51,500 complaints that had been filed by investors. On 30 August 2019, the case was transferred to CBI, which after a probe, sought permission of the state government to prosecute Hemant Nimbalkar, who was then IGP, CID and Ajay Hilori, who was the Deputy Commissioner East under Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and Section 170 of the Karnataka Police Act, 1963, for extending favours and protecting interests of the IMA promoters. The central agency, which had registered four cases in connection with the scam, has filed three charge sheets and three supplementary charge sheets against 33 accused, including Khan, company directors, several revenue and police officials. “It was alleged that the said Group had raised unauthorised deposits & cheated the public by failing to repay the principal and as well as the promised returns. These funds were allegedly diverted for acquiring properties, paying bribe amounts, etc. Several properties, including moveable & immovable, were identified and attached under KPIDFE (Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments) Act, 2004 by the competent authority,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-scam-cbi-names-former-minister-roshan-baig-in-supplementary-charge-sheet-101619550751418.html
28-04-2021||India||HC raps Karnataka govt over Covid crisis, calls B’luru situation ‘alarming’||BengaluruThe Karnataka High Court on Tuesday rapped the state government over the surging cases of coronavirus and observed that marginal increase in availability of hospital beds might not be enough to cope with the rising number of Covid-19 infections in Bengaluru, calling the situation in the city “alarming”, according to two persons aware of the developments.The court was hearing a matter related to the Covid-19 situation in Karnataka and Bengaluru in particular.“Going by facts on record we find that situation is fairly alarming,” the court observed.“At 11.15 am today only 74 HDU beds (are) available in city, ICU and ICU+ ventilator 20 and 14. This is (an) alarming situation,” said an advocate, who appeared in the matter, attributing it to the observations made by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Arvind Kumar.The court also asked the government to check if Command Hospital meant for armed forces could reserve some beds for civilians as well as it could mitigate some of the shortage.“State government will place on record the availability of beds in state and in those districts where there are more than 5,000 Covid-19 cases as of today,” the lawyer cited above said, requesting not to be named. “The other serious issue is availability of oxygen in the state, which needs 1,471 MT per day. We direct the Government of India to make allocation. If allocation is not made as on April 30, going by the projected figures of the state a shortfall of more than 600 MT will be there,” the advocate said, attributing it to the court.The court’s observations have come at a time when Bengaluru and other 29 districts of Karnataka have been reeling under the unprecedented surge of Covid-19 cases.The sharp spike in cases since March this year has led to an acute shortage of beds in Bengaluru, with relatives of Covid-19 patients running from hospital-to-hospital in search of beds and other medical care.Bengaluru recorded 17,550 new infections on Tuesday, taking the active case count to 206,223. The city also accounted for 97 of the 180 fatalities reported across the state on Tuesday, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.Venkatesh Dalwai, the advocate appearing for Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said that its earlier request for oxygen supply has still not been complied with.He said that PHANA had written to the state government on April 17, stating that they were not getting any oxygen supplies and the hospital shall not be held liable if any patient loses their life due to it.Stating that the court issued three directions on Tuesday, Dalwai said the list of demands by PHANA should be shared with the war room of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). He added that the court directed the government to publish the details of availability of remdesivir, a drug used for critically ill Covid-19 patients, and even contacts of manufacturers as it will save relatives and others from running around to find the medicine during the lockdown.“From tomorrow lockdown will start in state, so if relatives are told to get Remdesivir it will be difficult for them to get it. This is (an) area where (the) state should step in immediately,” the court observed.The order came hours before Karnataka goes into a 14-day closed down, in what appears to be a last-ditch attempt to contain the growing surge of cases in Bengaluru and other parts of the state. The court has asked the state government to respond on April 29, when the matter will be heard next.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hcraps-karnataka-govt-over-covid-crisis-calls-b-luru-situation-alarming-101619550691380.html
28-04-2021||India||Bengal: 75 times spike in daily cases after poll announcement||Daily coronavirus infections have zoomed 75 times in West Bengal since the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced assembly elections on February 26, prompting health experts to link the surge in cases to maskless political rallies that violated Covid protocol. On Tuesday, the state registered 16,403 new cases, up from 216 on February 26. The positivity rate - the proportion of people testing positive to those tested – has also shot up from 1% to nearly 30% during the same period. This means that almost every third person tested has been found infected with the coronavirus. The number of active cases in the state also crossed 100,000 on Tuesday. It was 3,343 on February 26. The number of deaths on Tuesday was 73, a record, pushing the toll to 11,082. Health experts blamed the exponential rise of Covid-19 cases on the mass gatherings at election rallies. “All safety protocols had taken a back seat at the election campaigns resulting in a faster spread of the virus in the state. The ECI should have wrapped up the poll process at the earliest. The lengthier the election process the higher would be the toll. We need all hands on deck to fight the crisis,” said Manas Gumta, general secretary of Association of Health Service Doctors in the state. On Monday, the Madras high court observed that ECI was responsible for the second wave in the country. Last week, the Calcutta high court, too, had expressed dissatisfaction over measures taken by the poll panel to enforce Covid-19 safety norms in campaigning. On April 16, ECI banned political campaigns at night and increased the silent period from 48 hours to 72 hours. On April 22, it banned roadshows and limited rallies to 500 people. Campaigning for the eight-phase election ended on Monday. Kolkata reported the highest number of cases, 3708, and the state capital along with three adjoining districts of North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas and Howrah accounted for more than 50% of the new cases reported WHEN. Kolkata reported 3708 cases on Tuesday. On Tuesday 55,287 samples were tested, which was up from 20,084 tested on February 26.“We need to ramp up testing. Cases have shot up alarmingly, but we have not been able to ramp up the testing proportionately. When cases had dropped, we did little to augment the infrastructure knowing well that the second wave would come,” said Pratip Kumar Kundu, former head of the School of Tropical Medicine. Hospital beds in Kolkata’s state-run and private hospitals are fast dwindling. Less than 1500 beds were vacant in Kolkata’s private and state-run hospitals on Monday, according to data available with the state health department. “The rush in Kolkata is more than the districts. While state run-hospitals are 80% occupied, across the state the occupancy rate is around 55%. We are augmenting the infrastructure not only in state run hospitals but also in private hospitals,” said a senior state health department official. With beds running out fast, oxygen resources depleting and medicines scarce, the state has recently published guidelines for strict rationing. “Due to the high case load, we need to decongest the hospitals and more importantly the CCU and HDU beds. For this detailed guideline have been brought on which patients could be kept in HDU and CCU beds and who could be referred to isolation centres from hospitals depending on the severity. Also guidelines have been brought out in use of oxygen and Remdesivir,” said another official of the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-75-times-spike-in-daily-cases-after-poll-announcement-101619549911319.html
28-04-2021||India||Kappan has not been chained to hospital bed: U.P. Govt to top court||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday refuted a contention in the Supreme Court that journalist Siddique Kappan, who has been jailed under the terror charges, was chained to a hospital bed in Mathura where he was being treated for Covid-19. “He isn’t chained...there are no chains in the hospital,” claimed solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the state government before a bench led by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana. The law officer was responding to a claim by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) that Kappan was chained to a hospital bed in Mathura’s KM Medical College after he collapsed in a bathroom at the Mathura jail and later tested positive for COVID-19. Kappan, secretary of the Delhi unit of KUWJ, was arrested on October 5 last year while on his way to Hathras in UP after the alleged gangrape of a 19-year-old woman who died in hospital of injuries she suffered in the sexual assault. KUWJ subsequently filed a petition in the apex court, calling Kappan’s arrest illegal and an attempt to silence the media. On April 25, Kappan’s wife wrote to the CJI complaining that the scribe was “chained like an animal” to a hospital bed in Mathura and sought his release from the hospital. On Tuesday, advocate Wills Mathew, representing KUWJ, sought transfer of Kappan from the UP hospital to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi, citing his medical conditions and ill-treatment. However, Mehta told the bench, which also included justices Surya Kant and AS Bopanna, that this plea could not be entertained since the habeas corpus petition by KUWJ was itself not maintainable. “This person has been in jail after a valid order of a trial court. All his co-accused approached the trial court for a regular bail but here we have one organisation asking for his release. An order of detention by a magistrate cannot be said to be illegal,” said Mehta. The hearing could not proceed because of technical snags in the video-conferencing facility of the top court and the matter was adjourned to Wednesday. The bench has also asked the state government to file Kappan’s medical report. In its affidavit before the court in December, the UP government sought to highlight Kappan’s alleged association with the now-banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) and the Popular Front of India, besides discrediting KUWJ. It maintained that Kappan was not a journalist nor was KUWJ a credible organisation while citing the former’s alleged links with the (SIMI) and PFI. The latter is not a banned outfit under the law. The affidavit contended that the Union filed its petition at the behest of SIMI and the PFI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kappan-has-not-been-chained-to-hospital-bed-u-p-govt-to-top-court-101619549731289.html
28-04-2021||India||Less crowd, but no Covid norms on last shahi snan||Haridwar: The last of the shahi snans (holy dips) of the Mahakumbh was a largely symbolic affair, with only a few tens of thousands of seers and pilgrims participating in the event on account of Covid-19, much lower than the millions that did in the previous shahi snans, although those that did still ignored protocols such as wearing a mask or social distancing. Seers from all the 13 Akhadas (sects) participated in the shahi snan with a major focus on the three Bairagi Akhadas . It was also Lord Hanuman’s birth anniversary on Tuesday -- Hanuman is the deity of the Bairagi Akhadas -- and there was quite a buzz in the Baiaragi camp and Hanuman temples. Prime Minister Modi made a plea on April 17, asking the Akhadas to observe the Kumbh (April 1 to 30) ans the last of the shahi snans in spirit only. His plea came amidst the surging second wave of the pandemic , and after the complete breach of all Covid-19 safety protocols in the previous shahi snans. The union government has come under criticism for allowing the mass event to go ahead during the pandemic, and the state government , for not following Covid safety protocols. Infections have claimed the lives of two chief seers during the Kumbh, and many others have been infected. Pilgrims have also carried back infections from the event to other parts of India. On Tuesday, Niranjani and Anand Akhada seers were the first to head towards the sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund,Har-Ki-Pauri followed by Juna , Agni and Aahwan Akhada in pre scheduled order set by Kumbh Mela administration in consultation with the Akhada Parishad, the apex body of seers. Maha Nirvani Akhada and Atal Akhada seers were followed by three Bairagi Akhadas, Nirvani, Digambar and Nirmohi. Pilgrims were allowed to take a dip in the Ganga at Har-Ki-Pauri prior to the arrival of the seers at 9 am. Kumbh Mela officer Deepak Rawat, Kumbh Mela Force Inspector general Sanjay Gunjiyal, SSP Mahakumbh Janmejaya Khanduri and ADM Mela Harbeer Singh welcomed the seers at Har-Ki-Pauri and urged them to wear masks and practice social distancing. “ Kumbh Mela Force personnel were themselves in protective gear and also distributed free face masks and sanitizers at Ganga ghats and Akhadas’ processison route,” said Kumbh Mela officer Deepak Rawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/less-crowd-but-no-covid-norms-on-last-shahi-snan-101619549673683.html
28-04-2021||India||Eight patients die due to lack of O2 in Meerut hospitals: Doctors||MEERUT: Atleast eight Covid-19 patients died in two hospitals of Meerut in the past two days due to shortage of oxygen, said hospital authorities on Tuesday.Speaking to reporters, the administration of both hospitals admitted these patients could have been saved had there been proper supply of oxygen.Three patients died on Sunday night at Anand Hospital, a private facility where 173 people were undergoing treatment when a scarcity of oxygen was reported to the administration.The officials managed to shift 10 critical patients who required high-flow oxygen and also managed to provide a few cylinders to maintain oxygen supply in the hospital. Dr Subhash Yadav, who is part of the hospital’s management, said the facility required 400 cylinders but got only 90 cylinders and now has been increased to 200.“Under such circumstances they shifted critical patients to other hospitals, but three patients succumbed due to shortage of oxygen,” he told reporters.Authorities at KMC hospital in Meerut, another private facility, said three to four patients died on Monday and two or three on Sunday due to shortage of oxygen. This was confirmed by Dr Sunil Gupta, a doctor at the hospital, but later denied by the hospital staff.Meerut chief medical officer Dr Akhilesh Mohan said the hospitals had not given any report about the death of patients due to shortage of oxygen. He accepted that there was shortage of oxygen but added that everything possible was being done to maintain adequate supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-patients-die-due-to-lack-of-o2-in-meerut-hospitals-doctors-101619549191201.html
28-04-2021||India||Australia unveils Covid support package for India, suspends flights||New Delhi Australia on Tuesday unveiled an initial support package for India’s Covid-19 response, including 500 ventilators, even as it suspended all flights between the two countries for two weeks to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. The assistance was announced jointly by foreign minister Marise Payne and Prime Minister Scott Morrison, who said more medical equipment, including 100 oxygen concentrators, will be procured and shipped to India over the next week. Though the Australian government had earlier planned to temporarily reduce flights from India by 30% after recording a spike in incoming travellers testing positive for Covid-19, Morrison announced the National Security Committee had decided to pause all direct passenger flights from India until May 15. Australia has joined a growing number of countries rushing medical equipment, supplies and oxygen to India, which recorded 362,850 new coronavirus infections on Tuesday. A total of 3,286 people succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 201,187. The initial support package will include 500 non-invasive ventilators, one million surgical masks, 500,000 P2 and N95 masks, 100,000 surgical gowns, 100,000 goggles, 100,000 pairs of gloves and 20,000 face shields. The supply of ventilators will be scaled up 3,000 and the Australian government will procure 100 oxygen concentrators, along with tanks and consumables. All the equipment will be shipped to India over the next week. “I stress this is an initial package, there will be more to follow, of support and to deliver this as soon as possible,” Morrison told the news conference. “We recognise the challenging Covid-19 crisis that India is currently battling and we stand ready to provide more support to our friends in India and Indian Australians during this difficult time,” Morrison and Payne said in a statement. The statement noted that Australia’s Chief Medical Officer had designated India a “high-risk country” for travel arrangements. The suspension of flights will have an immediate impact on two passenger services to Sydney and two repatriation flights to Darwin, affecting around 500 people. When flights from India resume, passengers will be required to have both a negative Covid-19 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test result and a negative rapid antigen test result prior to taking off. Indirect flights from India through the United Arab Emirates, Singapore and Malaysia have already been paused by the respective governments. “Once flights restart, the government will prioritise the return of vulnerable Australians. Already almost 20,000 registered Australians have returned from India since the pandemic began,” the statement said. A hardship program and consular support is already in place for Australians in India. Morrison described the situation in India as a “very significant outbreak” and said: “From the scenes we are seeing from India, they are truly heartbreaking. India is a great friend of Australia and a comprehensive strategic partner. We share so much in common as peoples, as democratic nations, and we extend our deepest sympathies and condolences and our support to the nation of India and the people of India and...Prime Minister [Narendra] Modi.” Payne pointed to India’s generosity throughout this pandemic and the export of more than 66 million vaccines, including gifts of doses to Nauru and Fiji. “It has also manufactured vaccine doses for Papua New Guinea, for the Solomon Islands, being delivered though the COVAX facility and we warmly acknowledge that generosity,” she said. There are currently a little more than 9,000 Australians registered in India, including 650 registered as vulnerable, Payne said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australia-unveils-covid-support-package-for-india-suspends-flights-101619549012369.html
28-04-2021||India||As relief material comes in, India sets up procedures for prompt delivery of equipment||As relief materials for India’s Covid-19 response began pouring in from countries such as the UK and Ireland, the government on Tuesday established procedures to ensure the supplies, especially oxygen and related equipment, promptly reach the worst-hit areas.The UK and members of the European Union (EU), which activated its Civil Protection Mechanism for emergencies on Sunday, were among the first to respond to India’s pressing needs for oxygen and medical equipment as the country grapples with a devastating second wave of the pandemic that has seen six straight days of more than 300,000 infections.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that a high-level inter-ministerial group has established procedures for immediate clearance of the materials from abroad. “The material would be dispatched promptly to recipient institutions in various parts of the country in coordination with different government agencies,” said one of the people cited above.A total of 100 ventilators and 95 oxygen concentrators arrived from the UK on Tuesday, part of a package of 495 oxygen concentrators and 140 ventilators pledged by London, while France is sending eight large oxygen generating plants that can each meet the needs of a 250-bed hospital and five containers of liquid oxygen that can cater to the needs of 10,000 patients a day.Germany is sending a mobile oxygen production plant that will be available for three months, 120 ventilators and more than 80 million KN95 masks. Other EU members have pledged more oxygen-related equipment, ranging from 700 oxygen concentrators being sent by Ireland on Wednesday to smaller batches of ventilators and oxygen concentrators from countries such as Romania, Luxembourg and Sweden. Belgium is sending 9,000 doses of Remdesivir while Portugal will provide more than 5,500 vials of the antiviral medicine and 20,000 litres of oxygen per week.Following discussions between India and American officials, the US is finalising a support package that is expected to include oxygen generation systems, both small and large-scale, and components for the oxygen supply chain such as concentrators, ventilators, cylinders and transport. The aid could include oxygen generation systems for field hospitals that cater for 50 to 100 beds. The US will also provide therapeutics, personal protective equipment and rapid diagnostic test kits, and approve the supply of vaccine raw materials such as filters needed to manufacture the Covishield vaccine in line with pledges made by President Joe Biden during his conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. The two sides are holding technical discussions to ensure that the equipment supplied by the US can connect to devices in India, and the American side will provide training for using all the equipment and help with their transportation.“US commercial suppliers of Remdesivir that are immediately available have been identified. Rapid diagnostic test supplies and PPEs that can be transferred to India immediately have also been identified. Besides, the US will facilitate India’s access to supplies from US-based sources,” said a second person.India is also expected to benefit as and when the US begins donating up to 60 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine from its stockpile after the shot clears federal safety approvals.Besides the donations, India has secured medical supplies through private and commercial channels. These include 500 BiPAPs, 250 oxygen concentrators and four cryogenic oxygen containers sourced from Singapore, 80 tonnes of liquid oxygen being shipped via sea from Saudi Arabia, 800 oxygen concentrators from Hong Kong, four cryogenic oxygen tanks from Thailand, six cryogenic containers from the United Arab Emirates, and 23 mobile oxygen generation plants being imported from Germany by the Armed Forces Medical Services.Officially, India has issued no appeal for international aid in keeping with the government’s stated policy. However, Janez Lenarčič, the EU commissioner for crisis management, noted on Sunday that the support is being provided in response to an Indian request.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-relief-material-comes-in-india-sets-up-procedures-for-prompt-delivery-of-equipment-101619549011916.html
28-04-2021||India||‘India’s medical oxygen production up by nearly 60% since August 2020’: Officials tell PM Modi||India has increased its Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) production by nearly 60% since last year and has increased the share of oxygen for various states, prime minister Narendra Modi was informed by officials during a top-level Covid-19 review meeting on Tuesday.While the PM received an overview on the situation related to oxygen availability, medicines and health infrastructure, he was also “briefed about the functioning of the Oxygen Express Railways Service as well as the domestic sorties and international sorties undertaken by IAF to transport oxygen tankers,” a press release said. At the meeting, the officials informed that LMO production went up from 5700 MT/day in August 2020 to 8922 MT on April 25, 2021, adding that the domestic production is expected to cross 9250 MT/day by the end of April.The PM told the officials to work closely with state governments to start the PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) oxygen plants at the earliest. Last year, the central government decided to install 162 PSA oxygen plants across various states. During Tuesday’s meeting, increasing the share of oxygen to the states was also discussed. Senior officers told PM Modi that they are encouraging states to set up PSA oxygen plants. “The Empowered Group working on medical infrastructure and Covid management briefed the PM on efforts being undertaken to ramp up availability of beds and ICUs. They informed the PM of efforts being taken to break the chain of transmission. PM stressed the need to ensure that specific guidelines and strategies evolved regarding Covid management needs to be properly implemented by the relevant agencies in the states,” the release added. The Empowered Group working on communication, headed by information and broadcasting secretary Amit Khare, spoke about the efforts undertaken to improve awareness among people on Covid-related behaviour.While the government claimed that the money was allotted for these oxygen plants from PM-Cares, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that his government didn’t receive any fund for the 10 allotted plants for Delhi. The meeting was attended by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, PM’s principal secretary PK Mishra, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul, and other top officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-medical-oxygen-production-up-by-nearly-60-since-august-2020-officials-tell-pm-modi-101619548651795.html
28-04-2021||India||T cell response to Covid may remain potent after vaccination: Study||Some of the concerning variants of the Sars-Cov-2, such as those first found in the UK, South Africa, Brazil and California, appear to have little resistance to the last line of the body’s immune defences trained by a vaccine or a past infection, according to a study by a group of US-based researchers.The authors say that the findings suggest that even if a variant is successful in infecting a person after they have been vaccinated or infected by the Sars-Cov-2 once before, the immune system’s T cell response is likely to be potent enough in order to reduce the severity. The team was led by researchers from California’s La Jolla Institute for Immunology.T cells are what are loosely considered the third line of the body’s defence, along with B cells. There are two types of T cells, helper (CD4) and killer (CD8). Helper cells aid in drawing the attention of the other components of the immune response (such as B cells), while killer T cells destroy any infected human cells.Scientists believe protection from re-infection may be dependent on the volume and nature of antibodies, which are a manifestation of B cells. They, however, taper in volume once an infection is over but the body can quickly churn out large numbers again since memory T cells and memory B cells retain a blueprint of the virus.The study found that this blueprint retains large details of the virus in general, and the mutations are not too significant to make this memory redundant.“Overall, reactivity to the peptide pools spanning the variant genomes was found to be similar to that against the ancestral Wuhan strain. When the sum total of reactivity throughout the genome was considered, no differences or decreases in reactivity compared to the ancestral were noted for the variant pools ,” the authors said, when they analysed the four variants with that of the T cell responses created by those who recovered from the a previous bout of Covid-19.This may be of significant for India since one of these variants is the one first seen in California with the L452R mutation, which has been found in the B.1.617 that has arisen in several Indian states.The authors found such similarities in people who received the mRNA vaccines by Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech, except for a slight decrease in reactivity in the case of the South African variant B.1.351.The authors see their findings as positive news in light of the concern over the impact of variants. “Undoubtedly, several of the variants are associated with increased transmissibility, and also have been associated with decreased susceptibility to neutralizing antibodies from infected or vaccinated individuals. In contrast, the data presented here suggests that T cell responses are largely unaffected by the variants,” the paper added.“A booster vaccine against those VOCs (variants of concern) makes sense, and is likely to be highly effective, and those efforts are hurtling forwards,” said Shane Crotty of La Jolla Institute in a tweet in reference to the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/t-cell-response-to-covid-may-remain-potent-after-vaccination-study-101619547090946.html
28-04-2021||India||SC permits Vedanta to operate TN plant for O2||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre and the Tamil Nadu government to refrain from “political bickering” while it permitted Vedanta to operate its shuttered copper plant in Thoothukudi only for the production of medical oxygen at a time when there is a shortage of critical supplies amid the second Covid-19 wave in the country.A bench led by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud said that the oxygen production unit will function on a stand-alone basis, and that Vedanta will not be allowed to access the copper and power plants in the precinct.Oxygen is a crucial medical intervention against Covid-19, which causes respiratory distress in some cases. The surge in infections has sharply accelerated its demand in several parts of the country.The bench, which also included justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, said that Vedanta could operate the oxygen plant under the supervision of a committee, which will also decide the number of personnel allowed to run the unit. It will include Thoothukudi’s district collector, sub-collector, superintendent of police, district environmental engineer, two government officials with technical knowledge of the subject, and two experts to be nominated by those aggrieved by pollution from Vedanta’s copper smelter. The two experts will be picked from three suggested by the Union environment ministry.The court said the committee will be at liberty to involve local residents and members of the local community. It also asked the state to expedite the supply of power and water to Vedanta so that oxygen production could commence as soon as possible. Vedanta’s lawyer, Harish Salve, said the production could start in 10 days once other logistical requirements were fulfilled and the capacity could go up to 200 metric tonne (MT) per day. The court said its order will operate till July 31.Vedanta moved the Supreme Court last week for permission to operate the oxygen producing unit at the Sterlite copper plant, which was shut down in May 2018 by the state government days after 13 protesters were killed in police firing during a protest against pollution caused by the facility in the southern Tamil Nadu district.Tamil Nadu on Monday granted temporary permission to a shuttered plant to reopen for the production of medical oxygen production for four months. The Madras high court in August 2020 rejected Vedanta’s petition to reopen the plant. The Supreme Court also rejected Vedanta’s plea to reopen the plant for a trial run in December and January.Responding to Vedanta’s fresh plea, senior advocate CS Vaidyanathan and additional advocate general Balaji Srinivasan, who appeared for Tamil Nadu, said that after an all-party meeting a day ago, the state government was agreeable to let Vedanta temporarily reopen the plant for access to its oxygen production unit.The state also suggested that representatives from the local community, social activists, and NGOs should be included in the committee constituted to oversee the oxygen production to ensure law and order. But Salve opposed it. “We are not opposed to the state government’s oversight in coordination with the Centre, but we cannot let locals enter the plant. There have already been many problems in the past,” said Salve.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, supported Salve and submitted that a state could not say it is dependent on some social activists to maintain law and order.Vaidyanathan said he was surprised that the central government was supporting Vedanta, which was found in breach of the central laws on air and water pollution.The court said: “We do not want political bickering in the court. These are times of crisis. We are here as a national court to protect lives in these times of grave crisis. We are here to ensure lives are protected... Let us keep everything else out. Let us develop these matters in the spirit of dialogue.”The court said it understands the concerns of the local community. “...but we are looking at the national crisis where people are dying for the want of oxygen. There is a national demand. When the nation is facing such a crisis, we will have to balance everything.” The bench decided to replace local social activists with two environmental experts, preferably from Tamil Nadu, in the panel.The court accepted Mehta’s statement that Vedanta will supply the oxygen to the Centre’s pool for an equitable distribution across the country.“Nation stands together in this moment. At present, Tamil Nadu’s oxygen demands are met. In case of any future need, they can approach us for changes in the order.”Small groups of people including families who were affected due to the plant’s pollution protested in different parts of Thoothukudi district following the court’s verdict. “When they conducted the public hearing (last Friday) we had expressed that the smelter should be demolished, and the state government can take over the oxygen plant and run it,” said V Gunaseelan, an anti-Sterlite activist. “For the past 25 years since the plant came to Thoothukudi, we have been suffering and we know of the company’s attempts to somehow gain a backdoor entry. It’s like telling a murder accused- you be good for four months and produce oxygen. How can we believe them? Even if they were to start work, what infrastructure do they have to produce medical oxygen? Hasn’t the state told the Madras high court just yesterday that the plant is designed to produce industrial oxygen? We will continue to protest, and our numbers will increase.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-permits-vedanta-to-operate-oxygen-plant-in-thoothukudi-101619523808497.html
28-04-2021||India||Covid-19 care centre at Ashoka Hotel for Delhi high court judges||The Delhi government on Monday issued an order directing The Ashoka to convert 100 rooms into Covid-19 care centres, for which priority will be given to Delhi high court judges and other judicial officers and their families.The Covid care centre at the five-star hotel in Chanakyapuri will be managed by Primus Hospital, said the order, a copy of which Hindustan Times has seen.It further said that it was acting on a request from the Delhi high court.The charges for using the facility will be collected by the hospital, which will later reimburse the hotel for the rooms, meals, housekeeping, disinfection, and all other services availed by the patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-care-centre-at-ashoka-hotel-for-delhi-high-court-judges-101619488804633.html
