29-04-2021||India||Bharat Biotech lowers vaccine price for states||New Delhi: Bharat Biotech, the co-developer and manufacturer of India’s indigenous coronavirus disease vaccine, Covaxin, on Thursday announced a revised selling price of ₹400 per dose, from the earlier ₹600, for state governments.The vaccine manufacturer’s decision to slash the price by 33% came a a day after another Covid-19 vaccine manufacturer, Serum Institute of India (SII), which makes the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine under the brand name Covishield in India, reduced its selling price to states to ₹300 from ₹400.“Bharat Biotech is deeply concerned with the critical pandemic circumstances that India is facing at this time. Recognising the enormous challenges to the public health care system, we have made Covaxin available to state governments at a price of ₹400 per dose,” the company said in a statement.“We wish to be transparent in our approach to pricing which was determined by internally funded product development, several operationally intensive BSL-3 manufacturing facilities (the first of its kind in our country) and clinical trials. We wish to champion innovation in India and our commitment to public health is absolute,” the statement added.For private hospitals and institutions, the company has set the cost at ₹1,200 per dose, and for international market, the vaccine will be sold for $15-20 per dose, it announced earlier.The decisions by the two companies come amid demands from several states that the vaccine prices for them be reduced, and be brought at par with the price for the Union government, which buys the two vaccines from SII and Bharat Biotech for ₹150 a dose.Several chief ministers, including Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal and Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray, have demanded a “one nation, one price” policy. But the companies have stressed that the revenue generated from sale is important for them to expand production capacities.Bharat Biotech has a production capacity of about 10 million Covaxin doses each month, and is looking at manufacturing scale up in a stepwise manner across multiple facilities at Hyderabad and Bangalore. With the help of the Union government, the company is working towards ramping up the production capacity by at least 100% by May-June, 2021, and with a target set of producing nearly 100 million doses per month by September 2021. The Union finance ministry also approved a credit line of ₹1,500 crore to Bharat Biotech for this purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-lowers-vaccine-price-for-states-101619720984583.html
29-04-2021||India||Follow intensive, local containment measures, MHA to states||The Union home ministry (MHA) on Thursday directed states and Union territories to follow intensive and local containment measures in districts with a high proportion of Covid-19 cases. The monthly directive, which will remain in force till May 31, however, did not mention a nationwide lockdown. The Centre has already allowed states and union territories to impose local lockdowns as per the situation in particular districts or the entire state. States/UTs must implement the containment measures suggested by the ministry of health and family welfare on April 25 which includes identifying districts, where either the tests positivity had been more than 10 percent or more in the last one week; or, where bed occupancy was more than 60 percent, the MHA order read.“Districts fulfilling any of the above two criteria should be considered for taking intensive and local containment measures,” it added.The containment framework shared by the health ministry has suggested containment as a major approach to flatten the pandemic curve. Night curfew, restricting intermingling of people, limiting crowd in marriages to 50 persons, prohibiting social/political/religious/sports gatherings, closing cinemas are among the measures recommended by the health ministry in its communication on April 25. At present, Delhi is observing a full lockdown till May 3 while Uttar Pradesh is following a weekend curfew since April 24. The Centre has also asked states to focus on ‘Test-Track-Treat-Vaccine’ strategy and implementation of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour across respective districts apart from door-to-door case search and adequate testing. On April 20, the Centre had also asked states to augment the testing and hospital infrastructure in advance for the next three weeks. In the last couple of days, MHA also issued directions regarding smooth supply of oxygen in the affected states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/follow-intensive-local-containment-measures-mha-to-states-101619719423858.html
29-04-2021||India||Govt may raise sops for medical goods firms||New Delhi The Union government has held at least two meetings during the course of the week to review the medical goods manufacturing sector, supply systems and manufacturing capacities, discussions which also focused on whether to expand sops currently applicable to the sector, such as the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme announced last year, an official with knowledge of the matter said. The meetings assessed all current schemes available to the bio-medical goods and pharma sectors and ways to increase the pace of utilisation of the schemes, an official of the DV Sadananda Gowda-headed chemical and fertilizers ministry said, requesting not to be quoted. “Our focus continues to be on enhancing domestic production capacity and self-sufficiency in health care. It’s not just about the current situation but (about) long-term… (needs),” the official said. The government may pivot the focus of the PLI scheme to manufacturers of oxygen and oxygen products, ICU equipment, invasive ventilators and respiratory devices, the official said. These include Covid testing kits and devices, such as bipaps. “Demand for these types of equipment has increased and will increase in the future. We are constantly looking at what more is needed to boost domestic capacity,” the official said. India, which imported nearly ₹43,000 crore worth of medical equipment in 2018-19, according to the latest available data, has seen a crippling shortage of medical gear, as an unstoppable second wave of Covid-19 infections tears through the country. Several schemes came up for review. Two were approved by the Cabinet on March 21, 2020. One is the PLI scheme to boost domestic manufacturing of medical devices worth ₹3,420 crore over the next five fiscals. Two, schemes on promotion of medical device parks for financing common infrastructure facilities in four designated medical device parks, a scheme worth ₹400 crore. The PLI scheme offers eligible manufacturing companies and sectors a 4-6% incentive on incremental sales over the base year of 2019-20 for a five-year period. When a firm achieves a given sales target, it qualifies for the incentive. The base year is not simply a cut-off date. Analysts say it has had far-reaching consequences for the performance of the scheme, especially in the electronics and medical devices sector. Most modern medical devices have high-end electronic components. The massive problems of sourcing in the electronics sector, after India’s border conflagration with China, has had rippling effects on the medical devices sector too. “The PLI scheme captures (sales) milestone over a base year of production. If you change the base year to 2021 from the existing 2020, then you can tackle a lot of these sourcing issues,” said economist Pronab Sen. There is a “fair amount of legitimacy” to the demand to change the base year, but so far, the government hasn’t taken any decision, Sen added. Changing the base year to 2021 from 2020 would base the scheme in the year when supply disruptions have been most acute, requiring alternative sourcing. Prior to the border dispute with China, supplies were not a problem. Firms are still scrambling for alternative suppliers, whose specifications may not be the same as old suppliers, experts say. The changes in specifications have required new production lines to be established, which could take up to a year, even as India battles a shortage of medical equipment, Sen said. Firms have demanded enhancement of the 5% PLI scheme in the medical devices sector to 10%, which is the incentive rate for the auto sector, for instance. All issues were being reassessed in view of the Covid crisis, HT has learnt. The medical devices sector, which has the highest potential within the health care market, was valued at ₹50,026 crore for 2018-19. It is expected to reach ₹86,840 crore by 2021-22, according to official projections. India depends on imports of up 85% to meet its total domestic demand for medical devices. The scheme for promotion of medical device parks, announced along with the PLI scheme in 2020, covers cancer-care devices, imaging devices, cardio-respiratory gear, chochlear implants and pacemakers. Officials are weighing options to include ventilators, ICU equipment and oxygen equipment. “Our health care has traditionally focused on child and maternal health, which also is by no means adequate. We obviously require a massive boost now. Production incentives will add new investment but they are still small,” said health economist Arup Mitra of Delhi’s Institute of Economic Growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-may-raise-sops-for-medical-goods-firms-101619719363278.html
29-04-2021||India||Focus on local containment measures in worst-hit areas: MHA to states||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Thursday directed states and Union territories to follow intensive and local containment measures in districts with a high number of Covid-19 cases. The monthly directive, which will remain in force till May 31, however, had no mention about the imposition of a nationwide lockdown. The Centre has already allowed states/UTs to impose local lockdowns as per the situation in particular districts or the entire state. States/UTs must implement the containment measures suggested by the ministry of health and family welfare on April 25 which includes identifying districts, where either the tests positivity had been more than 10 percent or more in the last one week; or, where bed occupancy was more than 60 percent, the MHA order read.“Districts fulfilling any of the above two criteria should be considered for taking intensive and local containment measures,” it added.The containment framework shared by the health ministry has suggested containment as a major approach to flatten the pandemic curve. Night curfew, restricting intermingling of people, limiting crowd in marriages to 50 persons, prohibiting social/political/religious/sports gatherings, closing cinemas were among the measures recommended by the health ministry in its communication on April 25. At present, Delhi is observing a full lockdown till May 3 while Uttar Pradesh is following a weekend curfew since April 24. The Centre has also asked states to focus on ‘Test-Track-Treat-Vaccine’ strategy and implementation of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour across respective districts apart from door-to-door case search and adequate testing. On April 20, the Centre had also asked states to augment the testing and hospital infrastructure in advance for the next three weeks. In the last couple of days, the MHA also issued directions regarding smooth supply of oxygen in the affected states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-local-containment-measures-in-worst-hit-areas-mha-to-states-101619719183225.html
29-04-2021||India||Co-Win chief explains when booking for vaccines will start for people above 18 years||As booking for Covid-19 vaccinations for people between 18 and 44 years has not yet started ever after 24 hours of the beginning of the registration on cowin.gov.in., Co-win chief and the CEO of National Health Authority RS Sharma said it completely depends on the state governments and the private hospitals."The platform is ready with all kind of options," Sharma said.#LargestVaccineDrive #Unite2FightCorona क्या है अस्पतालों की CoWIN से जुड़ने की प्रक्रिया? जानिये 'डॉ राम सेवक शर्मा, मुख्य कार्यकारी अधिकारी, राष्ट्रीय स्वास्थ्य प्राधिकरण' से। @PMOIndia @drharshvardhan @AshwiniKChoubey @PIB_India @mygovindia @AyushmanNHA @rssharma3 pic.twitter.com/Si3l4yZL6FExplaining that the process for private hospitals and the state government hospitals to get on board is nothing new, Sharma said, "Hospitals which conducted vaccination in the previous phases are already there on the platform. They do not need to get on the platform separately. They will have to just inform which days they will function for which age groups and which vaccines they will administer.""New hospitals can also get on Co-Win easily. Our immunisation officers facilitate the process," Sharma said adding that on Thursday, there have been more than 90 lakh registrations.Registration on Co-Win began on April 28 but people were not able to book appointments as the hospitals on the platforms are only showing slots for people above the age of 45 years.Several states, including Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi, on Thursday, said they may miss the launch date as they do not have the adequate vaccine storage to expand the ongoing drive.In the third phase, the Centre has allowed the state governments and private hospitals to procure vaccines directly from the vaccine manufacturers. Both Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech have revised per dose vaccine price and brought it down after the Centre asked the vaccine makers to reconsider the prices. For a dose of Serum's Covishield, state governments will now have to pay ₹300, while for Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, states will have to pay ₹400.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowin-chief-explains-when-booking-for-vaccines-will-start-for-people-above-18-101619718676443.html
29-04-2021||India||HC refuses to stay preliminary probes against ex-Mumbai top cop||The Bombay high court on Thursday refused to stay preliminary probes against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and sought a response from the Maharashtra government on Singh’s fresh petition challenging the two inquiries initiated against him.In his petition, Singh also claimed that efforts were being made to thwart the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)-led investigation into his allegations against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.Mentioning the petition for urgent hearing before a bench of justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale, Singh’s counsel and senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said the plea challenged two orders passed by the state government on April 1, directing state director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey to probe whether the former top cop had violated provisions of the All India Service (Conduct) Rules, 1968.Another order on April 20 asked Pandey to look into allegations made by police inspector Anup Dange that Singh’s brother had demanded ₹2 crore for getting him (Dange) reinstated after he was suspended on disciplinary grounds on July 18 last year.Singh, in his plea, also claimed that during his meeting with Pandey on April 19, the latter “advised him” to withdraw his letter against Deshmukh which he had sent to the state government in March. The petitioner sought interim protection and a stay on the inquiries till further orders.The bench, however, refused to stay the two orders after additional public prosecuto Deepak Thakare informed the court that Singh had not been issued any summons or show-cause notice so far and hence, it was premature to stay the same. The court accepted the argument and in light of the urgency. posted the hearing for May 4.On March 25, Singh had approached the HC, seeking a CBI inquiry into the corruption charges against Deshmukh who allegedly ordered suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, ACP Sanjay Patil and DCP Raju Bhujbal to collect protection money from restaurants and bars among other establishments to the tune of ₹100 crore per month. After hearing all sides over a period of ten days, the HC, on April 5, directed the CBI not to register an FIR but to conduct a preliminary inquiry and conclude it within 15 days. The CBI, after completing its enquiry, had registered an FIR against Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-refuses-to-stay-preliminary-probes-against-ex-mumbai-top-cop-101619719003250.html
29-04-2021||India||Life of a gentleman||If you were to visit him after a prolonged period, he would welcome you with mock-anger and stern eyes, but his face would instantly dissolve into a welcoming smile. Haji Faiyazuddin seemed to be made of wit and grace.The gentle-mannered Mr Faiyazuddin, who celebrated his 82nd birthday in February by cutting his favourite chocolate truffle cake, died on Wednesday morning due to Covid-19 complications. He spent his final weeks in a south Delhi hospital, far from the world he knew encyclopedically—the Walled City of Shahjahanabad.A resident of Chawri Bazar, Mr Faiyazuddin was Old Delhi’s living landmark. Partly so for being the proprietor of the iconic Haji Hotel, that was founded by his father, Haji Hafiz Zahoor Uddin, in 1952. Every day, from 9.30am to 8.30pm, this clean-shaven figure would be seen sitting on the hotel’s long balcony, that commands the most panoramic view of the Mughal-era Jama Masjid. If a passerby walking down along the street didn’t spot him sitting at his usual place, something essential was missing.An alumnus of the historic Anglo-Arabic School in Ajmeri Gate, Mr Faiyazuddin engaged in every conversation, even fleeting chitchats, in an Urdu so elegant that to hear him was like listening to bhule-bhisre geet (old forgotten songs). He was a member of various committees of the area’s charitable institutions, including the Bachhon Ka Ghar orphanage in Daryaganj. His great-grandfather Munshi Turab Ali was Jama Masjid’s first mutawalli (custodian) after the British restored the mosque to Muslims, following its takeover in 1857.“While assisting walid saheb (father) in the hotel’s early years,” Mr Faiyazuddin once told this reporter, “I would meet great artists who would visit Delhi to record for All India Radio. (Sarod player) Ustad Hafiz Ali Khan preferred room No. 2, where he would shut himself for riyaz (practice). One evening, he called in my father and dazzled him by producing the sound of marching soldiers on his sarod. (Singer) Begum Akhtar, who would come from Faizabad, liked room No. 1. She sat by this very desk, watching Jama Masjid for hours.”In the recent Delhi winters, Mr Faiyazuddin tended to wear a woollen cap that was hand-knitted by his wife, the late Nishat Begum. Survived by 5 siblings, 10 nephews, and 9 nieces, Haji Mian, as he was known by all, is buried in Dilli Gate Qabristan, next to his mother, Anis Fatima.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/life-of-a-gentleman-101619717691487.html
29-04-2021||India||Go for ‘self lockdown’, says Pinarayi Vijayan as Covid cases shatter record||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday asked people to go into what he described as a ‘self lockdown’ as the state’s Covid -19 graph shattered records with 38,600 new cases being reported in the last 24 hours. Kerala has a high positivity rate of 24.5%, the chief minister said, urging people to realise the gravity of the situation and prepare themselves to help contain the surge.“The situation is really serious. People will have to get into self-lockdown to contain the surge. We have requested all who visit marketplaces to wear double masks. There is no room for any complacency now,” he said, announcing new restrictions that will come into force from May 4, after the weekend lockdown. The new restrictions will remain in force till May 9.The chief minister has been reluctant to order a lockdown in districts that have a test positivity rate of more than 15% as mandated by the Centre. “Lockdown should be the last resort. But we are not able to control the spread of the virus. Though people are cooperating in many places, there are reports of Covid guidelines being flouted from some areas,” he said as Kerala reported more than 30,000 cases for the third consecutive day.Vijayan said the state’s test positivity rate - the percentage of people who tested positive - was 24.5%.The average test positivity rate (TPR) which was a little over 16 to 19% last week, has risen to 24 to 26% this week. There are at least five districts which reported more than 20% TPR, data released by the state’s health ministry shows. The active caseload has also risen to 2,84,086 as compared to less than 1 lakh last month.Apart from other measures, the government also decided to set up new oxygen plants in hospitals and oxygen parlours in worst-affected areas. District collectors have been asked to monitor oxygen stock regularly, Vijayan said. During the first wave, only 3% of Covid patients ended up in hospitals but this time their number is between 8.5 and 10%, medical experts said.This high proportion of people turning up at hospitals has led the state to tweak its strict discharge policy to accommodate more patients and ease the pressure on hospitals. Normal and intensive care unit admissions continue to rise exponentially and hospitals have been strictly told to admit only serious patients.“There is no need to panic if symptoms are minor and crowd hospitals. It will put undue pressure on hospitals and the more needy ones will be left out in the process,” the chief minister said.On Thursday, the state reported 48 deaths pushing the total fatalities to 5,259. Ernakulam district topped the list of new Covid cases with 5,396 cases, Kozhikode 4,990 and Thrissur 3,954 cases. There are around 1,700 critically ill patients who are in intensive care units. The comparable figure last month was less than 500. The government medical officers association has asked the government to impose a two-week lockdown on the lines of neighbouring Karnataka. Earlier, the Indian Medical Association also made the same demand but the government said a hard lockdown would impact the means of livelihood of the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/go-for-self-lockdown-says-pinarayi-vijayan-as-covid-cases-shatter-record-101619717210443.html
29-04-2021||India||Exit polls 2021: Cliffhanger likely in Bengal, big win projected for Stalin, Vijayan||The exit poll projections of the recently concluded assembly elections in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Puducherry on Thursday sprung a few surprises, contrary to the polling pattern of the states and how things have been playing out before the elections.West BengalAxis My India has predicted a neck and neck fight between Didi and Modi where BJP has a little edge over TMC. The Trinamool is projected to win 134 to 156 seats while the BJP is projected to win 134 to 160 seats. According to region-wise prediction, TMC is projected to suffer a huge loss in the north and also in Medinipur (Jangalmahal).According to C Voter, out of 294 seats in West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool is projected to win 158 seats, while the BJP may win around 115 seats.According to the CNX Republic, BJP is likely to win 143 seats and the Trinamool is projected to win 133 seats.India TV has given a clear majority to the BJP with 192 projected seats while TMC is projected to win only 88 seats.Click here for all exit poll updatesAssamAxis My India, C Voter have predicted that the BJP will retain the power in Assam. Out of Assam's 126 seats, according to C Voter, the BJP is predicted to win 65 seats while Congress is predicted to win 59 seats in Assam.According to Axis My India, the BJP will get around 75 to 85 seats, while the Congress alliance is projected to get around 40 to 50 seats in the state.Tamil NaduThe exit polls of Tamil Nadu unanimously predict a comeback for DMK in the first election after the death of the two great icons of Tamil Nadu politics — Karunanidhi and J JayalalithaAccording to the Axis My India exit poll, the DMK is predicted to win between 175-195 seats and the AIADMK is likely to win between 38-54 seats. Today's Chanakya predicted around 175 (+/-11) seats for the DMK and 57 (+/-11) seats for the AIADMK.Republic-CNX exit poll has projected 165 seats for the DMK and 62 seats for the AIADMK.Going by the projections of P-MarQ, DMK likely to get 165-190 seats and the AIADMK is predicted to bag 40 to 65 seats.PuducherryAccording to Axis My India, BJP+ will sweep with 20-24 seats out of 30 seats and Congress is projected to win 6-10 seats.KeralaKerala does not generally vote for the incumbent government, but in a departure from that, the LDF is likely to come to power for the consecutive term. According to C Voter, LDF is projected to win 74 seats while UDF is likely to win 65 seats. According to Axis My India, LDF is projected to win 111 seats, leaving UDF far behind with 28 seats. Today's Chanakya predicted 102 seats for LDF and 35 for the UDF.If the exit poll figures turn out to be true, then big wins await Pinarayi Vijayan and MK Stalin, while in the southern states, BJP is likely to be limited to Puducherry. The Congress, as predicted by the exit polls, will face a major drubbing as its best performance is expected to be in Tamil Nadu in alliance with the DMK. West Bengal remains a conundrum to pollsters as most of them predict a neck-and-neck fight between the Trinamool and the BJP and predictions are divided over which party has an edge. Assam, on the other hand, is a clear gain for the BJP, exit polls showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exit-polls-2021-cliffhanger-likely-in-bengal-big-win-projected-for-stalin-vijayan-101619709896287.html
29-04-2021||India||Covaxin price dropped to ₹400 for states; still ₹1,200 for pvt hospitals||Bharat Biotech, the maker of first indigenous Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Covaxin, on Thursday reduced the selling price of a single vaccine dose to state governments from ₹600 to ₹400, the company said in a statement on Thursday. The announcement comes just a day after the Serum Institute of India, which manufactures the Covishield vaccine developed by Oxford University and British drug firm AstraZeneca, lowered the cost of its Covid-19 vaccine for state governments by 25% to ₹300.“Bharat Biotech is deeply concerned with the critical pandemic circumstances that India is facing at this time. Recognising the enormous challenges to the public health care system, we have made Covaxin available to state governments at a price of ₹400 per dose,” Bharat Biotech said in a statement.The Union government had earlier nudged the two manufacturers to revise the cost of vaccines to state governments.There has, however, not been any change in the cost of the vaccines procured by private hospitals and institutions. Bharat Biotech earlier announced that a single dose would cost hospitals ₹1200 while SII had pegged the cost of its vaccine for private hospitals at ₹600. The two vaccines, which are being used for the national Covid-19 immunisation programme, are sold to the central government for ₹150 per dose.Bharat Biotech, which co-developed Covaxin with the Indian Council of Medical Research, has a production capacity of about 10 million Covaxin doses each month, and is looking at scaling up its capacity across multiple facilities at Hyderabad, and Bangalore.With the help of the central government, the company is working towards ramping up the production capacity by at least 100% by May-June, 2021, and with a target set of producing nearly 100 million doses per month by September 2021. “We wish to be transparent in our approach to pricing which was determined by internally funded product development, several operationally-intensive BSL-3 manufacturing facilities (the first of its kind in our country) and clinical trials. We wish to champion innovation in India and our commitment to public health is absolute,” the company’s statement read.According to reports, the Union finance ministry also approved a credit line of ₹1500 crore to Bharat Biotech for the purpose of scaling up its production capacity.The company is exploring manufacturing partnerships with partners in other countries, who have prior expertise with commercial scale manufacture of inactivated viral vaccines under biosafety containment. To further increase capacities, Bharat Biotech has partnered with Indian Immunologicals (IIL) to manufacture the drug substance for Covaxin. Covaxin was the first make-in-India vaccine to have received emergency use authorization from the national drugs regulator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-price-dropped-to-rs-400-for-states-still-rs-1-200-for-pvt-hospitals-101619705802978.html
29-04-2021||India||No need for Covid testing after home isolation is over: Centre's new guideline||The Union health ministry has issued a revised guideline for Covid-19 patients under home isolation detailing what diet and medicines they should follow and what they should do to not spread the infection among other family members. It has also emphasised that there is no need for testing after the home isolation period is over.The room where a Covid-infected person will be isolated must be well-ventilated and all windows should be kept open. The patients should use triple-layer medical mask at all times, the guideline said. "Discard mask after 8 hours of use or earlier if they become wet or visibly soiled. In the event of caregiver entering the room, both caregiver and patient may consider using N 95 mask," it said adding that masks should be discarded only after disinfecting it with 1% Sodium Hypochlorite.🔹Seek immediate medical attention when you have difficulty in breathing or have persistent chest pain🔹No need for testing after the home isolation period is over Guidelines for home isolation🔗https://t.co/hT0xTmwLSv #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/dwluSf0TMuWhile such patients have to track their temperature, heart rate, oxygen, breathing difficulties if any and overall wellbeing, they should also drink a lot of fluids."Elderly patients aged more than 60 years and those with co-morbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung/liver/ kidney disease, cerebro-vascular disease etc shall only be allowed home isolation after proper evaluation by the treating medical officer," the guideline said.List of medicines to take, home remedies to followWith the number of Covid-19 cases shooting sharply in the country, the healthcare system has come under immense stress with states reeling under oxygen shortage. At this time, the Centre is reiterating that the maximum number of people will recover at home, without needing Remdesivir or oxygen.Here are what Covid patients should do at home> Patients may perform warm water gargles or take steam inhalation twice a day.> If fever is not controlled with a maximum dose of Tab. Paracetamol 650mg four times a day, consult the treating doctor who may consider advising other drugs like a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) (ex: Tab. Naproxen 250 mg twice a day).> Consider Tab Ivermectin (200 mcg/kg once a day, to be taken empty stomach) for 3 to 5 days.> Inhalational Budesonide (given via inhalers with spacer at a dose of 800 mcg twice daily for 5 to 7 days) to be given if symptoms (fever and/or cough) are persistent beyond 5 days of disease onset.> Oral steroids, Remdesivir are not for home administration.After at least 10 days of isolation, a patient can discontinue it when there is no fever for three days. There is no need for testing after the home isolation period is over, the guideline says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-patients-under-home-isolation-must-wear-3-layer-medical-mask-centre-101619701154665.html
29-04-2021||India||Over 9.1 million pilgrims visited Mahakumbh this year||A bulk of over 9.1 million pilgrims, who visited Haridwar for the Mahakumbh from January, arrived in the holy city this month even as the mega fair was curtailed from four months to one month and held in April due to the Covid-19 pandemic, according to Kumbh Mela Force data.Mahakumbh started officially on April 1 when the state government issued the official notification for its beginning. The mega fair, which coincided with the worst surge in Covid-19 cases that has overwhelmed hospitals and triggered a shortage of medical oxygen, medicines, and beds, will end on Friday.Mahakumbh, which is held once every 12 years, traditionally starts in January with the first festive bath on Makar Sankranti (January 14). It concludes towards the end of April with the last Shahi Snan (holy dip) in the Ganga on Chaitra Poornima. Because of the Covid situation, the state government curtailed the Mahakumbh.Also Read | Last Shahi Snan of Mahakumbh, most Akhada seers participate in symbolic mannerAccording to the data of the Kumbh Mela Force, over 9.1 million pilgrims arrived in Haridwar to take the holy dip in Ganga from January 14 to April 27. The highest gathering of 3.5 million pilgrims was reported for Somvati Amavasya holy dip on April 12. On March 11, when Maha Shivratri was celebrated, 3.2 million pilgrims arrived for the Kumbh bath. As many as 1.3 million pilgrims gathered in Haridwar for another bath on Mesh Sankranti-Baisakhi (April 14). The number was devotees was comparatively lesser than for earlier Shahi Snans due to the spike in Covid-19 cases and strict implementation of norms.The number of pilgrims plummeted to 25,000 for the last Shahi Snan on Chaitra Poornima (April 27) days after Swami Avdheshanand Giri, Mahamandleshwar (head) of Juna Akhara, the largest of the 13 sects of seers, was on April 17 forced to declare the conclusion of the Mahakumbh amid the surge in the cases. The announcement came after a phone call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who requested only symbolic participation in the fourth and last Shahi Snan on Tuesday. Bathing in the river during Mahakumbh is believed to cleanse devotees of sins and ensure salvation. The Union health ministry last week warned the gathering of devotees could send coronavirus cases surging. It said up to 40 people were being tested positive for the disease daily around the site of the Mahakumbh. The ministry said coronavirus testing of 55,000 people daily in Haridwar was not enough.Kumbh Mela Force inspector general Sanjay Gunjiyal said their major task was to ensure peaceful completion of the Mahakumbh. “...with the support of Akharas [sects], seers, local people and volunteers... [the force] ensured the fair was held smoothly with Covid-19...[protocols],” he said.Surjeet Singh Pawar, the superintendent of Kumbh police, said their personnel were Covid-19 tested prior to their departure after Kumbhmela duty.Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, the apex body of all the Akharas, lauded the Kumbh Mela administration for the successful completion of the fair. “Due to commitment by the government and dedication of the Kumbhmela administrative personnel despite the Covid scenario, the fair was held successfully. From Prime Minister Narendra Modi to chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat, mela officer Deepak Rawat , ...Sanjay Gunjiyal... we thank all of them for hosting a successful Kumbh, ” said Shri Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj, Akhara Parishad general secretary.Four seers died of Covid-19 after participating in Mahakumbh. When the mega fair began on April 1, Uttarakhand had 2,236 active Covid-19 cases. The active cases rose to 45,383 on Wednesday.Political and religious gatherings have been cited among the reasons for the worst surge of Covid-19 infections that India faces. The second wave of the pandemic has pushed the death toll in the country close to 200,000 and starved hospitals of life-saving medical oxygen and beds. The daily infections have surged above the 300,000-mark daily in the country over the last few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-9-1-million-pilgrims-visited-mahakumbh-this-year-101619700042902.html
29-04-2021||India||Bharat Biotech reduces Covaxin's price from ₹600 to ₹400 per dose for states||Bharat Biotech on Thursday announced it will charge state governments ₹400 for a dose of Covaxin, instead of ₹600, as earlier announced. The move comes a day after Pune's Serum Institute of India brought down the price from ₹400 to ₹300 for state governments. Expressing deep concerns over the present pandemic situation of the country, Bharat Biotech said, "We wish to be transparent in our approach to pricing which was determined by internally funded product development, several operationally intensive BSL-3 manufacturing facilities (the first of its kind on our country) and clinical trials.""Recognising the enormous challenges to the public health care system, we have made Covaxin available to state governments at a price of ₹400 per dose," the Hyderabad-based company said.The third phase of vaccination against Covid-19 will begin from May 1 in which people between the age group of 18 and 44 years will be considered eligible to get vaccine doses. As this is an extension of the ongoing vaccination drive of the country, the Centre has allowed state governments and private hospitals to procure vaccines separately from the makers. Following the Centre's order on liberalising the vaccine drive, both Serum Insitute and Bharat Biotech announced the market price of their vaccines Covishield and Covaxin, respectively. While one dose of Covishield was initially priced at ₹400 for states and ₹600 for private hospitals, one dose of Covaxin was initially priced at ₹600 for states and ₹1,200 for private hospitals. The Centre, meanwhile, claimed that it will continue to procure both the vaccines at ₹150 per dose and will dispatch to states as it has been doing so far. The differential pricing between the Centre and the states became a controversial issue as, like the Centre, several states will administer vaccines for free and thus making the state exchequers bearing the brunt of the procurement of the vaccines. As several states raised objection to the pricing, the Centre asked both Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech to lower their prices.How will the price reduction impact you?Many states have announced free vaccination for people between the age groups of 18 and 44 years. People belonging to states which have not announced free vaccination will have to pay less for their vaccine doses in case they get vaccinated from state government facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-reduced-covaxin-s-price-from-rs-600-to-rs-400-per-dose-for-states-101619698756856.html
29-04-2021||India||Another Niranjani Akhada seer, who attended Mahakumbh, succumbs to Covid-19||Shri Mahant Lakhan Giri, a Niranjani Akhada seer who had attended the Mahakumbh in Haridwar, died at All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Rishikesh on Wednesday. Giri is the fourth saint to have succumbed to Covid-19 after attending Mahakumbh, which started on April 1 and will conclude on April 30. Since January 14, when the Mahakumbh started, over 9.1 million pilgrims have visited Haridwar, according to Kumbh Mela Force data. Shri Mahant Lakhan Giri was head of Shravan Nath Muth of Shri Panchayati Akhada Niranjani and president of Shravan Nath Muth Jawahar Lal Nehru College managing committee. According to Shir Panchayati Akhada Niranjani secretary Shri Mahant Ravindra Puri, Giri was ill for the past three weeks and was admitted first to a Jagjeetpur-based private hospital. Later, when he tested positive for Covid, he was shifted to AIIMS, Rishikesh, about 10 days ago. The saint community has expressed condolences over the death of Shri Mahant Lakhan Giri. Also Read | Less crowd, but no Covid norms on last shahi snanEarlier, on April 27, Rakesh Puri from Niranjani Akhada, who had arrived from Ahmedabad, died due to Covid. On April 17, Mahamandleshwar Jagatguru Swami Shyamdev Devacharya Maharaj, who held the seat of mahant at Jabalpur’s Narsinmgh Temple Gita Dham, died in Jabalpur, after returning from Mahakumbh. On April 13, Mahamandaleshwar of Shri Panch Nirmani Ani Akhada Kapil Dev Das from Madhya Pradesh’s Chitrakoot died due to Covid in Dehradun after attending Mahakumbh. There has been a surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths in Uttarakhand in the past two weeks. The state on Wednesday reported its highest number of daily cases -- 6,054 -- since the outbreak last year. It was the first time that the state reported over 6,000 cases in a day. Apart from the highest number of cases, the state also reported the highest number of single-day fatalities -- 108.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-niranjani-akhada-seer-who-attended-mahakumbh-succumbs-to-covid19-101619698667905.html
29-04-2021||India||Indians turn to black market, unproven drugs as Covid-19 surges||Ashish Poddar kept an ice pack on hand as he waited outside a New Delhi hospital for a black market dealer to deliver two drugs for his father, who was gasping for breath inside with Covid-19.But the drugs never arrived, the ice that was intended to keep the medicines cool melted and his father died hours later.As India faces a devastating surge of new coronavirus infections overwhelming its health care system, people are taking desperate measures to try to keep loved ones alive. In some cases they are turning to unproven medical treatments, in others to the black market for life-saving medications that are in short supply.Poddar had been told by the private hospital treating his father, Raj Kumar Poddar, that remdesivir, an antiviral, and tocilizumab, a drug that blunts human immune responses, were needed to keep the 68-year-old man alive.Like most hospitals and pharmacies in the Indian capital, stocks had run out. Desperate, Poddar turned to a dealer who promised the medicines after taking an advance of almost $1,000.“It’s nearby” and “coming” read some of the texts that Ashish received as he waited.“I wish he had at least told me that he isn't going to come. I could have searched elsewhere,” the grieving son said.India set another global record in new virus cases Thursday with more than 379,000 new infections, putting even more pressure on the country's overwhelmed hospitals. The country of nearly 1.4 billion people has now recorded over 18 million cases, behind only the U.S., and over 200,000 deaths — though the true number is believed to be higher.Death is so omnipresent that burial grounds are running out of space in many cities and glowing funeral pyres blaze through the night.The few medicines known to help treat Covid-19, such as remdesivir and steroids in hospitalized patients, are scarce. The most basic treatment —oxygen therapy — is also in short supply, leading to unnecessary deaths. Even hospital beds are scarce. There were just 14 free intensive care beds available in New Delhi, a city of 29 million people, on Thursday morning.India’s latest treatment guidelines mirror those of the World Health Organization and the United States with a key exception: India allows mildly ill patients to be given hydroxychloroquine or ivermectin, drugs used for certain tropical diseases.There is little evidence they work against Covid-19, and the WHO strongly recommends against hydroxychloroquine’s use for Covid-19 of any severity and against using ivermectin except in studies.While India is a leading producer of medicine globally, its regulation of drugs was poor even before the pandemic. And mounting despair is driving people to try anything.Dr. Amar Jesani, a medical ethics expert, said many prescription drugs can be bought over the counter, including emergency drugs greenlit by Indian authorities for Covid-19.“Hospitals and doctors are so used to having a ‘magic bullet’ that will cure you,” he said, explaining the use of unproven drugs as Covid-19 cases skyrocket.When Suman Shrivastava, 57, was infected with the virus, her doctor in Kanpur city in Uttar Pradesh, India's largest state, prescribed ivermectin. When her symptoms worsened, her doctor then asked her to take favipiravir, an antiviral, though it is unproven against Covid-19.Her nephew, Rajat Shrivastava, said that drug was hard to find but he eventually located it in a pharmacy which was rationing its supplies by giving a single strip daily to each patient. He eventually bought extra doses from an online volunteer on Twitter and now his aunt is doing well.Dr. Anant Bhan, who researches public health and ethics in the city of Bhopal, warns there are risks in the do-it-yourself approach. Bhan said antivirals and steroids should be taken in a hospital setting due to the risk of side effects. And drugs that are life-saving at one point could be harmful at another, depending on timing and how severe the symptoms are.“It's scary because these aren't vitamin pills,” he said.Black market prices for remdesivir, which is produced by several Indian companies, have increased up to 20-fold to about $1,000 for a single vial, said Siddhant Sarang, a volunteer with Yuva Halla Bol, a youth activist group which is helping patients find medicines and hospital beds.In September, federal data showed that Indian drug makers had made over 2.4 million vials of the drug. But when cases dipped in September, companies destroyed much of their expired stock and production declined.India was then slow to respond to the uptick of infections in February, and production was only scaled up in March. Earlier this week, Merck announced a deal with five makers of generic drugs in India to produce molnupiravir, an experimental antiviral similar to remdesivir, which is given by IV, but in a more convenient pill form. It’s unclear when that might become available.With demand high, black market dealers are insisting on cash upfront, said Sarang.“People are going to dealers with 200,000 to 300,000 rupees ($2,700-$4,000) in a suitcase,” he said.Authorities have started cracking down on the dealers. In New Delhi, for instance, raids are being carried out on shops or people suspected of hoarding oxygen cylinders and medicines.Despite all the desperate efforts, medicines that work remain unavailable to many.Virus-blocking antibody drugs, widely used elsewhere, aren't yet authorized in India. Roche, which works with Regeneron Pharmaceuticals on marketing one such treatment, said Wednesday it is negotiating with India to speed up emergency use. American drug maker Eli Lilly, which makes a similar treatment, said it is in discussions with the Indian government.Stuti Bhardwaj, 37, went from one pharmacy to another in southern New Delhi this week. Her parents, both in their seventies, were not able to get tests but showed symptoms of Covid-19 and had dangerously low oxygen levels. A doctor advised a host of medications, including hydroxychloroquine.She eventually found it and bought it, aware it was unlikely to work.“My parents are dying," Bhardwaj said. “I am desperate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-turn-to-black-market-unproven-drugs-as-covid-19-surges-101619696786801.html
29-04-2021||India||Everything pivots around Covid vaccine supply: Apollo Hospital executive vice-chairperson||India may have opened up Covid-19 vaccination registration for the 18 years and above population, but none of the vaccination sites across the country offer a vaccination slot yet for May 1 for this category, which is largely being attributed to inadequate vaccine supplies. Private players may suffer worse because they will get preference after the centre and state, and even though the date is May 1 they cannot open without vaccines, says Shobana Kamineni, executive vice-chairperson, Apollo Hospitals, in an interview to HT.What is Apollo group’s Covid-19 vaccine procurement plan?We haven’t really been given a free hand; the government is also allowing the private to procure. Free hand would mean you can just about to anything. First priority is the centre, then it is the states and then, of course, it’s the private. So, one more player has not entered to increase the vaccination drive. However, I don’t think having another player will solve the issue of shortage. It probably just puts pressure.Have you spoken to vaccine manufacturers yet for procuring Covid-19 vaccines since vaccination for all adults is supposed to open on May 1?All the vaccine manufacturers we have spoken to have said that we have commitments to fulfill first; once those are done. They have very clearly said that we are not the priority. We can only open it when we have vaccines. Even now we have done about 4,50,000 vaccinations till now, and probably among the private it is the largest but, in terms of capacity, we could have done 2 million in a fortnight. So, whatever we did so far, we could have actually finished it earlier, instead of these 2-3 months that we have been vaccinating if we had got enough supply of vaccines. We can actually do five times the capability. The demand is there but it is all critical about the access.How long before you see the supplies improving?Four months ago people were talking about vaccines expiring, and now you see complete shortage. But full effect of this (supplies opening up and ramping up production attempts) will only start happening I think in June. Because of the spike in cases we also have shortage of nurses to vaccinate, so we are looking at other vaccinators to come in. As of today we are turning most of our icus into Covid beds across the country. You can’t get a bed in most hospitals, even if you want in most hospitals. That’s the first fight. My real take is, this will mature from June onwards. Or you at least see things slightly get under control; like Delhi won’t be so bad in June. We really have to think through as a time frame; from June till (and I really hope people still have that intent and get vaccinated in huge numbers) October when we would have done significant number of vaccinations.How many doses are you looking at procuring initially, assuming May 1 is your deadline?We will open up orders for as much as we can get every month. Like I told you, our capability is doing 2 million in a fortnight. Since we can do that many we will buy enough to be able to do that much. The thing is there has to be supply enough, I would think that real supply story will only start from June, and from there it will get fast and more furious. Also, by that some our resources can be shifted from these intense Covid-19 duties to vaccinating, so we will have more vaccinators even though now we are trying to marshal about 6,000 vaccinators outside this current but it is hard.Do you see vaccinations starting from May 1 for 18-44 years category?There is too much out there; I don’t think this will start with a big bang at all. Of course, we will have some (doses) but I think if we get a million vaccine doses in May it will be a big deal. But in June I would probably get 10 million, and that is the difference. At least that is the expectation.What about the cost of vaccination? Everything depends on what the government gives us, and how they will differentiate it. They might say anybody going to Apollo, irrespective of the age group, pay the price. So, who will bear the cost if you are buying the vaccine at ₹600, and I cannot believe Bharat Biotech is selling at ₹1200. I am just not able to understand the pricing. Whatever the pricing is we will keep our administrative cost constant because one thing is there that as much as doing the vaccine, the administration under proper conditions is equally important. We cannot cut corners, so we have to charge something for it. But there are companies that are willing to vaccinate their employees are willing to vaccinate other for free because they say the cost of us not being in business is so much more.. I think, everyone in India is, except for the vaccine manufacturers and their pricing, no one wants to make money of this. Apollo will do a lot of vaccines; not just in these major metros but tier 2, tier 3 cities. If you look at our tie-ups, then it is 10 million vaccines that is already required, but everything pivots around the supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/everything-pivots-around-covid-vaccine-supply-apollo-hospital-executive-vicechairperson-101619697342680.html
29-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Over 40 nations to help in India's Covid fight, says foreign secy Shringla and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Over 40 countries to help India in fight against Covid: Foreign secyIndia is set to receive support packages from more than 40 countries, mostly oxygen-related equipment and consignments of critical medicines, to help bolster the country’s response to an “unprecedented second wave” of Covid-19 infections, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday. Read moreRahul Gandhi explains ‘free’ in his vaccine demand for allCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday demanded free Covid-19 vaccination for all Indians, adding the dictionary meaning and the usage of the word ‘free’ to emphasise his point. Read moreAlexei Navalny's political network disbands ahead of 'extremism' rulingA key aide to jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny said Thursday his organisation was disbanding its national network ahead of a court ruling expected to declare it an extremist organisation. Read moreUber to recruit 20,000 UK drivers on post-lockdown demandUber plans to recruit 20,000 more drivers in the United Kingdom to help fill swelling demand for rides as the country's coronavirus lockdown restrictions ease. Read moreAprilia SXR 125 maxi-scooter launched in India at ₹1.15 lakhPiaggio has introduced the new Aprilia SXR 125 maxi-scooter in the Indian market at a price tag of ₹1.15 lakh (ex-showroom, Pune). While there is no official announcement from the two-wheeler maker regarding the matter, the pricing of the SXR 125 has now been updated on the company's Indian website. Read moreIrrfan Khan’s son Babil says he had suicidal thoughts after actor’s death: ‘I still struggle with it a lot’Babil Khan has talked about struggling with suicidal thoughts after losing his father, actor Irrfan Khan. Irrfan died on April 29 last year after a two-year battle with a neuroendocrine tumour. Read more'The guy is an absolute freak show': Kevin Pietersen reveals MS Dhoni's interesting take on Virat Kohli in 2016Virat Kohli is arguably the best all-format batsman in the world. Captain of the Indian cricket tea, Kohli continues to shatter batting records around the world and the benchmark he has set in terms of fitness and athleticism has transcended Indian cricket. Read moreJustin Bieber's new 'dreadlocks' hairdo stirs outrage for cultural appropriationPeaches singer Justin Bieber's most recent Instagram has become the subject of criticism and scrutiny by some of the singer's followers and critics in general who feel that the hairstyle sported by the Sorry singer in his latest post is an example of cultural appropriation and several are dubbing it as insensitive and out of line. Read more‘You are not alone’: Canadian nurse sings to ICU patients. Clip may leave you teary-eyedA video shot at a hospital in Ottawa, Canada featuring a nurse dressed in scrubs and playing the guitar in front of an ICU ward has struck a chord with netizens. Read moreWatch: India receives second shipment of Covid medical aid from United Kingdom﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-over-40-nations-to-help-in-india-s-covid-fight-shringla-101619694633656.html
29-04-2021||India||Oxygen major focus of support to India: EU ambassador||Oxygen-related equipment and supplies is a major focus of the European Union’s (EU) efforts to strengthen India’s Covid-19 response but vaccines need to be developed early and in sufficient quantities to decisively defeat the Coronavirus, EU ambassador Ugo Astuto said on Thursday. In an interview with Hindustan Times, Astuto outlined efforts by EU member states under the bloc’s Civil Protection Mechanism to support India fight a devastating second wave of infections. He also looked forward to key areas that will be in focus during the virtual India-EU Summit next month and the EU’s efforts to strengthen its presence in the Indo-Pacific. What is the immediate and long-term focus of the EU’s efforts under its Civil Protection Mechanism to support India’s Covid-19 response? Could you give us a sense of the scale of the operation, such as the major equipment and materials being provided by member states? The EU stands in full solidarity with India. There is a major scale operation ongoing, which is still developing. We have now activated the EU Civil Protection Mechanism to offer support in this difficult moment. The mechanism is coordinating efforts of member states that can provide urgently needed materials and supplies. As Team Europe, we can offer the advantage of a joint action. We have already received very concrete offers by several member states. A delivery is arriving from Romania; another plane from Ireland is about to land very soon. Ireland has expressed the intention to send 700 oxygen concentrators, one oxygen generator, and 365 ventilators; Belgium: 9,000 doses of the antiviral medicine Remdesivir; Romania: 80 oxygen concentrators and 75 oxygen cylinders; Luxembourg: 58 ventilators; Portugal: 5,503 vials of Remdesivir and oxygen; Sweden: 120 ventilators. France and Germany have announced major deliveries of oxygen and other material. More support is expected from the Netherlands, the Czech Republic, Italy, Finland, Spain, Austria, Poland and other Member States. A robust Team Europe engagement!Does the EU have a role in the allocation of the resources that are coming into India from member states? Will it work closely with Indian authorities to ensure the support packages are effectively utilised? We work very closely with the government of India. As friends and partners, we have offered our support. There has been a conversation on how best we could help. As a result of this conversation, we have activated the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. The Centre ensures rapid deployment of emergency support through a direct link with national civil protection authorities. Through this mechanism, the EU can coordinate the response to emergencies in Europe and beyond. A joint approach -- as Team Europe -- helps to pool expertise and capacities. The EU Civil Protection Mechanism can also help with the transport and pooling of resources. Is the EU taking steps to bolster India’s capacity to produce oxygen and other necessary items and to prepare for future pandemics? What can the two sides do to more effectively tackle such emergencies in future? Oxygen is a major focus of our support, as requested by Indian authorities. As to what to do for the future, this pandemic has shown how vulnerable the world is and how interconnected. The international community must come together and offer shared solutions, based on multilateralism and global solidarity. This is true for the Covid epidemic. It is true also for other global challenges, such as the fight against climate change or biodiversity loss. Incidentally, biodiversity loss appears to be one of the factors that can lead to the spread of new viruses. To prepare for the future, we need to draw lessons from the experience so far. It is clear that to defeat the virus decisively, we need to develop vaccines early and in sufficient quantities. We also need to strengthen the capacity of the international community to respond in a cohesive and consistent manner. We have to strengthen the multilateral tools we have already at our disposal, such as the WHO, and possibly think about new tools specifically targeted to pandemics, such as for instance an international treaty on pandemics. In short, we need to come together and find common responses. The EU and India can help in shaping the global agenda in this respect. Looking ahead to the virtual India-EU Summit, what will be the focus areas for the EU? How would you describe progress in the key areas identified at last year’s summit such as connectivity, climate change and digital technologies? As the world’s two largest democracies, the EU and India share the same values and principles and a strong commitment to a rules-based world order. Against this background, our strategic partnership has gained considerable momentum in the past couple of years. At the last summit, our leaders decided to further strengthen and broaden the scope of our cooperation and to work closer together to defend multilateralism, combating climate change, greening our economies, securing our digital future, fostering connectivity and collaborating on political and security related issues. A common road map to 2025 was adopted to guide our joint action over the next five years, towards concrete deliverables. I trust that the next leaders’ meeting will mark further progress in all of these areas. For instance, the EU and India are currently preparing a joint EU-India Connectivity Partnership. At our summit in July 2020, we agreed to promote jointly a transparent, inclusive and rules-based approach to connectivity. We agreed that connectivity projects should be environmentally, socially and fiscally sustainable, providing a level playing field for businesses. Finally, we underscored the key role of the private sector and the importance of incentivising sustainable private financing. India and the EU can be natural partners in the development of this shared vision. Another major priority I would like to highlight here is the fight against climate change, in the run-up to COP 26. India has achieved significant results in shifting towards a greener economic model. When it comes to renewable energy, especially solar, India has been a trendsetter. Science tells us that the international community as a whole needs to be more ambitious if we want to address the existential issue of climate change. Temperatures are rising and we need to act now, for the sake of future generations. The fight against climate change and against biodiversity loss is a global endeavour – and to succeed, our EU-India strategic partnership is essential. The green and digital transition are twin priorities for both the EU and India. As open societies and democracies, the EU and India can work together to make sure that the digital transition takes place in a secure context, conducive to fair competition and in full respect of individual rights and freedoms. For instance, when it comes to data protection, GDPR is often evoked as a relevant precedent. We have established a productive dialogue to promote normative convergence, as the free flow of data is in the interest of both sides. Is it increasingly likely that India and the EU will negotiate separate agreements on trade and investment? What is the impact of the lapse of investment treaties with EU member states? In the wake of Covid, countries are looking at ways to diversify supply chains and make them more secure. In this context, India is positioning itself as a prominent investment destination. The EU is already one of India’s largest trade partners and a major investor. However, if you look at the size and potential of our respective markets, we could definitively do more. We would be ready to start exploring a standalone investment agreement, as we believe it would be in our mutual interest to establish a stable legal framework for investments, which would give a positive signal in both directions. The summit last year established a high-level dialogue on trade and investment. Executive vice president Valdis Dombrovskis and commerce minister Piyush Goyal met for talks in February and are about to meet again. They will discuss the perspective of trade and investment agreements, but also the wider economic agenda. There is significant scope for broader exchanges and cooperation on issues such as reform of WTO, security of supply chains, regulatory issues. With the EU unveiling its strategy to reinforce its presence in the Indo-Pacific, what practical steps can the EU and India take to boost cooperation in maritime security and to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific? The EU is the number one investor and among the biggest traders in the Indo-Pacific region, stretching from the east coast of Africa to the Pacific Island states. The region is home to 60% of the world’s population and responsible for two-thirds of global economic growth. It is a crucial manufacturing hub, central to global value chains, at the forefront of the digital economy. The region is also key for climate change and the environment, for the achievement of the objectives of the Paris agreement. In many ways, the path of the future world will be set in the Indo-Pacific region. The EU Council Conclusions adopted just a few days ago make it very clear: the EU regards itself as a major stakeholder in this region and wants to work with like-minded partners, such as India. The aim of the future EU strategy for the Indo-Pacific is to contribute to regional stability, prosperity and sustainable development. The EU has decided to reinforce its strategic focus in the Indo Pacific, to support stability, prosperity and sustainable development in the region, based on the promotion of democracy, rule of law, human rights and international law. The EU will further develop its partnerships with India on foreign policy, security and defence aspects. This will include addressing challenges to maritime security, as well as from emerging and disruptive technologies, but also countering terrorism or organised crime. We will continue to enhance convergences and to work together with India to foster the rules-based world order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-major-focus-of-support-to-india-eu-ambassador-101619694822476.html
29-04-2021||India||'Over 40 countries to help India in fight against Covid-19': Harsh Shringla||India is set to receive support packages from more than 40 countries, mostly oxygen-related equipment and consignments of critical medicines, to help bolster the country’s response to an “unprecedented second wave” of Covid-19 infections, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday.Shringla made the remarks at a news briefing hours after two Russian military transport aircraft flew in 20 oxygen production plants, ventilators and 200,000 medicine packs, while three special flights from the US were expected to bring in raw materials for Covid-19 vaccines, oxygen generating equipment and oxygen concentrators.The external affairs ministry is working with the health ministry and other agencies to expedite clearances and to ensure the equipment and medicines speedily reach areas where they are needed the most. Indian missions around the world have lists of urgently needed items – liquid oxygen, oxygen producing units and critical medicines such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab – so that they can coordinate with foreign governments and corporations to expedite deliveries.“We are facing an unprecedented second wave of the pandemic. As of now, we have over three million active cases. This has obviously put considerable pressure on our healthcare system, on the capacities and resources that we have,” Shringla told the briefing.More than 40 countries, including major powers such as the US, Russia, France and Germany, have committed to provide urgently needed items and Indian and foreign corporations are helping with procurements. Indian community associations in many countries too are pitching in to provide relief materials.Shringla said India expects to receive more than 500 oxygen generating plants, more than 4,000 oxygen concentrators, more than 10,000 oxygen cylinders, and 17 cryogenic oxygen tankers. Biopharmaceutical major Gilead Sciences has offered 450,000 doses of the antiviral medication Remdesivir while India expects to get some 300,000 doses of Favipiravir from Russia and the United Arab Emirates and consignments Tocilizumab from Germany and Switzerland.Gilead and Roche Pharmaceuticals are helping expedite the supply of raw materials so that domestic production of drugs can be ramped up. Indian firms currently produce 67,000 doses of Remdesivir a day whereas the requirement is 200,000 to 300,000 doses a day. Shringla said these firms expect to boost production to up to 400,000 doses once raw materials are brought in.Shringla was more circumspect on the issue of whether the taking of support from other countries amounted to a shift from India’s policy decision after the 2004 tsunami not to accept foreign aid.“I don’t think we are looking at it in policy terms, we are looking at it in terms of the situation that is very, very unusual, unprecedented and exceptional and we will do whatever it takes to meet the requirements of our people at this point of time,” he said in response to a question on whether there had been a policy shift.“The current situation is something we have never seen before and may never see again...We have certainly prioritised items that we need, we are sourcing many of these items from many countries, but many countries have come forward on their own to offer assistance,” he added.Many countries are also responding to the situation in India because New Delhi played a proactive role in providing essential pharmaceutical products and even vaccines in the earlier phases of the pandemic, Shringla said, adding that US President Joe Biden and others had said they would help India because it had provided help over the past year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-40-countries-to-help-india-in-fight-against-covid-foreign-secy-101619693442573.html
29-04-2021||India||#ResignModi: All you need to know about the social media row||Hours after blocking posts containing ‘#Resign Modi’ hashtag, Facebook on Thursday claimed it was an inadvertent error and not done at the behest of the government.The social media company drew flak for censoring calls on the platform for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s resignation over the spiraling crisis of coronavirus pandemic in India.“We temporarily blocked this hashtag by mistake, not because the Indian government asked us to, and have since restored it,” Facebook spokesperson Andy Stone said in a tweet on Thursday.Here's more on what happened today: We temporarily blocked this hashtag by mistake, not because the Indian government asked us to, and have since restored it.The blocking and unblocking of the posts came days after the Centre issued orders to take down over 100 “inflammatory” posts and accounts across Twitter, Facebook and Instagram related to Covid-19, including a verified Facebook page affiliated to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.The Wall Street Journal first reported about the blocking of the posts with the hashtag, while BuzzFeed News later pointed out that Facebook hid posts containing the hashtag or text “#ResignModi” entirely in India.Facebook temporarily blocked posts containing hashtags calling on Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to resign, then reinstated them, saying the action had been taken in error https://t.co/H9ooaXF7nsFacebook told users that posts that included #ResignModi were “temporarily hidden” because “some content in those posts goes against our Community Standards.”According to BuzzFeed News, the people in India could not view these posts even as those in the US, Canada or the UK could see them with a simple search. The posts remained hidden for about three hours, but after the first report on this was out, Facebook allowed these posts to be seen in India, backtracking its previous decision related to community guideline violations.“Because the posts were hidden, it’s unclear what content violated the rules of a company whose executives have often expressed a commitment to open expression,” the report read.According to reports, soon after the BuzzFeed story was published, Facebook reversed its decision and allowed the users to find and access posts with the hashtag after hiding them for a few hours.Facebook’s move attracted the attention of the international media and several journalists took to Twitter to post about it.Olivia Solon, the editor of tech investigations at NBC News, posted from her verified handle that Facebook was censoring posts critical of PM Modi.This hashtag has been restored and we are looking into what happened.In response, Facebook’s Andy Stone said, “This hashtag has been restored and we are looking into what happened.”Indian journalist Shivam Vij also posted on Twitter a screenshot of the Facebook page notifying blocking of the hashtag. “This is what happens when you search for the hashtag #ResignModi on Facebook (at least in India),” he wrote.This is what happens when you search for the hashtag #ResignModi on Facebook (at least in India). pic.twitter.com/Rzehg3meB8The Centre has called out the report published on Wall Street Journal and called it "misleading on facts and mischievous in intent."The Union ministry of electronics and information technology shared a statement on the Koo app saying, "A story by Wall Street Journal attributing removal of a certain hashtag by Facebook to GOI‘s efforts to curb public dissent is misleading on facts and mischievous in intent. Govt has not issued any direction to remove this hashtag. Facebook has also clarified that it was removed by mistake."Last week, after Twitter took down dozens of tweets that were critical of the Centre’s handling of the pandemic, sources from the ministry of electronics and information technology clarified that the government welcomes criticism and genuine requests for help amid the Covid-19 pandemic, but it is necessary to take action against users who misuse social media to spread panic and misinformation.India on Thursday saw a record single-day rise of 379,257 coronavirus cases, which pushed the total tally to 18,376,524, while the daily death toll crossed 3,645, according to the data uploaded by Union ministry of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resignmodi-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-social-media-row-101619689288718.html
29-04-2021||India||Former PM Manmohan Singh recovers from Covid, discharged from AIIMS||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh was on Thursday discharged from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences here.He was admitted to the facility after testing positive for Covid-19.Sources close to the Congress leader said he was doing fine.Singh was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on April 19 after he had fever and tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-pm-manmohan-singh-recovers-from-covid-discharged-from-aiims-101619692412668.html
29-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi explains ‘free’ in his vaccine demand for all||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday demanded free Covid-19 vaccination for all Indians, adding the dictionary meaning and the usage of the word ‘free’ to emphasise his point. Calling the government’s vaccination policy discriminatory, Gandhi and other Congress leaders have been demanding free vaccines for everyone. In his tweet on Thursday, the Congress leader posted, “free /friː/ adjective, adverb — costing nothing, or not needing to be paid for,” and then went on to illustrate the usage of word “free” through two examples relevant to his demands, “India must get free Covid vaccine. All citizens must receive the inoculation free of charge.” “Let’s hope they get it this time”.Also Read | After Rahul’s appeal, Cong sets up control rooms for Covid aidGandhi’s tweet comes a day after the Centre started registrations for Phase 3 of the vaccination drive, which has been opened up for all adults. Over 11.6 million people had registered for vaccination on CoWIN, the government’s vaccine registration website, on Wednesday.The Wayanad MP had attacked the Modi government just a day ago, for not making the vaccine free. “People’s money was given to vaccine companies to develop Covid vaccines,” he had tweeted. “Now, GOI [government of India] will make same people pay the highest price in the world for these vaccines.”India began its first phase of vaccination drive in January, starting with healthcare and frontline workers. The second phase, which was rolled out in March, included those aged above 45 and those with other illnesses.The country has been reporting over 300,000 cases every day for over a week. On Thursday morning, India’s Covid figures hit a new milestone as it reported 379,257 new cases and 3,645 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-explains-free-in-his-vaccine-demand-for-all-101619690982358.html
29-04-2021||India||Naravane briefs Modi about Army’s Covid-19 assistance||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Thursday called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to brief him about the Army’s Covid-19 assistance to state governments. He told Modi, who has held a series of meeting with top military officers since Monday, that the Army has provided states medical staff and was helping them set up temporary hospitals.“The army is opening up the hospitals for civilians and citizens in case of an emergency could approach their nearest hospital,” an official statement quoted Naravane telling Modi. He added the Army was helping the government with manpower to operate the newly imported oxygen tankers and vehicles.The armed forces, the Defence Research and Development Organisation and defence public sector undertakings have been working to augment efforts to deal with the second Covid-19 wave. They have set up Covid hospitals, ramped up oxygen production, airlifted medical staff and oxygen containers, and liaised with state governments to help deal with the rising number of Covid-19 cases.The Army set up a 100-bed hospital for Covid-19 patients in Punjab’s Mohali on Tuesday after chief minister Amarinder Singh’s request. It converted its Base Hospital Delhi Cantonment into a Covid-19 hospital on Wednesday following a record surge of infections in the national capital.India faces the worst surge of Covid-19 infections, which have crossed the 300,000-mark daily for the past few days. The second wave of the pandemic has pushed the death toll close to 200,000 and starved hospitals of life-saving medical oxygen and beds.The Naravane-Modi meeting came a day after the Prime Minister stressed the need to increase the speed, scale and safety of operations in transporting oxygen tankers and other essential material to fight the pandemic as he reviewed the Indian Air Force (IAF)’s Covid relief efforts. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Wednesday briefed Modi on his force’s efforts to help fight the pandemic. Bhadauria said that IAF has ordered 24x7 readiness of its entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of its medium-lift fleet to operate in a hub and spoke model to swiftly meet all Covid-related tasks across the country and overseas, the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement.Bhadauria told Modi that IAF has set up a dedicated Covid-19 air support cell to ensure faster coordination with different ministries and agencies. The IAF has over the last week been ferrying empty cryogenic oxygen containers to filling centres from domestic locations. It has been making sorties abroad to help hospitals tide over the oxygen crisis.Modi on Monday reviewed the military’s preparations to assist the government in Covid-19 management. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat gave a detailed presentation to Modi. He informed him that all military medical personnel, who retired or took premature retirement in the last two years, are being recalled to work in Covid-19 facilities. Medical officers, who retired more than two years ago, have also been requested to make their services available for consultation through medical emergency helplines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naravane-briefs-modi-about-army-s-covid-19-assistance-101619689182903.html
29-04-2021||India||Why Madhya Pradesh allocated more oxygen than demanded, not Delhi, high court asks Centre||The Delhi high court on Thursday asked the Centre why Madhya Pradesh was allocated more oxygen than what was demanded while Delhi's demand was not met. "We are not saying that people in the other parts of the country should die. But if the demand of a particular state is x, then why did you give it x+y? Why don't you give y to Delhi?" a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli observed. The court, however, clarified in its order that it's not making any finding and it would be done only when the Centre has given its submissions.The court was told that Madhya Pradesh was allocated 540 MT oxygen while it demanded 445 MT. Maharashtra was allocated 1661 MT, while the demand was for 1,500 MT.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the Centre will respond to the court's query and will give the reasons for giving more oxygen to Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. He said there are other states, including Gujarat, which have been allocated less than the demand. ‘Heavens won’t fall’: Court upbraids Centre on Delhi hospitals’ SOS for oxygenAs the high court was hearing a case related to the Capital's oxygen shortage, it asked the police to release oxygen cylinders and Remdesivir they seize as they can be used in the treatment of Covid-19. The police should not seize cylinders from individuals as they may have bought them at an exorbitant price in an emergency situation, the judge said. "Whenever any seizure is made, the IOs (investigating officers) should immediately inform the DCs (deputy commissioners) and also ascertain the genuineness of medicine. The medicine should also be immediately put in a refrigerated environment. We also direct the Delhi Police to not seize any cylinder or medicine from patients or attendants. It goes without saying that Delhi Police would be bound to conduct an investigation with the cooperation of the public at large," the court said.Essential medicines and oxygen cylinders cannot be kept as 'case properties' and instead should be put back into circulation, the court observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-madhya-pradesh-allocated-more-oxygen-while-delhi-s-demand-was-more-delhi-hc-asks-centre-101619686282898.html
29-04-2021||India||India has administered close to 150mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered close to 150 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Wednesday, the day the country opened registrations for all adults opting to get vaccinated. Over 10 million people registered on the Co-WIN platform within hours after it began accepting registrations.In all, 149,877,121 vaccine doses have been given in the country by Wednesday, 8pm. This includes 9,366,239 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,145,854 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 12,309,507 frontline workers have had their first dose while 6,599,492 have got their second dose too.Also Read | Bombay HC refuses to hear plea seeking uniform price of Covid-19 vaccinesIn the 45-59-year age group 50,975,753 people have got their first dose and another 3,142,239 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 51,470,903 people have been administered their first dose while 9,867,134 have had their second dose as well.As many as 2,049,754 vaccine doses were given on Wednesday alone. Of this, 1,192,394 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 857,360 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.Meanwhile, the country again saw a record single-day rise of 379,257 coronavirus infections on Thursday, taking the total tally to 18,376,527. More than 200,000 people have died with a record 3,645 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-close-to-150mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101619685642055.html
29-04-2021||India||Madras HC judge seeks session with psychologist to understand same-sex relationships||A Madras high court judge on Wednesday fixed an appointment with a psychologist to understand same sex orientation better before recording his judgment in a case pertaining to a lesbian couple who sought protection from their birth families who were opposed to their relationship, and directed the Tamil Nadu police to close the First Information Report filed on the basis of a missing person’s complaint filed by the parents of both women. Justice N Anand Venkatesh said that he would want to undergo an educational session with Vidhya Dinakaran, a city-based psychologist, while hearing the petition. “Ultimately in this case, the words must come from my heart and not from my head, and the same will not be possible if I am not fully “woke” on this aspect,” justice Venkatesh said. “For this purpose, I want to subject myself for psycho-education with Vidhya Dinakaran and I would request the psychologist to fix a convenient appointment for the same. I honestly feel that such a session with a professional will help me understand same-sex relationships better and will pave way for my evolution. If I write an order after undergoing psychoeducation, I trust that the words will fall from my heart.” In a previous hearing, the court had directed the petitioners as well as their parents to undergo counselling and Dinakaran had submitted a report to the judge on Wednesday. The court noted that the psychologist’s opinion is that the petitioners “perfectly understand the relationship they have entered” and that there was “no confusion in their minds”. It was also observed that they have a lot of love and affection for their parents and that their only fear is that they may be coerced into separation. “According to the psychologist, such a scenario will cause a lot of mental trauma to the petitioners,” the judge observed. “The petitioners are also willing to wait for their parents, whom they fervently hope will understand the relationship at some future point of time.” Meanwhile, the parents of both the petitioners, the court observed, were worried of stigma, consequences in the society and the security of their daughters. A total of four petitions pertaining to same-sex marriage are pending before the high courts of Delhi and Kerala, challenging various acts that restrict marriage to opposite sex or heterosexual couples. Though the Supreme Court read down Section 377, which criminalized same-sex adult consensual relationships, in 2018, several same-sex couples continue to seek protection from the court as their birth families continue to oppose their sexuality. “One more interesting observation that has been made in [Dinakaran’s] report is that the parents would rather prefer their daughters to live a life of celibacy, which according to them will be more dignified than having a partner of the same sex,” justice Venkatesh observed on Wednesday. The parents are confused over lineage and adoption that would apply in a same sex relationship. The petitioners are two women from Madurai who are currently taking refuge in Chennai with the help of an NGO and are seeking to continue their education and work simultaneously. The court directed the parties to undergo another round of counselling and the judge said that the couple’s parents couldn’t be expected to change their notions overnight. The matter has been posted to June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-judge-seeks-session-with-psychologist-to-understand-same-sex-relationships-101619685222088.html
29-04-2021||India||PM Modi reviews Army’s preparedness, initiatives for management of spiralling Covid-19 crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday reviewed Army’s preparedness and initiatives for Covid-19 management when Chief of Army Staff General MM Naravane called on him."They discussed various initiatives being taken by the Army to help in Covid management," the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a statement.General Naravane informed PM Modi that medical staff of the Army is being made available to various state governments. He also briefed the PM that Army is setting up temporary hospitals in various parts of the country.General Naravane told PM Modi that the Army is prepared to set up hospitals for civilians wherever possible and urged the people to approach their nearest army hospitals.The top General informed PM Modi that the Army has been helping with manpower for imported tankers and vehicles where specialised skills are required to manage them.India is currently struggling with a deadly second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds as the number of cases see an exponential rise.India on Thursday recorded 3,79,257 fresh Covid-19 infections and 3,645 deaths reported in 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-army-s-preparedness-initiatives-for-management-of-spiralling-covid-19-crisis-101619683495235.html
29-04-2021||India||U’khand puts Char Dham yatra on hold amid spike||Dehradun: Burnt by its experience with the Mahakumbh, and worried that the Char Dham yatra could end up being another super-spreader event, the Uttarakhand government on Thursday postponed the pilgrimage to four of the holiest Hindu shrines in the state, scheduled to start on May 14. The move comes even as a surging second wave of Covid-19 wave has pushed daily infections above the 350,000-mark daily in the country, with an active caseload of over 3 million overwhelming the health care system. The Uttarakhand government was widely criticised for its poor management of the Mahakumbh, with most Covid safety protocol being followed more in the breach than in the observance; the Centre too was criticised for allowing the event to go ahead. But the state seems to have woken up to the threat of Covid-19 now. “Even locals will not be allowed inside the shrines,” said chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat who, ahead of the Kumbh, spoke of how faith would overcome fear. “Only priests of the Char Dham shrines will perform rituals and worship. People will not be allowed to undertake the yatra [pilgrimage], given the sharp increase in Covid-19 cases.” Officials said the portals of the shrines of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri, and Gangotri will remain open during the pilgrimage season. Four senior seers died of Covid-19 after participating in Mahakumbh in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar this month. Millions of devotees attended the mega fair from April 1, when the state had 2,236 active Covid-19 cases. The number of active cases rose to 45,383 on Wednesday. Swami Avdheshanand Giri, Mahamandleshwar (head) of Juna Akhada, the largest of the 13 sects of seers, was on April 17 forced to declare the conclusion of the Mahakumbh amid the surge in the cases. The announcement came after a phone call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who requested only symbolic participation in the fourth and last Shahi Snan (holy dip) in the Ganga at the mega fair on April 27. Ravinath Raman, the chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board, said a meeting was held on Thursday, where the decision to postpone the pilgrimage due to the Covid-19 situation was taken. “If later in the year, the situation improves, the yatra can be allowed with conditions and Covid curbs.”Political and religious gatherings have been cited among the reasons for the worst surge of Covid-19 infections that India faces. The second wave of the pandemic has pushed the death toll in the country over 200,000 and starved hospitals of life-saving medical oxygen and beds. Uttarakhand has been reporting its highest ever daily cases and Covid deaths for the past week. On Wednesday, the state reported 6,054 cases and 108 deaths, the highest in a day since March last year. Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri, and Gangotri are collectively called Char Dham and millions visit them annually. The pilgrimage begins from Yamunotri in the west. It then proceeds to Gangotri and finally to Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east. The pilgrimage could not begin last year as per schedule on April 26 with the opening of portals of Yamunotri and Gangotri, the first two shrines that are opened after winter, because of the lockdown imposed to check the pandemic spread in March 2020. The shrines were opened for local pilgrims on July 1 last year and for those from other states in the last week of that month. In September, the Uttarakhand government removed the condition of having negative Covid-19 reports for pilgrims to undertake the pilgrimage. Officials said the portals of the Yamunotri shrine will be opened on May 14 and that of Gangotri on May 15 on the occasion of Akshay Tritiya. Portals of Kedarnath and Badrinath shrines will be opened on May 17 and May 18. Anoop Nautiyal, the founder of Dehradun-based think tank Social Development for Communities who has been analysing Covid-19 data in the state, welcomed the decision to postpone the yatra. “Once the caseload, deaths, and positivity rate decline, we can consider restarting the yatra with suitable precautions. In the meantime, the government must provide financial support to the tourism and pilgrimage sector. Mass vaccination and urgent ramping up of public health infrastructure is the need of the hour.” Congress spokesperson Garima Dasauni said the move to postpone the pilgrimage is a practical one. “The government should also think of taxi operators, dhaba and hotel owners, shopkeepers and others involved in the yatra whose livelihoods will be affected. The government should provide them some monetary help.”Manveer Singh Chauhan, the state media in charge of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party said the government is fully committed to fighting the pandemic with all possible resources. “With the present pandemic situation, the move was much needed. As far as the livelihood of those connected with the yatra is concerned, the government will soon announce some relief measures for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/char-dham-yatra-suspended-only-priests-to-perform-rituals-at-four-shrines-101619684322051.html
29-04-2021||India||States have 1 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses, will get another 20 lakh shots within 3 days: Centre||Even as several states and Union territories reported a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday claimed they still have over one crore doses available with them and will receive another 20 lakh of them within the next three days.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here“More than 1 crore Covid Vaccine doses (1,06,08,207) are still available with the states/UTs to be administered. More than 20 Lakh (20,48,890) vaccine doses will be received in addition by the states/UTs within the next 3 days,” the health ministry said in a statement, adding that the Centre has so far provided around 16.16 crore vaccine doses to the states free of cost and of them, 151,077,933 doses have been used, including wastage.The statement by the government comes at a time when several states, including Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Punjab and Rajasthan, have said they are unlikely to roll out the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination, which begins across the country from May 1, owing to inadequate stock of doses.The health ministry pointed to media reports from Maharashtra quoting officials who have claimed that the vaccines in the state are almost over. “The total Covid vaccine doses received by Maharashtra as on 28th April 2021 (at 8 am) are 1,63,62,470. Of this, the total consumption including wastage (0.22%) was 1,56,12,510. Balance of 749,960 vaccine doses is still available with the state for administration to the eligible population groups,” it clarified.Maharashtra’s health minister Rajesh Tope earlier announced that a full-fledged rollout of the inoculation drive from May 1 is not possible for the want of vaccines. “We have all the infrastructure to conduct vaccination but we don't have vaccines in adequate quantity. The chief minister is talking to different vaccine manufacturers. There will be separate centres for vaccination of those between 18 and 44 years of age,” the minister was quoted as saying by the news agency ANI.The Centre has allowed all citizens above the age of 18 to take the Covid-19 vaccine starting May 1. The registrations for the third phase of vaccination have also begun on the CoWin portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-have-1-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-will-get-another-20-lakh-shots-within-3-days-centre-101619682524318.html
29-04-2021||India||Manipur shuts sports complexes to curb Covid-19 spread||Manipur has prohibited all sports-related activity at sports complexes including those operated by private entities in view of the rapidly rising cases of Covid-19 in the state, according to a state government order.“...all sporting activities in the state including any sport-related activity at Khuman Lampak Sports Complex and other sport complexes in the districts, including privately run or managed sport complexes are banned with immediate effect,” says a notification issued by Commissioner (Youth Affairs and Sports) Bobby Waikhom on April 24.The step has been taken up in view of the second wave of Covid-19 and the increasing number of cases in Manipur and also taking into consideration the recommendation of the State Consultative Committee of State Disaster Management Authority, the notification said.“Further, the entry of visitors at Khuman Lampak Sports Complex except officials and staff of Youth Affairs and Sports, National Sport University and other departments located at Khuman Lampak Sports Complex is also banned with immediate effect,” it further said.Manipur, which is also known as the power house of sports, has been home to a large number of international and national-level players. In recent years, sportspersons from the state have been given 14 Arjuna awards, 2 Rajiv Gandhi khel ratna awards, one Dronacharya award and one Dhyan Chand award.In view of the prevailing situation, the ongoing matches of the state level football tourney popularly known as state league and other district-level super league matches have also been postponed since last week onwards.On Wednesday the state reported 259 new Covid-19 positive cases, the highest-ever single day spike figure for this year, taking the state’s total infection tally to 31,001. The state has 1,230 active cases, officials said.Even though 29,376 persons (including 59 on Wednesday) have recovered so far, the recovery rate has been reduced to 94.75 %.Meanwhile two more persons died due to Covid-19 at two hospitals in Imphal in the last 24 hours. As a result, the state’s total cumulative death toll has risen to 395, they said.Till date, a total of 1,59,860 persons including healthcare workers and frontline workers in Manipur got the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. On the other hand, altogether 67,048 healthcare workers and frontline workers received a second dose of vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-shuts-sports-complexes-to-curb-covid-19-spread-101619683061893.html
29-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Active caseload soars past 3 million-mark, 10 states contribute over 72% to new cases in last 24 hours||Active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went past the three million-mark on Thursday and stood at 3,084,814 cases, data from the Union health ministry showed. This is an increase of 106,105 cases from the 2,978,709 active cases reported previously on Wednesday and accounts for 16.79% of the total confirmed cases.The ministry also noted that 10 states accounted for 72.2% of the new Covid-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours. India logged yet another record high of 379,257 new infections in the mentioned time period.#Unite2FightCoronaIndia’s total Active Caseload reached 30,84,814 today; comprises 16.79% of the total Positive Cases. A net incline of 1,06,105 cases recorded from the total active caseload the last 24 hours.11 States account for 78.26% of India's total Active Cases. pic.twitter.com/fIyb10dJcVIn a series of tweets about the latest Covid-19 situation in the country, the Union health ministry said 10 states -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh -- were the top 10 states contributing the highest to the national tally of daily new cases on the day.Maharashtra continues to remain the worst-affected state in the country in terms of total positive cases identified. The state added 63,309 cases to its tally which currently stands at 4,473,394 cases.Also read | ‘Special and privileged partnership’: Russian ambassador says after 2 flights carrying Covid-19 supplies land in IndiaAmong the other states, Karnataka with 39,047 new cases and Kerala with 35,013 new cases trailed Maharashtra. Meanwhile, the national capital Delhi reported 29,751 new cases and the neighbouring Uttar Pradesh added 29,751 new cases to its tally, the Union health ministry noted.The bottom five states reported less than 20,000 cases with only Andhra Pradesh reporting less than 15,000 new cases (14,669 cases to be exact). Of the others, West Bengal added 17,207 cases, Tamil Nadu reported 16,665 new cases, while Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh reported 16,613 and 15,563 new cases respectively, the data showed.#Unite2FightCoronaIndia registered 3,79,257 new cases in the last 24 hours.10 States account for 72.20% of the new cases registered. pic.twitter.com/pnmJCqtM3nThe state-wise distribution of active cases showed that Maharashtra (675,451 cases), Karnataka (328,903 cases), Uttar Pradesh (300,041), Kerala (266,981 cases) and Rajasthan (163,372 cases) remained the top five contributors as of date.In a subsequent tweet, the health ministry also noted that another set of 10 states contributed over 78% to the 3,645 new fatalities reported in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra reported the maximum of 1,035 fatalities followed by Delhi with 368 deaths and Chhattisgarh with 279 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-active-cases-soar-past-3-million-10-states-add-over-72-new-cases-101619681924943.html
29-04-2021||India||News updates from HT at 1 pm: Passengers from India to quarantine for 10 days, says Italy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: Italy says passengers from India to quarantine for 10 daysA flight from New Delhi arrived Wednesday evening in Rome carrying 210 passengers, who will be placed in mandatory quarantine. Read more‘Special and privileged partnership’: Russian ambassador says after 2 flights carrying Covid-19 supplies land in IndiaRussian ambassador to India Nikolay Kudashev on Thursday said that two flights from Russia, carrying Covid-19 supplies, have landed in India. The supplies included oxygen concentrators, lung ventilation equipment, bedside monitors and medicines. Read moreKangana Ranaut asks Chetan Bhagat to ‘stop hating India’ as he questions using India-made vaccines instead of the ‘best’Actor Kangana Ranaut hit out at author Chetan Bhagat for questioning the unavailability of the Covid-19 vaccines made by Pfizer and Moderna in India. He called the second wave of the pandemic a ‘war-like situation’ and said that the vaccines must be bought from other countries. Read moreIPL 2021, MI Predicted XI vs RR: Will Mumbai Indians still remain unchanged?Defending champions Mumbai Indians have experienced a mixed bag of results in the initial stage of the Indian Premier League 2021 (IPL) season. After five games, Mumbai finds itself fourth in the points table, having lost three and won two. Read moreCovid-19 impact: Honda halts two-wheeler production across all four plantsHonda Motorcycle and Scooter India (HMSI) has become the latest vehicle manufacturer in India to force shut its production amid rising cases of Covid-19 and the crisis it has created across the country. Read moreWatch: Russian flights with Covid-19 emergency aid lands in IndiaTwo Russian flights with oxygen concentrators, lung ventilation equipment, bedside monitors, medicines and other essential pharmaceutical items landed in India to help the country in its fight against the Covid-19 surge. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-passengers-from-india-to-quarantine-for-10-days-says-italy-and-all-the-latest-news-101619676417290.html
29-04-2021||India||Telangana logs close to 8,000 new Covid-19 cases, 58 deaths push toll to 2,208||Telangana reported 7,994 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally to over 4.27 lakh while the toll stood at 2,208 with 58 more casualties, the state government said on Thursday.The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 1,630, followed by Medchal Malkajgiri (615) and Rangareddy (558), it said in a bulletin, providing details as of 8 PM on April 28.The total number of cumulative cases in the state stood at 4,27,960 while with 4,009 patients being cured, the total recoveries were at 3,49,692.The state has 76,060 active cases and over 80 thousand samples were tested on Tuesday.Cumulatively, over 1.28 crore samples have been tested.The samples tested per million population was over 3.44 lakh, the bulletin said.The case fatality rate in the state was 0.51 per cent, while it was 1.1 per cent at the national level.The recovery rate in Telangana was 81.71 per cent, while it was 82.1 per cent in the country.The state has 279 active micro containment zones.According to a separate release, over 39.57 lakh people in the state have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine while over 5.78 lakh got their second shot also as of April 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-logs-close-to-8-000-new-covid-19-cases-58-deaths-push-toll-to-2208-101619676946745.html
29-04-2021||India||Assam Police gun down ULFA-I commander, nab his aide||Police killed a senior commander of the banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) in a gunfight in Assam on Thursday. The operation thwarted the outfit’s plan for high-profile abductions, said the police. This comes days after the banned outfit abducted three employees of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) in Sivasagar district. Two of them have been rescued since.Dwipen Saud, the newly appointed commander of the outfit’s western command, was shot dead in an exchange of fire at Besimari in Bongaigaon district of lower Assam (135 km west of Guwahati) and another cadre was nabbed alive. “Police-ULFA encounter took place at Besimari (Manikpur PS) in Bongaigaon district just some time back. ULFA (I) commander western command, recently appointed to replace Dhristi Rajkhowa, SS (self-styled) Col Dwipen Saud appears dead with bullet injury. He’s being taken to hospital now,” DGP Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta tweeted. “His gunman Padum Rai is apprehended alive with a weapon. Another weapon and a grenade recovered in the PO (police operation). Further search is on,” Mahanta added. Drishti Rajkhowa, the second most important person in the outfit after commander-in-chief Paresh Baruah, had surrendered to army personnel in Meghalaya in November last year. Also Read | After 6.4 magnitude jolt, 6 earthquakes hit Assam’s Sonitpur todayWith Thursday’s operation, police claim to have foiled ULFA-I’s plans to carry out more abductions. “We had intel that ULFA western command was planning some high-profile kidnapping in collaboration with other anti-India forces, which now appears to be foiled. Today’s successful operation is due to high quality police intel input that worked out precisely for on ground action,” Mahanta tweeted. On April 21, three ONGC employees, Ritul Saikia, Mohini Mohan Gogoi (both junior engineer assistants) and Alakesh Saikia (junior technician), all from Assam, were abducted by ULFA-I and taken to neighbouring Nagaland. Three days later, Alakesh Saikia and Gogoi were rescued from near the India-Myanmar border in Mon district of Nagaland in a joint operation carried out by the Indian Army, Assam Rifles and Nagaland Police with inputs from Assam Police. There is no trace yet of Ritul Saikia. In a statement issued on Saturday, ULFA-I claimed to have released all the three abducted persons during the operation and alleged Ritul may have been killed in the firing by the security forces. Assam Police, however, maintain Ritul is still in custody of the outfit. Police have arrested over a dozen persons in connection with the Sivasagar incident, including an Assam Police constable who was among the five persons who abducted the ONGC employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-gun-down-ulfa-i-commander-nab-his-aide-101619674001631.html
29-04-2021||India||Procuring Covid-19 vaccine from makers may take few more days: Andhra Pradesh government||Vijayawada (Andhra Pradesh) [India], April 29 (ANI): With Phase III of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive set to start on May 1, the Andhra Pradesh government has said it is trying to procure vaccine from the manufacturers, but "it may take few more days to get the vaccine on hand".In a release, Andhra Pradesh Health department Principal Secretary Anil Kumar Singhal said on Wednesday that the state government is consulting with 'all three companies' for the procurement of vaccines."The state government is trying to procure vaccine, to inoculate people above 18 years of age, from the companies. However, it may take few more days to get the vaccine on hand. The Centre has declared eligibility for vaccination to people above 18 from May 1. That doesn't mean to vaccinate them from that date. We have been consulting with all three companies. Right now they have orders from the central government, the companies will respond to our queries in few days. Then we will be able to chart out a plan to inoculate vaccine to people above 18," said Singhal.He said that for the past 15 days, only RT-PCR tests are being conducted in the state, and from Thursday onwards, TrueNat tests will also be conducted."A total of 422 hospitals are given permission for conducting covid tests. 5,572 ICU beds available in the state and more than 3,000 beds are occupied. 18,086 beds are with oxygen facility, of which 10,302 beds are occupied by this morning. We ordered the officials to update the information on a real-time basis so that people will get accurate data in their access," he said.He said government hospitals in the state have no problem regarding the availability of Remdesivir injections and the state has a stock of 28,994 doses.The Principal Secretary asked the private hospitals to not treat Covid-19 patients "illegally" and should register with district authorities so that they can place an indent for Remdesivir."Thus, the medicine usage will go properly. Our aim is to prevent hoarding or black marketing of Remdesivir. So district-level officials are given the responsibility to monitor private hospitals. District-level flying squads are formed for this purpose. The state government has fixed rates for the treatment of coronavirus and supply of Remdesivir. Stern action will be taken on those violating the norms," he added.The Centre on April 19 had announced a ''liberalised'' policy, making all above 18 years of age eligible to get vaccinated from May 1. It has also allowed state governments and private hospitals to purchase vaccines from manufacturers.Registration for the new eligible population groups commenced at 4 pm on Wednesday. Potential beneficiaries can either register directly on CoWIN portal (cowin.gov.in) or through the Aarogya Setu app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/procuring-covid-19-vaccine-from-makers-may-take-few-more-days-andhra-pradesh-government-101619672390803.html
29-04-2021||India||Drought-like situation hits Nagaland farmers amid Covid-19 second wave||Nagaland farmers have something other than Covid-19 to worry about as the state is facing a drought-like situation due to a shortfall of rain this year.“Nagaland is facing a drought-like situation. Seeds have not germinated due to shortage of water. This, coupled with incidents of hail storm in different pockets and attack on crops by fall armyworm, has affected the crop. Livestock farming has also been hit by the African swine flu and the foot-and-mouth disease,” said agriculture production commissioner (APC), Nagaland, Kikheto Sema.The official on Wednesday called for a need-based meeting of all agriculture & allied departments in the state to discuss the challenges the farmers are facing, in the state capital of Kohima. Pointing out that 70% of the state population lives in rural areas and is engaged in agriculture, Sema said that farming activities cannot be stopped even in the face of a pandemic.He highlighted the need for “the four Cs- cooperation, coordination, confidence and contribution” among the allied departments at such a time. The APC, who is also the nodal officer for Jal Shakti Abhiyan, highlighted the need for water conservation and rainwater harvesting.Meanwhile, in the face of the recent surge in Covid cases in Nagaland, the agriculture department issued several guidelines to farmers to avoid field level contagious spread of the virus during farming activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/droughtlike-situation-hits-nagaland-farmers-amid-covid-19-second-wave-101619671541634.html
29-04-2021||India||‘Special and privileged partnership’: Russian ambassador says after 2 flights carrying Covid-19 supplies land in India||Russian ambassador to India Nikolay Kudashev on Thursday said that two flights from Russia, carrying Covid-19 supplies, have landed in India. The supplies included oxygen concentrators, lung ventilation equipment, bedside monitors and medicines.In a video tweeted by the Russian Embassy in India, Kudashev said, “Russia is closely watching the situation in India which is becoming more and more alarming. The Russian Federation decided to send humanitarian assistance to India in the spirit of the special and privileged strategic partnership between our two countries as well as in the context of our anti-Covid-19 cooperation.”A friend in need is a friend indeed. First batch of emergency humanitarian aid to India arrived in #NewDelhi. #Kudashev: Joint fight against #COVID19 threat is one of the most important areas of #RussiaIndia🇷🇺🇮🇳 cooperation at present. Full video ➡️ https://t.co/8IG5xYCt9S pic.twitter.com/fr0n6MPD8P“For this purpose, two urgent flights operated by the Russian EMERCOM arrived here today. These are oxygen concentrators, lung ventilation equipment, bedside monitors, medicines including Coronavir and other essential pharmaceutical items,” ambassador Kudashev further added.The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) on Thursday confirmed the arrival of the two Russian planes and added that Air Cargo and the Delhi Customs expedited the clearance for the flights. According to the CBIC, the cargo contained 20 oxygen concentrators, 75 ventilators, 150 bedside monitors and medicines totalling 22 metric tonnes, news agency ANI reported.Arindam Bagchi, spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs tweeted with images of the Russian supplies. “A longstanding and time-tested partner! Grateful for shipment of oxygen concentrators, ventilators and other medical supplies that arrived from Russia this morning in two aircrafts.”🇮🇳 🇷🇺A longstanding and time-tested partner! Grateful for shipment of oxygen concentrators, ventilators and other medical supplies that arrived from Russia this morning in two aircrafts. pic.twitter.com/ozrla74m5kMentioning that the efforts against the coronavirus disease is one of the “most important areas of cooperation at present,” Kudashev said that it includes the delivery of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine to India from May, the production of the vaccine in India and also cooperation in the field of medical science including new coronaviruses.Also read | In biggest one-day spike, India records 379,257 Covid-19 cases, 3,645 fatalitiesThanking India for approving emergency supplies of Hydroxychloroquine during the pandemic in 2020, the ambassador said, “We appreciate it and we remember.” He also emphasised the need for united efforts against the pandemic and said, “We hope that today’s delivery of the Russian humanitarian assistance will become an effective contribution to the Indian government’s efforts to provide emergency treatment to those who were affected by Covid-19.”Watch | Russian flights with Covid-19 emergency aid lands in IndiaEarlier on Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke with Russian president Vladimir Putin, who expressed his solidarity with India and assured support. “Had an excellent conversation with my friend President Putin today. We discussed the evolving COVID-19 situation, and I thanked President Putin for Russia's help and support in India's fight against the pandemic,” Modi tweeted earlier on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-and-privileged-strategic-partnership-russian-ambassador-says-after-2-flights-carrying-covid-19-supplies-lands-in-india-101619668992419.html
29-04-2021||India||In biggest one-day spike, India records 379,257 Covid-19 cases, daily toll again at all-time high of 3,645||India on Thursday saw a record single-day rise of 379,257 coronavirus cases, which pushed the total tally to 18,376,524, while the daily death toll crossed the 3000-mark following 3,645 fresh fatalities, according to Union ministry of health and family welfare.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease stands at 1,50,86,878, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.12%, the data updated at 8am showed.Registering a steady increase, the active cases have risen to 30,84,814, comprising 16.55% of the total infections while the total death count stands at 2,04,832.According to the Indian Council oof Medical Research (ICMR), 28,44,71,979 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till April 28, of which 17,68,190 samples were tested on Wednesday.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.On Wednesday, 14 states and Union territories recorded their highest single-day rise in cases of infection. These included Karnataka and Kerala which reported 39,047 and 35,103 cases, respectively. Similarly, West Bengal’s 17,207, Tamil Nadu’s 16,665, Rajasthan’s 16,613, Andhra Pradesh’s 14,669, Bihar’s 13,374 and Haryana’s 12,444 cases were the highest-ever since the pandemic struck the country early last year.The Centre has so far provided more than 15 crore vaccine doses (156,526,140) to states and UTs free of cost.The country is days away from launching the third phase of its Covid-19 vaccination drive under which all adults will be eligible to take the jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-biggest-one-day-spike-india-records-379-257-covid-19-cases-daily-toll-again-at-all-time-high-of-3645-101619667839128.html
29-04-2021||India||Covid-19 pandemic laid threadbare issue of digital divide: Ravi Shankar Prasad||The Covid-19 pandemic has laid bare the issue of the digital divide and recast the world’s view of digital access as a critical component to an equitable society, according to Minister of Electronics and Information Technology Ravi Shankar Prasad, who underlined that technology is meant to be a “great equaliser” and not a source of division.“In 2020, the year of the Covid-19 pandemic, the world embraced digital transformation at a pace never witnessed before," Prasad said at the UN High-Level thematic debate on ‘Digital Cooperation and Connectivity: Whole-of-Society Approaches to End the Digital Divide.’"The pandemic has resulted in societies reimagining technology’s critical role in how we work, learn and live,” Prasad said.Addressing the high-level event virtually on Tuesday, Prasad said the pandemic "has not only laid threadbare the issue of the digital divide but more importantly recast our view of digital access as a critical component to an equitable society.”Asserting that technology is meant to be a “great equaliser, not a source of division,” Prasad said almost half the world’s population does not have access to high-speed broadband and is hence deprived of access to virtual platforms, tele-medicine, distance education and e-payments.“Technology is neutral but its impact will depend on choices that we make today in its application, access and governance. Hence it becomes critical that we make the digital revolution inclusive by creating an environment where nobody is left behind,” he said.UN Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed, speaking at the General Assembly high-level debate, said almost half the world’s population, 3.7 billion people, the majority of them women, and most in developing countries, are still offline.“The Covid-19 crisis has highlighted this disparity. While confronting the pandemic, those without Internet access have been unable to benefit from remote education, remote work, or remote health services. Without decisive action, the digital divide will become the new face of inequality,” she said.Prasad said the Covid-19 pandemic has also brought to the forefront the critical need for cutting-edge technology tools and innovation in the areas of tele-education and tele-medicine.“The expedited development of contact and tracing application called ‘AarogyaSetu’ (Heath Bridge) and CoWINapp for the rollout of vaccines are outcomes of India’s efforts,” he said adding that in the spirit of South-South cooperation, India launched the Pan Africa E-Network which aims to provide free tele-education and tele-medicine services to developing countries.Further, he underlined that digitalisation can support waves of change that could dramatically shift to a more efficient governance system. “We need to make technology an enabler for sustainable development, economic growth, social inclusion and environment sustainability.“We need to develop a more equitable and effective digital ecosystem by continuous skill development, increased access and affordability of digital technology. This will enable us to correct the structural injustices and ensure that the digital revolution is inclusive and empowering,” he added.Prasad told the General Assembly event that India has taken a concerted decision to adopt a whole-of-society approach to digital technology and improved public services, citizen engagement and accountability.In 2015, the government launched 'Digital India' with the aim to bring digital inclusion and empower ordinary citizens with technology-based solutions that are affordable and easy to use.Today, India has the second-largest internet user base and is the second-largest mobile manufacturer, offering the cheapest internet data tariffs in the world.“We aim to develop India as a USD 1 trillion digital economy by 2025,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-pandemic-laid-threadbare-issue-of-digital-divide-ravi-shankar-prasad-101619667722665.html
29-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Joe Biden says US will maintain military presence in Indo-Pacific and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.US will maintain military presence in Indo-Pacific to prevent conflict: BidenPresident Joe Biden said that he has told his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping that the US will maintain a strong military presence in the Indo-Pacific "not to start conflict, but to prevent one," as Beijing made efforts to expand influence in the strategically vital region. Read moreWidened vaccinations lead to blood bank shortage fearsBlood banks and patients with blood-related disorders said they are concerned about the availability of blood due to rules that disallow an inoculated person from donating blood for 28 days after their jab. Read moreFewer SOS calls from hospitals, but new Covid patients facing oxygen crisisSOS calls for medical oxygen have reduced from Delhi’s hospitals over the past two days, with most of them now able to maintain stocks till replenishments arrive, but this has also come at the cost of not being able to offer critical emergency support. Read more'I love his attitude': Suresh Raina says CSK teammate is 'going to be No. 1 in the world'There was a time when Suresh Raina was India's go-to man. Along with Yuvraj Singh, Raina was the man with the golden touch. Read morePriyanka Chopra sets up fundraiser, urges all to donate towards Covid-19 relief: ‘India is my home, it is bleeding’Priyanka Chopra urged everyone towards Covid-19 relief in India, as it battles a deadly second wave of the pandemic. She talked about the grim situation in the country, as hospitals are unable to accommodate patients. Read moreWatch: Man gasps for breath outside Delhi hospital, wife & son search for oxygenA man, seen gasping for breath outside Delhi hospital, was saved in nick of time on Wednesday. The man’s wife and 12-year-old son searched for oxygen at Delhi’s RML hospital. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-joe-biden-says-us-will-maintain-military-presence-in-indo-pacific-to-avoid-conflict-and-all-the-latest-news-101619666273546.html
29-04-2021||India||Most of South Asia to record normal or above normal monsoon this year||There is likely to be normal to above normal rainfall over most parts of the South Asian region during the June to September southwest monsoon season, according to a consensus statement released by South Asian Seasonal Climate Outlook Forum (SASCOF) and the Climate Services Users Forum on Wednesday.Above-normal rainfall is likely over some areas of the northwest, along the foothills of Himalayas and northeast parts of the region, including Nepal and parts of Pakistan, and many areas of the central part of the region in India. However, monsoon rain is most likely to be below normal over many areas over extreme northwest, northeast and some areas over north-eastern parts of the region.The statement has been developed by all nine National Meteorological and Hydrological Services (NMHSs) of South Asia led by India with Afghanistan, Pakistan, Nepal, Myanmar, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Maldives and Sri Lanka and the process involved expert assessment of the prevailing global climate conditions and forecasts from different climate models from around the world.“The moderate La Niña conditions that prevailed over the Pacific since July 2020 have weakened to borderline La Niña to ENSO neutral conditions in the month of April 2021. Based on the global climate model forecasts, there is strong consensus among experts that the ENSO neutral conditions are likely to prevail during the southwest monsoon season,” the statement said.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had said in its forecast that the monsoon for this year is likely to bring the normal amount of rainfall at 98% of the long period average (LPA) with an error margin of +/- 5%. IMD considers rainfall between 96% to 104% of LPA to be in the “normal” range. In 2020 and 2019 also, the monsoon was above normal at 110% and 109% of LPA.The SASCOF statement added that during the monsoon season, minimum temperatures are likely to be above normal over most areas of west, northwest, north and north eastern parts of South Asia. The maximum temperatures are likely to be below normal over most of the central parts of South Asia while the maximum temperatures are likely to be above normal over northwest and northern areas of northeast of the region.ENSO neutral conditions are generally associated with normal southwest monsoon over the region. In a few cases, other regional factors such as Indian Ocean conditions may play a more dominant role in influencing monsoon performance. At present, neutral Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) conditions are prevailing over the Indian Ocean. The recent forecasts from coupled global models suggest that these neutral IOD conditions are likely to continue during the monsoon season. A few climate models also indicate development of weak negative IOD conditions during the monsoon season which is often associated with a weak monsoon.Also Read | 8 states most prone to climate crisis: Study“We issue this consensus statement every year for the region. Like we said before, the region is likely to record normal to above normal rain this year with normal varying based on grid points. Maps have been shared with all countries,” said DS Pai, senior climate scientist at IMD, Pune.The summer rains which set in from June 1 over India are critical because nearly 60% of India’s net arable land lacks irrigation and nearly half the population depends on a farm-based livelihood. The rains also replenish 89 “nationally important reservoirs” critical for drinking and power generation.Many parts of the country have started recording pre-monsoon rains. IMD on Wednesday said under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance, isolated rainfall/thunderstorm is likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand during the next five days. Thunderstorm activity is likely to increase subsequently and is likely to be accompanied by gusty winds over the plains of northwest India during April 30 and May 2. Isolated thunderstorm/dust storm (speed reaching 40-50 kmph) is also likely over west and north Rajasthan during April 29 and May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-of-south-asia-to-record-normal-or-above-normal-monsoon-this-year-101619667523765.html
29-04-2021||India||Maharashtra sees 63,309 new Covid cases; highest one-day toll with 985 deaths||With 985 deaths, Maharashtra reported its highest single-day jump in Covid-19 fatalities for the second consecutive day, taking the toll to 67,214. The state also added 63,309 infections, taking the tally to 4,473,394. Active cases stood at 673,481. Although cases saw a slight dip last week with the lockdown, the state has seen a 71% increase in deaths from the previous week.Also Read | Maharashtra likely to extend lockdown till May 15A week after Maharashtra announced a lockdown from April 22, the weekly growth of infections has seen a dip. Between April 15 and April 21, the state recorded 387,972 cases, which came down to 378,554 between April 22 and April 28. Deaths, however, increased in the period. In the past seven days, Maharashtra saw 4,735 deaths, a 71.29% increase from the previous week — 2,758 deaths. A senior health official said it would be early to gauge the impact of the lockdown. “The state had imposed a curfew from April 13, which got a mild response from people. This slight dip could be because of that. We will know the impact of the lockdown in the next week,” he said.Meanwhile, the state Cabinet on Wednesday decided to extend the lockdown by 15 days from May 1. A formal order is expected to be issued by April 30, senior officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-sees-63-309-new-covid-cases-highest-one-day-toll-with-985-deaths-101619664701098.html
29-04-2021||India||US rushing supplies worth over $100 mn for India’s Covid-19 response||Washington/New Delhi: The US is rushing supplies worth more than $100 million, including oxygen generation systems and raw materials for vaccines, to back India’s Covid-19 response in the face of a devastating second wave of infections. The first emergency relief shipment, which is expected to arrive on a military transport aircraft from Travis Air Force Base, will include 440 oxygen cylinders and regulators donated by the state of California. The flight will also carry 960,000 rapid diagnostic tests and 100,000 N95 masks provided by USAID. The aid is being provided in line with a pledge made by President Joe Biden during a phone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 26. Several more flights carrying more equipment and supplies are expected this week. The US relief supplies will start flowing in shortly after support packages from Russia and member states of the European Union (EU), part of a global effort to help India cope with record-breaking infections that have surged past the 300,000-mark over the past few days. The support will also help address a severe shortage of oxygen, which has been blamed for many deaths in recent days. “Thanks to @US_TRANSCOM, @AirMobilityCmd, @Travis60AMW & @DLAmil for hustling to prepare critical @USAID medical supplies for shipping. As I’ve said, we’re committed to use every resource at our disposal, within our authority, to support India’s frontline healthcare workers,” US defense secretary Lloyd Austin tweeted on Thursday. Also Read:Over 10 million 18+ sign up; no slots for jabs yet“Just as India sent assistance to the United States when our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, the United States is determined to help India in its time of need,” said a statement from the White House. The Indian help included a large consignment of hydroxychloroquine. India cleared it for export despite a ban in response to a request from then-President Donald Trump. The antimalarial drug was then being deployed for unproven prophylactic and therapeutic uses.The emergency assistance coming from the US this week will include an initial delivery of 1,100 oxygen cylinders that will remain in India, 1,700 oxygen concentrators to obtain oxygen from ambient air, multiple large-scale oxygen generation units to support up to 20 patients each, and additional mobile units to target specific shortages. A team of US experts will support the oxygen generation units by working on the ground alongside Indian personnel. The support package will also include raw materials for making the Covishield vaccine that the US has re-directed from its own order of manufacturing supplies. These materials will allow India to make more than 20 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, the White House statement said. The raw materials were held up as US suppliers prioritised them for use by domestic buyers under a war-time law invoked by Biden in February. The US is also sending 15 million N95 masks to protect patients and healthcare personnel, one million rapid diagnostic tests of the same type used by the White House to provide reliable results in less than 15 minutes, and the first tranche of a planned 20,000 treatment courses of the antiviral drug Remdesivir. The US also plans to send more planeloads of oxygen cylinders. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has locally procured more cylinders and will deliver them to support hospitals in India. CDC experts will work with Indian experts in the laboratory, surveillance, and epidemiology, bioinformatics for genomic sequencing and modelling, infection prevention and control, vaccine rollout, and risk communication, the White House said. USAID, which has provided India more than $23 million in assistance since the start of the pandemic, is procuring 1,000 oxygen concentrators that will be used in 320 primary healthcare facilities. The US aid effort was mobilised after growing domestic pressure on the Biden administration, including from lawmakers and business lobbies, over the past week to help India’s Covid-19 response. The US has also faced criticism from some quarters for what was seen as a lethargic response in the initial stages. Kurt Campbell, Biden’s Indo-Pacific czar on Tuesday, said: “I’ve never seen anything like this. I’ve never seen such an outpouring of support, such a focused effort to respond to people in need.” Gayle Smith, the state department’s Covid-19 coordinator, said, “This is a tragedy to watch, and it compels all of us to action. We all need to understand that we’re at the front end of this, this hasn’t peaked yet, so this is going to require determination and we’re going to need to sustain it and work really hard for some time.”The Covid-19 assistance is the largest and most extensive announced by the United States for any country.Relief from state governments, businesses, and private citizens will be in addition to the federal effort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-rushing-supplies-worth-over-100-mn-for-india-s-covid-19-response-101619661940215.html
29-04-2021||NA||LIVE: National directives for Covid-19 management to continue to be followed till May 31, says MHA||The ongoing second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is causing a rapid increase in India's daily new infections as the country logged 379,257 new cases on Thursday, another grim record in its single-day spike. This was the eighth consecutive day when more than 300,000 infections of the coronavirus disease have been reported in a single day. The fatalities shows a grim figure with 3,645 patients succumbing to the disease, taking the death toll to 204,832.Globally, India has reported the second-highest number of total cases in the world after the United States, and fourth-highest number of deaths according to data from the World Health Organisation (WHO).Among the states, Maharashtra reported 63,309 new cases and 985 deaths (highest single-day toll) taking the state's cases tally to 4,473,394 and the death toll to 67,214, according to data from the state government. Karnataka reported close to 40,000 new Covid-19 cases (39,047 to be exact) and 229 deaths on Wednesday and is currently the third-most affected state in terms of total positive cases, according to the Union health ministry's data.Amid the ongoing crisis, many countries globally, including the US, the UK, France, Australia, Singapore, Canada and Norway, are supporting India's efforts against the disease with the supply of equipment such as oxygen concentrators and cylinders.Meanwhile, the country's vaccination drive on May 1 is set enter its third phase, in which everyone above the age of 18 will be eligible for vaccination. The registration processed opened at 4pm on April 28 even as many users complained of a glitches on the CO-WIN digital platform which the centre has denied. So far, more than 150 million doses of the vaccine have been administered, according to the central health ministry.Follow all the updates here:Maharashtra records 66,159 fresh cases, 771 more deathsMaharashtra on Thursday witnessed a slight dip in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 66,159 new cases and 771 more deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department's bulletin. Mumbai's daily Covid-19 tally also dipped to 4,174 while the city's caseload is nearing 645,000, the bulletin showed. Plan prepared to vaccinate all above 18 in next 3 months in Delhi, says CMHad a meeting with the officials on vaccination drive in Delhi. Prepared a plan to vaccinate all above 18 years in the next 3 months. We will set up vaccination centres on a large scale. All eligible people must come forward to get vaccinated. pic.twitter.com/RapPp4fvJfDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday the Delhi government has prepared a plan to vaccinate all residents in the next three months adding vaccination centres will be set up on a large scale. "All eligible people must come forward to get vaccinated," Kejriwal tweeted. Brazilian Covid-19 variant may be more transmissible: StudyThe P.1 Covid-19 variant which has originated in Brazil might be more transmissible than other strains and might be able to evade immunity gained from previous infection with the virus, news agency PTI reported quoting a study. The research which was published in the Journal science had used data from Brazil's Manaus city to characterise the variant and its properties, including 84 samples of genetic sequencing data.Russia reports 9,284 new cases, 364 more deathsRussia's caseload of the Covid-19 disease climbed to 4,796,557 after 9,284 cases and 364 deaths were reported on Thursday, according to the coronavirus taskforce. The country's death toll is nearing 110,000. Covid-19: UP extends weekend curfew by 24 hours, to be in effect till 7am on TuesdayThe Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday announced an extension to the existing weekend curfew in the state imposed to tackle the rising numbers of coronavirus disease cases.Click here to read moreDefence ministry says 3 naval hospitals kept ready as Covid-19 cases surgeAs COVID-19 cases surge in the county, three naval hospitals under the Western Naval Command viz., INHS Jeevanti, Goa, INHS Patanjali, Karwar and INHS Sandhani, Mumbai have been kept ready for use by the civil administration. @indiannavy pic.twitter.com/7JG4g5MbKH"As COVID-19 cases surge in the county, three naval hospitals under the Western Naval Command viz., INHS Jeevanti, Goa, INHS Patanjali, Karwar and INHS Sandhani, Mumbai have been kept ready for use by the civil administration," office of the defence minister tweeted.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal takes second dose of the Covid-19 vaccineI took my second dose of vaccine today. I urge everyone, whoever is eligible to get vaccinatedDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted that he has taken his second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine today. He also urged all eligible people to get vaccinated.He took his first dose of Covishield vaccine on March 4.India's Covid-19 active caseload soars past 3 million mark, occupies 16.79% of total cases#Unite2FightCoronaIndia’s total Active Caseload reached 30,84,814 today; comprises 16.79% of the total Positive Cases. A net incline of 1,06,105 cases recorded from the total active caseload the last 24 hours.11 States account for 78.26% of India's total Active Cases. pic.twitter.com/fIyb10dJcVActive cases of the coronavirus disease in India crossed the 3 million mark on the day and currently stands at 3,084,814, the Union health ministry's data showed.10 states account for 78.71% of 3,645 new fatalities reported in last 24 hours, says Centre#Unite2FightCorona3,645 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.Ten States account for 78.71% of the new deaths. pic.twitter.com/d7p33MrVOCAccording to the data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, ten states accounted for 78.71 per cent of the 3,645 new deaths reported in the last 24 hours.Covid-19: 10 states contribute over 72% to India's new cases in last 24 hours#Unite2FightCoronaIndia registered 3,79,257 new cases in the last 24 hours.10 States account for 72.20% of the new cases registered. pic.twitter.com/pnmJCqtM3nOf the new cases identified in the last 24 hours, ten states accounted for 72.20 per cent of the new infections, the Union health ministry said.India's Covid-19 vaccination drive completes inoculation of 150 million doses, says govt#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDriveIndia’s Cumulative Vaccination Coverage has crossed the landmark of 15 Crore (15,00,20,648).  https://t.co/MeHTanupJr pic.twitter.com/sgoqt5Q6OdUnder the country's vaccination drive, more than 150 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered, according to the data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Delhi CM to meet officials to review Covid-19 situation, health minister Satyendar Jain to attendChief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to hold a meeting with officials later today over the situation of #COVID19 vaccines in Delhi. Health Minister Satyendar Jain will also be present at the meet. (File photo) pic.twitter.com/fVIgcABM9kChief minister Arvind Kejriwal to hold a meeting with Delhi government officials over Covid-19 situation. Health minister Satyendar Jain would also attend the meeting, reports ANI.Covid-19: First consignment of oxygen concentrators from Germany lands in DelhiFirst consignment of Oxygen concentrators from Germany arrives in Delhi on ⁦@airindiain⁩ Flight AI120. More to follow. Every stakeholder of India’s civil aviation sector is making a meaningful contribution in our unrelenting fight against COVID.⁦@HospitalsApollo⁩ pic.twitter.com/nYxXqDqN9WAir India flight carrying first consignment of oxygen concentrators from Germany landed in Delhi, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted.Uttarakhand govt suspends Chardham Yatra due to Covid-19 situationUttarakhand government has suspended Char Dham Yatra this year in view of #COVID19 situation in the state. Only priests of the four temples will perform rituals and puja: Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat (File photo) pic.twitter.com/No6I9G2WDxUttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat said that the Char Dham Yatra has been suspended this year due to the Covid-19 situation, reports ANI.Centre says over one crore Covid-19 vaccine doses still available with statesMore than 1 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs and they will receive over 20 lakh more doses within the next 3 days, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.Puducherry records 1,122 fresh Covid-19 casesPuducherry records 1,122 fresh Covid-19 cases, 564 recoveries, and 12 deaths in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 8,689Total recoveries: 47,645Death toll: 793States, UTs to receive over 2 million Covid-19 vaccine doses in next 3 days: CentreGovt of India has so far provided over 16.16 cr vaccine doses to States/UTs free of cost. Over 1 cr doses still available with States/UTs to be administered. Over 20 lakh doses, in addition, will be received by States/UTs in the next 3 days: Ministry of Health & Family Welfare pic.twitter.com/I58cLHwfNlThe Union health ministry said that more than 161 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine has been given free of cost to states and UTs. The ministry also said that over 100 million doses are available with the states and another 2 million doses would be received in the next three days, reports ANI.Long queues seen outisde Mumbai's NESCO Covid-19 vaccination centreMaharashtra: Long queues of people seen outside NESCO vaccination centre in Mumbai.#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/rg0VbBGBXRPeople waiting in long queues outside the NESCO Covid-19 vaccination centre in Mumbai, reports ANI.Uttarakhand HC orders state govt to conduct 30,000-50,000 Covid-19 tests in 3 citiesThe HC also gave order to the state's Health Secretary to provide all facilities to COVID-19 patients in home isolation. The Court further said that private labs and hospitals of the state be registered under National Disaster Management Act and be used for RT-PCR tests.The High Court of Uttarakhand in Nainital has ordered the state government to conduct 30,000 to 50,000 Covid-19 tests in the Dehradun, Haldwani and Haridwar cities, reports ANI.Covid-19 in India: Active caseload crosses the 300,000-mark#CoronaVirusUpdates: 📍Total #COVID19 Cases in India (as on April 29, 2021)▶️82.10% Cured/Discharged/Migrated (1,50,86,878)▶️16.79% Active cases (30,84,814)▶️1.11% Deaths (2,04,832)Total COVID-19 confirmed cases = Cured/Discharged/Migrated+Active cases+Deaths#StaySafe pic.twitter.com/4lv1k9L0fqAll you need to know about India's Covid-19 numbers today -US aircraft with Covid-19 supplies taken off from California, to reach Delhi tomorrow: Indian ambassador to USThis evening, US' C-5 aircraft, with oxygen cylinders, oxygen regulators & other essential supplies, has taken off from California & it's expected to land in Delhi tomorrow. There'll be perhaps more such sorties, that will be undertaken: TS Sandhu, Indian Ambassador to US, to ANI pic.twitter.com/j6iDNh46ahIndian ambassador to US TS Sandhu said that an aircraft carrying essential Covid-19 supplies has taken off from California and is expected to land in Delhi tomorrow, reports ANI.Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot tests positive for Covid-19, to continue working from isolationकोविड टेस्ट करवाने पर आज मेरी रिपोर्ट भी पॉजिटिव आई है। मुझे किसी तरह के लक्षण नहीं हैं और मैं ठीक महसूस कर रहा हूं। कोविड प्रोटोकॉल का पालन करते हुए मैं आइसोलेशन में रहकर ही कार्य जारी रखूंगा।Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot tests positive for Covid-19. He said that he has no symptoms of the disease and would continue to work from isolation.India records biggest single-day spike with 379,257 new Covid-19 cases, 3,645 deathsWith 379,257 new Covid-19 cases and 3,645 deaths, India's cases tally reached 18,376,524 and death toll climbed to 204,832, according to the data from the Union health ministry.More than 1.7 million Covid-19 tests done on April 28: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/oBzD7jEzTXThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that 1,768,190 samples were tested on April 28 and cumulative testing has reached 284,471,979 samples.Watch | 2 Russian flights with Covid-19 supplies arrive in Delhi#WATCH | Two flights from Russia, carrying 20 oxygen concentrators, 75 ventilators, 150 bedside monitors, and medicines totalling 22 MT, arrived at Delhi airport earlier this morning. pic.twitter.com/L2JRu3WLZsTwo Russian flights with Covid-19 supplies including 20 oxygen concentrators, 75 ventilators, 150 bedside monitors, and medicines totalling 22 MT arrived in Delhi, reports ANI.Clearance expedited by Air Cargo, Delhi Customs for 2 Russian flights carrying Covid-19 supplies: CBICAir Cargo, Delhi Customs working 24*7 expedited clearance of two flights from Russia early morning which brought 20 oxygen concentrator, 75 ventilators, 150 bedside monitors and medicines totalling 22 MT: Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs (CBIC) pic.twitter.com/AZwZDS3aHAThe Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) said that Air Cargo and Delhi Customs worked "24x7" to expedite the clearance for two Russian flights with Covid-19 supplies, reports ANI.BJP MP writes to Uttarakhand CM requesting financial aid for families of journalists who die due to Covid-19BJP MP Ajay Bhatt writes to Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat requesting him if a ruling can be passed wherein financial aid be given under COVID-19 Act, besides CM Relief Fund & Journalist Welfare Committee, to families of the journalists who die due to #COVID19. (File pic) pic.twitter.com/MOfaBilpTZBJP MP Ajay Bhatt writes to Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat seeking if a ruling could be passed to provide additional financial aid to families of journalists who die due to Covid-19, reports ANI.Covid-19: Russian ambassador says 2 flights with equipment, medicines from Russia landed in IndiaFor this purpose, 2 urgent flights, operated by Russian EMERCOM arrived here today. These are oxygen concentrators, lung ventilation equipment, bedside monitors, medicines, including Coronavir & other essential pharmaceutical items: Nikolay Kudashev, Ambassador of Russia to IndiaRussia's ambassador to India Nikolay Kudashev said that 2 Russian flights with medicines, critical equipment landed in India, reports ANI.China reports 20 new mainland Covid-19 cases, death toll unchanged at 4,636China's National Health Commission said that 20 new Covid-19 cases, all cases originating from overseas, were recorded in the mainland, taking it's cases tally to 90,642. The death toll stands at 4,636, reports Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-april-29-2021-101619657741725.html
29-04-2021||India||Four-day lockdown in Goa from Thursday as Covid-19 cases spike||Goa will undergo a lockdown for four days from Thursday evening to Monday morning (May 3) in order to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Essential services and industries will be open during the lockdown. The announcement was made by Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday. He urged people not to panic buy. "The lockdown will be lifted on Monday," the Chief Minister said.He also appealed to the people to take necessary precautions against coronavirus and take medicines in case of Covid-19 symptoms.Here's what's allowed and what's not during the four-day lockdown:--Essential services and industries will be exempted during the lockdown but public transport will not be allowed.--Restaurant kitchens have been allowed to remain open and food deliveries can also take place.--Weekly markets will not be allowed during the lockdown.--Casinos, hotels and pubs will remain closed.--Borders will remain open for essential service transportation.--Tourists coming to Goa over the course of the four days will be allowed to stay in their hotels but not venture out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fourday-lockdown-in-goa-from-thursday-as-covid-19-cases-spike-101619655198397.html
29-04-2021||India||After 6.4 magnitude jolt, 6 earthquakes hit Assam's Sonitpur today||After the earthquake of 6.4 magnitude on the Richter scale on Wednesday, Assam's Sonitpur was struck by six tremors on Thursday.An earthquake of magnitude 2.7 on the Richter scale struck Assam's Sonitpur in the early hours of Thursday morning, said the National Center for Seismology. This is the sixth earthquake that occurred in Sonitpur on Thursday after 12.00 am.According to the NCS, the quake occurred at 2:38 am. The epicentre of the quake was 38 kilometres West-Northwest of Tezpur at a depth of 11 kilometres.Earlier today, earthquakes of magnitude 2.6, 2.9, 4.6, 2.7, and 2.3 on the Richter Scale had hit Sonitpur at 12.24 am, 1.10 am, 1.20 am, 1.41 am and 1.52 am respectively.Prior to that on Wednesday, around 10 earthquakes had hit the Sonitpur throughout the day. The most severe among them was an earthquake of magnitude 6.4 on the Richter scale that struck Sonitpur on Wednesday morning.According to NCS, the area is seismically very active falling in the highest Seismic Hazard zone V associated with collisional tectonics where Indian plate subducts beneath the Eurasian Plate."The historical and instrumentally recorded earthquake data (NCS catalogue) reveals that the region is affected by moderate to large earthquakes and the most prominent events among those are the July 29, 1960, Assam earthquake of magnitude 6.0," said NCS in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-6-4-magnitude-jolt-6-earthquakes-hit-assam-s-sonitpur-today-101619655708105.html
29-04-2021||India||UK to send 3 oxygen generation units to India||The United Kingdom will send three oxygen generation units, each with the capacity of producing 500 litres of oxygen per minute, to India in support of the country's fight against Covid-19.The United Kingdom High Commission to India on Wednesday said it will send further vital oxygen equipment to India as the country is witnessing a record surge of coronavirus infection."Three oxygen generation units will be sent from surplus stocks in Northern Ireland to support India by providing more oxygen to those suffering from COVID-19. The oxygen units are each capable of producing 500 litres of oxygen per minute, enough for 50 people to use at a time. Oxygen is one of the main needs of India's healthcare system," the statement read.UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said that Britain stands with Indian "friends" in their fight against Covid-19."We stand with our Indian friends in their fight against COVID-19. International collaboration is more essential than ever, and this additional UK support package will help meet India's current needs, particularly for more oxygen," the statement quoted him as saying.The UK recently announced its action to support India, with 495 oxygen concentrators and 200 ventilators sent from surplus stocks.The first batch of these medical supplies from UK arrived in Delhi on Tuesday, with the rest due to arrive in Delhi by Friday.India is reeling under the impact of the second wave of coronavirus. The country on Wednesday reported over 3.60 lakh fresh Covid-19 cases and 3,293 related deaths in the last 24 hours.The worsening Covid-19 situation in India has seen a surge in the demand for medical oxygen and beds for the Covid-19 patients and many parts of the country are reporting an acute shortage of essential medical supplies.Several countries around the world have come forward to help India as it continues to struggle with the increase in its health infrastructure needs caused by the rising coronavirus cases.On Tuesday, the World Health Organisation (WHO) had said that it has bolstered its Covid-19 response in India by redeploying 2,600 health experts from other programs to counter the recent daily spike in cases and deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-to-send-3-oxygen-generation-units-to-india-101619654752789.html
29-04-2021||India||Night curfew in Bihar from Thursday: All you need to know about new restrictions||Amid alarming rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Bihar will go for night curfew from Thursday from 6pm to 6am. The decision was taken by the Crisis Management Group (CMG) of the Bihar government, headed by chief minister Nitish Kumar. Along with this, all shops in the state have been asked to close at 4pm.Certain guidelines were announced on Wednesday, a day after Nitish Kumar held a review meeting to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in the state. "A high-level review meeting related to Corona was done through video conferencing. Instructed officers to supply sufficient oxygen and ensure availability of medicine," Kumar said in a tweet.He also ordered the officials of the state health department to take feedback from the district magistrates every alternate day on the Covid-19 scenario and take necessary steps accordingly, an official statement said.Bihar on Wednesday recorded 98,747 new cases of Covid-19. The state's Covid death toll has climbed to 2,391 with 84 more patients succumbing to the infection.Here are the new guidelines:--The government has ordered the closure of shops/commercial establishments by 4pm daily. Presently, the timing for shops/commercial establishments functioning was till 6pm.--Only 50 people have been allowed in a wedding ceremony, whereas only 20 people will be allowed to assemble for the last rites of individuals.--Marriage ceremonies will have to conclude at 10pm and no DJs will be allowed during these celebrations.--Government and other offices will function only with 25% attendance till 4pm.--Section 144 of CrPC prohibiting assembly of five or more people at one spot will be in force during the period.--Public transport will run under 50% capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-in-bihar-from-thursday-all-you-need-to-know-about-new-restrictions-101619653272766.html
29-04-2021||India||PM Modi holds meeting with IAF chief, reviews relief work||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday reviewed the Indian Air Force’s (IAF) Covid relief efforts and stressed on the need to increase the speed, scale and safety of operations in transporting oxygen tankers and other essential material to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Briefing the Prime Minister on the air force’s efforts to help fight the outbreak, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said that IAF has ordered 24x7 readiness of its entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of its medium-lift fleet to operate in a hub and spoke model to swiftly meet all Covid-related tasks across the country and overseas, the PMO said in a statement.“Aircrews for all fleets have been augmented to ensure round-the-clock operations,” the statement quoted the IAF chief as saying. Bhadauria also told Modi that IAF has set up a dedicated Covid-19 air support cell to ensure faster coordination with different ministries and agencies.IAF is making a significant contribution in the fight against Covid-19. For more than a week, it has been ferrying empty cryogenic oxygen containers to filling centres in India from different domestic locations, and has been making sorties abroad to help hospitals tide over the oxygen crisis.Multiple IAF sorties were underway on Wednesday as well, officials familiar with the development said. Oxygen tankers are being airlifted in C-17 heavy-lift planes from Bangkok to Jamnagar; Agra, Chandigarh, Hindon, Bhopal and Gwalior to Ranchi, Indore to Raipur, Bhopal to Surat, and Jodhpur and Indore to Jamnagar.“PM spoke about the need to ensure that IAF personnel engaged in Covid-related operations remain safe from infection. He also spoke about the need to ensure safety of all Covid-related operations,” the PMO statement said.Modi enquired about the health of IAF personnel and their families during the briefing. The IAF chief informed him that “near saturation vaccination coverage has been achieved in the IAF,” the statement said.On Monday, too, PM Modi reviewed the military’s preparations to assist the government in Covid-19 management. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat gave a detailed presentation to the Prime Minister on April 26.He informed him that all military medical personnel who retired or took premature retirement in the last two years are being recalled to work in Covid-19 facilities near them. Medical officers who retired more than two years ago have also been requested to make their services available for consultation through medical emergency helplines.The armed forces, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and defence public sector undertakings too are working for Covid-19 relief.They have set up Covid hospitals, ramped up oxygen production, airlifted medical staff and oxygen containers, and liaised with state governments to help deal with the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-holds-meeting-with-iaf-chief-reviews-relief-work-101619653648433.html
29-04-2021||India||Over 10 million 18+ sign up; no slots for jabs yet||A little over 10 million people signed up on the Co-WIN platform in roughly six hours after it began accepting registrations from those in the 18-44 age group on Wednesday, though these new signees are not likely to get coronavirus vaccines when they become eligible for the jabs on May 1 due to supply constraints.The registration process opened at 4pm. According to the Co-WIN dashboard, there were roughly 1.2 million new registrations till 3pm. By 10pm, the total number of people who signed through the day shot up to over 12 million.“[There were] no glitches. We registered 3.5 million people in one hour. We delivered 8.7 million SMSes in 1.5 hours,” said the chairman of the empowered group on vaccination, RS Sharma.Some people reported being unable to access the website immediately after 4pm, and an official, who asked not to be named, said there was an outage for half an hour before the platform was up and functional again.“People are now receiving OTPs within two to three seconds,” the official said, asking not to be named. “Initially, the load always increases. More people than one can account for turn up. But then it settles down. This is not unusual.” The official said that at one point the service was receiving 2.7 million hits per minute.Some people soon after signing up began posting screenshots on social media of the service not allowing anyone under 45 to select an appointment.A government official said this was because vaccination sites were mostly available at present for people over 45 years of age who continue to be part of the campaign for which doses are being distributed by the Union government. Doses for those under 45 are meant to be acquired directly by state governments or private hospitals, which is yet to happen.“The rest are in the process of negotiating prices and checking vaccine availability. The drive starts from May 1, people should soon be able to book appointments as well,” this person added.But officials across several states and in private hospitals said they have little idea about when they will be able to restart vaccinations. “We haven’t really been given a free hand though the government is also allowing private hospitals to procure. First priority is the Centre, then it is the states, and then private,” said Shobana Kamineni, executive vice-chairperson at Apollo Hospitals.Kamineni added that the vaccine manufacturers Apollo Hospitals reached out to said they had other commitments to fulfil first. “They have very clearly said that we’re not the priority. We can only open it when we have vaccines,” the executive said.A senior expert in the government admitted there could be a shortage of doses. “For conducting the initial two phases of national Covid-19 immunisation, the supplies seemed adequate, which is why the government also began exporting vaccine doses to help other countries. However, with the sudden surge in cases, and the government deciding to open up vaccination for all adults as a way of controlling the spread, the current production capacity looks inadequate. There is a need to quickly ramp up production and approve other vaccines such as Johnson & Johnson that already has applied for approval,” said a senior epidemiologist with the government, on condition of anonymity.India has two Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers active at the moment, and both of them put together produce about 80 million doses a month. The two manufacturers are Serum Institute of India (SII), which is locally manufacturing Oxford University-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine under the brand name Covishield, and Bharat Biotech, which is producing Covaxin.As per SII chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla, the company has a production capacity of about 60-70 million Covishield doses per month, and Bharat Biotech currently produces about 10 million doses of Covaxin in a month.Poonawalla has in recent media interviews said that SII hopes to begin deliveries to state government and private hospitals by mid-May. Bharat Biotech or its executive have not commented publicly on when they expect to start deliveries directly to states and private hospitals.As on Tuesday, of 16 states where HT reporters reached out to officials for details on direct vaccine supplies, only three – Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Assam – said they expected at least some of the doses to arrive by the first week of next month. Most others said they expected deliveries only after mid-May.Maharashtra, which was the first to seek deliveries from SII and Bharat Biotech, said it expects 100,000 doses of Covaxin and 10 million doses of Covishield in May. At the same time, several states have said that they were yet to hear back from either of the companies on order queries.To combat the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, the government expanded free vaccination coverage to all 45 years of age and above on April 1. The first phase of Covid-19 vaccination began on January 16 with all health care workers, which was later expanded to all frontline workers on February 2.Apart from halting vaccine exports for the time being, the government also has been encouraging vaccine producers to scale up. It is assisting Bharat Biotech in scaling up capacity from the current 10 million doses to about 20 million by June.SII also announced that it was working towards ramping up the production capacity to nearly 100 million doses a month.The Centre has made it clear that free vaccine doses are meant only for those above the age of 45, who are seen to be more at risk of severe disease or death with Covid-19. Vaccine makers will need to supply in a 50-50 ratio, with half going to the Centre, which will pass it on to states for the 45-plus vaccination in a formula it is yet to announce, and the rest directly to states and private hospitals.Experts said it is imperative for the vaccine drive to cover as much ground as quickly as possible. “It is important that the speed of vaccination be ramped up,to ensure we don’t see the kind of spread that we are seeing in the current wave,” said Dr Giridhara R Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-10-million-18-sign-up-no-slots-for-jabs-yet-101619652425711.html
29-04-2021||India||Tejas aircraft fires Python-5 air-to-air missile for first time||The indigenous Tejas light combat aircraft (LCA) on Tuesday fired the Israeli-origin Python-5 air-to-air missile (AAM) for the first time, paving the way for the short-range missile to be carried on the plane, officials familiar with the development said.“Trials were also aimed to validate enhanced capability of already integrated Derby beyond visual range (BVR) AAM on Tejas. The test firing at Goa completed a series of missile trials to validate its performance under extremely challenging scenarios,” the defence ministry said in a statement on Wednesday. The Derby missile achieved direct hit on a high-speed maneuvering aerial target and the Python missiles also achieved 100% hits, validating their complete capability, it added.The missiles were fired from Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA) Tejas aircraft flown by IAF test pilots from the National Flight Test Centre.The defence ministry in February awarded a ₹48,000 crore contract to Hindustan Aeronautics Limited for 83 LCA Mk-1A jets for the IAF.The deal took the total number of Tejas variants ordered to 123. The 40 LCAs already ordered by IAF are in the initial operational clearance (IOC) and the more advanced final operational clearance (FOC) configurations. The LCA Mk-1A will come with additional improvements over the FOC aircraft, making it the most advanced Tejas variant so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tejas-aircraft-fires-python-5-air-to-air-missile-for-first-time-101619647301018.html
29-04-2021||India||Allahabad High Court judge dies of Covid-19||Justice Virendra Kumar Srivastava of the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court died of Covi-19 on Wednesday. He was 59.Srivastava, who had tested positive for coronavirus, was undergoing treatment at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute (SGPGI) in Lucknow.While giving this information, Allahabad High Court Registrar (Protocol) Ashish Kumar Srivastava said that Justice Srivastava died at SGPGI on Wednesday.The Allahabad High Court and its Lucknow bench will remain closed on Thursday to mourn the death of Justice Srivastava.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief over the death of Justice Srivastava, the Uttar Pradesh government said in a statement issued in Lucknow on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-high-court-judge-dies-of-covid19-101619646789262.html
29-04-2021||India||Canada, Norway, Singapore lend support to India amid Covid surge||Singapore, Canada and Norway have joined the list of countries that have announced support for India’s response to a devastating second wave of coronavirus infections that has hit healthcare facilities across the country.The Singapore government dispatched a consignment of 256 oxygen cylinders on two C-130 military transport aircraft to West Bengal. “Last yr, [India] helped the world and [Singapore] by exporting essential medicines & supplies. Now, we stand with [India] as you fight Covid,” Singapore high commissioner Simon Wong tweeted.Singapore is among the first countries to send oxygen cylinders to India amid reports of a severe shortage of oxygen in several cities. The cylinders will support last mile oxygen delivery and more consignments are expected in the coming days.In Singapore, second minister for foreign affairs Maliki Osman formally handed over the assistance to Indian high commissioner P Kumaran at Paya Lebar airbase. Maliki said Singaporeans stand in solidarity with the people of India in the fight against the pandemic.“We have all witnessed in the past year how this pandemic is a trans-boundary threat. It gives no regard for country, nationality, or race. This is exactly why we must work collectively to support each other,” he said.On Saturday, the Indian Air Force airlifted four cryogenic tanks from Changi airport that will be used to transport oxygen.Canada announced that it is providing $10 million for humanitarian assistance to the Canadian Red Cross to support the Indian Red Cross Society’s response to the devastating situation in India. This contribution will support the procurement of essential supplies and medicines, including oxygen cylinders and ambulances, a statement from Canada’s foreign ministry read.“Canada stands with the people of India as they go through these difficult times. This funding will help meet some of the most urgent medical needs like purchasing and distributing essential supplies as well as supporting vital blood and ambulance services,” Canada’s international development minister Karina Gould said.Foreign minister Marc Garneau also spoke with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on Tuesday to convey Canada’s solidarity with the people of India, and said Canada is “exploring all options to support India’s urgent needs”.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau extended his support in a tweet. “Right now, the people of India are facing a tragic situation. To help with everything from ambulance services to buying personal protective equipment, we’re contributing $10 million to @IndianRedCross through @RedCrossCanada. We stand ready to donate extra medical supplies, too,” he said.The Norwegian government announced a contribution of 20 million Norwegian Kroners ($2.4 million) to be channelled through the World Health Organization (WHO) and International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC).The support will be used to scale up ambulance and blood donation services and medical helplines, buy equipment such as oxygen tanks for ambulances and procure hygiene products to migrant workers and other vulnerable groups.Norwegian ambassador Hans Jacob Frydenlund said, “We stand with you in this time of crisis, with the hope that the second wave will recede soon.” The Norwegian business community in India is also preparing to help in the quickest way possible, he added.Meanwhile, the UK announced that its second consignment of support materials will include three large oxygen generation units, each capable of producing 500 litres of oxygen a minute. The first consignment of British medical equipment arrived on Tuesday, and more will be delivered over the week.The UK will supply a total of 495 oxygen concentrators and 200 ventilators from surplus stocks. The support was sent in response to a request from India and a pledge from Prime Minister Boris Johnson for the UK to do all it can to help, the British high commission said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canada-norway-singapore-lend-support-to-india-amid-covid-surge-101619645869000.html
29-04-2021||India||First consignment of US Covid aid likely to reach on Friday||With the first consignment of US support materials for India’s Covid-19 response expected to arrive by Friday, people familiar with developments confirmed on Wednesday that India has additionally sought vaccines from the Biden administration.The people noted that the US does not currently have a large stockpile of the AstraZeneca vaccine – some 10 million doses have been produced so far and about 50 million doses are expected to be manufactured in May and June. There is also no clarity on how many doses from this stockpile will be provided to the country though President Joe Biden has himself mentioned that some of it will be sent to India, they said.The government’s international procurement programme is mainly focused at the moment on critical medicines such as Remdesivir and oxygen-related equipment, especially concentrators, cylinders, and large and small liquid oxygen tanks, that can be used to ramp up the supply of oxygen across the country.The first Russian consignment of support materials is expected to arrive in the country on Thursday and the first batch of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine is set to reach India by the end of the month, the people said on condition of anonymity.Details of the first consignment being sent by the US are still being worked out, though it is expected to contain a mix of equipment and supplies, and some of the materials could be sourced from US military bases in different parts of the world, the people said.Asked about reported comments by senior US officials at a recent background briefing that India hadn’t made any request for ready-to-use vaccines from the Biden administration, the people said this matter was raised on a couple of occasions with the American side.“The Indian side has said it would be useful to have US vaccines, may not be specifically the AstraZeneca vaccine, since India now has a fast-track mechanism for approving vaccines. The US is aware of our interest in procuring vaccines, AstraZeneca or otherwise,” said one of the people cited above.The Indian side has managed to get support from a large number of people in the US, including the administration, members of Congress and private businesses, and this is expected to be reflected in the materials that are set to arrive in the coming days, they said.India’s missions around the world are focusing on procuring critical medicines such as Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, and Favipiravir, and the Indian side’s ability to convince pharmaceutical major Gilead to donate 450,000 doses of Remdesivir is being seen as a “big success”. More supplies of Remdesivir are also expected from other countries, the people said.The current focus on oxygen-related equipment such as concentrators and cylinders is because it is difficult to import oxygen. “Liquid oxygen can’t be airlifted and has to be brought in by ship. Even there, we need special cryogenic tankers and their numbers are limited across the world. So far, there is one commercial shipment coming from Saudi Arabia,” said the first person cited above.Large oxygen generating plants, such as the ones being sent by Germany and France, are useful though they need considerable time to be installed and set up, the people said. On the other hand, large and small liquid oxygen tanks can help move the commodity from points of production to health care facilities across the country, they added.The people said there was no formal response to offers of assistance from Pakistan and China. There are no problems with commercial procurements from China by private Indian firms, such as the purchase of large numbers of oxygen concentrators from Hong Kong, the people said.The Indian government, especially the external affairs ministry and health ministry, is accelerating procurements from abroad by relaxing import procedures and waiving duties and also ensuring the supplies speedily reach the places where they are needed the most and are also used properly, the people said.All supplies from foreign governments and partners are being routed through the Indian Red Cross Society and countries are also free to provide aid directly to NGOs or other entities in India. The people reiterated that there had been no international appeal for assistance and India was looking to procure specific products from around the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-consignment-of-us-covid-aid-likely-to-reach-on-friday-101619644888975.html
29-04-2021||India||SII reduces vaccine price for state govts||Serum Institute of India (SII) on Wednesday lowered the cost of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, for state governments by 25% to R300 from an earlier price of R400, days ahead of the third phase of the inoculation drive that is open to all adults and is critical to arrest an alarming surge in infections across India.SII, which manufactures the vaccine developed by Oxford University and British drug firm AstraZeneca, had last week announced a price of R400 for states and R600 for private hospitals to purchase jabs for the third phase. The announcement had immediately triggered a row with several states protesting the price and complaining it was too steep in comparison with the Centre’s procurement price of R150 a dose.“As a philanthropic gesture on behalf of @SerumInstIndia, I hereby reduce the price to the states from Rs.400 to Rs.300 per dose, effective immediately; this will save thousands of crores of state funds going forward. This will enable more vaccinations and save countless lives,” tweeted SII chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla.The other Indian manufacturer, Bharat Biotech, has priced its Covaxin shot at R600 for state governments and R1200 for private hospitals.According to people aware of the matter within the government, the central government asked both the manufacturers to look at further revising the cost of vaccines to state governments.Several state governments, and private companies, are currently in talks with both manufacturers to strike deals as the central government has allowed states and private hospitals to directly procure up to 50% of vaccine manufactured by the firms.“Hard negotiation is happening regarding vaccine procurement but it is difficult to say at the moment when the delivery will start. Looks like the picture will be clear in a couple of days,” said an industry executive aware of the matter, requesting anonymity.On April 19, central government announced that it opened vaccination for all adults from May 1. At least 18 states have announced that they will administer the shots free of cost.Last week, SII had defended the pricing, saying the earlier price was based on advance funding and now it had to invest in scaling up and expanding capacity to produce more shots.Covishield is the lead vaccine in India’s immunisation drive, and roughly 133.4 million doses of it have been administered, in comparison to 13.6 million Covaxin jabs.Concerns about availability and shortages dog both jabs, and have shrouded the May 1 rollout date of the critical third phase in doubt. The Centre denies that there is any shortage and said on Tuesday that it gave states 150 million shots since the drive began in January and that eight million doses were in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-reduces-vaccine-price-for-state-govts-101619643593809.html
29-04-2021||India||Centre to buy 100k oxygen devices using PM Cares||The Union government on Wednesday announced the purchase of 100,000 portable oxygen concentrators and the development of 500 pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen plants, both funded by the PM Cares Fund, in an attempt to urgently boost medical oxygen supplies in the country which is gasping on account of the precious commodity in the midst of a raging second wave of the coronavirus disease in the country, with around three million active cases.Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed that these concentrators should be procured immediately and provided to the states which have the highest case burden in the country and are suffering from acute oxygen shortage.“1 lakh portable oxygen concentrators will be procured, 500 more PSA oxygen plants sanctioned from PM-CARES. This will improve access to oxygen, especially in district HQs and Tier-2 cities,” he tweeted.The move comes even as the Union government and state governments face a backlash from people unable to find oxygen for their friends and relatives, and against the backdrop of several hospitals in some parts of the country warning of the calamitous consequences of running out of medical oxygen. In Delhi itself, over the past week, at least 45 seriously ill patients across two hospitals have lost their lives on account of this.The 500 new PSA plants are planned in district headquarters and tier 2 towns according to a government statement, and will be “established with the transfer of the indigenous technology developed by DRDO and CSIR to the domestic manufacturers.”It is in addition to 551 such plants previously announced on Sunday, and 162 announced last year. Of the 162, 33 have been installed, according to a report in Scroll. The health ministry has said that another 26 will be ready by the end of April and another 21 by the end of May.No timeline has been provided for the development of the 500 and the 551 plants, although, in general, it takes between four and six weeks for such plants to be developed. The statement did not mention how much would be spent on the concentrators and the plants.In addition, DRDO has also started work on oxygen generating plants in four government hospitals in Delhi -- AIIMS, RML, Lady Hardinge, and Safdarjung -- and hopes to complete them by May 10 , defence ministry officials familiar with the developments said . Another oxygen generating plant will be set up at AIIMS, Jhajjar.DRDO has transferred oxygen generation technology to the industry, which has now stepped in to provide oxygen plants to state governments and hospitals. The technology transferred to the industry is based on the on-board oxygen generation technology developed for the Tejas light combat aircraft, according to the defence ministry. The oxygen generation plants can produce 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute.DRDO has transferred technology to Tata Advanced Systems Limited, Bengaluru, and Trident Pneumatics Pvt Ltd, Coimbatore, which will be producing 380 of the 500 plants for installation across various hospitals, the defence ministry said in a statement. The remaining 120 plants will be installed by industry in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Petroleum, Dehradun, it added.“Each oxygen plant is designed for a capacity of 1,000 litres per minute (LPM). The system can cater to 190 patients at a flow rate of 5 LPM and charge 195 cylinders per day…. Hospitals will be able to generate on-site medical oxygen in a cost-effective manner,” the ministry said. Together, the 500 plants can produce the equivalent of 960 MT of liquid oxygen in a day, significantly boosting the nation’s capacity.The PM on Monday reviewed the military’s preparations to assist in Covid management. He was briefed by chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat . He also reviewed the operations undertaken by IAF to transport oxygen and other essentials. For more than a week, IAF has been ferrying empty cryogenic oxygen containers to filling centres in India from different domestic locations and even abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-buy-100k-oxygen-devices-using-pm-cares-101619643072903.html
29-04-2021||India||₹1.20 crore fine imposed on tribal man for cutting 2 trees in MP’s Raisen||A Madhya Pradesh forest department officer has imposed a fine of ₹1.20 crore on a member of an indigenous forest tribe for allegedly cutting two trees in the forest of Raisen district, calculating the cost on basis of measurable and immeasurable benefits provided by trees, forest officials said.The fine was imposed on Chhote Lal Bhilala, 30, a resident of Silwani village of Raisen district, who was spotted cutting two sagaon (or sagwan; teak) trees at Singori Sanctuary on January 5. He was arrested on April 26.Bamhori forest ranger Mahendra Singh said, “According to study of the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education, a tree provides intangible benefits of ₹52 lakh for 50 years. This includes oxygen supply of ₹11.97 lakh, ₹23.68 lakh for controlling air pollution, 19 lakh for soil erosion and soil filtration and ₹4 lakh for water filtration. The trees gives tangible benefits of ₹2 lakh. Therefore, a tree gives benefits of about ₹60 lakhs during its life span to people.”In February, an expert committee told the Supreme Court that the value of a tree is its age multiplied by ₹74500.“The fine was imposed on the basis of benefits provided by a tree,” Singh added.“Chhote Lal is a habitual offender and locals complained that he was involved in illicit felling of trees to sell it to a furniture shop,” he added.However, Chhote Lal’s uncle Phool Bhilala said, “We live in a forest village and use uprooted old trees to construct our houses but the ranger is harassing us.An advocate and expert of Indian Forest Act, BL Gupta said, “According to Indian Forest Act, there is a provision of fine of ₹500 and six month imprisonment for illicit felling of tree. But the ranger imposed a fine as per a study in the charge-sheet. It is going to be an interesting case.”Madhya Pradesh forest department’S principal chief conservator Rajesh Shrivastava said: “I have asked divisional forest officer, Raisen to share a report on this issue because it’s a first of kind matter for the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/120-crore-fine-imposed-on-tribal-man-for-cutting-2-trees-in-mp-s-raisen-101619642338028.html
29-04-2021||India||RBI must disclose financial information regarding banks: Supreme Court||Striking a blow for financial transparency in the banking system, the Supreme Court on Wednesday revived its 2015 judgment making it necessary for the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to disclose financial information regarding private and public banks under the Right To Information (RTI) Act.The court dismissed a joint plea by the Central government and 10 banks seeking a recall of the 2015 judgment, consequently negating its interim order that stayed the release of the inspection reports of banks.A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran held that the applications for recall were not maintainable and were an attempt to seek reconsideration of the 2015 judgment, which broke new grounds by opening up under the purview of the sunshine law, information relating to Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) or bad loans , losses from trading operations, even show-cause notices and fines imposed by RBI.“A close scrutiny of the applications for recall makes it clear that in substance, the applicants are seeking a review of the judgment in Jayantilal N Mistry (2015 judgment). Therefore, we are of the considered opinion that these applications are not maintainable. All the miscellaneous applications are dismissed,” held the top court. It further noted that the banks did not make any attempt to present their version when the main case was heard.The applications for recall were filed by the Union government, State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank, HDFC Bank, Bank of India, Canara Bank, Bank of Baroda, Uco Bank, Indian Bank, Kotak Mahindra and AU Small Finance Bank.Through its landmark verdict in 2015, the apex court dismissed objections that RBI held financial information about the banks in a fiduciary capacity while making it clear that the banking regulator must act with transparency and not hide information that might embarrass the individual banks.Subsequently, RBI came out with disclosure policies in 2016 and 2019 that sought to dilute the impact of the court verdict. But after the apex court initiated contempt proceedings against RBI, the regulator rolled back the 2019 policy.Six months later, HDFC Bank and SBI filed applications for recall of the 2015 judgment and a different bench issued an interim order, saying: “Inspection Reports/Risk Assessment Reports/Annual Financial Inspection Reports of the Banks including State Bank of India shall not be released by the Reserve Bank of India until further orders.” After this, more banks queued up asking for the same relief.Arguing the matter, the banks alleged violation of natural justice, and said they were not heard when the 2015 judgment made it mandatory for them to furnish crucial financial information under the RTI Act. They also cited the Supreme Court’s 2017 verdict on the right to privacy, complaining that the 2015 judgment, if implemented, would trample upon the privacy of several investors and entities.On its part, the Union government argued that disclosure of such information could hurt the economic interest of the country and not just the entities involved and therefore, it was imperative to recall the judgment and reconsider the issues afresh.Representing one of the RTI applicants in the matter, advocate Prashant Bhushan opposed the recall plea and pointed out that the judgment was delivered in 2015 after hearing RBI and ICICI Bank with other banks not asking to be heard despite being familiar with the case. He added that the main plank of challenge in the previous round was RBI’s reluctance to part with the information on the fallacious ground that it held financial information from the banks in a fiduciary capacity and could not share it.The bench agreed with Bhushan. “In the instant case, the dispute relates to information to be provided by RBI under the Act. Though the information pertained to the banks, it was the decision of RBI which was in challenge and decided by this court. No effort was made by any of the applicants in the miscellaneous applications to get themselves impleaded when the transferred cases were being heard by this court,” it noted.It added that the applications styled as recall were essentially applications for review. “The nomenclature given to an application is of absolutely no consequence - what is of importance is the substance of the application,” maintained the court as it dismissed all the applications for recall.The bench further clarified that its order was confined to the maintainability of the recall applications and that banks were at liberty to take other recourses in law.In its 2015 verdict, the top court ruled that RBI was not in any fiduciary relationship with any bank. “RBI has no legal duty to maximize the benefit of any public sector or private sector bank, and thus there is no relationship of ‘trust’ between them. RBI has a statutory duty to uphold the interest of the public at large, the depositors, the country’s economy and the banking sector,” it said.It had added that “the baseless and unsubstantiated argument of RBI that the disclosure would hurt the economic interest of the country is totally misconceived”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-must-disclose-financial-information-regarding-banks-supreme-court-101619641941978.html
29-04-2021||India||Amid pandemic, better prices for key winter crops bring relief||As an unstoppable pandemic begins weighing on the economy, agricultural mandis or wholesale farm-produce markets are witnessing a fortuitous rebound, offering higher-than-benchmark minimum support prices (MSP) to farmers for key winter staples, cushioning farm incomes.Cultivators are receiving nearly federally fixed floor prices for wheat at private markets since winter harvests began on April 1. Farmers have also got up to 10% higher rates than MSP for mustard, gram, lentils, barley and rapeseed, wholesale price data from Agmarknet, an official platform, shows.Better farm-gate prices come as good news as India battling a paralysing second wave of Covid-19 infections which have squeezed incomes. Nearly half of all Indians depend on a farm-based livelihood. Unprofitable prices have been the bane of farming for long. Prices of primary articles not supported by government procurement have been up to 40% lower than floor prices for winter crops in recent years. An MSP is the federally determined price that promises minimum 50% profit over cost of cultivation. A law guaranteeing MSP has been a key demand of farm groups protesting the three central laws passed last year with the aim to liberalise the farm economy.According to Agmarknet data, between April 1 and 18, mustard prices nationally were 22% higher than MSP. Wheat was trading at near-MSP levels.In Madhya Pradesh and Punjab, the two biggest producers, wheat was selling at a rate equal to MSP in private markets.The Centre has set a target of procuring 43 million tonne of wheat, which is 40% of the total output. Prices are likely to firm up as procurement levels go up. Till April 27, the Centre had procured 23.2 million tonne of wheat from 2.22 million farmers at an MSP value of ₹43,916 crore, according to farm ministry data.Analysts say the current upswing is partly the result of higher global commodity prices and import duties on items such as edible oils. The global FAO Food Price Index released on April 8 averaged 118.5 points in March 2021, 2.1% higher than in February. The increase was led by strong gains in vegetable oils, meat and dairy subindices, while those of cereals and sugar subsided. “These factors have helped firm up prices this season. Global prices are always a big cue for domestic prices,” said Abhishek Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-pandemic-better-prices-for-key-winter-crops-bring-relief-101619639750501.html
29-04-2021||India||Bihar announces fresh curbs; night curfew from 6 pm to arrest Covid-19 surge||Failing to arrest the continuous surge of Covid-19 cases in the state, the Crisis Management Group (CMG) of the Bihar government, headed by chief minister Nitish Kumar decided to pre-pone the timings of night curfew from 9 pm to 6 pm from April 29. The curfew will remain in place till 6 am. In a series of measures announced on Wednesday, it has been decided to order closure of all shops from 4 pm. The government had earlier on April 9 ordered closure of shops from 6 pm. The present order will be in force till May 15. With the marriage season on, no curbs have been put on marriage ceremonies, but the government has further cut down the guest list from 100 to 50 and for the last rites it has been reduced to 20 from 50. “DJs in marriages have been banned and all government and semi government offices will now function with only 25% of their strength. In case of marriage ceremonies, the night curfew will be effective from 10 pm,” said principal secretary (health and disaster management department), Pratyaya Amrit. “All offices will close by 4 pm from Thursday,” he added. However, the government has decided to keep public transport (up to 50% of the capacity), industrial units, construction activities, e-commerce, health and health related services, carts used by fruit and vegetable vendors, agriculture and allied services, restaurants (take away system till 9 pm) out of the purview of the restrictions. “The district administration will ensure that vegetable vendors are placed in a staggered manner to prevent crowding and they can impose restrictions on mandis, if required,” said Amrit. The state reported 13,374 positive cases on Tuesday and 84 deaths in last 24 hours. “The way Covid-19 cases are increasing, the active cases may reach up to 3 lakhs as per a conservative estimate. The government has now decided to get the last rites done from its own resources of all Covid-19 related deaths. The urban development department and rural development departments have been asked to depute officers for this,” said development commissioner, Amir Subhani. “The health department and district administrations have been asked to ensure that all infrastructure like beds, piped oxygen supply, ventilators, oxygen concentrators, shall be made ready to deal with the situation likely to arise in case of further surge in cases,” he added. Subhani said that with an estimate of 3 lakh active cases, it has also been decided to ensure proper strength of allopathic, Unanai, Aayush, doctors as well as dentists, para medical staff, nurses, lab technicians and recruit people through walk-in interviews on one-year contract. “The government can also take the services of retired doctors and strictly use Section 144 to enforce regulations,” he added. The district administrations have also been asked to form containment zones as per requirement and alert people through public address system, the development commissioner said. The government has also decided to get the RT-PCR tests done of all policemen who had gone for election duty in West Bengal and other states and the health department has been asked to ensure availability of Remdesivir for patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-announces-fresh-curbs-night-curfew-from-6-pm-to-arrest-covid-19-surge-101619639619679.html
29-04-2021||India||6.4 magnitude quake hits Assam, 10 injured||A magnitude 6.4 earthquake shook Assam on Wednesday and caused damage to buildings and injured at least 10 people even as there were no reports of loss of lives. According to National Centre for Seismology (NCS), the quake struck at 7.51 am and its epicentre was in Sonitpur district at a depth of 17 km. The earthquake lasted for nearly 30 seconds and was followed by 10 aftershocks of magnitudes ranging from 4.7 to 2.9 within the next eight hours.“Preliminary analysis shows that the event is located near to Kopili Fault closer to Himalayan Frontal Thrust (HFT). The area is seismically very active falling in the highest seismic hazard zone (V) associated with collisional tectonics where Indian Plate subducts beneath the Eurasian Plate,” said an NCS report.Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) officials said 10 people have sustained injuries in Darrang, Kamrup (Metropolitan) and Sonitpur districts of the state. “We are still collecting details of the exact damages from all districts. Some reports said that two persons died due to quake. But we found one of them died due to cardiac arrest and the other was a Covid-19 patient,” said Dhiraj Saud, state coordinator, ASDMA.He added that many apartment blocks, private buildings and a portion of the state secretariat in state capital Guwahati and some buildings in Nagaon, Tezpur and Golaghat sustained cracks. “This is the biggest earthquake I have felt.. it continued for nearly 30 seconds. As we stay on the 3rd floor of our building, we just waited and prayed it would end soon without causing major damage,” said Dipika Gogoi, a resident of Bamunimaidan in Guwahati.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union ministers Amit Shah and Jitendra Singh spoke to chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal over the earthquake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/64-magnitude-quake-hits-assam-10-injured-101619638164498.html
29-04-2021||India||FIR against Apollo in Bengaluru for illegally blocking beds||As people of Bengaluru struggle to find hospital beds for the Covid-19 patients, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has alleged that several private hospitals in the city are not providing 50% of beds for government-referred Covid-19 patients as per a notification issued earlier this month. Based on a complaint on Monday, the BBMP has initiated action against Apollo Hospital on Bannerghatta Road for illegally blocking beds and issuing a bill of ₹2.4 lakh to a patient who was referred to the hospital through the government allotment. A senior BBMP official said that Subramanyapura police on Monday registered an FIR against six people, including the hospital’s CEO, under the Disaster Management Act and various sections of the IPC. “We came across three cases. In all three cases, patients were admitted to the hospital, and they were continued to be shown as undergoing treatment, even though they were discharged, in one case deceased. By fudging documents, they illegally blocked the beds,” said the officer. In one of the cases, even though the patient was enrolled through BBMP allocation, the hospital issued a bill of ₹2.4 lakh, claiming some tests were not covered in the government allotment. Authorities came to know about this after the patient’s family lodged a complaint with the BBMP. Apollo hospital was not available for comment. The government order issued on April 7 mandated that private hospitals reserve 50% of their beds for treating Covid-19 patients referred by public authorities.BBMP officials said that the blocking of the beds or not providing 50% of the beds to the government has been rampant since the second wave began. In a meeting held on Sunday with the Karnataka chief secretary private hospitals denying beds was the major talking point said the BBMP official. “To give an example, there is a database available for all the hospitals that are available for allotment from BBMP, publicised online. However, no such list is available for the private hospital. Even though we had asked the private hospitals to provide this data, they have refused. This clearly shows there is foul play,” said the official. The BBMP official said that more than 66 private hospitals in the city have been issued show cause notices for their failure to provide beds since last week. “The list includes hospitals like Fortis Hospitals, M.S. Ramaiah, Narayana Health, among others,” he said. HT reached out to all the 66 private hospitals but there was no response. The hospitals have not responded to BBMP notice as well. These irregularities came to light following surprise inspections by the BBMP and the complaint lodged by citizens. “Some hospitals have responded pointing technical issues and have assured to rectify the issues, while others are yet to provide a response,” he said. Private hospitals, however, have been raising concerns over the pendency of bills from government. Dr Prasanna, president of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) said the bills due from the government to private hospitals are yet to be paid. “In the first wave of the Covid-19, we had given 50% of our beds to the government. The government is yet to pay several private hospitals for these allocations. In Bengaluru, hospitals are only paid around 60% of the dues. If the government delays payment, we will not be able to operate for long,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-apollo-in-bengaluru-for-illegally-blocking-beds-101619638718956.html
29-04-2021||India||Vaccination for 18-44 age group to begin after supply arrives: K’taka chief secy||Bengaluru Karnataka chief secretary P Ravi Kumar on Wednesday said that vaccination for the 18-55 age group will commence only once the doses arrive, indicating that the inoculation drive for the younger age groups which is scheduled to begin from May 1 across the country may be delayed in the state. Karnataka has placed an order for 10 million doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India (SII), valued at ₹400 crore. However, it is unsure about the date and time of delivery.“The third phase of Covid-19 vaccination for 18-44 years will be rolled out in the state once the schedule of supplies is received from the manufacturers,” the chief secretary said in a statement issued by Karnataka’s department of public relations.The statement casts a cloud over the vaccination drive for the younger age group which, in recent weeks, has been one of the biggest casualties of the virus. Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education K Sudhakar on Wednesday said the state has around 4.5 lakhs vials in stock and is expecting another four lakh vials by evening.“The registration for vaccination will continue to be through the CoWIN portal,” Ravi Kumar said.He added that the scheduling of slots for vaccination at government and private facilities will be visible on the portal once the sessions are scheduled.Sudhakar also said that the state is procuring around 1.8 lakh doses of Remdesivir.The minister directed officials to take strict action against Mysuru-based Jubilant Life Sciences if they fail to deliver Remdesivir on time despite requests and orders from the government.Bengaluru accounted for 137 out of the 229 fatalities in the state in a single day on Wednesday.Karnataka and Bengaluru are among the worst Covid-impacted regions in the country.The active case load in Bengaluru stood at 2,242,252. Karnataka, which has seen a rapid rise in cases from several districts, has 328,884 active cases.The B S Yediyurappa-led state government has been accused of ignoring warnings from a state-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC) in November, that asked the administration to prepare for an imminent second wave of infections around February.The failure to ensure adequate arrangements has seen the state’s already inadequate healthcare infrastructure crumble under the weight of the raging pandemic.Karnataka is banking on vaccinations to tide over the pandemic and has even offered free inoculations for 18-44 age groups in government hospitals. So far, the state has vaccinated over 9.2 million people, averaging a little over 100,000 per day, according to government data. Vaccine wastage is around 1.4%, according to the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-for-18-44-age-group-to-begin-after-supply-arrives-k-taka-chief-secy-101619638599031.html
29-04-2021||India||Row as Karnataka minister snubs farmer seeking enhanced supply||In a major embarrassment to the Y S Yediyurappa government, Karnataka food and civil supplies minister Umesh Katti on Wednesday reportedly told a farmer to die over a request for enhanced supply of rice through the public distribution system (PDS) amid a coronavirus-induced lockdown for two weeks across the state.While the minister is yet to tender an apology, the chief minister’s office (CMO) expressed regrets over the remarks and assured all arrangements for those in need. In an alleged phone conversation recording that was played on loop by all Kannada channels, the minister is heard telling a farmer that “it is better to die” and asked him “not to call him back” for any further requests.HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the audio clip. During the alleged conservation, the farmer told the minister that the government was providing only 2 kgs of rice. Katti responded by saying that an additional 3kgs of ragi will also be provided to the farmers. When the farmer said that people of north Karnataka do not eat ragi, the minister said jowar would be provided instead. “Will it be enough when there is no livelihood?” the farmer asked. To this, the minister said that the Centre was providing 5kg of rice during the lockdown. When the farmer sought to know when they could expect the distribution, the minister said “next month”. “Should we go hungry until then or die,” the farmer asked. In his response, Katti said: “It is better to die and don’t call me back.” The minister, however, claimed he felt provoked by the farmer’s remarks. “He asked me if I should die and I said die. He kept asking me If we should die. What should I have told him?” he told reporters. Terming the remarks as “wrong”, the CMO said that arrangements will be made to distribute rice if the people did not want wheat. “I regret the statements made by Umesh Katti,” the CMO statement read. The minister’s alleged response drew sharp criticism from the Congress who held a mock funeral of Katti, by carrying a body-like structure made of waste cloth with his photograph. The party also changed slogans against the minister. Despite the government’s apology, the Congress demanded the resignation of the minister.“BJP minister Umesh Katti has abused a citizen & asked him to ‘go die’ just because he asked him why Karnataka Govt has cut Rice under PDS to just 2 kgs! CM @BSYBJPmust immediately throw him out of the cabinet for this most insensitive statement.Does this Govt have any shame?” state Congress chief D K Shivakumar said. Speaking to reporters later, Shivakumar said apologising or expressing regret was not a solution. “Expressing regret is of no use. You should sack him. One should be accountable, responsible,” he said.The incident came at a time when the state government is already grappling to curb the pandemic. On Wednesday, Bengaluru reported its highest single-day spike with 22,596 new infections, pushing the overall number of active cases to 224,252. The city accounted for 137 out of the 229 fatalities in the state.A close confidant of Yediyurappa, Katti had stoked controversy in February over his remarks that families with television sets and two-wheelers should surrender their BPL (below poverty line) cards before March 31 or face action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-as-karnataka-minister-snubs-farmer-seeking-enhanced-supply-101619638539512.html
29-04-2021||India||Amid 14-day shutdown, Karnataka permits garment units to run with 50% force||The Karnataka government on Wednesday issued another addendum to its earlier announced guidelines to the lockdown, allowing garment manufacturing units to operate with 50% of its workforce.“All industries/industrial establishment/production units are permitted to operate adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour. However, garment manufacturing units will operate with 50% of its workforce strictly adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” an order signed by Karnataka’s chief secretary P Ravi Kumar read.The addendum comes two days after the government issued guidelines in which it restricted the labour-intensive sector from business as it would involve operations with workers sitting side-by-side.In a letter to Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa, the Garment and Textile Workers Union had asked him to allow the sector to resume operations as most of the employees in this industry were women.“BCIC (Bangalore Chamber of Commerce and Industry) welcomes the State Government of Karnataka in allowing the Garment Factories to work with 50% workforce in line with its recommendations,” the forum said in a statement on Wednesday.The government said that the movement of staff shall be allowed by producing valid ID/authorisation issued by concerned industries/industrial establishments.Amid a spike in cases, Karnataka is observing a 14-day lockdown since Tuesday night. On Wednesday, Bengaluru reported its highest single-day spike with 22,596 new infections, taking its active tally to 224,252. The state registered a total of 39,047 cases on Wednesday. Bengaluru accounted for 137 out of the 229 fatalities in the single-day surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-14-day-shutdown-karnataka-permits-garment-units-to-run-with-50-force-101619638298922.html
29-04-2021||India||3k Covid patients missing in Bengaluru||As many as 3,000 people infected with Covid-19 have gone missing from Bengaluru and efforts to trace them are underway, Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka said on Wednesday.Addressing reporters in Bengaluru, Ashoka said: “We are giving free medicines to the people which can control 90% of cases, but they have (Covid infected people) switched off their mobile phones. They decide to reach the hospital only when they arrive at a critical stage, desperately looking for ICU beds. This is what is happening now.” Urging all those infected to keep their cell phones available for officials to reach them for contact tracing and follow-ups, the minister said: “I pray to them with folded hands that Covid cases will only increase due to this. It is wrong when you reach for ICU beds at the last moment.” “At least 2,000 to 3,000 people in Bengaluru have switched off their phones and left their houses. We don’t know where they have gone,” he added. Recently, the Karnataka government stepped up its contact tracing activity after it found that officials in Bengaluru among other districts were tracing only upto four contacts per infected person, in contrast to guidelines that mandate tracing at least 20 contacts. On Wednesday, Karnataka, which is under a 14-day lockdown since Tuesday night, reported 39,047 new Covid cases and 229 deaths. Of the fresh cases, 22,596 were from Bengaluru alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3k-covid-patients-missing-in-bengaluru-101619638240180.html
29-04-2021||India||Covid curbs spur another exodus of migrants amid fears of 2020 replay||Manoj Kumar Kushwa and three of his friends took close to 16 hours to reach Hyderabad from here in an autorickshaw. It may take a minimum of another three days before they are able to reach their village in Motihari in Bihar, about 2,158 kms from Bengaluru. The auto they are travelling in cannot run beyond 50-60 kms per hour.All four of them left Bengaluru at about 5 pm on Tuesday, hours before the coronavirus-induced lockdown came into force across the state for two weeks, to escape any further uncertainty amid the raging pandemic. Only essential services are allowed to operate for four hours during this period. “Last lockdown, we atleast got food, but this time, we are not sure if even that will be provided. We cannot earn our livelihood due to the lockdown. We are still paying back a debt of ₹30,000 we borrowed last year. We hadn’t recovered from the impact of the last lockdown and now there is another. We thought it best to leave for our village,” Kushwa said.The 36-year-old has been driving his autorickshaw and also done some menial jobs like working at construction sites in Bengaluru since 2007 but has managed to collect enough to sustain the fortnight-long lockdown, which he fears may be extended.Similarly, thousands were seen leaving in trains and buses from Bengaluru on Tuesday night. Migrant workers, who make up for the bulk of blue-collar jobs in the IT capital and usually work as delivery personnel, auto drivers, constructions, civic workers among others, are escaping a city which fueled their dreams of providing a better life for themselves and their families.Scenes of several like them, walking for hundreds of thousands of kilometers from across urban centres in the country during the lockdown last year, remain fresh in the minds of these migrants amid fears of lack of support from the administration and chances of being stranded.Nanu Bhuiyan, a 35-year-old from Jharkhand, left Bengaluru last September and was planning to return to the city untilthe lockdown was announced.“I think I will wait for another two months before I return. There is not much we can do in my village but all of us are better off here than in Bengaluru,” Bhuyian, who worked at a catering firm before the 2020 lockdown, told HT over phone. He was among the several migrants whom HT had spoken with during the pandemic last year.As one of India’s largest and most prosperous cities, Bengaluru attracts migrants from all corners of the country. The city’s population grew from around 6.5 million in 2001 to over 12 million currently, most of which have been fueled by its prowess in Information Technology (IT), startups, aerospace, biotechnology among several other public sector enterprises.According to the 2011 census, migrants make up for over 4.4 million of the total 9.6 million population of Bengaluru. This includes both white and blue-collar workers.Bengaluru is one of the worst Covid-19 impacted regions in the country and has over 200,000 active cases with single-day infections around the 20,000 mark. On Wednesday, the city recorded 22,596 cases and 137 fatalities.The spike in infections since March this year has led to a higher number of people requiring hospitalisation. Most of the hospital beds here are full, with barely any spare ones to admit critical cases. According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the city’s civic body and the central bed management system, there are around 3,257 hospital beds left availablefor Covid-19 patients. Of this, there are less than 60 vacant intensive care units (ICU) beds and those with ventilators in private hospitals and medical colleges, data showed, thereby putting immense pressure on the resources across government medical establishments which is the only source of hope for the poor.Lalrinawmi Ralte, president of Northeast Solidarity, an association of people from North East states residing in Bengaluru, said several blue-collar workers in the city felt stuck due to the lockdown announcement on a short notice.“There are many blue-collar workers who work in the outskirts of Bengaluru. Now, they cannot travel to work and are asking for relief,” she said. While Bengaluru has allowed construction work to continue, one of the largest employers of migrant workers, the general mistrust in the administration and its constant change in lockdown-related policies have forced several to return to their villages, people aware of the developments said.However, Kishore Jain, President of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India or CREDAI (Bengaluru chapter) said though they have faced shortage of labour since September, most people have returned to construction activities.“We haven’t heard from any developer of any shortage of labour. The government was very cognizant of this factor that there should be no exodus of workers. So they have allowed all in-situ construction activity,” Jain said.The situation doesn’t appear to be the same with small construction associations.“We are facing a shortage of around 50-60% as workers have started leaving for their home-towns from about three days ago. Large developers can set up camp in their sites to keep workers but not the smaller ones. Also, there is a fear that even if workers show up to work, none of the establishments like small hotels and others will open, which will cause them trouble,” S Shivakumar, member of Builders Association of India, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-curbs-spur-another-exodus-of-migrants-amid-fears-of-2020-replay-101619638179406.html
29-04-2021||India||RBI must disclose financial information regarding banks: SC||New Delhi: Striking a blow for financial transparency in the banking system, the Supreme Court on Wednesday revived its 2015 judgment making it necessary for the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to disclose financial information regarding private and public banks under the Right To Information (RTI) Act. The court dismissed a joint plea by the Central government and 10 banks seeking a recall of the 2015 judgment, consequently negating its interim order that stayed the release of the inspection reports of banks. A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran held that the applications for recall were not maintainable and were an attempt to seek reconsideration of the 2015 judgment, which broke new grounds by opening up under the purview of the sunshine law, information relating to Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) or bad loans , losses from trading operations, even show-cause notices and fines imposed by RBI. “A close scrutiny of the applications for recall makes it clear that in substance, the applicants are seeking a review of the judgment in Jayantilal N Mistry (2015 judgment). Therefore, we are of the considered opinion that these applications are not maintainable. All the miscellaneous applications are dismissed,” held the top court. It further noted that the banks did not make any attempt to present their version when the main case was heard. The applications for recall were filed by the Union government, State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank, HDFC Bank, Bank of India, Canara Bank, Bank of Baroda, Uco Bank, Indian Bank, Kotak Mahindra and AU Small Finance Bank. Through its landmark verdict in 2015, the apex court dismissed objections that RBI held financial information about the banks in a fiduciary capacity while making it clear that the banking regulator must act with transparency and not hide information that might embarrass the individual banks. Subsequently, RBI came out with disclosure policies in 2016 and 2019 that sought to dilute the impact of the court verdict. But after the apex court initiated contempt proceedings against RBI, the regulator rolled back the 2019 policy. Six months later, HDFC Bank and SBI filed applications for recall of the 2015 judgment and a different bench issued an interim order, saying: “Inspection Reports/Risk Assessment Reports/Annual Financial Inspection Reports of the Banks including State Bank of India shall not be released by the Reserve Bank of India until further orders.” After this, more banks queued up asking for the same relief. Arguing the matter, the banks alleged violation of natural justice, and said they were not heard when the 2015 judgment made it mandatory for them to furnish crucial financial information under the RTI Act. They also cited the Supreme Court’s 2017 verdict on the right to privacy, complaining that the 2015 judgment, if implemented, would trample upon the privacy of several investors and entities. On its part, the Union government argued that disclosure of such information could hurt the economic interest of the country and not just the entities involved and therefore, it was imperative to recall the judgment and reconsider the issues afresh. Representing one of the RTI applicants in the matter, advocate Prashant Bhushan opposed the recall plea and pointed out that the judgment was delivered in 2015 after hearing RBI and ICICI Bank with other banks not asking to be heard despite being familiar with the case. He added that the main plank of challenge in the previous round was RBI’s reluctance to part with the information on the fallacious ground that it held financial information from the banks in a fiduciary capacity and could not share it. The bench agreed with Bhushan. “In the instant case, the dispute relates to information to be provided by RBI under the Act. Though the information pertained to the banks, it was the decision of RBI which was in challenge and decided by this court. No effort was made by any of the applicants in the miscellaneous applications to get themselves impleaded when the transferred cases were being heard by this court,” it noted. It added that the applications styled as recall were essentially applications for review. “The nomenclature given to an application is of absolutely no consequence - what is of importance is the substance of the application,” maintained the court as it dismissed all the applications for recall. The bench further clarified that its order was confined to the maintainability of the recall applications and that banks were at liberty to take other recourses in law. In its 2015 verdict, the top court ruled that RBI was not in any fiduciary relationship with any bank. “RBI has no legal duty to maximize the benefit of any public sector or private sector bank, and thus there is no relationship of ‘trust’ between them. RBI has a statutory duty to uphold the interest of the public at large, the depositors, the country’s economy and the banking sector,” it said. It had added that “the baseless and unsubstantiated argument of RBI that the disclosure would hurt the economic interest of the country is totally misconceived”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-must-disclose-financial-information-regarding-banks-sc-101619638179957.html
29-04-2021||India||TN-based NGO performs last rites of Covid victims across religions||In the initial days of the pandemic last April, volunteers of an NGO, Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) offered to give a Muslim man who succumbed to the virus a decent burial and performed the last rites which this was filmed by a stranger. A week later, the stranger contacted them and requested if they could follow Christian traditions and bury his family member who also died due to Covid-19.“He took a video because the patient was critical. At that time the municipalities were burying the bodies or cremating them and family members weren’t allowed. We of course agreed,” said TMMK’s Coimbatore secretary Mujibur Rehman. “Now families from all regions contact us.”For a year now, TMMK volunteers across the state have helped bury more than 2,200 Covid victims. Besides the fear of infection spreading, families of the deceased can’t be present as they are hospitalised or in home isolation. “Last year during the first wave, we had to bury an entire family of four. We can never forget some heart wrenching days,” said Chennai-based Kaleel Rahuman, treasurer of TMMK’s state medical wing.On Wednesday, a family of senior citizens in Chennai contacted the organisation to help bury 75-year-old Sharif who had died in the afternoon. “All the members of the family were old and couldn’t physically conduct a burial so they approached us,” said Rahuman. “Initially in Chennai we were burying unknown and unclaimed bodies. When we saw the first body in Chennai being flung into a ditch, it really shocked us. So we performed last rites from any religion to give them a respectful burial.” On the request of families, the last rites are filmed on mobile phones so the family can watch.They do the burial service for free. Families bear the costs of the ambulance service from hospital to the burial ground, and for materials used in the burial. The volunteers use a JCB to dig a 12-feet deep trench, volunteers wear PPEs, 10kg of bleaching powder is sprinkled in the trench and use cloth to cover the mortal remains.Their work for Covid-19 infected patients began when members from the Tablighi Jamaat returned from Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz Mosque and several had turned positive in March 2020. The community was vilified for spreading the virus. “We were hurt. We were dealt with like criminals,” recalls Rehman. “But we didn’t react by protesting. Instead, we decided to prove ourselves by getting down to the ground to do social service.”The volunteers are presently observing their fasts during Ramadan and take turns to work as teams. Every burial requires at least seven volunteers. They isolate themselves for five days after a burial and those eligible have been vaccinated as a safety precaution. “We are happy to set an example and now several NGOs are volunteering with burial services,” says Rehman. TMMK also has a political wing- Manithaneya Makkal Katchi which has contested in two seats in the opposition Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tnbased-ngo-performs-last-rites-of-covid-victims-across-religions-101619638118917.html
29-04-2021||India||Kerala to buy 10mn doses of vaccine: CM||Amid mounting cases of Covid-19, the Kerala government on Wednesday decided to buy 10 million doses of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines directly from manufacturers. “We have decided to make vaccines free for all age sections. For this, we have decided to buy one crore doses (70 lakh doses of Covishield and 30 lakh doses of Covaxin) in three months, starting from May. We have sent several letters to the Centre, requesting it to make the vaccine free but we are yet to hear from it,” chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters here, adding that the ongoing vaccination drive has been affected at several areas due to paucity of doses. “We hope at least the Centre will do away with three different price regimes for vaccines. We have to get it at the same price which the Centre is getting, i.e., ₹150 per dose. Otherwise, it will burden the state which is already reeling under the impact of pandemic,” the chief minister said. The government, meanwhile, has decided not to impose a complete lockdown in districts with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 15 per cent and above, even as the state registered another single-day spike of 36,013 cases on Wednesday, highest since the outbreak began, with a TPR of 25.34. The state also reported 41 deaths, taking the overall toll to 5211. The active caseload stood at 266,646. Earlier, the Union health ministry had strongly recommended a complete shutdown across 150-odd districts which report a TPR of more than 15. Out of 14 districts in the state, at least 12 showed a TPR of above 15 per cent on Wednesday. In Kottayam, which is the worst-affected, the TPR is more than double -- 30.81 -- and in Malappuram, it is 25.8%. The Kerala government believes that a complete lockdown is likely to impact the livelihood of many. The chief minister has made it clear that all restrictions will be tightened further and advised people not to step out of their homes until absolutely necessary. Vijayan admitted that the state is going through a critical phase and in some areas of Kottayam, the TPR is above 40 per cent. “Cases are going up fast. We have ramped up medical facilities at many places. ICU beds, ventilators and stock of oxygen increased,” he said, adding necessary changes will be made in hospital admission procedures to reduce the number of patients. He also said more health personnel will be recruited to tide over the shortage of workforce. Meanwhile, the Kerala chapter of the Indian Medical Association has asked the government to streamline vaccine supply and avoid heavy rush at inoculation centres. Otherwise, the association said, these centres may turn into virus hubs. “We don’t want vaccination joints to turn into transmission points,” IMA state secretary Dr P Gopakumar said in Thrissur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-buy-10mn-doses-of-vaccine-cm-101619637998959.html
29-04-2021||India||₹1.20cr fine imposed on tribal man for cutting 2 trees in MP’s Raisen||A Madhya Pradesh forest department officer has imposed a fine of ₹1.20 crore on a member of an indigenous forest tribe for allegedly cutting two trees in the forest of Raisen district, calculating the cost on basis of measurable and immeasurable benefits provided by trees, forest officials said.The fine was imposed on Chhote Lal Bhilala, 30, a resident of Silwani village of Raisen district, who was spotted cutting two sagaon (or sagwan; teak) trees at Singori Sanctuary on January 5. He was arrested on April 26.Bamhori forest ranger Mahendra Singh said, “According to study of the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education, a tree provides intangible benefits of ₹52 lakh for 50 years. This includes oxygen supply of ₹11.97 lakh, ₹23.68 lakh for controlling air pollution, 19 lakh for soil erosion and soil filtration and ₹4 lakh for water filtration. The trees gives tangible benefits of ₹2 lakh. Therefore, a tree gives benefits of about ₹60 lakhs during its life span to people.”In February, an expert committee told the Supreme Court that the value of a tree is its age multiplied by ₹74500.“The fine was imposed on the basis of benefits provided by a tree,” Singh added.“Chhote Lal is a habitual offender and locals complained that he was involved in illicit felling of trees to sell it to a furniture shop,” he added.However, Chhote Lal’s uncle Phool Bhilala said, “We live in a forest village and use uprooted old trees to construct our houses but the ranger is harassing us.An advocate and expert of Indian Forest Act, BL Gupta said, “According to Indian Forest Act, there is a provision of fine of ₹500 and six month imprisonment for illicit felling of tree. But the ranger imposed a fine as per a study in the charge-sheet. It is going to be an interesting case.”Madhya Pradesh forest department’S principal chief conservator Rajesh Shrivastava said: “I have asked divisional forest officer, Raisen to share a report on this issue because it’s a first of kind matter for the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/120cr-fine-imposed-on-tribal-man-for-cutting-2-trees-in-mp-s-raisen-101619637818874.html
29-04-2021||India||Four patients killed in fire at Thane hospital||Four patients were killed after a fire broke out at a private non-Covid-19 hospital in Mumbra near Thane in the wee hours of Wednesday, officials said. The deceased, who were among six patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) of Prime Criticare Hospital at Kausa-Mumbra locality, died after they were shifted to another hospital and not due to burns, the officials added. A short circuit in the metre box is suspected to be the cause of the fire which erupted around 3.40 am and was doused around 5 am, firefighting officials said. The cooling operations were completed in the next couple of hours. A total of 20 patients were in the hospital when the incident took place. This is the fourth case of fire in a hospital in the state in a span of one week.Briefing reporters, Thane municipal corporation (TMC) deputy commissioner Sandeep Malvi said: “Four people in the ICU of the hospital died after being shifted to various other hospitals. The remaining people were shifted to Bilal and Kalsekar hospitals. The deceased included Yasmeen Zafar Sayyed (46), Nawab Majid Shaikh (47), Halima Salmani (70) and Hari Ramji Sonawane (57).The hospital is part of the seven-floored residential Hasnain tower and located in a congested area of Mumbra.TMC’s regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam, said: “The fire broke out at 3.40 am on Wednesday. Two fire engines, two water tankers, five ambulances and one rescue vehicle were rushed to the spot. We rescued all 20 patients admitted in the hospital and shifted them to nearby hospitals. All of them were alive when we shifted them. They died in the respective hospitals after being shifted.”TMC chief fire officer Girish Zalke said the hospital was issued a notice in February after it had failed to submit a fire safety audit. “The Prime Criticare Hospital had not submitted the fire safety audit to us for which we had sent a notice to the hospital. There was no response. The fire started from the meter box of the ground floor of the hospital and later spread to the first floor, which also houses the hospital. The top six floors are residential floors,” he said. Assuring strict action against the guilty, guardian minister Eknath Shinde, who visited the spot, said, “We have asked for a structural and fire audit of the hospital and we will take action against the negligence that killed four persons. The state government has announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh for the deceased and 1 lakh for the injured. We have asked the TMC, too, to compensate the deceased with ₹5 lakh.”Sadique Engineer (30), a ward boy in the hospital, said the fire erupted at 3.15 am near the metre room.“An alarm that the oxygen supply to the patient is depleting went off after which I went to get an additional tank near the meter room and saw the fire. I used a fire extinguisher and tried to douse it but was unsuccessful. I called another ward boy on duty and together we tried to douse the fire using three to four extinguishers,” he said. After their efforts to contain the flames failed, they called the fire brigade who reached the spot at around 4 am.While no case has been filed so far, TMC deputy commissioner Manish Joshi said an inquiry committee has been formed to look into the case. “I will head the committee myself and the guilty will be brought to book,” she said. The short circuit led to a power cut, in the entire tower, which resumed later in the day. Senior inspector of Mumbra police Madhukar Kad said: “We are awaiting a report from TMC and fire officials. Following the report, a case will be registered against those responsible.”On April 23, 11 people died in a fire at a hospital ICU in Virar. Twenty-four Covid patients were killed after a leakage in an oxygen tank in Nashik led to disruption in supply on April 21. Eleven people reportedly died due to lack of oxygen in a hospital in Beed district on the following day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-patients-killed-in-fire-at-thane-hospital-101619637519976.html
29-04-2021||India||Covid-19 second wave: Russia extends support to India||Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday extended support to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for countering the Covid-19 situation in India even as the two sides decided to establish a new 2+2 dialogue of foreign and defence ministers.Modi spoke to Putin on telephone against the backdrop of reports that the first Russian consignment of support materials for India’s Covid-19 response was expected to reach the country on Thursday. Russian military aircraft will deliver more than 22 tonnes of equipment, including 20 oxygen production units, 75 ventilators, 150 medical monitors and 200,000 packs of medicine.The leaders discussed the evolving pandemic situation, and Putin “expressed solidarity with the people and government of India and conveyed that Russia would extend all possible support in this regard”, according to a statement from the external affairs ministry.Modi thanked Putin and said the “prompt Russian support to India was a symbol of our enduring partnership”.The leaders decided to establish a new 2+2 dialogue mechanism comprising the foreign and defence ministers of both countries. Russia will be only the fourth country with which India has such a mechanism, the others being the US, Japan and Australia.The contact at the highest levels of the leadership in India and Russia came after bilateral ties went through a rough patch recently, following Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov’s visit to New Delhi. Lavrov’s decision to club the trip to India with a visit to Pakistan, and his comments about Moscow being ready to supply special military equipment to Islamabad, did not go down well in New Delhi.During their conversation, Modi and Putin also discussed cooperation between the two sides to fight the global pandemic. Putin appreciated India’s decision to grant emergency use approval for Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, and the leaders “noted that the Russian vaccine will be manufactured in India for use in India, Russia and third countries”, the statement said.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity the first consignment of Russian-made Sputnik V doses is expected to reach India by the end of the month. The developers of Sputnik V have tied up with several Indian pharmaceutical firms to manufacture 850 million doses a year.Putin and Modi discussed ways to further deepen bilateral cooperation in different sectors in line with the bilateral special and privileged partnership. Modi conveyed his appreciation for Russia’s support for India’s Gaganyaan programme or first manned space flight, and the completion of the Russian phase of training for the four astronauts.The first manned space flight, originally planned for 2022, has now been pushed to 2023 because of the Covid-19 pandemic.The two leaders also noted the scope for increasing cooperation in renewable energy, including the hydrogen economy. They also recalled important decisions made during their last summit in Vladivostok in September 2019.Modi said he looked forward to Putin’s visit to India later this year for the bilateral summit, which would be an occasion to “continue their personal and trusted conversation”, the statement said. Putin assured Modi of Russia’s full support for the success of India’s presidency of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping during 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-second-wave-russia-extends-support-to-india-101619637043753.html
29-04-2021||India||Covid-19 2nd wave: Russia extends support to India||New Delhi : Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday extended support to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for countering the Covid-19 situation in India even as the two sides decided to establish a new 2+2 dialogue of foreign and defence ministers. Modi spoke to Putin on telephone against the backdrop of reports that the first Russian consignment of support materials for India’s Covid-19 response was expected to reach the country on Thursday. Russian military aircraft will deliver more than 22 tonnes of equipment, including 20 oxygen production units, 75 ventilators, 150 medical monitors and 200,000 packs of medicine. The leaders discussed the evolving pandemic situation, and Putin “expressed solidarity with the people and government of India and conveyed that Russia would extend all possible support in this regard”, according to a statement from the external affairs ministry. Modi thanked Putin and said the “prompt Russian support to India was a symbol of our enduring partnership”. The leaders decided to establish a new 2+2 dialogue mechanism comprising the foreign and defence ministers of both countries. Russia will be only the fourth country with which India has such a mechanism, the others being the US, Japan and Australia. The contact at the highest levels of the leadership in India and Russia came after bilateral ties went through a rough patch recently, following Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov’s visit to New Delhi. Lavrov’s decision to club the trip to India with a visit to Pakistan, and his comments about Moscow being ready to supply special military equipment to Islamabad, did not go down well in New Delhi. During their conversation, Modi and Putin also discussed cooperation between the two sides to fight the global pandemic. Putin appreciated India’s decision to grant emergency use approval for Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, and the leaders “noted that the Russian vaccine will be manufactured in India for use in India, Russia and third countries”, the statement said. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity the first consignment of Russian-made Sputnik V doses is expected to reach India by the end of the month. The developers of Sputnik V have tied up with several Indian pharmaceutical firms to manufacture 850 million doses a year. Putin and Modi discussed ways to further deepen bilateral cooperation in different sectors in line with the bilateral special and privileged partnership. Modi conveyed his appreciation for Russia’s support for India’s Gaganyaan programme or first manned space flight, and the completion of the Russian phase of training for the four astronauts. The first manned space flight, originally planned for 2022, has now been pushed to 2023 because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The two leaders also noted the scope for increasing cooperation in renewable energy, including the hydrogen economy. They also recalled important decisions made during their last summit in Vladivostok in September 2019. Modi said he looked forward to Putin’s visit to India later this year for the bilateral summit, which would be an occasion to “continue their personal and trusted conversation”, the statement said. Putin assured Modi of Russia’s full support for the success of India’s presidency of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping during 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-2nd-wave-russia-extends-support-to-india-101619636978863.html
29-04-2021||India||Shift Kappan to Delhi hospital: Supreme Court rejects UP’s arguments||The Supreme Court on Wednesday, overlooked arguments by the Uttar Pradesh government and ordered it to shift jailed journalist Siddique Kappan to a hospital in Delhi for better medical treatment, observing that it is the duty of the state to protect health and life of undertrials too.“Life of everybody is valuable. We are concerned only about his health. It is the duty of the state also to protect him when his health is concerned. That’s the most important issue,” remarked a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana.The bench, which included justices Surya Kant and AS Bopanna, asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the UP government, to ensure that Kappan was admitted in one of the government hospitals in the national capital for a proper treatment.“He (Kappan) can be taken back to Mathura jail after the doctors opine that he can be discharged. We are also disposing of this writ petition. He can go to the trial court for any other relief...We haven’t gone on titles of petitioner or anything else, but it is a humanitarian issue,” the bench told the S-G, who strongly opposed any order on shifting Kappan to a hospital outside UP.The law officer was responding to a claim by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) that Kappan was chained to a hospital bed in Mathura’s KM Medical College after he collapsed in bathroom at the Mathura jail and later tested positive for Covid-19.Mehta sought to undermine the credibility of the body, seemed to suggest that Kappan had been hospitalised in Uttar Pradesh despite a shortage of hospital beds in the state, with even influential (“huge” in his own words) people unable to find beds, and then finally argued that hospitalising him in Delhi would mean evicting a Covid positive person. But the court persisted.The order came on a joint plea by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) and Kappan’s wife that the scribe required immediate medical care after he had collapsed in bathroom at the Mathura jail and later tested positive for COVID-19 in the antigen test. They claimed Kappan, who was diabetic and also had heart conditions, was chained to the hospital bed. Mehta claimed on Tuesday that this was not the case.Kappan, secretary of the Delhi unit of KUWJ, was arrested on October 5 last year while on his way to Hathras in UP after the gangrape of a 19-year-old woman who died in hospital of injuries she suffered in the sexual assault. He was later booked under the terror charge over his alleged association with the now-banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) and its alleged off-shoot, the Popular Front of India (PFI). The Uttar Pradesh government sought to manage the incident of the gangrape by throwing a police dragnet over the entire area, and cremated the body of the victim overnight, despite protests by her family members.KUWJ subsequently filed a petition in the apex court, calling Kappan’s arrest illegal and an attempt to silence the media. Kappan’s wife also filed her plea in December last to be heard in this case. She wrote to the CJI on April 25 seeking his release from the hospital because of the ill-treatment. On Tuesday, the court asked the UP government to put on record Kappan’s medical report to ascertain these claims.On Wednesday, the S-G informed the bench that Kappan tested negative for Covid-19 in the RT-PCR and was sent back to Mathura jail. He also denied that the scribe was chained.Advocate Wills Mathew, appearing for KUWJ and Kappan’s wife, however, contended that the scribe’s life was under threat because of improper medical care in the Mathura jail and that he needed to be shifted to a better hospital outside the state.Vehemently resisting this plea, Mehta submitted that the apex court should not entertain such a plea by an accused who is being prosecuted for his links with terror groups and chose to use a purported journalistic organsation to press his case.“There are thousands of law-abiding citizens who are Covid positive and have not been able to find beds in any hospital. I, as a state, cannot agree to arranging for a bed for a 42-year-old non-Covid person with non-serious ailments who is facing terror charges,” argued Mehta.But the bench replied: “We are aware of difficulties of admission in hospitals at present times. But it is in your interest too. Why should the state be held responsible for any untoward incident because of his health? Responsibility is on the state too. Let him be treated at a hospital in Delhi and he can go back after he is well.”With the writing on the wall, the S-G requested the bench to also direct a hospital in Delhi to give Kappan a bed, lamenting that he would not want to ask any Covid-positive patient to vacate it for Kappan at a time when there are no beds available in any hospital. The bench, however, asked Mehta to make this arrangement on his own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-up-s-arguments-directs-govt-to-shift-kappan-to-delhi-hospital-101619636919858.html
29-04-2021||India||TMC candidate’s wife files police complaint against election body||The wife of a Trinamool Congress poll candidate, who died of Covid-19 shortly after elections in his seat, filed a police complaint on Wednesday, accusing the Election Commission of India and senior poll officials of culpable homicide. The complaint was filed in Khardaha police station by Nandita Sinha, wife of Kajal Sinha, a TMC candidate from Khardaha in North 24 Parganas who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 20 and succumbed to the virus on Sunday. “The ECI is solely liable for my husband’s death caused due to the rapid surge in coronavirus cases in West Bengal as it has neither ensured safety of the candidates nor the general public during the ongoing elections. Due to the deliberate and intentional omission on the part of the ECI, I have lost my husband,” Nandita Sinha wrote in her complaint. She requested that a first information report (FIR) be filed against deputy election commissioner Sudip Jain and other senior poll officials under sections 269 / 270 / 304 (2) and 120b of the Indian Penal Code. These sections pertain to spreading infection dangerous to life and culpable homicide.State police said they received the complaint but didn’t lodge an FIR because there was no specific complaint against any person. “We have received the complaint. It is more of general nature and there is no specific complaint. Hence, we are not lodging any FIR. We will investigate,” said Ajay Kumar Nand, police commissioner of Barrackpore. ECI sought a report from the state government on the matter. “Factual report from state DGP [director general of police] has been sought on TMC wife’s complaint,” an EC official said on condition of anonymity. Sinha was one of four candidates who died of Covid-19 in the state, where infections have zoomed 75 times since elections were announced on February 26. Experts have linked surge in cases to maskless political rallies where thousands jostled in violation of distancing protocols. On Wednesday, the state registered 17207 new cases and 77 deaths, a record, pushing the toll to 11159. ECI has faced criticism for the long poll season and violation of Covid norms at rallies, especially from the Madras and Calcutta high courts. In response, the poll body has defended its decision, banned campaigning at night, victory processions on counting day (May 2), limited events to 500 people and increased the silent period for campaigning to 72 hours before the latter phases. “She has lost her husband and the family is grief stricken. The BJP would not like to make any comment on this,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-candidate-s-wife-files-police-complaint-against-election-body-101619636798997.html
29-04-2021||India||1st consignment of US Covid aid likely to reach on Friday||New Delhi: With the first consignment of US support materials for India’s Covid-19 response expected to arrive by Friday, people familiar with developments confirmed on Wednesday that India has additionally sought vaccines from the Biden administration. The people noted that the US does not currently have a large stockpile of the AstraZeneca vaccine – some 10 million doses have been produced so far and about 50 million doses are expected to be manufactured in May and June. There is also no clarity on how many doses from this stockpile will be provided to the country though President Joe Biden has himself mentioned that some of it will be sent to India, they said. The government’s international procurement programme is mainly focused at the moment on critical medicines such as Remdesivir and oxygen-related equipment, especially concentrators, cylinders, and large and small liquid oxygen tanks, that can be used to ramp up the supply of oxygen across the country. The first Russian consignment of support materials is expected to arrive in the country on Thursday and the first batch of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine is set to reach India by the end of the month, the people said on condition of anonymity. Details of the first consignment being sent by the US are still being worked out, though it is expected to contain a mix of equipment and supplies, and some of the materials could be sourced from US military bases in different parts of the world, the people said. Asked about reported comments by senior US officials at a recent background briefing that India hadn’t made any request for ready-to-use vaccines from the Biden administration, the people said this matter was raised on a couple of occasions with the American side. “The Indian side has said it would be useful to have US vaccines, may not be specifically the AstraZeneca vaccine, since India now has a fast-track mechanism for approving vaccines. The US is aware of our interest in procuring vaccines, AstraZeneca or otherwise,” said one of the people cited above. The Indian side has managed to get support from a large number of people in the US, including the administration, members of Congress and private businesses, and this is expected to be reflected in the materials that are set to arrive in the coming days, they said. India’s missions around the world are focusing on procuring critical medicines such as Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, and Favipiravir, and the Indian side’s ability to convince pharmaceutical major Gilead to donate 450,000 doses of Remdesivir is being seen as a “big success”. More supplies of Remdesivir are also expected from other countries, the people said. The current focus on oxygen-related equipment such as concentrators and cylinders is because it is difficult to import oxygen. “Liquid oxygen can’t be airlifted and has to be brought in by ship. Even there, we need special cryogenic tankers and their numbers are limited across the world. So far, there is one commercial shipment coming from Saudi Arabia,” said the first person cited above. Large oxygen generating plants, such as the ones being sent by Germany and France, are useful though they need considerable time to be installed and set up, the people said. On the other hand, large and small liquid oxygen tanks can help move the commodity from points of production to health care facilities across the country, they added. The people said there was no formal response to offers of assistance from Pakistan and China. There are no problems with commercial procurements from China by private Indian firms, such as the purchase of large numbers of oxygen concentrators from Hong Kong, the people said. The Indian government, especially the external affairs ministry and health ministry, is accelerating procurements from abroad by relaxing import procedures and waiving duties and also ensuring the supplies speedily reach the places where they are needed the most and are also used properly, the people said. All supplies from foreign governments and partners are being routed through the Indian Red Cross Society and countries are also free to provide aid directly to NGOs or other entities in India. The people reiterated that there had been no international appeal for assistance and India was looking to procure specific products from around the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1st-consignment-of-us-covid-aid-likely-to-reach-on-friday-101619636738856.html
29-04-2021||India||Centre to buy 100k O2 devices using PM Cares||New Delhi:The Union government on Wednesday announced the purchase of 100,000 portable oxygen concentrators and the development of 500 pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen plants, both funded by the PM Cares Fund, in an attempt to urgently boost medical oxygen supplies in the country which is gasping on account of the precious commodity in the midst of a raging second wave of the coronavirus disease in the country, with around three million active cases. Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed that these concentrators should be procured immediately and provided to the states which have the highest case burden in the country and are suffering from acute oxygen shortage.“1 lakh portable oxygen concentrators will be procured, 500 more PSA oxygen plants sanctioned from PM-CARES. This will improve access to oxygen, especially in district HQs and Tier-2 cities,” he tweeted. The move come even as the Union government and state governments face a backlash from people unable to find oxygen for their friends and relatives, and against the backdrop of several hospitals in some parts of the country warning of the calamitous consequences of running out of medical oxygen. In Delhi itself, over the past week, at least 45 seriously ill patients across two hospitals have lost their lives on account of this. CHECK. The 500 new PSA plants are planned in district headquarters and tier 2 towns according to a government statement, and will be “established with the transfer of the indigenous technology developed by DRDO and CSIR to the domestic manufacturers.” It is in addition to 551 such plants previously announced on Sunday, and 162 announced last year. Of the 162, 33 have been installed, according to a report in Scroll. The health ministry has said that another 26 will be ready by the end of April and another 21 by the end of May. No timeline has been provided for the development of the 500 and the 551 plants, although, in general, it takes between four and six weeks for such plants to be developed. The statement did not mention how much would be spent on the concentrators and the plants. In addition, DRDO has also started work on oxygen generating plants in four government hospitals in Delhi -- AIIMS, RML, Lady Hardinge, and Safdarjung -- and hopes to complete them by May 10 , defence ministry officials familiar with the developments said . Another oxygen generating plant will be set up at AIIMS, Jhajjar.  DRDO has transferred oxygen generation technology to the industry, which has now stepped in to provide oxygen plants to state governments and hospitals. The technology transferred to the industry is based on the on-board oxygen generation technology developed for the Tejas light combat aircraft, according to the defence ministry. The oxygen generation plants can produce 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute.  DRDO has transferred technology to Tata Advanced Systems Limited, Bengaluru, and Trident Pneumatics Pvt Ltd, Coimbatore, which will be producing 380 of the 500 plants for installation across various hospitals in the country, the defence ministry said in a statement. The remaining 120 plants will be installed by industry in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Petroleum, Dehradun, it added. “Each oxygen plant is designed for a capacity of 1,000 litres per minute (LPM). The system can cater to 190 patients at a flow rate of 5 LPM and charge 195 cylinders per day…. Hospitals will be able to generate on-site medical oxygen in a cost-effective manner,” the ministry said. Together, the 500 plants can produce the equivalent of 960 MT of liquid oxygen in a day, significantly boosting the nation’s capacity. Prime Minister Modi on Monday reviewed the military’s preparations to assist in Covid management. He was briefed by chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin RawatThe PM on Monday also reviewed the operations undertaken by IAF to transport oxygen and other essentials to fight the crisis. For more than a week, IAF has been ferrying empty cryogenic oxygen containers to filling centres in India from different domestic locations and even abroad to help hospitals tide over the oxygen crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-buy-100k-o2-devices-using-pm-cares-101619636618846.html
29-04-2021||NA||Highlights: Switzerland to send medical supplies to help India tackle Covid-19||India's tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has reached 17,997,267 as the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said on Wednesday morning that there a record 360,960 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the preceding 24 hours, as well as 3,293 related deaths in that period. India's Covid-19 tally is the second-highest globally, after that of the United States, with Brazil in third. In terms of the death toll, India is fourth in the world, behind the United States, Brazil and Mexico respectively.Wednesday will see the commencement of registrations for the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive against the viral disease. The third phase will begin from May 1 and in it, anyone who is 18 or above will be eligible to be vaccinated against Covid-19, as announced by the Union government on April 19. India's vaccination drive against the pandemic is the largest in the world and began on January 16.The rapid and alarming rise in India's daily infections has led to several countries, including the United States and United Kingdom, sending medical equipment, including raw materials for vaccine, ventilators etc. to the country in a bid to assist its healthcare workers.Follow all the updates here:Allahabad High Court Judge succumbs to Covid-19Justice Virendra Kumar Srivastava of the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday. He was 59 years old and was being treated Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute (SGPGI) in Lucknow, after testing positive for Covid-19, reported news agency PTI.Haryana records 12,444 new cases of Covid-19, 95 fatalitiesHaryana records 12,444 new cases of Covid-19, taking the state-wide tally of cases to 4,60,198. 95 deaths and 7,618 recoveries were also recorded in the last 24 hours, reported ANI.14,98,77,121 doses of Covid-19 vaccine has been administered in the country till dateThe total number of COVID19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 14,98,77,121 (till 8pm) including more than 20 lakh doses administered today: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare pic.twitter.com/YHcNAlOKgySwitzerland to send essential medical supplies to help India tackle Covid-19Switzerland will be sending essential medicines through the Swiss humanitarian aid, reported ANI. This aid will cover essential items like oxygen concentrators, ventilators, and other necessary medical equipments.Gujarat records 14,120 new cases of Covid-19, 174 fatalitiesGujarat recorded 14,210 new cases of Covid-19, taking the state-wide tally of cases to 5,38,845. 174 deaths and 8,595 recoveries were also reported in the last 24 hours, reported news agency ANI.Ashok Gehlot self-isolates after wife tests positive for Covid-19Rajasthan chief minister, Ashok Gehlot, has isolated himself after his wife, Sunita Gehlot, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, said the chief minister in a tweet.Karnataka reports massive surge in daily Covid-19 tally , records 39,047 new casesKarnataka on Wednesday reported 39,047 cases of Covid-19. The total tally of active cases in the state now stands at 3,28,884. The state also recorded 229 deaths in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 15,036, reported news agency ANI.Rajasthan reports 16,613 new cases of Covid-19, 120 fatalitiesRajasthan on Wednesday recorded 16,613 new cases of Covid-19, taking the state-wide tally of cases to 5,63,577. In the last 24 hours120 deaths and 8,303 recoveries were also recorded, reported ANI.MP to suspend vaccination drive from April 29-30 for dry run, training sessionMadhya Pradesh will suspend its ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive on April 29 and 30 to conduct planning, training and dry run for the next phase of inoculations starting on May 1, where those between ages of 18-44 will be vaccinated.Kerala reports 35,013 new Covid-19 cases, 41 fatalitiesKerala recorded 35,013 cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said at a press conference. The state also recorded 41 deaths and 15,505 recoveries in the last 24 hours.Chandigarh to impose 'corona curfew' from April 29Chandigarh administration imposed 'corona curfew' in the Union territory from 6pm to 5am everyday starting from April 29, reported ANI. All shops, malls, and multiplexes have been asked to draw their shutters by 5pm every day, and only essential services will be allowed.BioNTech chief says Europe will achieve herd immunity within the next 4 monthsBioNTech chief, Ugur Sahin, said on Wednesday that Europe will achieve herd immunity against Covid-19 within the next 4 months, reported the Associated Press. BioNTech has partnered with American pharma giant Pfizer to produce a Covid-19 vaccine.Maharashtra lockdown likely to be extended beyond Apr 30 for 15 more daysMaharashtra state public health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that the current lockdown will be extended by 15 more days beyond April 30, adding that a decision on the number of days is yet to be taken. The state government had announced a lockdown on April 4 to tackle the rising number of Covid-19 cases.Air Chief Marshal briefs PM on IAF's efforts to tackle Covid-19 Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria called on the Prime Minister today to brief him on the efforts undertaken by the Indian Air Force (IAF) to tackle the ongoing coronavirus pandemic in the country.Puducherry records 1,258 new Covid-19 cases , 10 fatalities on WednesdayThe Union territory of Puducherry reported 1,258 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally of cases to 56,305. 10 more individuals succumbed to the infection, the death toll now stands at 781, reported ANI.Goa announces weekend lockdownGoa govt announces weekend lockdown from 7pm on Thursday till 6am next Monday. Lockdown orders for this weekend only for now.Pakistan records 201 new Covid-19 deaths, highest thus farPakistan's Covid-19 death toll reaches 17,530 with 201 new deaths, highest in a single day thus far. Infection tally at 810,231 with 5,292 more people testing positive.Puducherry extends Covid-19 curbs till May 3Puducherry extends Covid-19 curbs till May 3. Gathering/congregation in any form "strictly" prohibited and all liquor shops to remain closed till the said date.110-bed Covid-19 facility being set up in J-K's SrinagarJammu and Kashmir: A 110-bed COVID facility is being set up at indoor stadium in Srinagar. #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/c6hCDmTQ2IA 110-bed Covid-19 facility is being set up at indoor stadium in Jammu and Kashmir's Srinagar.Over 8,000 new Covid-19 cases and 56 deaths in TelanganaTelangana recorded 8,061 new Covid-19 cases and 56 deaths on April 27. Infection tally tops 419,000 including a death toll of 2,150.India's active Covid-19 cases near 3 millionIndia's active Covid-19 cases reach 2,978,709, up by 96,505 infections. Recoveries, meanwhile, rise to 14,817,371 with 261,162 more people discharged.India sees record 360,960 new Covid-19 casesIndia registers 360,960 new Covid-19 cases as tally reaches 17,997,267. Related death toll crosses 200,000, reaches 201,187 with 3,293 fresh fatalities.Total 282,703,789 samples tested for Covid-19: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/BXsysK1K8xTotal samples tested for Covid-19 up to April 27 at 282,703,789. Of these, 1,723,912 samples tested on April 27: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)BKC jumbo vaccination centre out of stock, says BMCBKC jumbo Covid-19 vaccination centre in Mumbai has run out of stock thus it is not active today. It will open for vaccination as soon as the stock is replenished: BMCRegistration for phase 3 vaccination to begin at 4pmRegistration for 18 plus to begin on https://t.co/S3pUooMbXX, Aarogya Setu App & UMANG App at 4 PM on 28th April. Appointments at State Govt centers & Private centers depending on how many vaccination centers are ready on 1st May for Vaccination of 18 plus. #LargestVaccineDriveRegistration for 18 plus to begin at 4pm on 28th April.Patients' kin in UP's Noida touch official's feet for Remdesivir#WATCH Noida | Families of #COVID19 patients touch the feet of Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Deepak Ohri, requesting him that they be provided with Remdesivir.(27.04.2021) pic.twitter.com/zX4ne027MrFamilies of Covid-19 patients touch the feet of Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Deepak Ohri, requesting him that they be provided with Remdesivir.Tunisia sees over 1,950 new Covid-19 casesTunisia reports 1,957 new Covid-19 cases as tally rises to 303,584. Death toll rises to 10,444 with 92 new fatalities.China reports 12 new Covid-19 casesChina reports 12 new Covid-19 cases, up from 11 a day ago, as infection tally reaches 90,622. Death toll unchanged at 4,636.Chile's Covid-19 death toll tops 26,000Chile's health ministry reports 45 new deaths in last 24 hours due to Covid-19 as toll reaches 26,020. Infection tally at 1,179,772 with 4,41 new cases.Registrations for phase 3 vaccination from todayRegistrations for phase 3 of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive will begin from Wednesday on the CoWin portal. The third phase will begin from May 1 and everyone above the age of 18 will be eligible for a shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-april-28-2021-101619567288394.html
