30-04-2021||India||MP Panchayats seal 200 villages to stop entry of migrant workers||Panchayats in Madhya Pradesh have stopped the entry of outsiders and migrant workers into at least 200 villages for the past one week by sealing borders and setting up quarantine centres to prevent the spread of Covid-19 as 15-20% of fresh infections in the state were reported from rural areas, officials said. The proportion of infections reported from villages has gone up by nearly four times as it was below 5% in September, according to the state rural development department’s data.In order to curb the rising cases, panchayats have sealed several villages in Bundelkhand, Malwa and central regions as migrant workers began returning to their homes amid curfews and shutdowns imposed by several states and cities. On Friday, Madhya Pradesh reported 12,400 cases and 97 deaths, taking the overall tally to 466,915 and 5,616, respectively. There are as many as 92,077 active cases in the state. The second wave has pushed daily infections above the 350,000-mark daily across the country. As several returnees tested positive for Covid-19, panchayats made it mandatory for them to quarantine for 14 days across various centres set up by them before entering the villages. Officials said in Hoshangabad district alone, 130 villages were sealed for one month after a sharp surge in cases 10 days ago.Shivram Katare, panchayat secretary in Hoshangabad’s Dongarwada village, said in some cases, the entire family was found to be infected in neighbouring villages. “...as many as six people died of Covid 19. So, we have decided to seal the village and we are happy that no one has tested positive of Covid-19. The village has a population of over 2,000 people and many returned from the cities after the lockdown... they are at quarantine centres where we are providing food and other facilities,” Katare said. Several village panchayats have formed vigilance committees to check the entry of outsiders. “It is hard to seal the borders of a village... We have used bamboo and ropes to seal the village. We have also formed a vigilance team of 20 people to check the entry of people into the village,” Meshram Singh, a resident of Bari village in Chhatarpur district, said. Dhani Ram Gupta, a social worker from Sagar district’s Kevlari Kalan village, said not only have they sealed the border but were also extending help to those infected. “In our village, two youth returned from Sagar city and tested positive. We shifted them to a hospital and also provided all kinds of help to their families. The basic objective of doing this is to set an example for villagers that they should not be afraid if they develop any symptom. We will not discriminate against those who will test positive; we will take care of them,” Gupta said. Hoshangabad collector Dhananjay Pratap Singh said teams that include auxiliary nurses were helping villagers in screening outsiders. “We will win this battle through community support, and we are happy that villagers are coming forward on their own,” he said. Chhatrapur collector Sheelendra Singh said that unlike last year, villagers are taking the pandemic seriously. “They are showing alertness this time as the number of positive cases in rural areas has increased,” Singh said. Panchayat and rural development department principal secretary Umakant Umrao said since there is no nationwide lockdown, people were returning to their villages using public transport. “So, there are chances of the spread of the infection. In the past two weeks, 75,000 people have returned to their villages. Panchayats have developed about 15,000 quarantine and Covid care centres in the villages by using their funds. Our focus is to contain the spread of the infections in rural areas, and we are hopeful of success.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mppanchayats-seal-200-villages-to-stop-entry-of-migrant-workers-101619807268756.html
30-04-2021||India||Mumbai cops, bookie part of Vaze’s plan to kill Hiran: NIA||Mumbai Mumbai Police officers Sunil Mane and Riyazuddin Kazi, former policeman Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Gor were part of main accused Sachin Vaze’s alleged larger conspiracy to eliminate Thane auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has claimed. The federal agency made the claim while opposing Gor’s bail plea on Friday and stated that the SIM cards used by Vaze were provided by the bookie. It added that the mobile phone on which Hiran was called was purchased by Vaze and the SIM in it was provided by Gor, said NIA. The federal agency further claimed that if released, Gor could jump the bail and tamper with the evidence. Gor approached the special NIA court for bail, claiming that he was never contacted by Vaze, an assistant Mumbai Police inspector, who is under suspension. Gor in his bail plea filed through law firm, Diamondwala & Co, claimed that he has been made a scapegoat by the investigating agency at the instance of Vaze. He has also claimed that he was not aware of any conspiracy or the purpose for which the SIM cards were going to be used. The 31-year-old cricket bookie was arrested by the Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad on March 21, after it started investigating Hiran’s murder. Later, his custody was handed over to NIA, when the federal agency took over the case from ATS. According to NIA, Hiran’s murder was linked to the explosive-laden Scorpio found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence Antilia. On February 25, the Scorpio was found abandoned near Antilia with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note, and a case was registered with Gamdevi police station on the same day. Vaze was originally investigating the case, but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV and had reported it stolen on February 17. Hiran was found dead in a creek on March 5. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the car in November and returned it on February 5. NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and Vaze was arrested on March 13. The federal agency took over the murder case on March 24 and Vaze was named the main accused in both the cases. To contain the damage, the Maharashtra government transferred police commissioner Param Bir Singh for his alleged management of the case. He subsequently wrote a letter to the chief minister alleging that the then home minister Anil Deshmukh had instructed Vaze and some other Mumbai Police officers to extort ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants, hookah parlours. When no action was forthcoming, Singh approached the courts. The Bombay high court eventually asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the matter, prompting Deshmukh’s resignation. Accordingly, CBI conducted an inquiry and registered an offence against Deshmukh on April 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-cops-bookie-part-of-vaze-s-plan-to-kill-hiran-nia-101619807148744.html
30-04-2021||India||CBI submits interim report in Anil Deshmukh case||Mumbai: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday filed an interim report of its preliminary enquiry into corruption allegations against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh made by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh.A senior CBI officer said the report is based on the evidence collected so far during various search operations and on the basis of statements of several witnesses. The agency moved an application before the special CBI court on Friday , seeking permission to submit the report. The court accepted the report filed in a sealed envelope.On April 21, the central agency registered a case against Deshmukh under sections 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and 120B of the Indian Penal Code. The first information report (FIR), based on Singh’s allegations, came after CBI was ordered to conduct a preliminary enquiry by the Bombay high court on April 5. Singh took legal recourse after his March 20 letter to the chief minister and the governor, alleging that Deshmukh ordered Mumbai police assistant inspector Sachin Vaze to extort money from restaurants and bars. His complaint came after he was removed as commissioner for his handling of the Antilla explosives case. An SUV laden with explosives (20 loose sticks of gelatin; no timer or detonator) was found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence, Antilia, in south Mumbai on February 25. Vaze, who was part of the Mumbai crime branch, was initially lead investigator in the case. However, after a Thane-based businessman linked to the car, turned up dead, Vaze was transferred out of his department. He was later arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) as prime suspect in the explosives case. He has also been named suspect in the murder investigation of the businessman, Mansukh Hiran.Deshmukh, a leader of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government sought to brazen out the issue initially as Singh approached the Supreme Court seeking a CBI investigation into the alleged extortion racket. The top court refused to intervene and said Singh could approach the high court. Deshmukh resigned citing moral grounds after the high court asked the CBI to conduct the preliminary inquiry within 15 days and left it to the discretion of the agency’s director to decide the further course of action.In its FIR, CBI claimed, “The preliminary enquiry prima facie revealed that a cognisable offence was made out in the matter, wherein the then home minister of Maharashtra Shri Anil Deshmukh and unknown others have attempted to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of their public duty.”“The enquiry has also revealed that Shri Sachin Vaze, assistant police inspector, Mumbai Police, had been reinstated into the police force after being out of the service for more than 15 years. The enquiry further revealed that Shri Vaze was entrusted with most of the sensational and important cases of Mumbai Police and at the then home minister’s knowledge,” read the FIR. It also mentioned the allegations made by Singh against Deshmukh.A day after registering the FIR, CBI conducted searches at Deshmukh’s premises in Mumbai and his home town Nagpur. CBI also obtained records of investigation and evidence gathered from Vaze by National Investigation Agency (NIA) which is probing the Antilia explosives case. The agency has also recorded statements of several people, including Deshmukh, his personal assistant, secretary and some police officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-cops-bookie-part-of-vaze-s-plan-to-kill-hiran-nia-101619806968748.html
30-04-2021||India||Environment ministry eases norms for industry expansion||The environment ministry has allowed companies operating in several industries, including some polluting ones, to expand capacities on the basis of a self-certification that this will not “increase the pollution load”, creating the room for potential misdeclaration (and misuse), especially in light of a traditionally poor monitoring regime. Earlier this week, the ministry released a user manual for online submission of an undertaking on no increase in pollution load due to expansion, on its Parivesh website.This follows a notification issued by the ministry on March 2 which states that the Centre deems it necessary to permit increase in production capacity of processing, production and manufacturing sector with or without any change in raw material-mix or product-mix or any change in configuration of the plant without the requirement of prior environmental clearance provided that there is no increase in pollution load. The March 2 notification is applicable to industries such as coal washing, mineral processing, pesticides, fertilizers, synthetic chemicals such as paint, cement , petrochemicals, and sugar, some of which do have a significant environmental footprint. The motivation behind the notification isn’t clear. . However, the notification itself claimed the environment ministry has received several requests from processing, production and the manufacturing sector for permitting increase in production capacity without having to go through the entire environmental clearance process again. Independent experts said this could mean benefitting most polluting industries who may already have a very large pollution footprint.The Centre amended the EIA (environmental impact assessment) notification 2006 on November 23, 2016 and January 16, 2020 providing flexibility. The 2016 and 2020 amendments introduced the principles of “no increase in pollution load” and exemption from seeking environment clearance if resultant increase of production capacity was less than 50%. This applied to a change in product mix, change in quantities within products, or number of products within the same category of industry. The March 2021 notification takes this further and allows any amount of expansion.The manual on the Parivesh website provides a questionnaire and provisions for uploading documents on expansion and an undertaking that the expansion will not lead to increase in pollution load. Industries will also have to upload a “no increase in pollution load certificate” from an environmental auditor or institutions empanelled by the State Pollution Control Board or Central Pollution Control Board or Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change.If on verification, the CPCB or SPCB , after giving the project proponent the opportunity of being heard, holds that such expansion or modernisation results in increase in pollution load, the exemption claimed under the clause shall become invalid. Also, such an exemption will be applicable if the industry installs Online Continuous Monitoring System (OCMS) with at least 95% uptime, connected to the servers of the CPCB or SPCBs.“The ease of “no increase in pollution load” was introduced to the environment clearance process from 2016, to gradually exempt project expansions from the purview of carrying out impact assessments or public hearings. Until now, this exemption was applicable up to 50% expansion. The new amendment has ensured that expansion of some of the most polluting industrial operations, i.e.chemical fertilizers, coal washing, mineral processing, petroleum refining, asbestos and cement production, can be carried provided a “no increase in pollution load certificate” can be produced by the project authorities,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.“Prior to these exemptions, the environmental performance and legal compliance with environmental safeguards had direct consequences for whether expansions could be allowed. These units would also require a public hearing. All these would allow affected people to weigh in legitimacy of the expansion and allow the environment ministry to assess the such legacy impacts, existing illegalities and conduct of project proponents. None of this will be required for all the projects operations granted exemptions through this amendment irrespective of its capacity,” she added.“The notification will cover certain industries covered in the schedule to the EIA notification 2006. The process is very clear. The industries can self-certify through their consultants but if they are found erring by the pollution control boards their environmental clearance will be invalid,” a senior environment ministry official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/environment-ministry-eases-norms-for-industry-expansion-101619806908736.html
30-04-2021||India||Delhi woman travels 400 km in ambulance for ICU bed in Uttarakhand; dies||A 56-year-old Delhi woman travelled more than 400 km in an ambulance to Uttarakhand to be able to get a bed in a private hospital’s intensive care unit but died soon after she was admitted on Thursday.“The woman was admitted in the hospital around 1 am on Thursday, but she died at about 2.15 am during the treatment,” Deepak Joshi, owner of Jeevan Anmol hospital in Uttarakhand’s Champawat district said.Reeta Sharma, a resident of Mukherjee Nagar in north Delhi, had recently tested positive to Covid-19. When her condition started deteriorating, her husband Rakesh Sharma took her to several hospitals in the city in search of a hospital bed with a ventilator. That is what doctors had told him that his wife needed.But he did not find any.Rakesh Sharma then looked up online for Covid hospitals outside Delhi and found the private hospital in Champawat that said it had a spare ventilator. Joshi said he has two ventilators in his hospital.Sharma bought an oxygen cylinder for ₹80,000 for the journey and paid another ₹1.5 lakh for an ambulance that agreed to take Reeta Sharma and him to Champawat.She died a little over an hour after getting the ICU bed that she needed.Joshi said he informed the local administration about the death and the woman was cremated in accordance with Covid-19 protocol at the district’s Tarakeshwar crematorium on Thursday.RP Khanduri, chief medical officer of Champawat said he had been informed about the death of the Covid-19 patient from Delhi. “She died during treatment and her body was cremated as per Covid-19 protocol on Thursday by local administration,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-woman-travels-400-km-in-ambulance-for-icu-bed-in-uttarakhand-dies-101619805049131.html
30-04-2021||India||3rd phase Covid vaccination From May 1: Many states not ready, limited drive at private hospitals||From May 1, the third phase of the vaccination in which people between the age of 18 and 44 years will be inoculated, will officially begin in the country. However, many states are not beginning the drive as state government hospitals do not have adequate doses of vaccines to start the next phase of the vaccination immediately. The drive will start in days to come, the governments have informed asking people to be patient.Here is all you need to know about the 3rd phase vaccination drive> Registration for the third phase of vaccination on cowin.gov.in began on April 28. Online booking is mandatory in this phase to book vaccine appointments in state government and private hospitals.> Both Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Serum Institute's Covishield will be available in this phase.> People will be able to know which vaccine is available where, as the hospitals will display the vaccine name and prices on Cowin website. The prices will also be displayed. If a hospital has both the vaccines, then that information will also be displayed.Apollo Hospitals to start limited Covid vaccination in some cities tomorrow> Though the third phase officially begins from May 1, actual slot booking will begin once the state government and private hospitals open their facilities on Co-win.> Uttar Pradesh has said it will start the vaccination for the 18-44 age group on May 1 in seven districts that have more than 9,000 active cases. The districts include Lucknow, Kanpur, Allahabad, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Meerut and Bareilly.> Fortis healthcare said it would commence vaccination for 18+ in all its centres in North India, PTI reported. "Fortis centres in other cities will commence vaccination as soon as supplies are made available by the authorities," a statement said.> Apollo Hospital too said it will begin vaccination in a limited way on May 2. “The vaccination programme will begin with limited quantities and be ramped up in the weeks ahead. Apollo hospitals will be organizing special camps for corporates. The vaccines would be priced as per the guidelines issued by the central government,” a statement read.> In this phase, vaccines will be free at Central government hospitals. Doses will also be free in states which have announced free vaccination. > To get inoculated at private vaccination centres, people will have to pay. One dose of Covishield is being sold to private hospitals at ₹600, while the price for one dose of Covaxin is ₹1,200. The vaccination charge at private hospitals will be calculated based on this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3rd-phase-covid-19-vaccination-many-states-not-ready-limited-drive-at-apollo-fortis-101619803401066.html
30-04-2021||India||Boeing announces $10 mn assistance package for India's fight against Covid-19||US aerospace major Boeing on Friday announced a USD 10 million (about ₹74 crore) emergency assistance package for India to support the country's response to the current surge in COVID-19 cases.The assistance from Boeing will be directed to organisations providing relief, including medical supplies and emergency healthcare for communities and families battling the pandemic, the company said in a release.Boeing has some 3,000 employees working in India, besides local customers, suppliers, and business partners."The COVID-19 pandemic has devastated communities across the globe, and our hearts go out to our friends in India who are going through a very difficult time.“Boeing is a global citizen, and in India, we are directing our pandemic response to the communities most impacted by this recent surge of cases," Boeing Company president and chief executive officer Dave Calhoun said.The company also said it will partner with local and international relief organisations to deploy the USD 10 million to the areas of greatest need in consultation with medical, government and public health experts.Boeing employees also have an opportunity to donate personally to charitable organisations supporting COVID-19 relief in India, it said.Also, as part of the Boeing Gift Match programme, the company will match monetary donations dollar for dollar, extending the reach of assistance being provided to the Indian people, it said."Boeing not only stands in solidarity with the Indian people in their effort to confront this pandemic, but we will also be a part of the solution. We will continue to monitor the pandemic response in India and work to support our employees, customers, and partners through this crisis,” Calhoun added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boeing-announces-10-mn-assistance-package-for-india-s-fight-against-covid19-101619803651136.html
30-04-2021||India||Jaishankar emphasises importance of China’s transport corridors in India’s Covid-19 response||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday emphasised to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi the importance of China’s transport corridors and cargo flights remaining open to facilitate the movement of materials needed for India’s Covid-19 response.During a phone conversation organised at the request of the Chinese side, Jaishankar also told Wang that the process of disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) remained “unfinished” and should be “completed at the earliest”.The Indian side is yet to take a call on China’s offer of support to fight a devastating second wave of Covid-19 infections that has surged well past the 350,000-mark for the past several days. The Chinese leadership has said it will facilitate clearances and logistics for shipping equipment and other supplies to India, though the recent suspension of services by Sichuan Airlines raised a question mark about the movement of cargo from China.While speaking to Wang, Jaishankar said Indian entities were commercially procuring products and raw materials required for the Covid-19 response from suppliers in China. Jaishankar said “this process would be facilitated if various transport corridors and cargo flights remained open and the necessary logistics support [was] ensured expeditiously,” according to a statement from the external affairs ministry. Jaishankar also said challenges, such as the pandemic, require “serious international cooperation”. Wang described Covid-19 as a common enemy and agreed on the need for coordination on a concerted response. He said China supports India’s efforts and will ensure that all the required materials “flow to Indian entities without any delay”. Chinese companies will be supported to deliver the materials, and airports, customs and airlines will be instructed to smoothly facilitate the movement of goods, he said. Chartered flights from India will be welcome and specific problems raised by the Indian side will be sorted out quickly. Wang also offered any other assistance required from the Chinese government.Jaishankar and Wang discussed “outstanding issues related to disengagement from all friction points” along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. “External affairs minister conveyed that while the process of disengagement had commenced earlier this year, it remained unfinished. He emphasised that this process needed to be completed at the earliest. Full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas would enable progress in the bilateral relationship,” the statement said. The two ministers agreed to continue the dialogue at the official level on this matter.Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a standoff on the LAC for almost a year. Though both sides pulled back troops and armoured formations from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February, the disengagement process stalled after that and there has been no headway in recent talks.Jaishankar and Wang also had a brief discussion on the meetings of foreign ministers of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) and Russia-India-China (RIC) groupings, which are scheduled to be held in the near future under the Indian chair. Wang confirmed his participation at these events.The call was arranged at the request of the Chinese side to convey solidarity with India, hours after Chinese President Xi Jinping sent a message of sympathy to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Xi said he was “very concerned” about the Covid-19 situation in India and that the Chinese side was ready to strengthen cooperation with India in fighting the pandemic and providing help.Jaishankar thanked Wang for his sentiments and informed him of India’s efforts to meet the challenge posed by the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-emphasises-importance-of-china-s-transport-corridors-in-india-s-covid-19-response-101619802889189.html
30-04-2021||India||Can Covid positive mothers breastfeed child? Doctors answer||New mothers who have tested positive for Covid-19 can breastfeed their child as there is no evidence so far that the infection can spread through mothers' milk, but some precautions have to be followed, doctors said on Friday. The Press Information Bureau organised a webinar where doctors busted several myths regarding the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Dr Nitin Yashas, senior resident, Medical Oncology at Manipal Hospital, Bangalore, said lactating mothers, should wear a mask while breastfeeding so that the virus can not be transmitted through the regular route of respiratory droplets. An N-95 mask, a face shield has been advised for lactating mothers as it's not advisable to put masks (covering the nose) on the child."It is not advisable to use a mask on newborns unless they are of at least two years of age. That can lead to other paediatric or respiratory problems," Dr Rahul Kulkarni, MD and intensivist at Sahyadri Hospital in Pune said.With the advent of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, people are quickly believing in WhatApp forwards and social media rumours. Through doctors, the Centre is cautioning people to not fall for unscientific claims. In his last Mann ki Baat too, Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasised trusting only verified sources of information.Does drinking warm water prevent Covid-19?Dr Yashas said warm water brings a placebo effect that it is relieving the symptoms, but scientifically it does not kill coronavirus. "In laboratory settings, you need a temperature of 60-75 degree Celsius to kill the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Now, the human body temperature is around 37 degree Celsius. These viruses remain within body cells and the human body maintains a temperature of around 37 degree Celsius," he said adding that the core temperature does not change while taking a hot water bath or while drinking warm water.Doctors answer queries in Webinar on '#COVID19: Myths Vs Reality’"Don’t go into the details of any anti-viral medication. Just stick to the advice of your physician"- Appeal from doctorsFor answers to your doubts 👉https://t.co/CAlEIRasDu#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/lXbZSgNwMQCan Covid-19 be transmitted from pregnant mother to child?"Even if it happens, it is very difficult to assess whether it is vertical transmission from or the baby acquired infection from somewhere else. The rate of infection in pregnancy has gone to the higher side in the last 15 months, like in every other patient. 93-95% of these patients are mild cases. No need to panic about it. But, if the patient is at risk, that is have some immuno-compromises (like hypertension, diabetes etc) or in the higher side of age (40 and above), then they may land up in some sort of complications, mostly from Covid Pneumonia," Dr Kulkarni said.Does taking antibiotics help?Dr Chaitanya H Balakrishnan, the Covid coordinator at St John’s Medical College Hospital, Bangalore, said giving antibiotics as a preventive measure has no role. "A couple of studies in the UK and also Delhi has shown that injudicious use of antibiotics may rather increase the hospital stay or cause mortality in such patients. So, the tendency to take an over-the-counter azithromycin is completely unadvisable. If you are suspecting that you have symptoms of COVID, get tested, meet a COVID Care physician and take the appropriate step. Use of antibiotics in COVID-19 is completely avoidable. Taking an over-the-counter or Dr Google prescribed antibiotic is a complete no-no in COVID cases," he said,Dr Kulkarni said patients should not forward their prescription to others as every case is different.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-covid-positive-mothers-breastfeed-child-doctors-answer-101619799893577.html
30-04-2021||India||Military gets emergency financial powers to meet India’s Covid-19 challenge||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday granted emergency financial powers to the military to strengthen and accelerate its efforts to deal with the crisis posed by the coronavirus disease pandemic even as the Indian Navy dispatched its warships to foreign shores to bring back liquid oxygen filled cryogenic containers.“These (financial) powers will help formation commanders to establish and operate quarantine facilities/hospitals and undertake procurement/repair of equipment/items/material/stores, besides provisioning of various services and works required to support the ongoing effort against the pandemic,” the defence ministry said in a statement.While vice chiefs of armed forces including Chief of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman Chiefs of Staff Committee (CISC) and army commanders (and their equivalent ranks in the navy and air force) have been given “full powers”, corps commanders and area commanders have been delegated powers to spend up to ₹50 lakh each.While the statement did not elaborate on financial powers given to the vice chiefs and others, ministry officials said “full powers” implied that finances should not come in the way of mounting a robust response to the pandemic. Division commanders/sub area commanders and their equivalent ranks in the navy and air force have been delegated powers to spend up to ₹20 lakh per case. Such powers were sanctioned last year too when the pandemic first broke out.“These powers have been devolved initially for a period of three months, from May 1 to July 31, 2021,” the statement said. These powers are in addition to the emergency powers granted to the military’s medical officers last week.On April 23, Singh granted emergency buying powers to senior military doctors as part of the ministry’s overall plan to fight the outbreak. While the heads of the medical wings of the three services were given powers to make purchases worth ₹5 crore, doctors holding the ranks of major general and brigadier were allowed to make procurements worth ₹3 crore and ₹2 crore, respectively.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reviewed the military’s preparations for Covid relief thrice this week in one-on-one meetings with the chief of defence staff, the Indian Air force chief and the army chief.As part of the steps being taken by the armed forces to fight the outbreak, the navy on Friday launched Operation Samudra Setu-II and dispatched warships to Bahrain, Thailand and Singapore for shipment of oxygen filled cryogenic containers to India.“Two warships, INS Kolkata and INS Talwar. have entered port of Manama, Bahrain, for transporting 40MT of liquid oxygen to Mumbai. INS Jalashwa is enroute to Bangkok and INS Airavat to Singapore for similar missions,” navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said.IAF is also making a significant contribution in the fight against Covid by transporting much-needed empty oxygen containers to filling stations across the country. It has been involved in ferrying empty cryogenic oxygen containers to filling centres in India from different domestic locations and even abroad to help hospitals tide over the oxygen crisis.IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria told PM Narendra Modi on April 28 that he has ordered 24x7 readiness of the IAF’s entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of its medium-lift fleet to operate in a hub and spoke model to swiftly meet all Covid-related tasking across the country and overseas.“As of April 29, IAF has carried out 23 sorties from abroad, airlifting 39 oxygen containers with a capacity of 670 MT. Within the country, it carried out 124 sorties, airlifting 87 containers with a capacity of 1,798 MT. On Friday, IAF carried out 10 domestic sorties to help meet oxygen requirements,” said an IAF official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-gets-emergency-financial-powers-to-meet-india-s-covid-challenge-101619797668872.html
30-04-2021||India||Apollo Hospitals to start limited Covid vaccination in some cities tomorrow||Apollo Hospitals will start coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccinations for people aged 18-44 from Saturday, the group’s executive vice-chairperson, Shobana Kamineni, said, pointing that the group had managed to procure some vaccines directly from the manufacturers.“Yes, we did manage to get some doses,” said Kamineni.The group, however, hasn’t identified which of its 70 hospitals across 24 cities will start the vaccination from Saturday.A statement by the Apollo Hospitals Group pointed to government guidelines that require the vaccines to be administered to eligible individuals who have registered on the CoWIN app and have made an appointment for the vaccine jab at Apollo Hospitals.“Whichever portal opens by tomorrow (May 1). Not all states have updated the portals,” she said on whether all Apollo centres will offer vaccination for people in the 18-44 age group from May 1.“The vaccination programme will begin with limited quantities and be ramped up in the weeks ahead. Apollo hospitals will be organizing special camps for corporates. The vaccines would be priced as per the guidelines issued by the central government,” the statement read.Serum Institute of India (SII), which manufactures Covishield, had earlier announced that a single dose of its vaccine for private hospitals and institutions would cost ₹600. Bharat Biotech, which produces Covaxin, has set the cost of a single dose at ₹1,200 for private hospitals and institutions.According to reports, Max Healthcare will also open up vaccination for people in the 18-44 age group. There is, however, no formal statement from the group yet.On April 19, the central government announced that it will open up Covid-19 vaccination for everyone 18 years and above from May 1 as part of a liberalised and accelerated phase 3 strategy of Covid-19 vaccination in the country. The decision was taken in a high-level meeting chaired by Prime minister Narendra Modi.Currently, high risk people above 45 years are being given the vaccine for free under the national Covid-19 immunisation programme of the central government. The Centre’s guidelines say that from May 1, the Centre will procure 50% of the country’s vaccine supplies, and the remaining will be up for sale for the state governments and private hospitals and institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apollo-hospitals-to-start-limited-covid-vaccination-in-some-cities-tomorrow-101619796408732.html
30-04-2021||India||India's Covid-19 cases may peak next week, say scientists||India's coronavirus cases may peak between May 3-5, according to a mathematical model of a team of scientists advising the government, a few days earlier than a previous estimate as the virus has spread faster than expected.The world's second-most populous country has reported more than 300,000 new infections daily for nine consecutive days, hitting another global record of 386,452 on Friday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe surge has led to a public health crisis in India, forcing the government to seek oxygen, medicines and other essentials from countries around the world."Our belief is that by next week, the daily new cases nationwide would have peaked," M. Vidyasagar, head of a government-appointed group of scientists modelling the trajectory of infections, told Reuters.The group previously told senior government officials in a presentation on April 2 that cases would peak between May 5-10, said Vidyasagar."We said (at that presentation) that it was not a matter of putting up some structures that would come up in July or August, because by then the wave will have ended," he said."Try to figure out how we're going to fight the fight for the next four to six weeks, that was the message. Don’t waste a lot of time putting up long-term solutions because your problem is right now."India's first wave of the pandemic peaked in mid-September with 97,894 cases. The country is now reporting more than three times as many infections daily, taking the total number of cases to 18.8 million with 208,000 deaths.The real number of infections is believed to be 50 times more, said Vidyasagar, as many people who contract the disease show no symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-cases-may-peak-next-week-say-scientists-101619793421699.html
30-04-2021||India||No celebrations, bursting of crackers over election results, says Madras HC||The Madras High Court on Friday appealed to political leaders and the party cadres in Tamil Nadu not to go in for celebrations, including bursting of crackers after the announcement of election results on May 2 or 3, citing the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.The leaders should keep their rank and file in check.There can be no celebrations, bursting of crackers and rallies till the present grim situation of pandemic eases, the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said.They must take proactive steps and be an example to others.The bench made the observations after being satisfied with the arrangements made on May 2 by the state Health department and the Election Commission, as stated in their respective status reports.Counting of votes polled in the April 6 Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and neighbouring Puducherry will be taken up on Sunday.The bench hoped that on that day, the political parties, media personnel and the citizens would adhere to the instructions and the guidelines, follow the norms and cooperate with the authorities in the greater interest of the public at large.The bench also advised the people not to panic and rush to the hospitals or make a mad rush for vaccines.They can follow the guidelines issued by the State government and go to the hospital as the last resort.As regards provision of adequate vaccines, beds with ventilators and oxygen cylinders, the bench, after hearing the submissions of the senior counsel for the EC and State Health department, hoped that a clear picture would emerge by May 3, when the two agencies should give specific figures.The bench adjourned the matter to May 5, when it will hold a special sitting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-celebrations-bursting-of-crackers-over-election-results-says-madras-hc-101619792780610.html
30-04-2021||India||Amid vaccine shortage, first lot of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccines to land in India on May 1||The first lot of Sputnik V vaccines from Russia will arrive in India on Saturday. The rollout of the Russian vaccine is expected to augment India's third phase of the vaccination drive which also begins tomorrow.India is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases in the second wave of pandemic and is registering the highest daily deaths and positive cases. On top of it there is an acute shortage of vaccines which has crippled the speed of vaccination drive. Several major states in the country have already postponed the launch of the third phase of vaccination which makes everyone above 18 eligible to get the jab.Sputnik V is the third vaccine India has given go-ahead to after 'Covishield', developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and 'Covaxin', the indigenous vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech. Covishield is manufactured by Serum Institute of India.The first tranche of vaccine is expected to arrive in Hyderabad tomorrow according to diplomatic sourcesIndian envoy to Russia Bala Venkatesh Varma said India expects between 150,000 to 200,000 ready-made vaccines to be available very quickly in the early part of May.Diplomatic sources told ANI that India will get a substantive number of vaccines in the first tranche and supply will continue in installments. India is expecting 5 million vials of Sputnik vaccines by next month.CEO of Russian Direct Investment Fund Kirill Dmitriev earlier told a TV news channel that Sputnik vaccines will be delivered to India on May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-vaccine-shortage-first-lot-of-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccines-to-land-in-india-on-may-1-101619792458647.html
30-04-2021||India||Rajnath Singh invokes special provisions, grants emergency financial powers to armed forces in view of Covid situation||The Ministry of Defence on Friday informed that it has invoked special provisions and granted emergency financial powers to armed forces in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh invoked special provisions and granted emergency financial powers to the armed forces to empower them and speed up their efforts in tide over the current Covid-19 situation in the country."To empower the Armed Forces and speed up their efforts in the nationwide fight against Covid-19 situation, Raksha Mantri Rajnath Singh invoked special provisions and granted Emergency Financial Powers to the Armed Forces today," the Defence Minister's Office tweeted."These powers will help formation commanders to establish and operate quarantine facilities/ hospitals and to undertake procurement/ repair of equipment/ items/ material/ stores, besides provisioning of various services and works required to support the ongoing effort against Covid," another tweet read.Under these powers, Vice Chiefs of Armed Forces including Chief Of Integrated Defence Staff To The Chairman Chiefs Of Staff Committee (CISC) and General Officer Commanding-in-Chiefs (GOC-in-Cs) and equivalents of all three services have been given full powers, whereas Corps Commanders/Area Commanders have been delegated powers up to ₹50 lakh per case and Division Commanders/Sub Area Commanders and equivalents have been delegated powers up to ₹20 lakh per case.These powers have been devolved initially for a period of three months from May 1 to July 31, 2021. These are in addition to the emergency powers delegated to the Medical Officers of the Armed Forces last week, the ministry said.The emergency powers were sanctioned to the Armed Forces last year too when the Covid-19 pandemic first broke out. This had helped the Armed Forces tackle the situation faster and in an effective manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-invokes-special-provisions-grants-emergency-financial-powers-to-armed-forces-in-view-of-covid-19-situation-101619791470187.html
30-04-2021||India||'Huge void in the media world': PM Modi on journalist Rohit Sardana's death||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday condoled demise of journalist Rohit Sardana and said his untimely demise has left a "huge void in the media world".Taking to Twitter, the Prime Minister recalled Sardana as a person who was full of energy, passionate about India's progress, and a kind hearted soul.Also Read: TV news anchor Rohit Sardana succumbs to Covid-19"Rohit Sardana left us too soon. Full of energy, passionate about India's progress, and a kind-hearted soul, Rohit will be missed by many people. His untimely demise has left a huge void in the media world. Condolences to his family, friends, and admirers. Om Shanti," the PM tweeted.Sardana had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 24 after undergoing a CT Scan."I had got a test done a week ago after showing symptoms. The RTPCR showed a negative result but the CT scan confirmed COVID. Condition is better than before. Take care of yourself and your family members," he had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/huge-void-in-the-media-world-pm-modi-on-journalist-rohit-sardana-s-death-101619791941490.html
30-04-2021||India||AIIMS director explains why there is no need for Covid test after home isolation||AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria on Friday said in most of the mild and asymptomatic Covid-19 cases, the virus dies after the 7th or the 8th day. At that time, it can't be transmitted to another person, he said. But the dead virus, or the particles of the dead virus, can be picked up by the RT-PCR test and a positive report still may come, when a person has become free from covid. "It is scientifically proved that the virus in mild cases dies after six or seven days," Dr Guleria said. In its new guidelines for Covid treatment under home isolation, the Centre has said Covid-19 patients have to remain in isolation for 10 days. After this period is over, the isolation period can be ended provided there is no fever for three days.No need for Covid testing after home isolation is over: Centre's new guidelineThe Union health ministry on Friday briefed about the steps taken to address the rising cases of Covid-19 in the country and the issue of oxygen shortage. Expressing concern over the trajectory, the ministry said it is closely monitoring the oxygen situation of the country.Watch: When should home isolation ideally end? Top doctor explainsReiterating that 85 per cent of people will recover at home, the ministry emphasised that there is no need to panic about Remdesivir or oxygen.'Virus has not gone into fatigue even if we have'The Union health ministry addressed three approaches towards Covid-19 and used terms like 'corona ka rona' to hammer home the point that many people still think corona is a scam and there is a life beyond corona. Then there are people who are thinking they will surely die because they came in contact with an infected person. They also think they need to stock Remdesivir and oxygen cylinder in case they test positive. "Then there are people who are aware and alert. But we need the support of everyone, both the fearful and the naysayers to manage the situation as the virus has not gone into fatigue, even if we have," health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-director-explains-why-there-is-no-need-for-covid-test-after-home-isolation-101619790829232.html
30-04-2021||India||Madras HC on EC’s plea to restrain media from reporting oral observations||The Madras High Court on Friday didn’t entertain the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) request to restrain the media from reporting oral observations made by judges in court.The first bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the observations while hearing the suo moto case on the preparedness for the second wave of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry.Appearing for the EC, senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi informed the court of the measures taken to ensure that Covid-19 protocols are followed on counting day on May 2. In addition, he raised the wide news coverage on the court’s oral statements made on April 26 that the EC was singularly responsible for the second wave, for not taking action against political rallies that didn’t follow Covid-19 norms and stating that its officials should probably be booked for murder.Dwivedi sought the court to direct media houses to confine their reports to observations recorded in orders or judgments and to refrain from reporting on oral observations made during court proceedings.In its order later that day, the court had toned down its criticism against the election body and this statement didn’t make it. It pertained to a case filed by Tamil Nadu transport minister MR Vijayabhaskar seeking safe and fair counting on May 2 since his constituency, Karur, has 77 candidates. On Friday, the court disposed of this petition in view of the measures taken by the EC and continued hearing the suo moto case.In an affidavit, the EC had contended that this statement has caused prejudice to the EC, adding and based on the statements, police complaints were being filed against the election body. To this, the bench said, “Courts are there and such frivolous matters will be dealt with.”On the matter of preparedness to deal with the surge in Covid-19 cases, the court suggested the state conducts extensive drives for vaccinations, put up information on the internet and other mediums so that people don’t panic while seeking drugs, beds and oxygen. Political parties, media were directed to follow pandemic norms and not burst crackers as part of their victory celebrations.The matter has been adjourned to May 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/frivolous-matters-madras-hc-on-ec-s-plea-to-restrain-media-from-publishing-oral-observations-101619790649287.html
30-04-2021||India||Chinese President Xi Jinping sends message to PM Modi, offers to strengthen anti-pandemic cooperation||Chinese President Xi Jinping on Friday sent a message to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and offered cooperation in dealing with the situation created by Covid-19.Xi said China is willing to strengthen anti-pandemic cooperation with India, and provide support and help to the country, Xinhua news agency reported.He also sent "condolences" over Covid-19 pandemic in the country, the news agency said.India has seen an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the pandemic.Addressing a press briefing on Friday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said that China is closely following the evolving epidemic situation in India."Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi sent a message of sympathy to Indian External Affairs Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar over the worsening situation of Covid-19 in India. He said that China would maximize its efforts to provide support to India," he said.China's state-run Sichuan Airlines had last week suspended all its cargo flights to India for 15 days, which was seen as a blow to private traders' efforts to procure the much-needed oxygen concentrators. Later, in a u-turn, it retracted the order saying that it was working out a new plan to resume the services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-president-xi-jinping-sends-message-to-pm-modi-offers-to-strengthen-anti-pandemic-cooperation-101619787567449.html
30-04-2021||India||States asked to conduct oxygen audit, Centre closely monitoring supply: Health ministry||The Union health ministry on Friday said that states have been asked to audit oxygen consumption even in private hospitals while the Centre is ramping up efforts to increase the supply amid the Covid-19 crisis. Briefing about the "concerning" developments of the pandemic situation of the country, the ministry said the second wave of Covid-19 is five times the peak in the first wave in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, 4.5 times in Chhattisgarh and 3.3 times in Delhi.Goa is witnessing the highest case growth rate of 10.9 per cent, followed by Odisha with a growth rate of 8.1 per cent. In the last four weeks, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala have become the worst-affected states in terms of daily new cases. Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh have also turned to be emerging states of concern due to the rise in average daily deaths.Also read: Identify issues promptly at local level, says PM Modi at ministers' Covid meetCiting the examples of countries like the US and Brazil the health ministry said that measures like containment, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination can help manage the situation.On the shortage of medical oxygen in the country, the ministry said the industrial use of oxygen has been prohibited from April 22 except for certain specified industries. This will increase at least 1,000 MT of additional oxygen availability, as per the ministry. The ministry listed other measures to ensure adequate oxygen supply like the placement of orders for 127,000 oxygen cylinders on April 21, their deliveries are expected by April end, railways are also operating Roll on – Roll Off (RORO) service for long-distance transportation of oxygen tankers and sanctioning of additional 500 PSA plants to be installed by the Development Research and Defence Organisation (DRDO) are some of many other."Efforts are made to increase the availability of oxygen tankers to more than 2,000 ( from existing 1,224 oxygen tankers with 16,732 MT capacity) through conversion of 50% of existing Nitrogen and Argon tankers (~ 600 tankers) and through the import of 138 cryogenic tankers for oxygen," the ministry said on increasing the production of life-saving oxygen.As the healthcare infrastructure of the country is overwhelmed by a load of the second wave, the ministry asked the states to ensure rational use of oxygen, prohibit abnormal use by monitoring non-closure of the valve during no-use, unnecessary oxygen administration to patients who may not require it clinically and to monitor private health facilities which push oxygen cylinders as part of Covid-19 home care package.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19On the measures taken by the government, the ministry added the liberalized pricing and accelerated strategy for vaccines that involved procuring 50 per cent of supplies for free vaccine distribution through states and Union territories.Social distancing, regular hand wash, sanitization, are essentials to break the chain of infection, as per the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-asked-to-conduct-oxygen-audit-centre-closely-monitoring-supply-health-ministry-101619780076405.html
30-04-2021||India||Bihar revenue dept officers upset over land survey work under Covid cloud||Even as the state government has issued guidelines, encouraging staff to work from home with only 25 % attendance in offices owing to the surge in Covid-19 cases, revenue and settlement officers posted in the districts are a bit miffed over the latest directive from their department that land survey-related work is carried out and completed as per targets. In a letter issued by the land revenue department’s land records and survey directorate on Wednesday, all officers in districts have been asked to attend the review meeting, held online every fortnight, with information about progress of ongoing land survey related work. The letter also asks district revenue and settlement officers to hold online review meetings with officials posted at the camps in villages for updates on survey work. The emphasis has also been that survey work should be carried as per targets. Also Read | Bihar chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh succumbs to Covid-19“ Though the department has asked us to attend online review meetings, the survey work is continuing and we have to make field visits for updates. Field officers are also working with great risk.Is it feasible to interact with people at village level for different aspects of survey work to complete pending works?,” asked a settlement officer, requesting anonymity. Reports said in Munger around 25% of the total officers engaged in survey work, including amins, have been infected. “Even villagers are refusing to cooperate in the survey work..many village heads have written to the department seeking suspension of the work. But what can we do?” said another survey officer, posted in the district. In Bihar, a survey to update land records is on in 90 circles covering 5,099 villages in 20 districts. The survey work is in different stages -- such as initial verification of boundaries, validation of tri-junction, kistawar (update of land maps based on aerial survey) and then update of land owners with maps of holdings. Commenting on the reported protests within the department, Jai Singh, director, land records and survey, said the letter issued to district settlement officers was in the context of holding online review meetings. “ Yes, the survey work is going on and has to be completed as per targets set. But we are not insisting on people to take up outdoor work right now. A lot work, such as uploading data and other documentation work, can be done in the office,” he said,. “We are only stressing on working in virtual mode,” he clarified.Bihar is among the 11 states that account for 78.18% of the countries active cases along with Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-revenue-dept-officers-upset-over-land-survey-work-under-covid-cloud-101619786688401.html
30-04-2021||India||Manipur declares Greater Imphal as containment zone for seven days||Authorities in Manipur have declared Greater Imphal as a containment zone for seven days to check the Covid-19 spread, chief secretary in-charge M H Khan said in an order on Thursday night. As per the order, the movement of people would remain suspended during this period except for those involved in essential services.Also Read | Covid-19: Active cases soar past 3 million, 10 states add over 72% new casesThe Imphal airport shall remain open, and movement of staff and passengers would be permitted.On Thursday, Manipur reported 314 new Covid-19 positive cases, the highest ever single-day spike this year.The state has anyway prohibited all sports-related activity at sports complexes including those operated by private entities in view of the rapidly rising cases of Covid-19 in the state, according to a state government order.“...all sporting activities in the state including any sport-related activity at Khuman Lampak Sports Complex and other sport complexes in the districts, including privately run or managed sport complexes are banned with immediate effect,” says a notification issued by Commissioner (Youth Affairs and Sports) Bobby Waikhom on April 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-declares-greater-imphal-as-containment-zone-for-seven-days-101619785668493.html
30-04-2021||India||Twitter says will engage openly, constructively on govt's content withholding requests||Days after it blocked dozens of posts allegedly critical of Covid-19 crisis handling, Twitter has said it will consider more requests from the government to withhold content and will continue to engage "openly and constructively" with it."We notify the account holder directly so they're aware that we've received a legal order pertaining to the account by sending a message to the email address associated with the account(s), if available, unless we are prohibited from doing so," Twitter said in a blog on Thursday.The microblogging platform had received a number of takedown requests from India over the past few months around content that the government termed as misinformation around farmer protests and the Covid-19 pandemic."In the event we receive more requests to withhold content from the Government of India within the country, we will continue to engage openly and constructively based on our overarching commitment to serve the public conversation during a crisis," Twitter said. It added that the platform will continue to proactively communicate to any affected account, and publish every individual request it receives from the government to the Lumen Database.Just a few days back, Twitter and other social media platforms removed about 100 posts and URLs after the government asked them to remove content that was critical of the handling of the current medical crisis or spreading fake news around the pandemic.Reports citing Lumen database, an independent research project studying cease and desist letters concerning online content, suggested that more than 50 posts - including those by a Member of Parliament, MLA and filmmakers - were removed by Twitter on government request.Government sources had said social media platforms were asked to remove the posts and URLs (uniform resource locators) to "prevent obstructions in the fight against the pandemic" and disruption of public order due to the said posts.In its blog, Twitter said it continues to support a range of government authorities with public service initiatives around the Covid-19 pandemic. "This includes working with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to support a dedicated handle, @CovidIndiaSeva, which is enabling more transparent real-time e-governance delivery; the Ministry is able to communicate effectively and at scale with individual citizens to address urgent health-related queries. We've supported and enabled multiple state governments to set-up similar dedicated Covid-19 response accounts," it added.The massive rise in infections in the second wave of the pandemic has led to hospitals in several states reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. Social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter have emerged as a lifeline during this crisis, helping connect those looking for oxygen cylinders, hospital beds, plasma donors, and ventilators with possible donors.Twitter said it tackles Covid-19 misinformation based on the highest potential for harm using a combination of product, technology and human review. "As of March 1, 2021, following the update to our Covid-19 misleading information policy regarding misleading information about vaccines, we apply a label warning on Tweets that advance unsubstantiated rumours and disputed claims, as well as incomplete or out-of-context information about vaccines," it said. Tweets which advance harmful false or misleading narratives about Covid-19 vaccinations will continue to be removed, it added.Twitter noted that a global team of specialists are working round the clock to make it easy to find credible information on Twitter, and to limit the spread of potentially harmful and misleading content.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-says-will-engage-openly-constructively-on-govt-s-content-withholding-requests-101619784674248.html
30-04-2021||India||Vaccination of 18-44 age group will not start on May 1 in Karnataka: Minister||The Covid-19 vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group will not commence on Saturday as per schedule in Karnataka, state health minister K Sudhakar said on Friday.“We are yet to receive any exact details on delivery of vaccines from Serum Institute of India (SII). So, we will not be able to commence vaccination for people between 18-44 from tomorrow [May 1],” Sudhakar said on Friday.SII manufactures Covishield, the mainstay of India’s vaccination programme. Also Read | Covid-19: Active cases soar past 3 million, 10 states add over 72% new casesKarnataka has placed an order for 10 million doses of Covishield valued ₹400 crore. It has so far received over 9.9 million doses and inoculated more than 9.3 million, according to government data. The state has around 590,000 doses left, which the government plans to use for vaccinating people aged above 45.Sudhakar there are over 30 million people in the 18-44 age group in the state and the government will announce the dates of vaccination for it once it has more clarity on the delivery of doses from SII.Registration for the third phase of the immunisation drive for people aged between 18 and 44 began on Wednesday. Other states have also signalled vaccines may not be immediately available because of a shortage of stocks and delay in order deliveries. Officials across states told HT on Thursday that the doses would not be available by May 1, as did private hospitals. Only three of 16 state governments contacted by HT on Tuesday said they expected at least some doses to start arriving by the end of the first week of May.The Delhi government on Friday announced it too will be unable to launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group as per schedule from Saturday as it has no doses for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-of-18-44-age-group-will-not-start-on-may-1-in-karnataka-minister-101619785368307.html
30-04-2021||India||Identify issues promptly at local level, says PM Modi at ministers' meet on Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday chaired the meeting of the council of ministers to discuss the situation arising out of the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The ministry of information and broadcasting said that Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul made a presentation on the management of the Covid-19 pandemic.During the virtual meeting via video conference, PM Modi urged the ministers to help people of their respective regions and keep getting their feedback, according to the I&B ministry. He also stressed the need to ensure that issues at the local level are promptly identified and addressed.“The Council of Ministers meeting noted that the present pandemic crisis is ‘once in a century crisis’ and has thrown a big challenge for the world,” the ministry said in a statement.India is witnessing an unprecedented health crisis amid a continued rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths. The ministry of health and family welfare on Friday morning announced that India recorded 3,86,452 new cases of Covid-19 and 3,498 related deaths in the last 24 hours. The official data suggests that Maharashtra witnessed the maximum daily casualties with 771 deaths, followed by Delhi with 395 deaths.The huge spike in Covid-19 cases has overwhelmed health care infrastructure and shortage of oxygen and other medical supplies have been reported from multiple states. Meanwhile, the first consignment of Covid-19 assistance from the United States, which includes 440 oxygen cylinders and regulators and 960,000 rapid diagnostic tests, arrived in India on Friday.The I&B ministry said that the efforts by the Central government in coordination with the states to overcome the infrastructure challenges were briefed during the meeting. The council also reviewed the efforts made in the last 14 months by the Central and state governments and the people of India, the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/identify-issues-promptly-at-local-level-says-pm-modi-at-ministers-covid-meet-101619783277731.html
30-04-2021||India||No need to panic, says L-G Sinha amid vaccine shortage in J&K||Jammu & Kashmir’s lieutenant governor, Manoj Sinha, on Friday urged people not to panic over the shortage of Covid-19 vaccines and the closure of inoculation centres. In a tweet, he said they were equipped to deal with the emerging situation and over 10 million doses have been ordered for vaccination of people in the 18-45 age group.Chairing a meeting with the office-bearers and volunteers of the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) virtually, Sinha acknowledged lauded the volunteers for their selflessness and dedicated service towards the public.He called upon them to renew their commitment and determination in complementing the administration’s efforts to speed up the vaccination drive and tackle the challenges of the pandemic.Also Read | Doctors, hospitals stressed in J&K amid Covid surge“With collaborative efforts, we can contribute and play our part in helping those affected,” Sinha said.“The availability of oxygen is more than double the requirement. We have 54,500 cubic metres of oxygen against the present consumption of 25,000 cubic metres. Besides, 15,000 cubic metres more will be added in the coming days,” the Lt Governor said.A day ago, Sinha held a press conference where officials said they have increased the bed capacity while sufficient ventilators were also available. Many have complained about the closure of vaccination centres and a shortage of vaccines.Officials said over 2 million people have been inoculated so far in Jammu & Kashmir. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-to-panic-says-l-g-sinha-amid-vaccine-shortage-in-jk-101619784468093.html
30-04-2021||India||Activists seek priority in treatment, vaccination for persons with disabilities||Following complaints from rights activists and organisations, the department of empowerment of persons with disabilities has requested the Union health ministry to issue directions to states to give priority to people with disabilities in treatment and vaccination for Covid-19.In a communication to the health ministry dated April 29, the department wrote, “Ministry of health and family welfare is requested to issue appropriate instructions to state/UTs health authorities and healthcare institutions under its control to ensure that special provisions be made in Covid-19 testing, vaccination and treatment centres for priority in attending to and treatment of PwDs (people with disability).”This comes after the National Federation of the Blind complained to the department that people with visual impairment had to stand in long queues to get tested, vaccinated and get treatment for Covid-19.SK Rungta, general secretary of the National Federation of the Blind, said, “Due to the increase in Covid-19 cases in the country, the general public is facing a lot of problems in getting tests done. But the problem for people with disabilities has increased manifold. A lot of labs are not doing home collection and then there are long queues for testing. It is impossible for a blind person to go and stand in a queue. Similarly, for vaccination and treatment, priority should be given to people with disabilities. We have received several complaints from across the country about the problems disabled face for getting their Covid-19 tests done or vaccination.”An official from the department of empowerment of persons with disabilities said that they have received similar representations from different organisations and activists from across the country.Rungta added, “We have written to both the health ministry and the department of empowerment of persons with disabilities. We hope necessary directions are issued to state governments and union territories.” Disability rights activist Abha Khetrapal, who recently tested positive for Covid-19, said it is very difficult for a person with a disability to manage if he or she tests positive. “I had to wait for 24 hours before I could arrange for my sample to be collected from home. In the present situation, the government should provide special helpline numbers for disabled people. Also, as vaccination for the 18-44 age group will start soon, there should be a provision to get vaccinated at home for people with disabilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activists-seek-priority-in-treatment-vaccination-for-persons-with-disabilities-101619782848062.html
30-04-2021||India||International passenger flights’ suspension extended till May 31||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Friday extended the suspension of international flights until May 31 amid the second Covid-19 wave that has triggered the worst surge in infections and overwhelmed hospitals.“...the competent authority has further extended the validity of circular issued on the subject cited above regarding Scheduled International commercial passenger services to/from India till 2359 hrs IST of 31 May, 2021. This restriction shall not apply to international all-cargo operations and fights specifically approved by DGCA,” the aviation regulatory body said in a circular.Also Read | Cap on domestic flight rates to stay till May 31: DGCAOver the past few weeks, countries such as the US, the UK, UAE, Singapore, New Zealand, Canada, Germany, and Australia have imposed restrictions on flights from India.International passenger flights have been suspended since March 23, 2020, after a nationwide lockdown was imposed to tackle the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. In May 2020, the Centre launched the Vande Bharat Mission to fly home Indians stranded abroad. India has bilateral air bubble arrangements for the operation of special passenger flights with 28 countries. Air bubble refers to a travel corridor between two countries that wish to reopen their borders and re-establish air connectivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-passenger-flights-suspension-extended-till-may-31-101619782548068.html
30-04-2021||India||Weekend lockdown in Gurugram, Faridabad from 10pm | What's allowed||Nine Haryana districts, including Panchkula, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar and Fatehabad, will come under weekend lockdown starting from 10pm on Friday, which will continue till 5am, May 3. With this, this will be the first weekend when the entire National Capital Region will be under lockdown as areas under Delhi and Uttar Pradesh are already observing restrictions.Services exempted from lockdown> Law and order, municipal services, executive magistrates, police, health, electricity, fire, media personnel will be allowed to move.> Movement of examinees and people engaged in examination duties.> Manufacturing of essential goods.> Interstate and intra-state movement only after verification of the point of origin and destination.> Internet services, telecommunications servicesGurugram among 9 Haryana districts under weekend lockdown beginning today> Delivery of all essential goods.> Petrol pumos, LPG, petroleum.> Private security services> Farming operations> Restaurants, food joints can remain open only for home delivery.> Passengers travelling through buses, trains, flights.> Only 30 people allowed in indoor marriage functions which have already been permitted. For outdoor parties, 50 persons are allowed.Will you need a special pass?Industrial units/entrepreneurs shall apply on Saral Haryana ( https://saralharyana.gov.in) portal to generate requisite passes for the employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-haryana-districts-including-gurugram-under-weekend-lockdown-what-s-allowed-101619780936894.html
30-04-2021||India||Gurugram among 9 Haryana districts under weekend lockdown beginning today||The Haryana government on Friday announced Gurugram as one of the nine districts across the state to be put under a weekend lockdown from 10pm on Friday till 5am on Monday.The other districts are: Panchkula, Faridabad, Sonipat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa, and Fatehabad.The weekend lockdown order was issued by Vijay Vardhan, chief secretary and chairperson of the Haryana State Executive Committee, under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.“Whereas, the Covid-19 pandemic is again posing threat to public health, the Haryana government has considered it necessary to take effective measures to prevent its spread in the state,” excerpts from the order read.The order states that general public are not allowed to leave their homes, travel on foot or vehicles on the streets or any public places during this time period.The Covid-19 situation has been grim in the city, especially over the past three weeks, with acute shortage of Covid-19 hospitals beds, oxygen, and medicines.Before April 11, the highest single-day Covid-19 recorded cases was 964 on November 8 last year. Since then, the city’s Covid-19 cases have been continuously surging, with Gurugram recording 5,042 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, as per the district administration’s daily health bulletin, the highest single-day figure since the pandemic started.As per Vardhan’s order, only those tasked with law and order, municipal services, health, electricity, fire, government machinery tasked with Covid-19 related duties, executive magistrates, police personnel, military, Central Armed Police Force (CAPF), accredited journalist are allowed movement provided they show their identify cards.For general public, movement for appearing in examination, those on examination duties on production of admit or identity cards, those engaged in manufacture of essential goods are also exempted.Vardhan’s order further stated that there will no curb on movement of inter-state and intra-state essential and non-essential goods.“Hospitals, veterinary hospitals and all related medical establishments, including their manufacturing and distribution units, both in public and private sector, such as dispensaries, chemist, pharmacies (including Jan Aushadhi Kendra) and medical equipment shops, laboratories, pharmaceutical research labs, clinics, nursing homes, ambulance will continue to remain functional. The transportation of all medical personnel, nurses, paramedical, other hospital support services will be permitted,” it says.Under the commercial and private establishment category, those engaged in telecommunications, internet services, broadcasting and cable services staff, IT services; delivering essential goods, including food, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment; petrol pumps, LPG, petroleum and gas retail and storage outlets are also exempted along with people deputed in power generation, transmission and distribution units and services, cold storage and warehousing services, private security services, and farming activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurugram-among-9-haryana-districts-under-weekend-lockdown-beginning-today-101619781228333.html
30-04-2021||India||Maharashtra may start vaccination drive for 18-44 age group in a symbolic way||Maharashtra may kick off the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group in a symbolic way tomorrow. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is likely to make the announcement today evening in his live address to the state on various social media platforms. State health minister Rajesh Tope said that Thackeray is keen on launching the drive on May 1 as the day is celebrated as Maharashtra state’s foundation day as well. “The chief minister intends to start the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group in a limited way. It is because we celebrate May 1 as Maharashtra Day and the Centre also wants it to be started on the same day. The CM will share more details about his plans during his live address this evening,” Tope told reporters on Friday.Also Read | Third Covid wave may hit Maharashtra by July-Aug, warns UddhavExpanding the nationwide drive, the Centre threw open vaccination for all adults from May 1, asking the states to inoculate the 18-44 age group by procuring doses from the open market.Tope said that the state may start the drive with one centre in a district as they have very limited stock of vaccine doses. “Serum Institute of India has informed us that they can provide 1,400,000 -1,500,000 vials in May whereas Bharat Biotech said they can provide between 400,000 and 450,000 doses in the next month. Together, we are expecting to get around 1.8 million doses in May. Based on this, the state can start the drive at limited centres which may be limited to one in each district,” the health minister said.He said the state government wants to maintain consistency in holding the drive which depends upon the availability of the vaccine stock.On being asked if the state will then also the vaccination drive at private centres for 45 years and above age group, he said, “We will have to follow whatever directives the Centre issues. Today, we are running the vaccination drive for 45 years and above at 4,200 centres across the state but if the Centre wants no drive for that age group at private centres then that directive will have to be followed.” Elaborating, he said, “Those who are eligible for the second dose will be given the second jab. It can be done either at private centres or at the government-run centres by taking the record. There are two firms manufacturing vaccine doses. The Government of India has mandated that half of their production will go to the Centre and the rest will be divided among the state governments, private hospitals and industrial private hospitals. Now the question arises on what will happen if these (private) hospitals demand vaccine stock in big numbers. The Government of India may have to regulate this aspect as well. The Centre yet has to clarify these aspects.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-may-start-vaccination-drive-for-18-44-age-group-in-a-symbolic-way-101619779849257.html
30-04-2021||India||Tamil Nadu joins list of states to defer Covid vaccination drive on May 1, says supply inadequate||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday deferred the rollout of the third phase of the vaccination drive for all adults from May 1 citing a short supply of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Tamil Nadu health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan, however, said people above 45 years of age will continue to be inoculated against Covid-19. He said that the state government is in touch with the Centre and the vaccine makers—Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech—regarding the issue.“Instead of waiting till tomorrow (and disappoint people), I wish to clarify (now) that we are unsure when and how much out of 1.5 crore doses of vaccine sought by Tamil Nadu, will arrive,” Radhakrishnan told news agency PTI.Also read | Karnataka tells citizens to not go for Phase 3 vaccination over doses' shortageOn April 28, the state government ordered the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) to procure 15 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine to facilitate the free vaccination of all people above 18 years of age in the state. In the order, the government said, “All necessary steps are being taken as per the order of the chief minister for the free vaccination of people from 18 to 44 years of age from May 1.”The health secretary’s comments came as the government’s order is yet to be fulfilled. Radhakrishnan also assured that the state has enough vaccine doses for the inoculation of those above 45 years of age. He mentioned that an order for 15 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine has been placed by the state government and is unsure about when this would be delivered.Several other states in the country have also hinted at a possible delay in beginning the third phase of the vaccination programme due to the shortage in the Covid-19 vaccine stock. Earlier in the day, Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said people would be notified after the state government gets confirmation from the Serum Institute of India in Pune. “We gave orders to SII, Pune for over 1 crore doses. But they are not prepared to give it to us from tomorrow. We request people, especially those between 18 to 44 years of age, to refrain from going to hospitals thinking that you may be vaccinated tomorrow,” news agency ANI quoted the minister as saying.Also read | Vaccine drive for 18+ not to start in Delhi from May 1: KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal too said that the vaccine drive for inoculating everyone above 18 years will not be launched in the city from May 1. He also asked people to not visit the vaccination centres due to concerns about social distancing norms. “The vaccines have not reached us till now. We are in touch with the manufacturers and the first batch of 300,000 doses of Covishield vaccine is likely to arrive in a day or two. Hence, I request people not to throng vaccination centres. Once we receive the doses, I will formally announce the date of launch of the mega vaccination drive,” Kejriwal said.The Centre on April 19 announced that the country’s vaccination drive has been expanded to include all people above 18 years of age to receive the shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-joins-list-of-states-to-defer-covid-vaccination-drive-on-may-1-says-supply-inadequate-101619773566877.html
30-04-2021||India||Bihar chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh succumbs to Covid-19||Bihar chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh passed away on Friday at a private hospital in Patna. The 1985-batch officer was tested positive for Covid-19 and his condition kept deteriorating. His last rites will be performed with state honours.Kumar became the chief secretary on February 27 this year after his predecessor, then chief secretary Dipak Kumar, could not get his third extension. He was to retire on August 31.Also Read | Bihar reports over 13,000 Covid cases 2nd day in a rowChief minister Nitish Kumar condoled Kumar’s death and said, “He was an able administrator and was liked by his colleagues. He worked in various capacities during his IAS career. It is a big loss,” he added.Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha, legislative council chairman Avadhesh Narayan Singh, deputy CMs Tar Kishore Prasad and Renu Devi, and several other ministers, officials and leaders also offered their condolences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-chief-secretary-succumbs-to-covid19-101619776427965.html
30-04-2021||India||'Not time to do politics': Supreme Court to Delhi on Covid-19 situation||The Supreme Court on Friday told Delhi that it was not time to do politics and it must act in a spirit of cooperation with the Centre amid the Covid-19 crisis. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat is hearing a suo motu case in connection with the ongoing pandemic situation of the country. In a hearing going on since 12 noon on Friday, the bench took note of the overall pandemic situation, including oxygen shortage, building pressure on the healthcare system, social media clampdown 'attempt' and difference in vaccine prices etc."We want you to convey a message to the highest authority that there should be a sense of cooperation with the centre at this humanitarian crisis," Justice Chandrachud told Rahul Mehra, the counsel for the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi.Why don't you buy 100% of Covid-19 vaccines: Top court's 10 questions to Centre"We don't want political bickering at the time of crisis. Politics is for the time of elections. There has to a sense of cooperation. A spirit of dialogue. Saving lives is the priority," Justice Chandrachud said.The rap was not only for Delhi, which is reeling under an acute crisis of oxygen, as the Apex Court also told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that the Centre has a 'peculiar role' to push through after Mehta said Delhi has not been able to lift oxygen because of a lack of tankers."According to you, Delhi hasn't been able to lift but we can't tell people that your parents or children or spouse can't be helped now. You tell us the solution," the top court said asking to allot an additional 200 metric tonne of oxygen to the Capital,"Delhi represents people from the entire country. The Centre has a peculiar role. Forget that somebody wasn't able to lift the oxygen but you have to push through because you have to protect lives. You have a special responsibility," the Supreme Court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-time-to-do-politics-supreme-court-to-delhi-on-covid-19-situation-101619776148010.html
30-04-2021||India||Why don't you buy 100% of Covid-19 vaccines: Supreme Court's 10 questions to Centre||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre why it is not following the national immunisation programme policy in its Covid-19 vaccination drive where the Centre will buy all vaccines from the manufacturers. Taking note of the difference in the price that the Centre and the state governments will have to pay for one dose of vaccines, Justice DY Chandrachud said the vaccines are ultimately for the people of the country.Watch: SC questions Centre over Covid management, vaccination | All you need to knowA Supreme Court bench comprising Justices DY Chandrachud, Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat heard a suo motu case in connection with the ongoing pandemic situation of the country. As the bench ruled that there should be no clampdown on Covid-related information on social media, it deliberated on a few other aspects of Covid-19 management.Here are the questions the Supreme Court bench asked the Centre:> What is being done to provide treatment to healthcare professionals who are contacting Covid-19?> How much investment has the Centre made into the vaccine companies and given advances in the last year? What has been the financial contribution by the Union govt in research etc in the development of vaccines?> Can a mechanism be developed to show real-time updates regarding the allocation of oxygen?> How will the Centre ensure registration for vaccines for illiterate people and those without internet access as registration through Co-Win is mandatory in the third phase of vaccination?> Will one state get priority access over another in getting the vaccines?> How will the Centre ensure equity by private vaccine manufacturers when it is buying only 50 per cent of the doses?> Has the centre considered invoking Section 92 of the patents act and issue compulsory licenses so that drugs can be manufactured while the royalty is sorted?> Has the testing labs been directed to track the mutant variant of Covid-19?> How is the Centre trying to regulate hospital charges? Is there a national policy?> Why are we paying so much for this vaccine which AstraZeneca is providing at a far lower price to the US citizens?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-don-t-you-buy-100-of-covid-19-vaccines-supreme-court-s-10-questions-to-centre-101619775007715.html
30-04-2021||India||Global medical supply chains on G7 ministerial in UK on Monday||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will reach London on Monday to attend the two-day G7 plus 3 ministerial meeting amidst the resurgent coronavirus pandemic in India with the focus on global supply chains to fight the disease, chart the path for economic recovery and strive towards carbon neutrality to battle climate change. S Jaishankar will be in Britain on May 3 and 4 with the meeting laying the groundwork for the G7 plus 3 summit on June 11-13 at Cornwall. The three countries apart from G7 are India, Australia and South Korea.While it is still not clear whether the QUAD ministers will meet on the sidelines of the G7 ministerial, India, Australia and France foreign ministers meeting is on the cards, just as Japan, the US and South Korean foreign ministers are scheduled to meet in England.Also read | G7 suggest boosting IMF reserves to help vulnerable nationsAccording to diplomats based in the European Union (EU), London and Delhi, the main agenda item will be to establish global medical supply chains to fight the pandemic, which has returned in waves all over the world. India has been seeking delicensing of the vaccines against Covid-19 so that the preventive drug is available at low cost and in significant quantities all over the world.Although a G7 plus 3 communique is expected after the Cornwall Summit, the richest democratic nations of the world will also coordinate their policies to chart a course for economic recovery post-pandemic and relook at cooperative mechanisms to restart trade and economic revival.For India, the G7 ministerial will be just before the India-EU virtual summit, hosted by Portugal, on May 8 with the expectation of revival of negotiations towards free trade and investment agreement.Also read | Boris Johnson invites PM Modi to UK for June G7 summitThe third important item on the agenda will be the issue of climate change with countries being asked to move towards their carbon neutrality. While India has taken significant steps towards climate change, a forward movement is expected after the Cornwall Summit as the United Kingdom is hosting the UN Conference of Parties 26 at Glasgow on November 1 this year.While Jaishankar will thank G7 members and EU states like France for helping out India fight the coronavirus disease by sending in crucial medical supplies at the time of the raging pandemic, the participating foreign ministers of 10 states are expected to work out an arrangement to help each other out in case the virus returns after vaccination of major parts of the globe by end 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-medical-supply-chains-on-g7-ministerial-in-uk-on-monday-101619772845317.html
30-04-2021||India||TV news anchor Rohit Sardana succumbs to Covid-19||Popular television journalist Rohit Sardana, who contracted the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), passed away in Delhi on Friday. He was 40. “A little while ago I got a call from @capt_ivane. Hearing what he said, my hands trembled. It was the news of the demise of our friend and colleague Rohit Sardana. The virus would not have picked anyone so close to us. I was not ready for this. God has injustice ..ॐ peace,” Sardana’s former colleague and Zee News editor-in-chief Sudhir Chaudhary said in a tweet in Hindi.अब से थोड़ी पहले @capt_ivane का फ़ोन आया।उसने जो कहा सुनकर मेरे हाथ काँपने लगे।हमारे मित्र और सहयोगी रोहित सरदाना की मृत्यु की ख़बर थी।ये वाइरस हमारे इतने क़रीब से किसी को उठा ले जाएगा ये कल्पना नहीं की थी।इसके लिए मैं तैयार नहीं था।ये भगवान की नाइंसाफ़ी है..ॐ शान्तिApart from his colleagues, several political leaders took to social media to express grief over the Aaj Tak journalist’s death. “The sad news of the demise of senior TV journalist Rohit Sardana Ji is shocking. May God place his soul at his feet and give the family the courage to bear this sorrow,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.Union home minister Amit Shah hailed him as a brave journalist. “Pained to learn about Shri Rohit Sardana ji’s untimely demise. In him, the nation has lost a brave journalist who always stood up for unbiased and fair reporting. May God give his family the strength to bear this tragic loss. My deepest condolences to his family and followers,” he wrote on Twitter.Pained to learn about Shri Rohit Sardana ji’s untimely demise. In him, the nation has lost a brave journalist who always stood up for unbiased and fair reporting. May God give his family the strength to bear this tragic loss. My deepest condolences to his family and followers.Congress leader Sachin Pilot also sent condolences to Sardana’s family via social media. “Shocked and saddened to learn about the untimely demise of journalist and anchor Rohit Sardana. May his soul find eternal peace. My condolences to his family, friends and colleagues,” he said.Anguished to know about the untimely demise of renowned TV journalist Rohit Sardana ji. A huge loss to India's media fraternity, my deepest condolences to his family and well-wishers. Om Shanti. pic.twitter.com/x0UdoOtcKeUnion minister Jitendra Singh remembered Sardana as a promising journalist, who he said was putting up posts on social media until Friday seeking help for Covid-19-infected citizens. “A promising journalistic career abruptly cut short. His best was yet to come. Young #RohitSardana , who was only yesterday tweeting to arrange help for #COVID victims, has himself succumbed to the cruel Pandemic,” the minister wrote on the microblogging site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tv-news-anchor-rohit-sardana-succumbs-to-covid19-101619770940665.html
30-04-2021||India||Aviation ministry permits Telangana govt to use drones for Covid-19 vaccines delivery||The Civil Aviation Ministry on Friday permitted the Telangana government to use drones for experimental delivery of vaccines within the visual line of sight.The ministry's statement does not mention which particular vaccine will be part of this experimental delivery.The ministry on Twitter said it has granted conditional exemption to the Telangana government from the Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Rules, 2021, for "conducting experimental delivery of vaccines using drones within the visual line of sight range".This exemption will be valid for a period of one year or until further orders, it noted.On April 22, the ministry had permitted the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct a feasibility study on using drones to deliver Covid-19 vaccine.The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 15 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.India is struggling with the second wave of the coronavirus infection as hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds.The Centre's liberalised and accelerated phase-3 strategy of Covid-19 vaccination will be implemented from Saturday. Registration for the new eligible population groups started from Wednesday.India saw 3,86,452 new coronavirus infections in a span of 24 hours, the highest single-day rise so far, pushing the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,87,62,976, while active cases crossed the 31-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.The death toll increased to 2,08,330 with 3,498 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aviation-ministry-permits-telangana-govt-to-use-drones-for-covid-19-vaccines-delivery-101619771922300.html
30-04-2021||India||Over 200 villages sealed by panchayats in Madhya Pradesh to prevent Covid spread||Panchayats in Madhya Pradesh have stopped the entry of outsiders and migrant workers into at least 200 villages by sealing their borders and set up quarantine centres to prevent the Covid-19 spread as 15-20% of fresh infections were being reported from the rural areas, officials said. The proportion of the infections reported from villages has gone up by four times while it was under 5% in September, according to the state rural development department’s data.The panchayats began sealing the villages in Bundelkhand, Malwa and central regions as migrant workers began returning to their homes in rural areas as lockdowns to check the second Covid-19 wave were imposed across the country. Many of the returnees have tested Covid-19 positive.Madhya Pradesh on Friday reported 12,762 cases and 95 deaths.There were 92,773 active cases in the state as the surge in infections has overwhelmed hospitals and triggered shortages of medical supplies and oxygen. The second Covid-19 wave has pushed daily infections above the 350,000-mark daily in the country.The panchayats have set up centres, where the returnees have to quarantine for 14 days before entering the villages after testing negative for the disease. Officials said in the Hoshangabad district alone, 130 villages have been sealed after Covid-19 cases were reported under the jurisdiction of over a dozen villages.Also Read | Will treat action against social media Covid appeals as ‘contempt of court’: SCShivram Katare, the secretary of the panchayat in Hoshangabad’s Dongarwada village, said entire families have been found infected in neighbouring villages. “...as many as six people died of Covid 19. So, we have decided to seal the village and we are happy that no one tested positive of Covid-19. The village has a population of over 2,000 people and many returned from the cities after the lockdown... they are at quarantine centres where we are providing food and other facilities.”Many village panchayats have formed vigilance committees to check the entry of outsiders. “It is hard to seal the borders of a village... We have used bamboos and ropes to seal the village. We have also formed a vigilance team of 20 people to check the entry of people into the village,” said Meshram Singh, a resident of Bari village in Chhatarpur district.Dhani Ram Gupta, a social worker from Sagar district’s Kevlari Kalan village, said they have not only sealed the border but were also extending help to people who have tested positive. “In our village, two youth returned from Sagar city and were tested positive. We shifted them to a hospital and also provided all kinds of help to their families. The basic objective of doing this is to set an example for villagers that they should not be afraid if they develop any symptom. We will not discriminate against those who will test positive; we will take care of them...”Hoshangabad collector Dhananjay Pratap Singh said teams that include auxillary nurses were helping the villagers in screening outsiders. “We will win this battle with community support, and we are happy that villagers are coming forward on their own.”Sheelendra Singh, the Chhatrapur collector, said, unlike last year, the villagers are not taking Covid-19 lightly. “They are showing alertness this time as the number of positive cases in rural areas has increased.”Panchayat and rural development department principal secretary Umakant Umrao said since there is no nationwide lockdown, people were returning to their villages using public transport. “So, there are chances of the spread of the infection. In the past two weeks, 75,000 people have returned to their villages. Panchayats have developed about 15,000 quarantine and Covid care centres in the villages by using their funds. Our focus is to contain the spread of the infections in rural areas, and we are hopeful of success.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-200-panchayats-seal-villages-to-prevent-covid-spread-madhya-pradesh-101619772107613.html
30-04-2021||India||Centre to import 450,000 vials of Remdesivir; first consignment expected today||The Centre said it will start importing Remdesivir from Friday even as its domestic production has been ramped up from 3.8 million vials a month to over 10 million monthly with the surge in Covid-19 cases triggering a shortage and scramble for the antiviral drug used to treat the disease. The first batch of 75,000 vials was expected on Friday and another 375,000 were scheduled to be imported before July.Remdesivir is one of the investigational drugs prescribed under restricted emergency use for treating Covid-19 patients in India. The World Health Organisation has said there is no evidence that the drug reduces mortality or obviates the need for ventilation among hospitalised patients. It has, however, been found to help those in the early stages of the infection.Also Read | Delhi’s fake Remdesivir injection racket: Two more arrested in Uttarakhand“HLL Lifecare Ltd, a government-owned company, has ordered 450,000 vials of Remedesivir. It is expected that Gilead Sciences Inc. USA will dispatch 75,000 to 100,000 vials in the next one or two days. Further, one hundred thousand quantities will also be supplied by May 15. Egypt-based EVA pharma will also supply almost 10,000 vials initially followed by 50,000 vials every 15 days or till July,” Union chemicals and fertilisers’ ministry said in a statement.“The daily supply of Remedesivir has gone up from 67,900 vials on 11th April to 2.09 lakh vials on 28th April 2021,” the government said in an advisory issued to states and Union Territories for the transportation of Remdesivir supplies.The government on April 11 put a moratorium on the export of the medicine to boost its availability in India. Its price was earlier capped at ₹3,500 per vial on April 17. The drug has been exempted from customs duties till October 31 along with Beta-cyclodextrin, an important component used in its manufacturing.Gilead Sciences on Tuesday announced it will donate 450,000 vials of Remdesivir to India and provide its voluntary licensing partners in the country with technical assistance to rapidly scale up the production of the drug.The surge of Covid-19 cases has overwhelmed hospitals and triggered a shortage of medicines and other critical supplies.Gilead Sciences has seven licensing partners in India, and they have significantly accelerated production of Remdesivir by scaling up their batch sizes, adding new manufacturing facilities and/or onboarding local contract manufacturers across the country.Randeep Guleria, the director of New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences this week cited a US study and added it was shown that if given to moderate to severe patients, there is a chance hospital stay will reduce somewhat. “Therefore, stable patients who are in home isolation, with oxygen saturation of 94% and above, do not require Remdesivir. If mild cases take Remdesivir, then there is a chance of more harm than good. It is no magic bullet and should be given only to hospitalised patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-import-450-000-vials-of-remdesivir-first-consignment-expected-today-101619770607683.html
30-04-2021||India||Karnataka tells citizens to not go for Phase 3 vaccination over shortage of doses||The Karnataka government on Friday told citizens to not step out for the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination, which officially begins on Saturday across the country, as the stock of vaccine they ordered from the Serum Institute of India (SII) is not in yet, news agency ANI reported.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here“We gave orders to SII, Pune for over one crore doses. But they are not prepared to give it to us from tomorrow. We request people, especially those between 18-44 years of age, to refrain from going to hospitals thinking that they may be vaccinated tomorrow,” Karnataka’s health minister Dr K Sudhakar told news agency ANI."We have already paid ₹400 crore to purchase one crore doses of Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India in Pune," he was quoted as by PTI. Sudhakar added that the people will be informed when the government gets confirmation about the arrival of vials from SII.The announcement comes a day after Karnataka clocked 35,024 new cases of the coronavirus disease on Thursday and 270 fatalities, taking its active caseload to 349,496 and death toll to 15,306.Several states, including Maharashtra, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, and Gujarat, have said that they will start the third phase of the immunisation drive at a later date in May when manufacturers provide them with a substantial number of vials to administer to the people aged between 18 years and 44 years.The registration process for the vaccination of people from this category has begun on the CoWin portal. However, the pharmaceutical companies to which the state governments have given orders for the vaccine doses are yet to deliver them.Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani has said that the Phase 3 immunisation campaign will start latest by May 15 while Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the jabs are likely to arrive in the city by Saturday or Sunday, following with the drive will begin with an aim to conclude it in three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-tells-citizens-to-not-go-for-phase-3-vaccination-over-shortage-of-doses-101619769128729.html
30-04-2021||India||ED takes possession of Rose Valley Group assets worth ₹304 crore||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has taken possession of movable and immovable properties worth ₹304 crore of Rose Valley Group of companies worth ₹304 crore in its money laundering probe related to ponzi schemes, the agency said in a statement on Friday. “Investigation under PMLA (prevention of money laundering act) has revealed that several properties in West Bengal, Odisha, Tripura, Assam, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, and others states were acquired in the name of various companies of Rose Valley Group, by illegally diverting the funds collected from the common public,” said the statement. The Adjudicating Authority (PMLA), New Delhi, has confirmed the orders of provisional attachment of said properties. ED has also filed its prosecution complaints against the companies and its directors before the special PMLA court. Also Read | CBI arrests Rose Valley chit fund owner’s wife in KolkataIt said that it had undertaken a special drive for taking possession of the properties of Rose Valley Group of companies, throughout West Bengal, Tripura and Odisha under PMLA which resulted in possession of 412 movable properties amounting to ₹47 crore and 426 immovable properties amounting to ₹257 crore.According to the ED, investigation under PMLA has revealed that Rose Valley group of companies collected more than ₹17,520 crore from the public throughout the country “by luring depositors with false the promise of high return/interest on their deposits”.Out of this amount, ₹10,850 crore was refunded and remaining amount is unpaid. This unpaid amount constitutes the proceeds of crime, ED said. With Monday’s attachment, the total market value of properties so far attached in Rose Valley cases reached around ₹4,750 crore.Rose Valley owner Gautam Kundu was arrested on March 23, 2015, by the ED in Kolkata. The company representatives or lawyer could not be located for comments on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-takes-possession-of-rose-valley-group-assets-worth-rs-304-crore-101619768747464.html
30-04-2021||India||India to import 450,000 Remdesivir vials, first consignment to reach today: Govt||The Centre said on Friday India has started importing Remdesivir from other countries and that the first consignment of 75,000 vials will reach later in the day as the country battles ease out the shortage of the critical antiviral drug with surging cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “HLL Lifecare Ltd, a government of India owned company, has ordered 4,50,000 vials of Remdesivir from M/s Gilead Sciences Inc USA. and Egyptian Pharma Company, M/s Eva Pharma. It is expected that Gilead Sciences Inc. USA will dispatch 75,000 to 1,00,00 vials in the next one or two days. Further one hundred thousand quantities will also be supplied before or by May 15. EVA pharma will supply approximately 10,000 vials initially followed by 50,000 vials every 15 days or till July,” the Union ministry of chemicals and fertilisers said in a statement.Also read | The fight for Remdesivir continuesThe ministry’s statement comes on a day India recorded another 386,452 new infections in the past 24 hours—in another global record—and 3498 fatalities which pushed the country’s tally to more than 18.7 million and the death toll to 208,330 since the pandemic began, second only to the United States. Distraught people are flooding social media and messaging apps with heartbreaking pleas for oxygen, medicines and room in intensive care units as they have been struggling to find hospital beds.The ministry of chemical and fertilizer also said that the government has ramped up the production capacity of Remdesivir in the country. “As on 27.04.21, the production capacity of the seven licensed domestic manufacturers increased from 38 lakh vials per month to 1.03 crore vials per month. Total 13.73 lakh vials have been supplied across the country by the Drug companies in the last seven days (21-28 April, 2021). The daily supply has gone up from 67,900 vials on 11th April to 2.09 lakh vials on 28th April, 2021. An advisory was issued by MHA (the ministry of home affairs) to states and UTs to facilitate smooth movement of Remdesivir supplies,” it said.Also read | Remdesivir tops list of Covid-19 drug contenders, say scientistsThe government also banned the export of Remdesivir to enhance its availability in India and released the revised maximum retail price thus bringing down the cost of all the major brands to below ₹3500 per vial “to ensure affordability of the injection among the masses, NPPA on April 17, 2021.”In order to facilitate higher production and availability of Remdesivir, the department of revenue has also exempted customs duty on Remdesivir injection, its API and Beta cyclodextrin used in manufacture of Remdesivir, till October 31. “National Treatment Protocol was updated through the Clinical guidance for Management of Adult COVID 19 patients by AIIMS/ ICMR- COVID-19 National Task Force/ Joint Monitoring group of MoHFW on 22.04.2021. The updated protocol will encourage Judicious use of Drugs and is expected to contribute to rationalising demand,” the statement added.Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla told reporters Thursday that more than 40 countries have committed to sending vital medical aid, particularly oxygen supplies. The supplies from the US Britain, Russia, the UAE, Qatar, Australia and elsewhere include almost 550 oxygen-generating plants, more than 4,000 oxygen concentrators, 10,000 oxygen cylinders as well as 17 cryogenic tankers. Shringla also said that hundreds of thousands of doses of Covid-19 treatment drugs as well as raw materials to produce vaccines and remdesivir, were also being sent. "It is an unprecedented situation," Shringla said.On Friday, the first US emergency aid to India arrived on Friday as Super Galaxy military transporter carrying more than 400 oxygen cylinders, other hospital equipment and nearly one million rapid coronavirus tests landed at New Delhi's international airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-import-450-000-remdesivir-vials-first-consignment-to-reach-today-govt-101619768133043.html
30-04-2021||India||Will treat action against social media Covid appeals as ‘contempt of court’: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday said no state can register a first information report (FIR) or take any action against people appealing for help or putting out their grievances on social media or elsewhere during the coronavirus pandemic. "We will treat this as contempt of our court. Let us hear the voices of our citizens and not clampdown," the top court said.“It is a grave concern to me as a citizen or judge. If citizens communicate their grievances on social media, we do not want to clamp down on information,” Justice DY Chandrahud said during the hearing as cases of Covid-19 surged across the country.The top court also said that the healthcare infrastructure has been inherited in the last 70 years and so the proceedings are not to criticise the Centre or states. "We are concerned only about the health of the people and it is not to pass a value judgment," Chandrachud said. He also said that the Centre should show investment by it to ramp up the manufacture of vaccines. “This will be the most important intervention by the central government when private manufacturers have been funded to produce vaccines,” he added.Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta said Delhi has been unable to lift oxygen because of lack of tankers. Justice Chandrachud said, "According to you, Delhi hasn't been able to lift but we can't tell people that your parents or children or spouse can't be helped now. You tell us the solution."The SG explained that the Centre is assisting all states asking for help and to a large extent, problems of Delhi are also eased out. The top court asked about a timeline to increase the number of tankers to facilitate transportation. "Give Delhi the additional 200 metric ton of oxygen they need. And also ensure it reaches Delhi," the Supreme Court asked SG Mehta.The Supreme Court said Delhi represents people from the entire country and the Centre has a peculiar role. "Forget that somebody wasn't able to lift the oxygen but you have to push through because you have to protect lives. You have a special responsibility," it added.The Supreme Court also asked what has been done to provide treatment to healthcare professionals who are contacting coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The top court on April 22 took suo motu cognizance of the "alarming situation" in connection with various health emergencies including oxygen shortage, during the pandemic and issued notice to the Centre seeking a response on kinds of immediate and effective action it can take to handle such situation. During the previous hearing, the court asked the Centre to present and apprise it as to whether a national plan can be prepared to handle this worrisome situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-treat-action-by-states-against-people-s-appeals-on-social-media-as-contempt-of-court-sc-at-covid-19-hearing-101619767976766.html
30-04-2021||India||India extends international passenger flights ban till May 31 amid Covid-19 surge||India extends international passenger flights ban till May 31 amid Covid surgehindustantimes.com | Written by Kanishka SarkarThe Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Friday extended the suspension on international flights from and to India till May 31 in view of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, during which the country has been reporting more than 300,000 Covid-19 cases daily for over a week now.“...the competent authority has further extended the validity of circular issued on the subject cited above regarding Scheduled International commercial passenger services to/from India till 2359 hrs IST of 31 May, 2021. This restriction shall not apply to international all-cargo operations and fights specifically approved by DGCA,” the aviation regulatory body said in a circular.It added that scheduled international flights, however, may be allowed on selected routes on case to case basis.International flights were first suspended in March 2020 after a nationwide lockdown was imposed to tackle the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government launched the Vande Bharat Mission in May 2020 to fly home Indians stranded abroad. “Vande Bharat Mission began during the first wave to repatriate our stranded & distressed citizens & has since then facilitated nearly 82.9 lakh people. Despite personal risk, the corona warriors of civil aviation ensure that the mission continues ahead undaunted,” the Union minister for civil aviation Hardeep Singh Puri wrote on Twitter this morning.India currently has a bilateral air bubble arrangement for the operation of special international passenger flights with 28 countries, including Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Bahrain, Canada, France, Germany, Iraq, Japan, the Maldives, Nigeria, Qatar, the UAE, the UK and the USA. The other countries with which India has such a pact are Bangladesh, Bhutan, Ethiopia, Kenya, Kuwait, Nepal, Netherlands, Oman, Russia, Rwanda, Seychelles, Tanzania, Ukraine and Uzbekistan.Meanwhile, several nations, including Australia and Hong Kong, have imposed restrictions on flights connecting them with India amid a massive uptick in cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-extends-international-passenger-flights-ban-till-may-31-amid-covid-19-surge-101619767282262.html
30-04-2021||India||India has administered over 152mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 152 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Thursday even as the total registrations on CoWIN portal for Phase-3 vaccination crossed 22.8 million till 9.30pm on the same day.In all, 152,105,563 vaccine doses have been given in the country by Thursday, 8pm. This includes 9,385,676 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,189,635 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 12,412,904 frontline workers have had their first dose while 6,704,193 have got their second dose too.Also Read | Vaccine drive for 18+ not to start in Delhi from May 1: KejriwalIn the 45-59-year age group 51,723,607 people have got their first dose and another 3,402,049 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 51,872,503 people have been administered their first dose while 10,414,996 have had their second dose as well.As many as 2,084,931 vaccine doses were given on Thursday alone. Of this, 1,182,563 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 902,368 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.Meanwhile, Bharat Biotech announced it was slashing the prices of its vaccine from ₹600 per dose to ₹400 for state governments. The announcement comes in the wake of criticism over differential pricing of the vaccine for the Centre, governments, and the private sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-152mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101619767427314.html
30-04-2021||India||Goa resident doctors threaten to withdraw services at Covid hospitals||The Goa Association of Resident Doctors has threatened to withdraw their services at Covid-19 hospitals if the government fails to check the violence against doctors and damage to equipment as the second wave of the pandemic has overwhelmed hospitals and triggered a shortage of beds.“It saddens us immensely that even after giving our best efforts, while being crippled by a lack of adequate facilities, oxygen supply, beds, manpower, etc we have been at the receiving end of multiple threats and violent incidents...” the association said in a statement. It added resident doctors are at the receiving end of abuses for lack of beds and other facilities. “...if any further violent incident happens to any resident doctor or staff... we, the 300-odd doctors managing almost all the workload of Covid-19 in the state will have no other choice but to withdraw our services with immediate effect as the people and authorities have left us with no other choice.”Also Read | Four-day lockdown in Goa as Covid-19 cases spikeThe statement said there have been two incidents of violence in a week. “We will not be giving any further notice or warnings before stopping our services. If the administration cannot provide security to the doctors or if the people of Goa fail to understand the situation and the plight of the healthcare workers, then we won’t be responsible for any further untoward incidents happening as a result of the withdrawal of our services.”The association has petitioned the health department to set up a special isolation facility for doctors for them to separate themselves in case they test positive or develop fatigue rather than travel home and risk infecting their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-resident-doctors-threaten-to-withdraw-services-at-covid-hospitals-101619765687180.html
30-04-2021||India||10 states with over 100,000 active Covid-19 cases as India’s caseload remains above 3 million||India’s active caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) stood at 3,170,228 as its infection tally ballooned over 18.7 million, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s data showed. It currently accounts for 16.90 per cent of the total confirmed infections in the country and has increased by 85,414 cases in the last 24 hours. The active cases have been increasing steadily during the second wave of the pandemic and crossed the three-million-mark on Thursday. On April 10, it crossed the one-million-mark and was reported at 1,046,631 cases.The Union health ministry on Friday red-flagged 10 states for contributing the highest to the national tally of active cases.#IndiaFightsCorona:📍 Highest number of #ActiveCases in several states of India (as on 30th April, 2021 till 08:00 AM)☑️ Follow #COVIDAppropriateBehaviour to #StaySafe#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/xBvSChNWb0Here is a look at the list of states that have more than 100,000 active Covid-19 cases:1. Maharashtra: The state has borne the maximum brunt of the pandemic in terms of the number of cases and lives lost. The health ministry noted that Maharashtra has 672,302 active Covid-19 cases and accounts for 21.20 per cent of the national tally. Five districts in the state—Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai, Thane and Nashik—reported the maximum active cases in the state, a state government bulletin showed on Thursday.2. Karnataka: The surge in active cases in the southern state followed a rapid increase in the daily new infections during the second wave. On Thursday, Karnataka reported 35,024 new Covid-19 cases, the third straight day of more than 30,000 new infections. The current active caseload in the state stands at 349,515. Bengaluru Urban district alone has 237,518 cases of the total active cases in the state.Also read | In another biggest single-day spike, India registers 386,452 new Covid-19 cases3. Uttar Pradesh: With 309,237 active cases, UP contributes the third most to the caseload. Prior to the second wave, on March 11, the health ministry identified UP along with Kerala and West Bengal where the active cases declined the maximum in one month.4. Kerala: Currently 284,424 active cases are present in the state, which had 24,650 active cases a month ago on March 30, 10 times lesser than the current tally. Active cases have surged by over 17,000 cases in the last 2 days, state government data shows.5. Rajasthan: Another state where the number of coronavirus disease cases has spiked rapidly in the second wave and currently has 169,519 active cases. The state reported 17,269 new cases and 158 (highest single-day toll) on Thursday, a state government bulletin showed.In addition to these states, the Union health ministry also noted that Gujarat with 137,794 active cases, Chhattisgarh with 117,910 cases, Andhra Pradesh with 114,158 cases, Tamil Nadu with 112,556 cases and West Bengal with 110,241 cases remain the other districts that contribute the highest to India’s active caseload.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-states-with-over-100-000-active-covid-19-cases-as-india-s-caseload-remains-above-3-million-101619764053571.html
30-04-2021||India||Soli Sorabjee was at the forefront of helping poor, downtrodden: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Justice NV Ramana and several Union ministers on Friday condoled the death of former attorney general Soli Sorabjee, who died in a private hospital in Delhi after contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). "Shri Soli Sorabjee was an outstanding lawyer and intellectual. Through law, he was at the forefront of helping the poor and downtrodden. He will be remembered for his noteworthy tenures India’s Attorney General. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers," PM Modi tweeted.Shri Soli Sorabjee was an outstanding lawyer and intellectual. Through law, he was at the forefront of helping the poor and downtrodden. He will be remembered for his noteworthy tenures India’s Attorney General. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers.The Supreme Court also paid homage to Sorabjee, who was 91. A bench of Chief Justice NV Ramana and justices Surya Kant and AS Bopanna, just before the start of the day's court proceedings virtually, said, “It a very sad news that human rights fighter Soli has passed away this morning. We pray for the gentle soul”.Defence minister Rajnath Singh also extended his condolences and called Sorabjee an "exceptional legal mind and a great scholar of the Indian constitution." "Deeply pained by the demise of India's former Attorney General and veteran jurist, Shri Soli Sorabjee," Singh tweeted. "His services to the nation will always be remembered. My heartfelt condolences to his bereaved family," he added.Union home minister Amit Shah said that Sorabjee would always be remembered for his contribution in the field of constitutional law. "Anguished to learn about the passing away of Shri Soli Sorabjee, a noted jurist and former Attorney General of India," Shah tweeted."Sorabjee was a doyen of the legal fraternity, who will always be remembered for his contribution in the field of constitutional law. My condolences to his family,” Amit Shah said.He is survived by his wife, two daughters and two sons. Born on March 9, 1930, Sorabjee and was a champion of freedom of speech and expression. The 91-year-old had served as the attorney general from 1989-90 and then from 1998-2004. He was honoured with the Padma Vibhushan award, the second-highest civilian award in India, in March 2002 for his defence of freedom of speech and the protection of human rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soli-sorabjee-was-at-the-forefront-of-helping-poor-downtrodden-pm-modi-101619761035282.html
30-04-2021||India||Elections over, Bengal focuses on checking Covid-19 surge||With the curtain coming down on a month-long poll season in West Bengal, the focus of district and police administrations have shifted to tackling the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases. The number of people booked daily for violating safety norms, such as not wearing masks, has shot up over the past few days even as the police enforce Covid protocols and spread awareness among citizens. On April 29, the Kolkata Police booked 303 people for not wearing masks. Last year in October, when the daily count of Covid-19 cases had hit a peak during the first wave, the city police had booked as many as 700 persons on a single day for not wearing masks. “We have started enforcing the Covid-19 protocols more strictly. But our main stress is on spreading awareness among the people instead of penalising them,” said a senior Kolkata Police official. Also Read | Exit polls predict photo finish for TMC, BJP in Bengal, BJP’s return in AssamThe daily count of Covid-19 case has shot up from 216 on February 26 to 17,403 on Thursday, a jump of more than 80%. Kolkata has been reporting the highest number of fresh cases every day followed by the two adjacent districts of North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas. On Thursday, Kolkata registered 3,901 new cases. In the districts too, police were seen out on the streets, enforcing safety protocols and making people aware by making announcement on loudspeakers and distributing masks. While at Purulia, police could be seen forcing violators to do push-ups on the road, at Canning in South 24 Parganas, people were asked to do sit-ups holding their ears. “Awareness campaigns against corona have started in full swing. Now that elections are over, we have been asked to focus on this,” said a block development officer of South 24 Parganas. On April 24, ahead of the seventh phase polls, the state government had made it mandatory for people to wear mask in public places. “District and police authorities have been asked to take strict actions against violators. Cases shall be started and prosecutions should be initiated strictly, said a government order on April 24,” said a senior state government official. At Shantipur in Nadia, some walls which were used for political graffiti during election campaigns have been painted white and new graffiti on Covid-19 has come up at the same place. “Immediately after the polls, we were asked to focus on spreading awareness on Covd-19. We have started distributing pamphlets, and masks,” said a block development officer of Dakshin Dinajpur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elections-over-bengal-focuses-on-checking-covid-19-surge-101619763528315.html
30-04-2021||India||'Strategic partnership of global significance': MEA after US sends Covid help||India on Friday thanked the United States after it sent the first consignment of Covid-19 aid and said the healthcare partnership between the two nations can help tackle the global pandemic effectively. "A strategic partnership of global significance! Our healthcare partnership can help effectively tackle the global pandemic. Deeply appreciate gift of 423 oxygen cylinders with regulators and other medical supplies from the U.S.A.," the ministry of external affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted.🇮🇳 🇺🇸A strategic partnership of global significance! Our healthcare partnership can help effectively tackle the global pandemic. Deeply appreciate gift of 423 oxygen cylinders with regulators and other medical supplies from the U.S.A. pic.twitter.com/hKGOJ3UDsHThe first consignment of emergency Covid-19 aid, including hundreds of oxygen cylinders and regulators, sent by the US landed in India on Friday morning. “The first of several emergency #COVID19 relief shipments from the United States has arrived in India! Building on over 70 years of cooperation, the United States stands with India as we fight the COVID-19 pandemic together,” the US embassy in New Delhi tweeted sharing photos of the consignment.The supplies in the first emergency relief shipment included over 400 oxygen cylinders and regulators donated by California, 960,000 rapid diagnostic tests and 100,000 N95 masks provided by USAID. The US sent help after its President Joe Biden assured to stand by India in its time of crisis. Biden spoke with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Covid-19 situation. The interaction between the two leaders also came after the US, after facing criticism, lifted the embargo on the export of raw material needed by the Serum Institute of India to produce Covid-19 vaccine Covishield.“The President pledged America’s steadfast support for the people of India who have been impacted by the recent surge in Covid-19 cases…the United States is providing a range of emergency assistance, including oxygen-related supplies, vaccine materials and therapeutics,” the White House said in a statement.The second emergency relief shipment with oxygen-related equipment, diagnostic kits, masks and pulse oximeters too is expected on Friday. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla on Thursday said that more support is expected from over 40 countries, mostly oxygen-related equipment and critical medicines, to strengthen India’s response to an “unprecedented second wave” of coronavirus infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strategic-partnership-of-global-significance-mea-after-us-sends-covid-help-101619759026008.html
30-04-2021||India||Hospital or home: Centre releases protocol for looking after children with Covid||The Union ministry of health and family welfare has issued protocol for managing children with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with separate guidelines for those who are asymptomatic and those with mild, moderate and severe illness. It says asymptomatic children do not require any treatment, except monitoring for development of Covid-19 symptoms and subsequent treatment according to assessed severity."Majority of children with covid infection may be asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. Common symptoms include fever, cough, breathlessness or shortness of breath, fatigue, myalgia, rhinorrhea, sore throat, diarrhea, loss of smell, loss of taste etc. Few children may present with gastrointestinal symptoms and atypical symptoms. A new syndrome with name of multi system inflammatory syndrome has been described in children. Such cases are characterized by: unremitting fever > 38oC, epidemiological linkage with SARS CoV-2 and clinical features suggestive of Multi System Inflammatory Syndrome," it said on Thursday.Also read | Supreme Court to hear case on issues related to Covid-19 situation in countryWhat is the protocol for managing children with Covid-19?The health ministry said children with Covid 19 infection may be asymptomatic, mildly symptomatic, moderately sick or severe illness. "Asymptomatic children are usually identified while screening, if family members are identified. Such children do not require any treatment except monitoring for development of symptoms and subsequent treatment according to assessed severity," it said.Children with mild disease may present with sore throat, rhinorrhea or runny nose, cough with no breathing difficulty and a few children may have gastrointestinal symptoms, the ministry added. The guidelines state that such children do not need any investigation and can be managed at home with home isolation and symptomatic treatment. "Children with underlying comorbid condition including: congenital heart disease, chronic lung diseases, chronic organ dysfunction, Obesity (BMI> 2SD) may also be managed at home, if they have features of mild disease and there is easy access to health facility in case of any deterioration. In case there is lack of proper arrangement to manage these children at home/ access to health facility is difficult, such children may be admitted," it said.How should children with mild illness in home isolation be treated?The guidelines recommend that for fever the treating doctor prescribe paracetamol (10-15 mg/kg/dose), which may be repeated every four to six hours. They recommend throat soothing agents such as warm saline gargles for cough and oral fluids to maintain hydration and a nutritious diet. Antibiotics are “not indicated” for treating mild illness in children, they said. "There is no role of Hydroxychloroquine, Favipiravir, Ivermectin, lopinavir/ritonavir, Remdesivir, Umifenovir, Immunomodulators including Tocilizumab, Interferon B 1 a, Convalescent plasma infusion or dexamethasone," it also said.How is moderate disease in children categorised?A child with Covid-19 will be categorised as having the moderate disease (oxygen saturations above 90%) if they have the following:Rapid respiration benchmarks based on the age of the child:Less than 2 months old: respiratory rate >60/ minBetween 2-12 months: respiratory rate >50/minBetween 1-5 years: respiratory rate >40/minOver 5 years: respiratory rate >30/min.“Children with moderate Covid -19 disease may be suffering from pneumonia which may not be clinically apparent,” the protocol states. It says no lab tests are required routinely, unless indicated by associated co-morbid conditions.What is the treatment recommended for moderate disease in children?The protocol recommends that children with moderate Covid-19 disease should be admitted in a dedicated Covid health centre or secondary-level healthcare facility and monitored for clinical progress. It recommends that fluid and electrolyte balance should be maintained. “Encourage oral feeds (breast feeds in infants); if oral intake is poor, intravenous fluid therapy should be initiated,” it recommends.Also read | In another biggest single-day spike, India registers 386,452 new Covid-19 casesChildren with moderate Covid-19 disease should be administered paracetamol 10-15 mg/kg/dose, which may be repeated every four to six hours for temperature > 38°C or 100.4°F. "Amoxycillin to be administered if there is evidence/strong suspicion of bacterial infection. For oxygen saturation below 94%, oxygen supplementation is required. Corticosteriods may be administered in rapidly progressive disease. The protocol says steroids is not required in all children with moderate illness, specifically during the first few days of illness. Supportive care for comorbid conditions, if any," it added.How does the protocol categorise severe disease in children?Children with oxygen saturation level less than 90% have severe degree of Covid-19 infection. Such children may have severe pneumonia, Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), septic shock, Multi-Organ Dysfunction Syndrome (MODS), or pneumonia with cyanosis or bluish discoloration caused by deoxygenation. Clinically, such children may present with grunting, severe retraction of chest, lethargy, seizure, the protocol states.What is the treatment recommended for them?Children with severe disease should be admitted in dedicated Covid hospital, secondary or tertiary level healthcare facility. Few children may required care in HDU/ICU areas of these facilities. The protocol recommends that they should be assessed for thrombosis or blood clot in a deep vein, haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH), a severe systemic inflammatory syndrome, and organ failure. It also recommends three specific investigations for complete blood counts, liver and renal function tests, and chest X-ray. It recommends intravenous fluid therapy and corticosteriods—dexamethasone at 0.15mg/kg per dose and said that a maximum 6mg twice a day is preferred. It stresses that for anti-viral agents like Remdesivir, there is a lack of sufficient safety and efficacy data in children below 19 years of age.Also read | Explainer: What we know about Indian Covid-19 variant“Randomized controlled trials of this drug in patients above 18 years of age has not shown significant survival benefits. An emergency use authorization for children has been granted. Till more data are available, it should be used in restricted manner in children with severe illness within three days of onset of symptoms after ascertaining that child’s renal and liver functions are normal and they are monitored for side effects of medicine,” according the protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-protocol-for-management-of-covid-19-in-children-101619759699831.html
30-04-2021||India||Delhi’s fake remdesivir injection racket: Two more arrested in Uttarakhand||Two more persons have been arrested in connection with the fake remdesivir injection scam. The racket, whose mastermind is a BPharma degree holder, had its roots in Delhi and was spread to three more states, the police said on Friday. A day ago, the police busted an industrial manufacturing unit in Uttarakhand’s Kotdwar where fake remdesivir injections were being manufactured, and arrested five people. Seven people have already been arrested from Delhi and Ghaziabad in connection with the racket, taking the total number of arrests to 14.The police said they had also unearthed a packaging unit at Haridwar, also in Uttarakhand, where the fake injections were packed and supplied to Delhi, Punjab and Haryana. Two persons were arrested following this raid, senior police officers said.“The racketeers were selling a fake remdesivir injection for anything between ₹25,000 and ₹40,000. They have already sold around 2,000 such injections in Delhi and other states,” said one of the officers, requesting anonymity.The police have not shared the names of the seven arrested persons or if the mastermind is among them.According to the officer cited above, the arrests came following the seizure of 93 remdesivir injections from seven men who were arrested from Delhi and Ghaziabad following three separate raids between April 21 and 26. Some of the seized injections appeared to be fake as the information on their packing boxes was riddled with mistakes. One of the men arrested then revealed that the supply of remdesivir injections for black marketing was being done from Punjab and Haryana. His interrogation led to the arrest of six more persons who, in turn, led the police to the manufacturing unit in Kotdwar.Late Thursday night, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava tweeted, “Delhi Police working on useful information arrested 5 culprits in a prolonged investigation & unearthed a ‘pharmaceutical’ unit at Kothdwar, Uttarakhand manufacturing large quantities of fake Remdevisir injections (COVIPRI) sold at price over Rs. 25000/-.” He said that apart from 196 fake injections, the police also seized packing machines and 3,000 empty vials in which the fake medicines were intended to be packed. He said that five suspects were arrested following a “prolonged” investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-fake-remdesivir-injection-racket-two-more-arrested-in-uttarakhand-101619760466974.html
30-04-2021||India||Japan to send oxygen concentrators, ventilators for India’s Covid-19 response||Japan said on Friday it will provide a consignment of 300 oxygen concentrators and 300 ventilators to support India’s efforts to counter a devastating second wave of Coronavirus infections, joining a growing list of countries around the world that are sending much-needed aid. Japanese ambassador Satoshi Suzuki said in a tweet: “Japan stands with India in her greatest time of need.” A statement from Japan’s foreign ministry said the emergency assistance was being sent to India in response to the current surge in infections. “Today, April 30, upon the request of the Government of India, the Government of Japan has decided to proceed with the procedure to provide 300 oxygen concentrators and 300 ventilators to India in response to the current surge of Covid-19 infections in India,” the statement said. “Japan stands with India, our friend and partner, in her efforts to fight against Covid-19 pandemic through this additional emergency assistance. Japan will continue to extend further support promptly in order to contain the Covid-19 situation,” it said. Also Read | Modi holds talks with Japan PM on cooperation in Covid-19 fightAs of Thursday, India had a total of 18.4 million positive cases and the cumulative death toll was 204,832. The announcement about the aid came days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga discussed cooperation in key areas, including creating resilient supply chains and ensuring reliable supply of critical materials, to overcome challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. During the conversation on Monday, the two leaders also discussed the Covid-19 situation in each other’s country and close India-Japan cooperation to overcome regional and global challenges due to the pandemic. Modi had thanked Suga for providing aid to India to combat the pandemic, and expressed the hope he would be able to receive the Japanese prime minister in India in the near future after the situation stabilises. Suga recently called off a planned visit to India and the Philippines because of the Covid-19 situation. In January, Japan provided a loan of up to 30 billion yen (about ₹2,129 crore) to support the Indian government’s efforts to mitigate the socio-economic impacts of the pandemic. This was the latest addition to Japan’s support to India in its fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/japan-to-send-oxygen-concentrators-ventilators-for-india-s-covid-19-response-101619758247166.html
30-04-2021||India||First US emergency relief shipment for India’s Covid-19 response arrives||The first of three special US flights carrying supplies to bolster India’s Covid-19 response, including hundreds of oxygen cylinders and regulators, landed in New Delhi on Friday. The materials were ferried in a C-5M Super Galaxy, one of the largest strategic airlift aircraft, and at least two more emergency flights are expected by May 3 in line with US President Joe Biden’s pledge to help India counter a devastating second wave of Coronavirus infections. The US embassy tweeted: “The first of several emergency Covid-19 relief shipments from the United States has arrived in India! Building on over 70 years of cooperation, the United States stands with India as we fight the Covid-19 pandemic together. #USIndiaDosti” The supplies in the first emergency relief shipment, sent from Travis Air Force Base, included more than 400 oxygen cylinders and regulators donated by the state of California, 960,000 rapid diagnostic tests and 100,000 N95 masks provided by USAID. “A strategic partnership of global significance! Our healthcare partnership can help effectively tackle the global pandemic. Deeply appreciate gift of 423 oxygen cylinders with regulators and other medical supplies from the U.S.A.,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted. Also Read | US tells citizens in India: Flights available, medical care limitedThe US military’s transportation command played a key role in arranging the flight. Earlier, the US department of defense had tweeted: “Help is on the way. Lifesaving oxygen equipment from @USAID is bound for India to combat #COVID19 and loaded for delivery at @Travis60AMW.” The second emergency relief shipment, being sent in a C-17 Globemaster aircraft, too is expected on Friday. It will include oxygen-related equipment, diagnostic kits, masks and pulse oximeters. The initial emergency assistance from the US will include 1,100 oxygen cylinders, 1,700 concentrators to obtain oxygen from ambient air, multiple large-scale oxygen generation units to support up to 20 patients each and additional mobile units to target specific shortages. A team of US experts will support oxygen generation units by working on the ground alongside Indian personnel. The support will also include raw materials for the Covishield vaccine that the US has re-directed from its own order of manufacturing supplies. These materials will allow India to make more than 20 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine, the White House said. Biden had pledged the support of the US during a phone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. The US relief supplies began flowing in shortly after support packages from Russia and member states of the European Union (EU), part of a global effort to help India cope with record-breaking infections that have surged past the 300,000-mark over the past several days. The support will also help address a severe shortage of oxygen, which has been blamed for many deaths in recent days.Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday that support is expected from more than 40 countries, mostly oxygen-related equipment and critical medicines, to strengthen India’s response to an “unprecedented second wave” of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-us-emergency-relief-shipment-for-india-s-covid-19-response-arrives-101619756206873.html
30-04-2021||India||First emergency Covid-19 relief shipment from US arrives in India amid second wave||The first consignment of Covid-19 assistance from the United States arrived in India on Friday as the country battles the second and deadlier wave of the coronavirus pandemic amid stretched health infrastructure, the US embassy said. “The first of several emergency COVID-19 relief shipments from the United States has arrived in India! Building on over 70 years of cooperation, the United States stands with India as we fight the COVID-19 pandemic together. #USIndiaDosti,” the US embassy tweeted.The first shipment from the US includes 440 oxygen cylinders and regulators donated by the state of California and 960,000 rapid diagnostic tests and 100,000 N95 masks provided by USAID.The first of several emergency COVID-19 relief shipments from the United States has arrived in India! Building on over 70 years of cooperation, the United States stands with India as we fight the COVID-19 pandemic together. #USIndiaDosti pic.twitter.com/OpHn8ZMXrJOn Sunday, the US promised to provide India raw material urgently needed for making the Covishield vaccine and supply of equipment like ventilators and oxygen generation gear to support the country’s response to a massive surge in Covid-19 cases. “Just as India sent assistance to the United States when our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, the United States is determined to help India in its time of need,” the White House said in a statement earlier.The US has also redirected its own order of AstraZeneca manufacturing supplies to India, which will allow it to make over 20 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine, according to the White House.“Just as India came to our aid early in the pandemic, the U.S. is committed to working urgently to provide assistance to India in its time of need. Today we are proud to deliver our first shipment of critical oxygen equipment, therapeutics and raw materials for vaccine production,” state secretary Antony Blinken said in a tweet on Thursday.According to officials cited by news agency PTI, the US hopes that its assistance to India has a catalytic effect on society and countries around the world to aid the nation in the time of the Covid-19 crisis.US state governments, private companies, non-governmental organisations, and thousands of Americans from across the country have mobilised to deliver vital oxygen-related equipment and essential supplies for hospitals in India to assist frontline healthcare workers and the people worst affected due to the virus outbreak, state department spokesperson Ned Price said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-emergency-covid-19-relief-shipment-from-us-arrives-in-india-amid-second-wave-101619755770287.html
30-04-2021||India||In another biggest single-day spike, India registers 386,452 new Covid-19 cases||India reported more than 300,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the ninth straight day on Friday. With 386,452 new Covid-19 cases, the tally reached 18,762,976, data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed. Also, 3,498 patients have succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 208,330.Active caseload, which crossed the three-million-mark on Thursday. also surged by 85,414 and currently stands at 3,170,228 from the 3,084,814 reported previously. This accounts for 16.90 per cent of the total confirmed cases in the country. Meanwhile, as many as 297,540 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours and so far 15,384,418 people have recovered from the disease, the central health ministry’s dashboard showed. With this, the country’s recovery rate stands at 81.99 per cent, the data also showed.Also read | Mumbai Covid vaccination drive for 45+ halted for 3 days over shortage of vialsThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Friday said that 1,920,107 samples were tested for Covid-19 on April 29. The medical workers in the country have so far tested 286,392,086 samples for the disease, ICMR also noted.Maharashtra continues to remain the worst affected state in terms of the total confirmed cases and active caseload. According to the latest bulletin from the state health department on Thursday, there are 670,301 active cases of Covid-19 and so far 4,539,553 infections have been detected so far in Maharashtra, the highest by any state in the country. Uttar Pradesh, Kerala and Karnataka too reported more than 35,000 new cases on the previous day.Watch | Cargo arrives from UAE with ventilators, medical supplies for IndiaMany countries have sent equipment and other essential supplies to help India’s efforts against the unabated spread of Covid-19 in the second wave. Earlier in the day, the ministry of external affairs said that a shipment containing 700 oxygen concentrator units and 365 ventilators reached the country from Ireland. Also, another flight from the US with more than USD 100 million worth of supplies is expected to reach India later on Friday. On Thursday, two Russian flights with 22 metric tons of equipment and medicines reached Delhi, the country’s ambassador Nikolay Kudashev said.The Covid-19 vaccination drive in India has so far administered 152,105,563 doses of the vaccine of which more than two million doses were delivered on Thursday alone, the health ministry said. The program is set to enter its next phase from May 1 and would include all people above 18 years of age for receiving the shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-another-biggest-single-day-spike-india-registers-386-452-new-covid-19-cases-101619755176307.html
30-04-2021||India||Third Covid wave may hit Maharashtra by July-Aug, warns Uddhav||Even as the second wave is yet to recede, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav said on Thursday that there is likely to be a third wave by July and August. Citing epidemiologists, Thackeray asked the state administration to be prepared for the third wave by ramping up the infrastructure, saying he didn’t want to see a repeat of the current situation.Thackeray was heading a meeting of divisional commissioners and district collectors to take stock of the Covid situation. State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “We will have to become self-sufficient, especially in oxygen supply. The CM said there should be no reason for shortage of oxygen supply then.”Also Read | Bombay HC refuses to stay preliminary probes against ex-Mumbai top copThe prediction regarding the third wave is based on advice given by the members of the state task force on the basis of the study of patterns of Covid waves in various countries. According to experts, a drop in daily cases is likely to start by May-end, but by July-end or the first week of August, cases will start rising again which will be the third wave in the state, said a senior official, requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 66,159 daily infections pushing the total count to 4,539,553. The tally of active cases reduced to 670,301 as 68,537 recoveries reported in the past 24 hours. The state also saw 771 deaths, taking the toll to 67,985. Pune recorded 130 deaths, the highest number of fatalities across the state, with 94 fatalities in the city and the rest in rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-covid-wave-may-hit-maharashtra-by-july-aug-warns-uddhav-101619755427280.html
30-04-2021||India||Ex-attorney general Soli Sorabjee passes away at 91 after contracting Covid-19||Veteran lawyer and former attorney general Soli Sorabjee passed away on Friday morning after contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Sorabjee was 91. He was admitted to a private hospital in Delhi.Sorabjee, a Padma Vibhushan recipient, began his legal practice in 1953 in Bombay High Court and he was designated senior counsel of the Supreme Court in 1971. He became the attorney general of India first from 1989-90 and then from 1998-2004. He was appointed by the United Nations as a Special Rapporteur for Nigeria in 1997 to report on the human rights situation in that country. Following this, he became a member and later chairman of the UN Sub Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights from 1998 to 2004.He was a champion of freedom of speech and expression and had defended freedom of press in many landmark cases in the Supreme Court and had been instrumental in revoking censorship orders and bans on publications. He was honored with the Padma Vibhushan award--the second-highest civilian award in India in March 2002 for his defence of freedom of speech and the protection of human rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-attorney-general-soli-sorabjee-passes-away-at-91-after-getting-infected-with-covid19-101619754173393.html
30-04-2021||India||States wary of Covid vaccine shortage, to delay May 1 drive||Several states, including Delhi, have indicated they may have to delay the third phase of the vaccination drive for all adults in the country as jabs against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) may not be immediately available due to shortage of stocks and delay in deliveries. Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana Rajasthan, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have also said they do not have adequate vaccine doses so it will not be able to initiate the vaccination drive from Saturday, May 1.Also read | Maharashtra CM says be ready, third Covid-19 wave may hit by July-AugThe Maharashtra government has decided to not roll out the vaccination drive for the third phase for the 18-44 age group, unless they have 2.5 million doses in hand. The government is also likely to open vaccination for the 18-44 age group in a staggered manner, allowing vaccination of the 26-44 age group first. The state has also started talks with other manufacturers, Johnson and Johnson and Zydus Cadilla, for import of vaccines amid the meagre supply of Covishield and Covaxin from two domestic manufacturers.Also watch | Covaxin’s price reduced; Mumbai stops vaccination for 3 daysMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Thursday that vaccination for people in the age group of 18-44 in the state will not start from May 1 as they don't have enough supply of the vaccine doses in time. "On contacting the manufacturers of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines, we learnt that they are unable to give us doses for those above 18 years of age on May 1. So the drive covering the young people won't start on May 1," Chouhan said in a video message on Thursday night. "Hopefully we will be getting vaccine doses around May 3. After that we will give the final shape to the drive for the young people. Keep patience and there is no need to panic," the chief minister added.Also read | India like Covid-19 crisis could 'happen anywhere': WHO tells European nationsThe Punjab health department said it will not be possible to start the third phase of the campaign to vaccinate all above 18 years of age from May 1 as was announced by the central government because of shortage of doses. The Punjab government is likely to get the schedule for the delivery of the anti-coronavirus disease shots ordered by Friday. “No assurance has been given by the two vaccine manufactures about the delivery. But in a meeting through video conferencing, the Centre on Thursday assured the states that the manufactures will convey about the supply of doses tomorrow,” principal secretary (health and family welfare) Hussan Lal said. Lal said the date of starting the vaccination drive will depend on the schedule and the consequent delivery of doses.Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday said the Covid-19 vaccination drive for the 18-45 age group in the state will start latest by May 15 instead of the first day of the month. The state government said that the process to vaccinate people of this age group will begin once it gets substantial number of doses from pharmaceutical companies, which are yet to deliver them. The registration process for the vaccination of people from this category has begun in the state.Also read | Covid: Maharashtra extends lockdown-like restrictions till May 15Telangana's public health director G Srinivasa Rao said though the state government is in touch with vaccine manufacturers, there is no certainty on when the stocks would be available for the mass vaccination. "We are in search of the vaccine. We require around four crore doses," Rao told PTI.According to a senior official in the Andhra Pradesh government, inoculation may not start on May 1 in the state as planned due to the delay in the procurement of vaccine from manufacturers. The state government has already written to the manufacturers for vaccine supplies and yet to get confirmation from them, the official added. A release from Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy's office said as per the availability of stocks, the complete vaccination process for this age group in the country will not be completed until January next year.The next phase of vaccination for those above 18 years of age will not begin in Bihar from May 1, a top health official said, citing inability of Serum Institute of India (SII) in supplying the vaccines in bulk. Manoj Kumar, executive director of Bihar State Health Society, said on Thursday SII refused to supply one crore vials of the vaccine demanded by the Bihar government. Instead, SII wanted the state government to place its monthly requirement.In Jharkhand too, officials said that the inoculation drive covering people aged between 18-44 years was likely to begin in state after May 15 when the vaccines arrive. State health minister Banna Gupta claimed that the two vaccine manufacturing companies in the country expressed inability to provide vaccines before May 15, as the Centre already placed an advance booking of 120 million doses with them. “The (vaccine manufacturing) companies said they will have to deliver the Centre’s order by May 15. They said there was no chance of providing vaccines to Jharkhand before May 15, and that they will consider our order in the last week of May,” Gupta said.The immunisation drive was opened to all adults by the Centre last week and states and private hospitals were allowed to procure the vaccines doses directly from manufacturers at prices fixed by the private companies. Experts have recommended that quickly vaccinating all adults was crucial to fighting the devastating surge of infections in the second and deadly wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-wary-of-covid-vaccine-shortage-to-delay-may-1-drive-101619752472803.html
30-04-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh weekend lockdown from Friday: Here's what's allowed, what's not||Uttar Pradesh will go under complete lockdown from April 30 at 8pm to 7am on May 4 in another attempt by the state government to stem the unprecedented surge in the cases of Covid-19. The weekend lockdown was earlier imposed from Friday 8pm to Monday 7am to curb the rising Covid-19 cases. The decision was announced after a meeting between chief minister Yogi Adityanath and top officials of the state government.Adityanath appealed to people to not panic and said his government was trying to make Remdesivir available in government as well at private hospitals. "Oxygen supply is improving every day. Oxygen Express (trains) and air route are also used to bring in oxygen," he added.Uttar Pradesh on Thursday recorded the highest single-day rise of 298 Covid-19 deaths, pushing the fatality count to 12,241. As many as 35,156 people also tested positive for the coronavirus disease, taking the state's caseload to 12,17,955. Data showed 25,613 people recovered from the disease, taking the overall recoveries to 8,96,477.Here's what's allowed and what's not during the weekend lockdown:--All shops and establishments will now remain closed between Friday 8pm and Tuesday 7am.--All essential services will be allowed during the weekend lockdown.--Vaccination drive will continue in the state during the weekend lockdown.--Political/sports /entertainment/religious gatherings are prohibited.--Only 50 people are allowed at weddings and 20 at funerals.--Malls, cinema halls, restaurants, bars, sports complexes, gyms, etc to remain shut.--All public transport, including rail, Metro, buses, cabs to run at 50% capacity.--Both public and private offices are allowed to have up to 50% of staff in offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-weekend-lockdown-from-friday-here-s-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-101619750853562.html
30-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi traders' body wants lockdown extended till May 15 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Traders’ body writes to L-G, wants lockdown till May 15The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has written to the Delhi lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal, demanding extension of lockdown in the national capital till May 15. Read moreDelhi may witness a partly cloudy sky today, says IMDThe National Capital is likely to witness a partly cloudy sky on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast that has also predicted that the maximum temperature to remain around 40 degrees Celsius. Read moreWill start vaccination for 18+ only with 2.5 mn doses in hand: MaharashtraConcerned over the availability of required quota, the Maharashtra government has decided to not roll out the vaccination drive for the third phase for the 18-44 age group, unless they have 2.5 million doses in hand. Read more'No chance I'm going to bowl at you': When Kyle Jamieson denied to bowl at Virat Kohli in RCB nets with Dukes ballThey may be teammates in the IPL but Royal Challengers Bangalore pacer Kyle Jamieson is not ready to give captain Virat Kohli a sighter with the Dukes ball ahead of the World Test Championship final between India and New Zealand in June in England. Read moreRandhir Kapoor hospitalised for Covid-19 after two doses of vaccine: ‘I am not breathless, did not need ICU’Veteran actor Randhir Kapoor, who got admitted to Kokilaben hospital in Mumbai earlier this week after he tested positive for Covid-19, said that his staff has also contracted the virus. Read moreWatch: Cargo arrives from UAE with ventilators, medical supplies for IndiaSpecial cargo from UAE with Covid-19 supplies arrived in India on Thursday. The cargo had 157 ventilators, 480 BiPAPs, and other medical supplies. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-traders-body-wants-lockdown-extended-till-may-15-and-all-the-latest-news-101619751924770.html
30-04-2021||India||One killed, two injured in blast at oxygen plant in UP's Kanpur||One worker died and at least two were injured after an oxygen cylinder exploded during refilling at Panki Oxygen Plant in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur on Friday morning.Police is present at the site of the incident located in Dada Nagar industrial area.According to the police, the accident took place during oxygen cylinder refilling. The deceased has been identified as Imrad Ali who is an oxygen plant worker, the police said.The police informed that one injured person is undergoing treatment at the Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital while another injured was discharged after administering medical aid.Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-killed-two-injured-in-blast-at-oxygen-plant-in-up-s-kanpur-101619752042522.html
30-04-2021||India||Heat wave likely for two days over east, central India: IMD||After a long respite in April, heat wave conditions are likely to set in briefly over many parts of the country, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Heat wave is likely in isolated pockets over south Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Bihar till May 1 and will reduce thereafter due to thunderstorms activities over the region, IMD said in its bulletin on Thursday.Maximum temperature of more than 40 degrees Celsius (°C) is expected at most places over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Marathwada and Vidarbha; at many places over Bihar, Jharkhand and Gujarat region; at a few places over Saurashtra and Kutch, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Telangana and Rayalseema and at isolated places over Gangetic West Bengal, Madhya Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal. Also Read | Severe weather warning for Maharashtra, heavy rain likely in areas bordering KarnatakaThe highest maximum temperature of 45.2°C was reported at Banda in east Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday. Heat wave conditions are likely to abate from May 2, according to IMD scientists.“Heat wave conditions will persist only for a couple of days. It will be followed by intense thunderstorm activity. Bihar, Odisha, parts of West Bengal, and the entire northeast India is likely to have a severe weather also. Due to this intense easterly activity, there may be clouding and some thunderstorm activity over northwest India also,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.Under the influence of a trough (area of low pressure) over east India, isolated to scattered rainfall or thunderstorm activities are likely over east India during the next three days. Due to lower-level southerly or south-easterly winds from Bay of Bengal and wind confluence over east India, rain or thunderstorm is likely to increase from May 2. Scattered to widespread rain is likely over east and northeast India (Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar, West Bengal, Sikkim, Assam and Meghalaya) till May 6.Thunderstorm activity accompanied by strong gusty winds of 40-60 kmph is likely over east and northeast India (Gangetic West Bengal, Odisha, Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura). Under the influence of a trough (area of low pressure) from west Vidarbha to south Tamil Nadu, isolated to scattered rainfall with isolated thunderstorms over south peninsular India is likely to continue during the next 4-5 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heat-wave-likely-for-two-days-over-east-central-indiaimd-101619751586608.html
30-04-2021||India||India like Covid-19 crisis could 'happen anywhere': WHO tells European nations||The World Health Organization issued a stark warning to European nations Thursday, saying that relaxing Covid measures could spark a "perfect storm" allowing cases to spiral -- as seen in India.New infections and deaths are soaring in India, which experts have said can in part be blamed on mass gatherings in the nation of 1.3 billion people.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The head of WHO Europe said countries should not make the mistake of relaxing restrictions too soon to avoid similar new waves of infection."When personal protective measures are being relaxed, when there are mass gatherings, when there are more contagious variants and the vaccination coverage is still low this can create a perfect storm in any country," Hans Kluge told reporters Thursday."It is very important to realise that the situation in India can happen anywhere."The so-called Indian variant -- or B.1.617 -- is sweeping the country, but the WHO has not yet confirmed whether it is more transmissible or more deadly than other strains of the virus.Experts have said large gatherings -- at sports matches or weddings, for example -- are in part to blame for the explosion in cases.Kluge said European nations must keep in mind that "individual and collective public health and social measures remain dominant factors in shaping the pandemic's course".He noted that while the number of new cases in the region fell "significantly" last week for the first time in two months, "infection rates across the region remain extremely high".He said vaccines were on the rise in the European region, with seven percent of the population now fully inoculated.The WHO said this means that more people in Europe have now received the vaccine than the number of people who have been infected with the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-like-covid-19-crisis-could-happen-anywhere-who-tells-european-nations-101619750852083.html
30-04-2021||India||Explainer: What we know about Indian Covid-19 variant||India has recorded the world's sharpest spike in coronavirus infections this month, with political and financial capitals New Delhi and Mumbai running out of hospital beds, oxygen and medicines.Scientists are studying what led to an unexpected surge, and particularly whether a variant of the novel coronavirus first detected in India is to blame. The variant, named B.1.617, has been reported in some 17 countries, raising global concern. Here are the basics:WHAT IS THE INDIAN VARIANT?The B.1.617 variant contains two key mutations to the outer "spike" portion of the virus that attaches to human cells, said senior Indian virologist Shahid Jameel.The World Health Organization (WHO) said the predominant lineage of B.1.617 was first identified in India last December, although an earlier version was spotted in October 2020.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The WHO has described it as a "variant of interest", suggesting it may have mutations that would make the virus more transmissible, cause more severe disease or evade vaccine immunity. Other strains with known risks, such as those first detected in the United Kingdom, Brazil and South Africa, have been categorised as "variants of concern," a higher threat level.ARE VARIANTS DRIVING THE SURGE IN CASES?It's hard to say.The WHO says more study is urgently needed. Laboratory-based studies of limited sample size suggest potential increased transmissibility, it concluded.The picture is complicated because the highly transmissible B.117 variant first detected in the U.K. is behind spikes in some parts of India. In New Delhi, UK variant cases almost doubled during the second half of March, according to Sujeet Kumar Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control. The Indian variant, though, is widely present in Maharashtra, the country's hardest-hit state, Singh said.Prominent US disease modeller Chris Murray, from the University of Washington, said the sheer magnitude of infections in India in a short period of time suggests an "escape variant" may be overpowering any prior immunity from natural infections in those populations."That makes it most likely that it’s B.1.617," he said. But Murray cautioned that gene sequencing data on the coronavirus in India is sparse, and that many cases are also being driven by the UK and South African variants.Carlo Federico Perno, Head of Microbiology and Immunology Diagnostics at Rome's Bambino Gesù Hospital, said the Indian variant couldn't alone be the reason for India's huge surge, pointing instead to large social gatherings.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been criticised for allowing massive political rallies and religious festivals which have been super-spreader events in recent weeks.DO VACCINES STOP IT?One bright spot is that vaccines may be protective. White House chief medical adviser Anthony Fauci said earlier this week that preliminary evidence from lab studies suggest Covaxin, a vaccine developed in India, appears capable of neutralizing the variant.Public Health England said it was working with international partners but that there is currently no evidence that the Indian variant and two related variants cause more severe disease or render the vaccines currently deployed less effective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explainer-what-we-know-about-indian-covid-19-variant-101619749560610.html
30-04-2021||NA||LIVE updates: Chhattisgarh reports 14,994 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours||India's active caseload of the coronavirus disease crossed the three million mark on Thursday, as the daily new infections continue to remain upwards of 300,000 every day. With 386,452 new Covid-19 cases on the previous day, the country saw yet another day when the daily tally reached a grim new record. Also, 3,498 patients lost their lives on the day, data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed. Globally, India is the second-worst affected country in terms of total positive cases, only after the US, and fourth-worst affected in terms of fatalities, the World Health Organization's (WHO's) Covid-19 dashboard showed.Among the states, Maharashtra with 66,159 new cases contributed the highest to the national tally of infections. Uttar Pradesh (35,156 cases) and Karnataka (35,024 cases) also reported over 35,000 new cases on the day. Many states have been witnessing a significantly higher number of new infections since the onset of the second wave of the pandemic.Meanwhile, many countries have contributed critical equipment and medicines to India for tackling the ongoing Covid-19 crisis in the country. Earlier in the day, the ministry of external affairs said that a shipment of 700 oxygen concentrator units and 365 ventilators from Ireland arrived in India. Another flight with critical supplies from the US is expected to land later on Friday. Other countries including Singapore, Australia, Germany, France, Norway and Canada have also assured their assistance to India's efforts against the disease.The Covid-19 vaccination drive is set to enter its third phase starting from May 1 and all adults have been declared eligible to receive a shot. The Union health ministry's latest update showed that more than 152 million doses of the vaccine have been administered until 8pm on the previous day.Follow all the updates here:Chhattisgarh reports 14,994 new Covid-19 casesCOVID19 | Chhattisgarh reports 14,994 new cases, 216 deaths and 12,804 recoveries; active cases 1,18,958 pic.twitter.com/CTS0Nqi8hyPunjab logs 6,132 new Covid-19 cases, 114 deaths6,132 fresh cases, 114 deaths and 5,106 discharges reported in Punjab today; active cases 55,798 pic.twitter.com/JOy3TETxxZMore than 154.8 million vaccine doses administered so far: Health ministryThe cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 154,854,096 as per the 8pm provisional report of Friday. This includes more than 26 lakh vaccine doses administered till 8pm Friday, said ministry of health and family welfare.Gujarat reports 14,605 fresh Covid-19 infections, 173 deathsGujarat on Friday reported 14,605 new cases, 173 deaths and 10,180 discharges in the last 24 hours, reported ANI.Manipur registers 271 fresh Covid-19 cases, 5 deathsManipur reports 271 new cases, 5 deaths and 74 recoveries; active cases 1,417 pic.twitter.com/75KGMuZp0HStarting vaccination drive for 18-44 years age group from tomorrow: Thackeray"We will be getting only 18 lakh doses for 18-44 age group in May month," Thackeray said that adding that more than 12 crore doses will be needed to vaccinate a population of over six crore. "We are starting the vaccination drive for 18-44 age group from tomorrow," Thackeray said.CM Thackeray orders structural, fire audit of all hospitalsIn view of earlier fire accidents in hospitals that took the lives of many, the chief minister ordered for structural and fire audits of all field hospitals or jumbo Covid centres to avoid any mishap in the future.275 PSA plants to be installed across state: Maha CM on oxygen shortageChief minister Uddhav Thackeray talked about shortage of oxygen as he said "We are using around 1700 metric tonnes of oxygen and produce around 1200 MT, around 500 MT has allocated by the Centre from other states which are far off." Thackeray added, "Have directed district collectors to install oxygen generation plants and if in case third wave hit the state there won't be any shortage of oxygen." He said around 275 PSA plants will be installed across the state.Ramping health infrastructure but from where to get doctors, nurses: CMTesting labs have increased only two to 609, testing close to 300,000 samples, said Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray. We are ramping up health infrastructure but from where to bring doctors and nurses etc, said the chief minister.No new restrictions required as stability in daily cases: Maha CMMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said because of existing lockdown restrictions stability in daily cases have come, hence new restrictions are not required. "We would have reached one million active cases but currently we have restrained them to less than 700,000," Thackeray said.Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray addresses state on Covid-19Mumbai reports 3,925 fresh Covid-19 cases, 89 deaths#CoronavirusUpdates30-Apr, 6:00pm#NaToCorona pic.twitter.com/Gxwz6GN3NdHimachal Pradesh registers 2,358 new Covid-19 cases2,358 new COVID19 cases, 1,730 recoveries and 37 deaths reported in Himachal Pradesh in the last 24 hours pic.twitter.com/u2MCjVNXrsTamil Nadu logs 18,692 new Covid-19 cases, 113 deathsTamil Nadu reports 18,692 fresh COVID cases, 16,007 discharges, and 113 deaths in the last 24 hours Active cases: 1,15,128Total discharges: 10,37,582Death toll: 14,046 pic.twitter.com/OfUMu8LlgGGoa reports 3,024 fresh Covid-19 cases, 22 deathsGoa records 3,024 new COVID cases, 955 recoveries, and 22 deaths in the last 24 hours Active cases: 22,945Total recoveries: 66,939Death toll: 1,168 pic.twitter.com/j6GMbXARU0West Bengal imposes restrictions on all kinds of gathering amid Covid-19 surgeWest Bengal government on Friday prohibited all social, cultural, academic and entertainment-related gatherings in the state. The government also ordered closure of all shopping complexes, malls, beauty parlours, cinema halls, gyms and sports complexes, home deliveries and online services shall remain exempt.Rajnath Singh grants emergency financial powers to armed forces to step up fight against CovidTo empower the Armed Forces and speed up their efforts in the nationwide fight against COVID 19 situation, Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh invoked special provisions and granted Emergency Financial Powers to the Armed Forces today.Maharashtra's Nagpur reports 6461 new Covid-19 casesMaharashtra's Nagpur reported 88 deaths, 6,461 new Covid-19 cases, 7,294 recoveries in the last 24 hours on Friday, as per Civil Surgeon Nagpur, reported ANI.Punjab CM says due to Covid-19 vaccine shortage, phase 3 not to start from May 1Due to non-availability of vaccine, phase three of vaccination of 18-45 age group cannot be started as scheduled in Punjab, said Capt Amarinder Singh's office on Friday.PM stresses on need to ensure prompt identification of issues at local levelAt council of ministers' meet, PM stresses upon need to ensure issues at local level are promptly identified, addressed.Weekend lockdown in Haryana cities, including Gurugram, from 10pm today to 5am on Monday in view of Covid-19Haryana | Weekend lockdown to be imposed in Panchkula, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad districts from 10pm today till 5am on 3rd May pic.twitter.com/0X3M3VglYuPuducherry logs nearly 1,200 fresh Covid-19 casesThe Covid-19 case tally in the Union territory of Puducherry rose to 58,622 on Friday after 1,195 were found to be positive, while 12 deaths took the toll to 805, PTI reported the health department as saying.Gujarat govt to give free Covid-19 vaccines in 10 districts of state: CM RupaniGujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Friday said the state government will provide free Covid-19 vaccine to people above 18 years of age in 10 districts of the state with a high number of cases on May 1, the establishment day of Gujarat, reported ANI.Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar receives first dose of Covid-19Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday took his first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in Chandigarh. He also appealed to the people to get vaccinated. "I appeal to the people of the state, that all of you must get the vaccine and encourage the people around you to also get the vaccine," Khattar tweeted.Delhi L-G Anil Baijal tests positive for Covid-19"I have tested positive for Covid with mild symptoms.Have isolated myself since the onset of symptoms and all those who were in contact with me have been tested. Will continue to function and monitor the situation in Delhi from my residence," Baijal tweeted on Friday.Bihar chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh passes away in Patna while undergoing Covid-19 treatmentBihar chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh passed away on Friday at a hospital in Patna where he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19, reported ANI.EU announces support packages from 5 countries to support India's Covid-19 effortsEU's channelling support to India via EU Civil Protection Mechanism. On 27 April, EU announced initial offers of support by Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Luxembourg, Portugal & Sweden. Now announcing support packages from France, Italy, Austria & Finland & addl supplies from IrelandThe European Union announced support packages from France, Italy, Austria, Finland and additional supplies from Ireland, reports ANI.Ten states added 77.44% to 3,498 deaths in last 24 hours#Unite2FightCorona3,498 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.Ten States account for 77.44% of the new deaths. pic.twitter.com/OkMJRbxwm4Ten states accounted for 77.44 per cent of the 3,498 new fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, says Union health ministry.11 states account for 78.18% of India's total active cases#IndiaFightsCorona:Eleven states cumulatively account for 78.18% of India’s total Active Cases.#Unite2FightCorona #StaySafe pic.twitter.com/tdiXPCavHAIndia's Covid-19 active caseload stands at 3,170,228 and 11 states including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka reported 78.18 per cent of the total.Ten states contribute 73% to new Covid-19 infections in India in last 24 hours#IndiaFightsCorona:Ten States report 73.05% of the new cases.Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 66,159. It is followed by Kerala with 38,607 while Uttar Pradesh reported 35,104 new cases.#Unite2FightCorona #StaySafe pic.twitter.com/zfiydrIpPLTen states, Maharashtra, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh, account for 73 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases in India.India's daily positivity rate at 20.13 per cent with over 1.9 million samples tested#IndiaFightsCorona:The graph below shows the trend of daily positivity and daily tests being conducted in India.#Unite2FightCorona#StaySafe pic.twitter.com/Ps792pLpGoIndia's daily Covid-19 positivity rate stands at 20.13 per cent with 1,920,107 samples for the disease and 386,452 new cases.Over 24 million beneficiaries register on Co-WIN platform for Covid-19 vaccination, says govt#We4Vaccine:More than 2.45 Cr beneficiaries register themselves on Co-WIN as Phase III of Vaccination commences (till 9:30 am today)India’s Cumulative Vaccination Coverage exceeds 15.22 CroreOver 19 Lakh Tests done in last 24 hrs; Highest in a day#LargestVaccinationDrive pic.twitter.com/iYIYxj68XTMore than 24 million beneficiaries have registered for the Covid-19 vaccine shot on the Co-WIN digital platform as cumulative vaccinations exceeded 152 million doses, the central health ministry said.India's Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 81.99%📢#CoronaVirusUpdates:✅India's #COVID19 recovery rate improves to 81.99% as on April 30, 2021#IndiaFightsCorona#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/MczSzoOGmMIndia's Covid-19 recovery rate currently stands at 81.99 per cent, according to the latest data from the Union health ministry. So far, 15,384,418 patients have been discharged.Karnataka health minister hints at delay in Covid-19 vaccination roll out for people between 18 and 44 years of ageWe will definitely intimate people after the confirmation that we obtain from the Serum Institute: Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka Health Minister #COVID19Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said that the state might not receive the vaccines ordered from Serum Institute, Pune, from May 1 and said that people will be notified once the vaccines are obtained, reports ANI.10 states have more than 100,000 active Covid-19 cases, says Centre#IndiaFightsCorona:📍 Highest number of #ActiveCases in several states of India (as on 30th April, 2021 till 08:00 AM)☑️ Follow #COVIDAppropriateBehaviour to #StaySafe#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/xBvSChNWb0Data from the Union health ministry showed that 10 states have more than 100,000 active Covid-19 cases.Indonesia's drug regulators gives its nod to Sinopharm's Covid-19 vaccineIndonesi'a drug authority has approved Sinopharm's Covid-19 vaccine for a private vaccination scheme, under which companies procure the vaccine for the vaccination of their staff, reports Reuters.Active Covid-19 caseload accounts for 16.90% of overall cases in India#CoronaVirusUpdates: 📍Total #COVID19 Cases in India (as on April 30, 2021)▶️81.99% Cured/Discharged/Migrated (1,53,84,418)▶️16.90% Active cases (31,70,228)▶️1.11% Deaths (2,08,330)Total COVID-19 confirmed cases = Cured/Discharged/Migrated+Active cases+Deaths#StaySafe pic.twitter.com/GdD2RkEfS7Data from the Union health ministry showed that 3,170,228 active cases in the country accounted for 16.90 per cent of the overall confirmed cases. Also, fatalities constituted 1.11 per cent and recoveries accounted for 81.99 per cent.In another biggest single-day spike, India registers 386,452 new Covid-19 casesIndia reported more than 300,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the ninth straight day on Friday. With 386,452 new Covid-19 cases, the tally reached 18,762,976, data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed.Click here to read moreExternal affairs ministry confirms arrival of US Covid-19 medical supplies🇮🇳 🇺🇸A strategic partnership of global significance! Our healthcare partnership can help effectively tackle the global pandemic. Deeply appreciate gift of 423 oxygen cylinders with regulators and other medical supplies from the U.S.A. pic.twitter.com/hKGOJ3UDsHThe ministry of external affairs confirmed the arrival of Covid-19 medical supplies from the US. The supplies include 423 oxygen cylinders with regulators.Covid-19: 286 million samples tested, over 1.9 million tests on April 29 says ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/T3mLblUGiSThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that with 1,920,107 samples tested for Covid-19 on April 29, cumulative testing reached 286,392,086.Kerala CM announces new oxygen plant to be set up at KasargodThe CM has informed that an Oxygen plant will be set up in the Chattanchal industrial park under the Kasargod District Panchayat. Land and Rs. 50 lakhs will be allotted by the District Panchayat. #COVID19Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has announced a new oxygen plant to be set up in the Chattanchal industrial park under the Kasargod district panchayat.First emergency Covid-19 relief shipment from US arrives in IndiaThe first of several emergency COVID-19 relief shipments from the United States has arrived in India! Building on over 70 years of cooperation, the United States stands with India as we fight the COVID-19 pandemic together. #USIndiaDosti pic.twitter.com/OpHn8ZMXrJThe US embassy in India said that the first of many Covid-19 emergency shipments from the US has reached India.Japan to provide 300 oxygen generators, 300 ventilators to back India's Covid-19 effortsJapan stands with India in her greatest time of need. We have decide to proceed with the procedure to provide 300 oxygen generators & 300 ventilators.Japanese ambassador to India Satoshi Suzuki said that the country would provide 300 oxygen generators and 300 ventilators to India.Covid-19 equipment from Ireland arrive in India, MEA says 'deeply value the support'🇮🇳 🇮🇪International cooperation continues! Shipment containing 700 units of oxygen concentrators & 365 ventilators arrives from Ireland. Deeply value the support from our EU partner & friend 🇮🇪 pic.twitter.com/snpecSsHEASpokesperson for the ministry of external affairs said that 700 oxygen concentrators units and 365 ventilators from Ireland arrived in India.Mizoram reports 140 new Covid-19 cases, tally goes past 6,000-mark140 new #COVID19 cases have been reported in Mizoram; taking the total number of cases to 6019.Active cases: 1123Deaths: 14 pic.twitter.com/XdFmuta7e1With 140 new Covid-19 cases, Mizoram's tally reached 6,019 as of 7am, reports ANI.90% risk of contracting Covid-19 if face masks, 6-feet-distancing rule discarded, a health ministry graphic shows#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/eRT0fUgiz8A graphic by the Union health ministry showed that there is a 90 per cent risk of transmission of coronavirus when face masks, six-feet-distancing rule are not followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-april-30-2021-101619746288832.html
30-04-2021||India||‘Not woke’ on same-sex relationships: HC judge to talk to psychologist||A Madras high court judge on Wednesday fixed an appointment with a psychologist to understand same-sex orientation better before recording his judgment in a case pertaining to a lesbian couple who sought protection from their birth families that are opposed to their relationship, and directed the police to close the first information report filed on the basis of a missing person’s complaint filed by the parents of both women.Justice N Anand Venkatesh said that he would want to undergo an educational session with Vidhya Dinakaran, a city-based psychologist, while hearing the petition.“Ultimately in this case, the words must come from my heart and not from my head, and the same will not be possible if I am not fully “woke” on this aspect,” justice Venkatesh said. “For this purpose, I want to subject myself for psycho-education with Vidhya Dinakaran, and I would request the psychologist to fix a convenient appointment for the same. I honestly feel that such a session with a professional will help me understand same-sex relationships better and will pave way for my evolution. If I write an order after undergoing psycho-education, I trust that the words will fall from my heart.”In a previous hearing, the court directed the petitioners as well as their parents to undergo counselling, and Dinakaran submitted a report to the judge on Wednesday.The court noted that the psychologist’s opinion is that the petitioners “perfectly understand the relationship they have entered” and that there was “no confusion in their minds”. It was also observed that they have a lot of love and affection for their parents and that their only fear is that they may be coerced into separation.“According to the psychologist, such a scenario will cause a lot of mental trauma to the petitioners,” the judge observed. “The petitioners are also willing to wait for their parents, whom they fervently hope will understand the relationship at some future point of time,” he said.Meanwhile, the parents of both the petitioners, the court observed, were worried of stigma, consequences in the society and the security of their daughters.A total of four petitions on same-sex marriage are pending before the high courts of Delhi and Kerala, challenging various acts that restrict marriage to opposite sex or heterosexual couples. Though the Supreme Court read down Section 377, which criminalised same-sex adult consensual relationships, in 2018, several same-sex couples continue to seek protection from the court as their birth families continue to oppose their sexuality.“One more interesting observation that has been made in [Dinakaran’s] report is that the parents would rather prefer their daughters to live a life of celibacy, which according to them will be more dignified than having a partner of the same sex,” justice Venkatesh observed on Wednesday. The parents are confused over lineage and adoption that would apply in a same-sex relationship.The petitioners are two women from Madurai who are currently taking refuge in Chennai.The matter has been posted for June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-woke-on-same-sex-relationships-hc-judge-to-talk-to-psychologist-101619737028168.html
30-04-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Wednesday, 43% of the world’s new coronavirus disease cases came from India. Rising positivity rates — weekly average positivity rates are up in 31 of the 34 states and Union territories (UTs) that publish testing data regularly — indicate that, one, the surge in India’s numbers will continue (although states and UTs can always change their approach to testing to hide the real numbers, or, worse still, show a dip in positivity rates; this is beginning to happen) and two, that many states and UTs are definitely not testing enough.This is really the only positivity bit that should worry everyone, not any other. Indeed, people who are suddenly discovering and making impassioned pleas about the spiritual and psychological reasons not to post or publish photographs and videos of cremations and burials must understand and acknowledge that they are merely being (wittingly or unwittingly, and most certainly witlessly) apologists for governments that seem more worried about the narrative than the underlying facts. Every time someone has told me to be positive over the past few days (and there are some who are persistent), there’s a voice I hear in my head — it’s Neil Young, singing, “Don’t let it bring you down/ it’s only castles burning.”But back to the country’s numbers. According to the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center, India is currently one of the two countries (Colombia is the other one) among the 10 worst affected countries (by daily cases) where things are getting worse. And Colombia, to put things in perspective, is adding around 17,000 cases a day on average. On Wednesday, India added 379,423 new cases, for a weekly average of 349,029 cases. The country recorded 3,643 deaths on Wednesday for a weekly average of 2,877. On Wednesday, the number of active cases in the country surged to 3.08 million.According to comments last week by All India Institute of Medical Sciences director Randeep Guleria, 10-15% of those infected may need hospitalisation, and less than 5% may require critical care.These numbers are significantly higher than the ones I’ve seen for other countries, but they can still safely be considered upper bounds.Even at 10%, that translates into a maximum of 300,000 people requiring hospitalisation, with 150,000 of them requiring critical care.But there are other factors at play.One is the absence of triage (simply, prioritising hospitalisation on the basis of the seriousness of the illness), something that is critical when demand exceeds supply.Delhi, for instance, ended Wednesday with almost 100,000 active cases, which means it needs around 10,000 hospital beds, including 5,000 critical care ones. The city-state has around 20,000 beds, of which almost 19,000 are occupied according to the government’s dashboard. In addition, it has around 4,600 critical care ones, all of which are also occupied. Delhi’s excessive hospitalisation numbers may be on account of people from other states, notably Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, traditionally heading to the Capital for treatment, but, equally, with hospital beds becoming scarce, many Delhi residents have headed to Noida, even Ambala, over the past week, so there’s some natural balancing of numbers. This clearly points to the absence of triage (and also its importance). The second wave of the coronavirus disease has set off panic in some parts of the country (and Delhi is definitely one). Not everyone seeking it needs hospitalisation, just as not everyone looking for remdesivir injections needs them (in fact, most do not). Triage can address the first (but it needs to be done efficiently). Better medical advice can address the second. I am not mentioning the rush for plasma therapy because it doesn’t work.The second factor is concentration of cases. Bengaluru, for instance, ended Wednesday with 224,152 active cases, the highest for any Indian city (and 7.3% of all active cases in the country). That means it needs around 22,000 beds, including 11,000 critical care ones. The city has nowhere that many. So, while triage may be able to lessen the pressure in the case of Bengaluru, the city still needs to urgently enhance hospital and ICU capacity.Then, that can be said for almost any city in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101619736711854.html
30-04-2021||India||IIT Delhi relaxes norms after 22% students say they tested Covid-19 positive||Officials at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IIT-D) announced several relaxations, including of deadlines and attendance norms, after 22% respondents of an internal online survey said they tested positive for the coronavirus disease between March and April.More than a tenth of students surveyed said they were considering withdrawing from the ongoing semester due to the stress caused by the pandemic and associated personal grievances, while over 40% said they wanted the semester halted for a while.Of the 3,910 students who participated the survey, which was conducted between Sunday and Tuesday, 857 said they contracted the infection since March, while 61% said a family member, or someone close to them, tested positive in the same period.HT has seen a copy of the survey report.The respondents included students enrolled in undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes, as well as those pursuing diplomas and dual degree courses at the institute.The institute currently has over 10,000 students enrolled across courses.After the survey’s results were analysed, the college administration decided on several relaxations for students for the ongoing semester, including exempting attendance from its evaluation policy, and extending deadlines for assignments. The decision was approved by the IIT-D’s senate, the institute’s highest decision-making body, during a meeting on Wednesday.To be sure, not all the students tested positive for Covid-19 on campus. Most students who took the survey were at home. The campus has been closed for physical classes since March.Students were allowed to resume research and laboratory work with Covid-19 guidelines as laid down by a University Grants Commission (UGC) directive last November. Earlier this month, the administration advised all students who had returned to the campus to leave after a sharp rise in Delhi’s Covid trajectory.On April 18, the IIT-D administration said at least 30 students on campus tested positive in the previous 30 days.The survey revealed that 11% of the students were considering withdrawing from the ongoing semester. About 43%, or 1,688 students, said they wanted the current semester to be put on hold for a few weeks. Though the administration did not halt the semester, it has decided to extend deadlines for any student adversely affected by the pandemic. Students ill for more than four weeks will also be considered for these relaxations, officials said.Shantanu Roy, the institute’s dean of academics, said, “The senate did not think halting the semester was a solution, since we are towards its very end. It decided to give relaxation to students directly or indirectly affected by the pandemic. They can take the exams whenever it will be possible for them.”Several students continued to demand that the semester be halted by a few weeks for everyone. “It looks like the administration doesn’t trust students even after conducting a survey. They think all the stories of students suffering are cooked up,” said an undergraduate student, who wished not to be named.The institute also decided to give students a week off, from May 1-7, before the online exams begin on May 9.“Normally in the regular time, we ask for documents like medical reports and test reports in case students decide to not take an exam due to a medical reason. However, during the current situation, IIT-D has decided not to ask for any such document immediately. They can also decide to take exams later, whenever it is possible for them,” Roy added.The senate also recommended a six-month extension for PhD scholars to finish their research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-delhi-relaxes-norms-after-22-students-say-they-tested-covid-19-positive-101619735356349.html
30-04-2021||India||Tried to walk the talk on vaccine equity despite constraints, says India at UN||United Nations India, despite severe constraints and within its own limited resources, has tried to “walk the talk” on vaccine equity and shared Covid-19 vaccines with over 80 countries, the country told the United Nations.The UN Department of Global Communications (DGC), which spreads awareness around the world about the work the UN does, has actively encouraged further sharing of vaccine doses from all countries, Counsellor in India’s Permanent Mission to the United Nations A Amarnath said in the General Assembly’s 43rd Session of Committee on Information.“India, despite the severe constraints and within our own limited resources, has tried to ‘walk the talk’ on vaccine equity. We have shared vaccines with more than 80 countries and provided life-saving drugs, medicines and protective equipment to over 150 countries. Our efforts underscore that we will not defeat the pandemic unless all of us, everywhere, come out of it safely,” Amarnath said.Under India’s “Vaccine Maitri” initiative, which translates into Vaccine Friendship, the country has been providing vaccines to nations across the world — from immediate neighbours to countries in Latin America and Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tried-to-walk-the-talk-on-vaccine-equity-despite-constraints-says-india-at-un-101619733218125.html
30-04-2021||India||Oxygen key focus of support to India: EU envoy||Oxygen-related equipment is a major focus of the European Union’s efforts to support India’s Covid-19 response but vaccines need to be developed speedily and in sufficient quantities to decisively defeat the Coronavirus, EU ambassador Ugo Astuto said on Thursday.Since the EU began coordinating efforts by member states to provide urgently needed materials and supplies on Sunday, France and Germany have announced major deliveries of oxygen, and equipment is arriving from Ireland (700 oxygen concentrators and an oxygen generator), Romania (80 oxygen concentrators and 75 cylinders), Luxembourg (58 ventilators), Portugal and Sweden.“Oxygen is a major focus of our support, as requested by Indian authorities,” Astuto said in an interview, describing immediate and long-terms steps envisaged by the EU to help India cope with the massive surge in infections and to prepare for future pandemics.“To prepare for the future, we need to draw lessons from the experience so far. It is clear that to defeat the virus decisively, we need to develop vaccines early and in sufficient quantities. We also need to strengthen the capacity of the international community to respond in a cohesive and consistent manner,” he said.His remarks came against the backdrop of daily infections crossing well past the 300,000-mark for almost a week and hospitals across the country grappling with a severe shortage of oxygen.Astuto said the pandemic had shown how interconnected the world is, and the EU and India can help shape the global agenda for finding common responses.“We have to strengthen the multilateral tools we have already at our disposal, such as the WHO, and possibly think about new tools specifically targeted to pandemics, such as for instance an international treaty on pandemics,” he said.Looking ahead to the virtual India-EU Summit to be held on May 8, Astuto said the two sides are preparing a EU-India Connectivity Partnership.“At our summit in July 2020, we agreed to promote jointly a transparent, inclusive and rules-based approach to connectivity. We agreed that connectivity projects should be environmentally, socially and fiscally sustainable, providing a level playing field for businesses,” he said.With a lot of focus on resumption of talks on a trade and investment pact, Astuto said the EU “would be ready to start exploring a standalone investment agreement, as we believe it would be in our mutual interest to establish a stable legal framework for investments, which would give a positive signal in both directions”.He said: “Executive vice president Valdis Dombrovskis and commerce minister Piyush Goyal met for talks in February and are about to meet again. They will discuss the perspective of trade and investment agreements, but also the wider economic agenda. There is significant scope for broader exchanges and cooperation on issues such as reform of WTO, security of supply chains [and] regulatory issues.”With the EU recently unveiling a strategy to reinforce its presence in the Indo-Pacific, Astuto said the 27-member bloc “regards itself as a major stakeholder in this region and wants to work with like-minded partners, such as India”.He said the Indo-Pacific is a crucial manufacturing hub, central to global value chains and at the forefront of the digital economy. “The region is also key for climate change and the environment...In many ways, the path of the future world will be set in the Indo-Pacific region,” he added.The EU will develop its partnerships with India on foreign policy and security and defence, and this will include addressing challenges to maritime security, emerging and disruptive technologies, and countering terrorism or organised crime, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-key-focus-of-support-to-india-eu-envoy-101619732731132.html
30-04-2021||India||US rushes $100-million worth supplies for India’s Covid fight||The US is rushing supplies worth more than $100 million, including large oxygen generation systems and raw materials for making 20 million vaccine doses, to back India’s Covid-19 response in the face of a devastating second wave of Coronavirus infections.The first emergency relief shipment, expected to arrive on a US military transport aircraft from Travis Air Force Base, will include 440 oxygen cylinders and regulators donated by the state of California. The flight will also carry 960,000 rapid diagnostic tests and 100,000 N95 masks provided by USAID.The aid is in line with a pledge made by President Joe Biden during a phone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. Two special US flights carrying equipment and supplies are expected to reach India on Friday and a third on May 3.The US relief supplies will start flowing in shortly after support packages from Russia and member states of the European Union (EU), part of a global effort to help India cope with record-breaking infections that have surged past the 300,000-mark over the past several days. The support will also help address a severe shortage of oxygen, which has been blamed for many deaths in recent days.On Thursday, Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said that support is expected from over 40 countries, mostly oxygen-related equipment and critical medicines, to strengthen India’s response to an “unprecedented second wave” of infections.“Thanks to @US_TRANSCOM, @AirMobilityCmd, @Travis60AMW & @DLAmil for hustling to prepare critical @USAID medical supplies for shipping. As I’ve said, we’re committed to use every resource at our disposal, within our authority, to support India’s frontline healthcare workers,” US defense secretary Lloyd Austin tweeted.A statement from the White House said: “Just as India sent assistance to the United States when our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, the United States is determined to help India in its time of need.”The emergency assistance from the US will include an initial delivery of 1,100 oxygen cylinders that will remain in India, 1,700 concentrators to obtain oxygen from ambient air, multiple large-scale oxygen generation units to support up to 20 patients each and additional mobile units to target specific shortages. A team of US experts will support oxygen generation units by working on the ground alongside Indian personnel.The support will also include raw materials for the Covishield vaccine that the US has redirected from its own order of manufacturing supplies. These materials will allow India to make over 20 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine, the White House statement said.The US is also sending 15 million N95 masks to protect patients and health care personnel, one million rapid diagnostic tests of the same type used by the White House to provide reliable results in less than 15 minutes, and the first tranche of a planned 20,000 doses of the antiviral drug remdesivir.The US also plans to send more planeloads of oxygen cylinders. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has locally procured more cylinders and will deliver them to India. CDC experts will work with Indian experts in labs, surveillance and epidemiology, bioinformatics for genomic sequencing and modelling, infection prevention and control, vaccine rollout, and risk communication, the White House said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-rushes-100-million-worth-supplies-for-india-s-covid-fight-101619732205708.html
30-04-2021||India||PM Modi held 21 meetings over second wave in April||At least 21 official engagements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in April, most done over the past two weeks, were related to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India and the country’s management of it, underlining the crisis facing the country which is now seeing in excess of 350,000 new cases a day on average.This is the highest number of Covid-19 related reviews and meetings in which the Prime Minister has participated since March 2020, when he announced a strict federal lockdown. That month, the PM had 14 official engagements on Covid.The list of Covid-19 engagements of the PM in April included review meetings with union government officials, conferences with state chief ministers, dialogue with foreign leaders such as the ones he had with US President Joe Biden and Russian President Vladimir Putin this week, and addresses to the nation.The PM has had at least 65 official engagements between March 2020 and April 2021 exclusively on Covid, according to the records in Press Information Bureau—the government’s publicity arm. Government officials claim that in addition, the PM has been talking to experts, political leaders and other stakeholders on the crisis, but that these are not listed as official engagements.Between January and March 2021, when India’s covid curve showed a temporary slump, the PM’s engagements on Covid reduced. This also coincided with the campaigning for the elections in four states and a Union Terriory. the Prime Minister campaigned heavily for his Bharatiya Janata Party , especially in West Bengal where elections were held in eight phases (the last phase was on Thursday). In March this year, the PM had just one Covid-19 engagement—a review meeting with all chief ministers on March 17—apart from taking his first Covid vaccine shot at AIIMS, Delhi.In February too, Modi had just one engagement related to the pandemic: addressing a workshop on “Covid-19 Management: Experience, Good Practices and Way Forward” with 10 Neighbouring Countries in his official programme. The PIB archive shows that in January, Modi had two official engagements: launching India’s vaccination campaign on January 16 and interacting with beneficiaries and vaccinators in Varanasi.After peaking in September, India’s first wave of Covid-19 infections tapered off, reaching a low of 10,988 new cases on average a week on February 11, 2021. The second wave emerged in February, powered likely by variants, the relaxation of Covid guidelines, and mass political and religious gatherings. Cases have soared since. As have hospitalisations. And crucial medical commodities such as oxygen have been found to be in short supply (or at least not available when and where they are needed).In April alone, again, mostly in the past 10 days, the Prime Minister had five engagements only on oxygen—underlining the gravity of the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-held-21-meeting-over-second-wave-in-april-101619730220140.html
30-04-2021||India||India set to get assistance from 40 nations in Covid-19 fight: Govt||India is set to receive support from more than 40 countries, mostly oxygen-related equipment and consignments of critical medicines, to bolster the country’s response to an “unprecedented second wave” of Covid-19 infections, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday.Shringla made the remarks at a news briefing hours after two Russian military aircraft flew in 20 oxygen production plants, ventilators and 200,000 medicine packs, while three special flights from the US were expected to bring in raw materials for Covid-19 vaccines, oxygen generating equipment and oxygen concentrators.The external affairs ministry is working with the health ministry and other agencies to expedite clearances and to ensure the equipment and medicines speedily reach areas where they are needed the most. Indian missions around the world have lists of urgently needed items – liquid oxygen, oxygen producing units and critical medicines such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab – so that they can coordinate with foreign governments and corporations to expedite deliveries.“We are facing an unprecedented second wave of the pandemic. As of now, we have over three million active cases. This has obviously put considerable pressure on our healthcare system, on the capacities and resources that we have,” Shringla told the briefing.More than 40 countries, including major powers such as the US, Russia, France and Germany, have committed to provide much needed items and Indian and foreign corporations are helping with procurements. Indian community associations in many countries too are pitching in to provide relief materials.Shringla said India expects to receive more than 500 oxygen generating plants, more than 4,000 oxygen concentrators, more than 10,000 oxygen cylinders, and 17 cryogenic oxygen tankers. Biopharmaceutical major Gilead Sciences has offered 450,000 doses of the antiviral medication Remdesivir while India expects to get some 300,000 doses of Favipiravir from Russia and the United Arab Emirates, and consignments of Tocilizumab from Germany and Switzerland.Gilead and Roche Pharmaceuticals are helping expedite the supply of raw materials so that domestic production can be ramped up. Indian firms currently produce 67,000 doses of Remdesivir a day, whereas the requirement is 200,000 to 300,000 doses a day. Shringla said these firms expect to boost production to up to 400,000 doses once raw materials are brought in.Shringla was more circumspect on the issue of whether the support from other countries amounted to a shift from India’s policy decision after the 2004 tsunami on not accepting foreign aid.“I don’t think we are looking at it in policy terms, we are looking at it in terms of the situation that is very, very unusual, unprecedented and exceptional and we will do whatever it takes to meet the requirements of our people at this point of time,” he said in response to a question on whether there had been a policy shift.“The current situation is something we have never seen before and may never see again...We have certainly prioritised items that we need, we are sourcing many of these items from many countries, but many countries have come forward on their own to offer assistance,” he added.Many countries are responding to the situation in India because New Delhi played a proactive role in providing essential pharmaceutical products and even vaccines in the earlier phases of the pandemic, Shringla said, adding that US President Joe Biden and others had said they would assist India because it had provided help over the past year.India is open to acquiring vaccines from other countries for its immunisation programme till Indian manufacturers ramp up production. Vaccines should be seen in the context of an inter-dependent world with supply chains of raw materials and finished products, Shringla said.The country’s vaccine programme is based on international cooperation, including with the WHO-backed COVAX facility and Indian firms too have international connections for research and development.“Today, our needs are far greater, and all our partners understand that what we require is a ramping up of our vaccination programme. We have to go up significantly,” he said, adding all the existing capacity will be needed once the vaccination drive becomes universal for everyone above 18 years from May 1. “In that context, if we can source vaccines we will do it, whether it’s from the US, Russia or other countries,” he said.Officer on special duty Dammu Ravi, who played a crucial role in guiding India’s response in the initial stages of the pandemic last year, is again dealing with all Covid-19-related issues along with a group of young officers who are working 24x7.On the issue of accepting support from China, Shringla said: “We know that a number of companies in India are sourcing priority requirements, be they oxygen generators and concentrators, and some of it is being sourced from China. Cargo flights are operating...but I think this is part of meeting requirements in the most effective manner possible.”People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that all international assistance would be exempted from taxes if it was approved by the government and routed to the Indian Red Cross Society. This includes government-to-government assistance and materials donated by corporate and individuals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-set-to-get-assistance-from-40-nations-in-covid-19-fight-govt-101619729826434.html
30-04-2021||India||Bharat Biotech lowers vaccine price for states||Bharat Biotech, the co-developer and manufacturer of India’s indigenous coronavirus disease vaccine, Covaxin, on Thursday announced a revised selling price of ₹400 per dose, from the earlier ₹600, for state governments.The vaccine manufacturer’s decision to slash the price by 33% came a a day after another Covid-19 vaccine manufacturer, Serum Institute of India (SII), which makes the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine under the brand name Covishield in India, reduced its selling price to states to ₹300 from ₹400.“Bharat Biotech is deeply concerned with the critical pandemic circumstances that India is facing at this time. Recognising the enormous challenges to the public health care system, we have made Covaxin available to state governments at a price of ₹400 per dose,” the company said in a statement.“We wish to be transparent in our approach to pricing which was determined by internally funded product development, several operationally intensive BSL-3 manufacturing facilities (the first of its kind in our country) and clinical trials. We wish to champion innovation in India and our commitment to public health is absolute,” the statement added.For private hospitals and institutions, the company has set the cost at ₹1,200 per dose, and for international market, the vaccine will be sold for $15-20 per dose, it announced earlier.The decisions by the two companies come amid demands from several states that the vaccine prices for them be reduced, and be brought at par with the price for the Union government, which buys the two vaccines from SII and Bharat Biotech for ₹150 a dose.Several chief ministers, including Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal and Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray, have demanded a “one nation, one price” policy.But the companies have stressed that the revenue generated from sale is important for them to expand production capacities.Bharat Biotech has a production capacity of about 10 million Covaxin doses each month, and is looking at manufacturing scale up in a stepwise manner across multiple facilities at Hyderabad and Bangalore.With the help of the Union government, the company is working towards ramping up the production capacity by at least 100% by May-June, 2021, and with a target set of producing nearly 100 million doses per month by September 2021. The Union finance ministry also approved a credit line of ₹1,500 crore to Bharat Biotech for this purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-lowers-vaccine-price-for-states-101619729598566.html
30-04-2021||India||IIT-B alumni seek action against Kharagpur prof for remarks on SC, ST students||A group of alumna members of Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) on Thursday have urged the director of IIT-Kharagpur (IIT-KGP) to take action against a professor who was allegedly seen verbally abusing a preparatory class for students belonging to the scheduled castes (SC) and scheduled tribes (ST) categories and those with physical disabilities in a video.In a letter to IIT-KGP’s director Virendra Kumar Tewari, alumni said the video, that had emerged four days ago, has “horrified” them. They demanded that Tewari take immediate action against the violation of classroom ethics, create a safe space for students to place their grievances and attend to them on an urgent basis with immediate action. Despite repeated attempts, Tewari remained unavailable for a comment.Videos of Seema Singh, an associate professor from IIT-KGP’s humanities and social sciences department emerged on social media on Sunday where she can be heard repeatedly hurling abuses at students reportedly attending online preparatory classes meant for students from SC, ST categories and those with physical disabilities. The recordings, which are under the institute’s review, were posted anonymously on IIT-KGP’s confessions page, an informal group of students on social media.The 25 IIT-B alumna include Anupama Krishnamurthy (class of 1988), researcher at French Institute Pondicherry; Shaibani Azam (class of 1986), professor at Jamia Millia University; Enakshi Bhattacharya (class of 1980), professor at IIT-Madras; Deepti Pradhan (class of 1986); associate director of research at Yale University and Chayanika Shah (class of 1986), retired lecturer, KJ Somaiya College of Science and Commerce.“We were students at a time when the gender ratio in IIT-B was less than 5%. As minority students on campus, we have experienced many sexist comments from teachers and recognise today how their actions and statements made an adverse impact on our learning environment. We, hence, speak from some personal experience of discrimination at IIT-campuses. We were even then aware of the ways in which those who came from marginalised caste backgrounds, were not English speaking, or were from smaller towns were discriminated against,” wrote the group.The women had also participated in a strike in 1980 when four students had raised their voice against IIT-B’s order cancelling their admissions on the grounds that they had a backlog in courses and were not able to cope with the undergraduate programme. The unprecedented strike had forced the institute to a grinding halt for almost 40 days.“Some of us are now a part of the academia, while a few of us have seen how discrimination at institutes works. We are also seeing a surge in the number of cases of discrimination coming out. This reminds us of our experience as a minority on campus. Since 1980, we have been reiterating that it not enough for institutes to just bring in students from diverse backgrounds. There’s a need to make them feel safe and supported,” said Shah.Institutions are not fit to look after diverse students in their present state, Shah added.“While a complete overhaul of the education system is ideal, there are things institutes can do immediately. They must set up anti-discrimination cells, train teachers on how to treat diversity and reduce the emphasis on [academic] performance,” she said.Meanwhile, the videos, which are viral on social media, have sparked an outrage across campuses. While Singh has apologised to students for her behaviour in an email, many student and alumni bodies across campuses have started online petitions demanding action against her and the creation of an SC/ ST cell at IITs.The Science Education Group (SEG), a students’ forum at IIT-KGP, issued a statement on Wednesday: “There have also been previous unverified reports that state her [Seema’s] brazen and abusive behaviour with students. She has an alleged history of doing these things. One thing that can be concluded from all this is that primarily this is systematic power abuse, which often goes under the carpet and secondarily, underlines the casteist behaviour of the system…”Meanwhile on Tuesday, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes issued letters to the institute, Union education ministry, West Bengal’s government and director general of police, informing them that the commission will investigate the matter.“The commission has taken a suo-motu cognisance of the use of unparliamentary language and casteist remarks made by professor Seema Singh while taking a class of SC/ ST students… Her remarks have hurt the sentiments of many Indians, specifically the SC community,” the commission wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iitb-alumni-seek-action-against-kharagpur-prof-for-remarks-on-sc-st-students-101619728845442.html
30-04-2021||India||Facebook blocks hashtag against PM Modi by ‘mistake’, later restores it||Facebook, late on Wednesday, blocked a hashtag “#ResignModi” for several hours before restoring it, claiming this was done by mistake, even as the Union government issued a statement saying it had not asked for anything to be blocked by Facebook.“We temporarily blocked this hashtag by mistake, not because the Indian government asked us to, and have since restored it,” a Facebook spokesperson said.The ministry of electronics and information technology echoed Facebook, and cited a Wall Street Journal story attributing the removal of a “certain hashtag” to the government of India’s efforts to curb public dissent. It called the story “misleading on facts and mischievous in intent”. In a series of posts on the microblogging site Koo, the ministry said the government has not issued any direction to remove this hashtag. “Facebook has also clarified that it was removed by mistake,” it said. The statement went on to make claims about another story in WSJ published earlier in March.India is in the grip of a surging second wave of Covid-19 infections, which have crossed the 350,000 daily cases mark over the past few days. The death toll has crossed 200,000, and both the Centre and the state governments have been criticised for their mismanagement of a situation that seemed in control even a month ago.The blocking and unblocking of the hashtag came days after the Centre issued orders to take down at least 100 “inflammatory” posts and accounts across Twitter, Facebook and Instagram related to Covid-19, including a verified Facebook page of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.The emergency blocking orders, under Section 69(A) of the Information Technology Act, were issued by the ministry of electronics and information technology on Friday, and came into force on Saturday. Rights activists have accused the government of stifling critical content, while the government argued that the decision was taken to counter Covid related misinformation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-blocks-hashtag-against-pm-modi-by-mistake-later-restores-it-101619728664461.html
30-04-2021||India||Supreme Court rejects plea for CBI probe into Pul’s death||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to entertain a petition seeking probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the unnatural death of Arunachal Pradesh’s former chief minister Kalikho Pul in August 2016.A bench, headed by Justice Uday U Lalit, held PIL to be not maintainable since it was filed by an organisation, ‘Social Vigilance Team’, that had nothing to do with the case.“We cannot let a stranger to intervene in a criminal matter in the given facts. You (organisation) are not even aware of what has been happening with the probe by the police. You claim that the investigation by the police is not proper but you are not in a position to tell us how and why,” observed the bench.Senior counsel Siddharth Dave, representing the petitioner, sought to persuade the bench that the court had in some other cases did order a CBI probe in the larger public interest at the instance of a third party.But the bench replied: “These are not the facts in which we can do that. You are a complete stranger. You have not claimed or shown any connection with the family or the case at all.”Dave then withdrew the petition with a liberty to approach any other appropriate forum.In July 2016, the SC quashed imposition of President’s rule in Arunachal Pradesh, restoring the Congress government and ouster of Pul who became the CM in February that year, with the support of Bharatiya Janata Party legislators after leaving the Congress.On August 9, Pul’s body was found in his official bungalow with a purported suicide note, alleging that extraneous considerations influenced the SC’s verdict that led to his ouster as CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-rejects-plea-for-cbi-probe-into-pul-s-death-101619728431478.html
30-04-2021||India||Disquiet in BJP over UP local polls’ campaign amid Covid-19||Disquiet is brewing in a section of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh over the party’s campaigning in the ongoing state panchayat elections despite surging coronavirus infections, deaths and an overwhelmed healthcare system, HT has learnt. Senior BJP state leaders say the party, already under fire for the health crisis, is facing additional criticism for violating Covid protocol during its campaigning in UP.They also point out that the party is facing similar public anger for huge mask-less rallies in Telangana for local body polls.Two days ago, the state government faced sharp criticism on the issue from the Allahabad high court, which noted that 135 poll officials had died on duty and blamed the state election commission and administration for not enforcing Covid norms.The UP government defended itself, saying the four-phase panchayat polls, which began on April 19 and ended on Thursday, was necessitated by a ruling of the Allahabad high court. “It was in the compliance of the high court’s order that the UP government had to go through panchayat polls despite Covid scare,” the government said.But senior BJP leaders said the issue could have been taken up with the court and the election commission, given the scale of infections. A state-level functionary, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the court ordered the election, but a way could have been found.“It is not possible to avoid crowds... The guidelines cannot be followed strictly and consequently unlike in 2020, when the rural areas were largely insulated, this time the virus has reached villages,” the functionary said. A second party functionary said this election was happening at a time there was growing unrest among the people over inadequate healthcare facilities. “Elected representatives have not been able to secure oxygen or hospital beds. There is a lot of anger, and justifiably so. The government is doing the best it can, but this time the spread is not limited to a few districts, so the facilities are not enough.”Uttar Pradesh is one of the worst affected districts in the second wave. The state has posted a seven-day average of 34,455 cases daily, and its case count and death tally stand at 1,217,952 and 12,238, respectively.Two party legislators Ramesh Diwaker and Suresh Srivastava and Geeta Sagar, a panchayat candidate, have succumbed to Covid-19. “In each district, the party has lost several office-bearers... It’s very demoralising,” the second functionary said.Many party office-bearers have been discreet in voicing their concerns, but state lawmaker Prakash Dwivedi wrote to chief minister Yogi Adityanath demanding two phases of the polls on April 26 and 29 be deferred. Later, state minister Sunil Bharala and BJP MP Kaushal Kishore complained about facilities at government hospitals in Meerut and Lucknow.A third party functionary said the state’s decision to file cases against those found to be spreading rumours was well intended but caused consternation.Similar concerns about election rallies violating Covid protocol have also been voiced in Telangana, where elections to seven municipalities are scheduled for Friday.A former chief election commissioner, requesting anonymity, said elections couldn’t be deferred at will. “There is a constitutional provision to hold elections on time. What the state election commission could have done is to seek an amendment to the rules in Parliament.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disquiet-in-bjp-over-up-local-polls-campaign-amid-covid19-101619728242854.html
30-04-2021||India||Don’t have vaccines to start jabs from May 1, says MP’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh will not be able to start the vaccination of people in the 18-44 age group from May 1 due to non-availability of vaccines by the manufacturers, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced on Thursday, joining a growing list of states that have pointed to supply bottlenecks to deliver on the Centre’s announcement.Chouhan said Madhya Pradesh is expected to receive the first round of vaccine supplies on May 3 and will start the vaccination drive accordingly.Madhya Pradesh is the first major BJP-ruled state to announce its inability to launch the vaccination drive from May 1.The Centre last week opened the immunisation drive to all adults and allowed states and private hospitals to procure directly from vaccine manufacturers at prices fixed by the private companies. The move came against the backdrop of recommendations from experts that quickly vaccinating all adults was crucial to fighting the devastating surge of infections.But the two vaccine manufacturers, Serum Institute of India and the Bharat Biotech, have indicate to several states that they would have to go slow. On Thursday, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel told PM Narendra Modi in a letter that the supply schedule for 25 lakh vaccines by Bharat Biotech implied that it could take his government a year to inoculate the entire state. Serum Institute, he said in the letter, hadn’t even responded to their request.The city government in national capital Delhi has also made it clear that they may not be able to start the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination from Saturday because the city hasn’t received its first order of jabs and private hospitals may get consignments weeks later.“We don’t have enough vaccines. We have requested for procurement of vaccines from the respective companies. Despite all preparations being made, availability of vaccines is a must for the inoculation to begin,” said Delhi health minister Satyender Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-have-vaccines-to-start-jabs-from-may-1-says-mp-s-shivraj-singh-chouhan-101619728184869.html
30-04-2021||India||O2 key focus of support to India: EU envoy||New Delhi: Oxygen-related equipment is a major focus of the European Union’s efforts to support India’s Covid-19 response but vaccines need to be developed speedily and in sufficient quantities to decisively defeat the Coronavirus, EU ambassador Ugo Astuto said on Thursday. Since the EU began coordinating efforts by member states to provide urgently needed materials and supplies on Sunday, France and Germany have announced major deliveries of oxygen, and equipment is arriving from Ireland (700 oxygen concentrators and an oxygen generator), Romania (80 oxygen concentrators and 75 cylinders), Luxembourg (58 ventilators), Portugal and Sweden. “Oxygen is a major focus of our support, as requested by Indian authorities,” Astuto said in an interview, describing immediate and long-terms steps envisaged by the EU to help India cope with the massive surge in infections and to prepare for future pandemics. “To prepare for the future, we need to draw lessons from the experience so far. It is clear that to defeat the virus decisively, we need to develop vaccines early and in sufficient quantities. We also need to strengthen the capacity of the international community to respond in a cohesive and consistent manner,” he said. His remarks came against the backdrop of daily infections crossing well past the 300,000-mark for almost a week and hospitals across the country grappling with a severe shortage of oxygen. Astuto said the pandemic had shown how interconnected the world is, and the EU and India can help shape the global agenda for finding common responses. “We have to strengthen the multilateral tools we have already at our disposal, such as the WHO, and possibly think about new tools specifically targeted to pandemics, such as for instance an international treaty on pandemics,” he said. Looking ahead to the virtual India-EU Summit to be held on May 8, Astuto said the two sides are preparing a EU-India Connectivity Partnership. “At our summit in July 2020, we agreed to promote jointly a transparent, inclusive and rules-based approach to connectivity. We agreed that connectivity projects should be environmentally, socially and fiscally sustainable, providing a level playing field for businesses,” he said. With a lot of focus on resumption of talks on a trade and investment pact, Astuto said the EU “would be ready to start exploring a standalone investment agreement, as we believe it would be in our mutual interest to establish a stable legal framework for investments, which would give a positive signal in both directions”. He said: “Executive vice president Valdis Dombrovskis and commerce minister Piyush Goyal met for talks in February and are about to meet again. They will discuss the perspective of trade and investment agreements, but also the wider economic agenda. There is significant scope for broader exchanges and cooperation on issues such as reform of WTO, security of supply chains [and] regulatory issues.” With the EU recently unveiling a strategy to reinforce its presence in the Indo-Pacific, Astuto said the 27-member bloc “regards itself as a major stakeholder in this region and wants to work with like-minded partners, such as India”. He said the Indo-Pacific is a crucial manufacturing hub, central to global value chains and at the forefront of the digital economy. “The region is also key for climate change and the environment...In many ways, the path of the future world will be set in the Indo-Pacific region,” he added. The EU will develop its partnerships with India on foreign policy and security and defence, and this will include addressing challenges to maritime security, emerging and disruptive technologies, and countering terrorism or organised crime, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/o2-key-focus-of-support-to-india-eu-envoy-101619722663578.html
30-04-2021||India||Focus on local containment measures in worst-hit areas: MHA to states||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Thursday directed states and Union territories to follow intensive and local containment measures in districts with a high number of Covid-19 cases.The monthly directive, which will remain in force till May 31, however, had no mention about the imposition of a nationwide lockdown.The Centre has already allowed states/UTs to impose local lockdowns as per the situation in particular districts or the entire state.States/UTs must implement the containment measures suggested by the ministry of health and family welfare on April 25 which includes identifying districts, where either the tests positivity had been more than 10 percent or more in the last one week; or, where bed occupancy was more than 60 percent, the MHA order read.“Districts fulfilling any of the above two criteria should be considered for taking intensive and local containment measures,” it added.The containment framework shared by the health ministry has suggested containment as a major approach to flatten the pandemic curve.Night curfew, restricting intermingling of people, limiting crowd in marriages to 50 persons, prohibiting social/political/religious/sports gatherings, closing cinemas were among the measures recommended by the health ministry in its communication on April 25.At present, Delhi is observing a full lockdown till May 3 while Uttar Pradesh is following a weekend curfew since April 24.The Centre has also asked states to focus on ‘Test-Track-Treat-Vaccine’ strategy and implementation of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour across respective districts apart from door-to-door case search and adequate testing.On April 20, the Centre had also asked states to augment the testing and hospital infrastructure in advance for the next three weeks.In the last couple of days, the MHA also issued directions regarding smooth supply of oxygen in the affected states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-local-containment-measures-in-worst-hit-areas-mha-to-states-101619720820306.html
30-04-2021||India||Govt may raise sops for medical goods firms||The Union government has held at least two meetings during the course of the week to review the medical goods manufacturing sector, supply systems and manufacturing capacities, discussions which also focused on whether to expand sops currently applicable to the sector, such as the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme announced last year, an official with knowledge of the matter said.The meetings assessed all current schemes available to the bio-medical goods and pharma sectors and ways to increase the pace of utilisation of the schemes, an official of the DV Sadananda Gowda-headed chemical and fertilizers ministry said, requesting not to be quoted.“Our focus continues to be on enhancing domestic production capacity and self-sufficiency in health care. It’s not just about the current situation but (about) long-term… (needs),” the official said.The government may pivot the focus of the PLI scheme to manufacturers of oxygen and oxygen products, ICU equipment, invasive ventilators and respiratory devices, the official said. These include Covid testing kits and devices, such as bipaps.“Demand for these types of equipment has increased and will increase in the future. We are constantly looking at what more is needed to boost domestic capacity,” the official said.India, which imported nearly ₹43,000 crore worth of medical equipment in 2018-19, according to the latest available data, has seen a crippling shortage of medical gear, as an unstoppable second wave of Covid-19 infections tears through the country.Several schemes came up for review. Two were approved by the Cabinet on March 21, 2020. One is the PLI scheme to boost domestic manufacturing of medical devices worth ₹3,420 crore over the next five fiscals. Two, schemes on promotion of medical device parks for financing common infrastructure facilities in four designated medical device parks, a scheme worth ₹400 crore.The PLI scheme offers eligible manufacturing companies and sectors a 4-6% incentive on incremental sales over the base year of 2019-20 for a five-year period. When a firm achieves a given sales target, it qualifies for the incentive.The base year is not simply a cut-off date. Analysts say it has had far-reaching consequences for the performance of the scheme, especially in the electronics and medical devices sector.Most modern medical devices have high-end electronic components. The massive problems of sourcing in the electronics sector, after India’s border conflagration with China, has had rippling effects on the medical devices sector too.“The PLI scheme captures (sales) milestone over a base year of production. If you change the base year to 2021 from the existing 2020, then you can tackle a lot of these sourcing issues,” said economist Pronab Sen.There is a “fair amount of legitimacy” to the demand to change the base year, but so far, the government hasn’t taken any decision, Sen added.Changing the base year to 2021 from 2020 would base the scheme in the year when supply disruptions have been most acute, requiring alternative sourcing.Prior to the border dispute with China, supplies were not a problem. Firms are still scrambling for alternative suppliers, whose specifications may not be the same as old suppliers, experts say.The changes in specifications have required new production lines to be established, which could take up to a year, even as India battles a shortage of medical equipment, Sen said.Firms have demanded enhancement of the 5% PLI scheme in the medical devices sector to 10%, which is the incentive rate for the auto sector, for instance. All issues were being reassessed in view of the Covid crisis, HT has learnt.The medical devices sector, which has the highest potential within the health care market, was valued at ₹50,026 crore for 2018-19. It is expected to reach ₹86,840 crore by 2021-22, according to official projections. India depends on imports of up 85% to meet its total domestic demand for medical devices.The scheme for promotion of medical device parks, announced along with the PLI scheme in 2020, covers cancer-care devices, imaging devices, cardio-respiratory gear, chochlear implants and pacemakers. Officials are weighing options to include ventilators, ICU equipment and oxygen equipment.“Our health care has traditionally focused on child and maternal health, which also is by no means adequate. We obviously require a massive boost now. Production incentives will add new investment but they are still small,” said health economist Arup Mitra of Delhi’s Institute of Economic Growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-may-raise-sops-for-medical-goods-firms-101619720708343.html
30-04-2021||India||76% turnout in last phase of Bengal polls||Kolkata Roughly 76% of the electorate voted in the final phase of the West Bengal assembly election on Thursday, ending a monthlong poll season that began with a tense political battle between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Trinamool Congress (TMC) but was quickly overshadowed by surging Covid-19 infections. Voting in three districts and a part of Kolkata saw stray violence in some areas but a sharp spike in Covid cases kept many voters indoor. The provisional turnout of 76.07 % is the lowest of eight phases and came on a day the state posted its highest cases and deaths, 17,403 and 89, respectively. Results will be declared on May 2, along with those for Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry, where polls ended on April 6.“The polling was peaceful today, apart from a few incidents of violence,” chief electoral officer Aariz Aftab said. Daily infections in the state have zoomed 80 times since February 26, when poll dates were announced. The number of candidates and voters in the last phase was 2,116 and 72, 811, 254, (number seems wrong) respectively. The turnouts for the first to the seventh phases were 84.63%, 86.11%, 84.61%, 79.90%, 82.49%, 82% and 76.90%, respectively.The BJP is looking to wrest power from the TMC, which is looking for its third consecutive term. Polling for two seats will be held on May 16 due to the death of two candidates because of Covid-19On Thursday, polling was held in six seats in Malda, 11 each in Murshidabad and Birbhum and seven in the state capital. Fresh voting was also held at booth No 126 in the Sitalkuchi constituency of Cooch Behar district where four men were killed in firing by central armed police forces (CAPF) after local villagers allegedly attacked the forces during polling on April 10. Though no major violence was reported, the vehicles of Anirban Ganguly and Tarakeswar Saha, the BJP candidates from Bolpur and Nanoor in Birbhum district, respectively, were vandalised. TMC and BJP workers clashed at Maniktala and Beliaghata in north Kolkata. In Birbhum district, which is known for political violence and illegal bomb making units, crude bombs were recovered from several locations at Nanoor and Dubrajpur constituencies. There were clashes between BJP and TMC workers at several of the 11 constituencies that went to the polls. “The attack proves that the TMC government’s days are over. It does not matter that they smashed the windows of my car. What matters is that even women from that area voted for us,” said BJP national secretary Anupam Hazra. Chandranath Sinha, the TMC candidate from Bolpur, accused Ganguly of inciting people. “Polling was peaceful all over Birbhum. Trouble broke out only at places that Ganguly visited,” said Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/76-turnout-in-last-phase-of-bengal-polls-101619721524141.html
30-04-2021||India||Raj HC seeks reply from centre, state over Covid-19 vaccine pricing||JODHPUR: The Rajasthan High Court has sought responses from the central and state governments and vaccine manufacturers Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech on a petition challenging differential pricing of the vaccine for the Centre and the state, saying such pricing would hamper national vaccination strategy.A division bench of Justice Sabina and Justice MK Vyas passed the order while hearing a public interest litigation filed by Mukesh Sharma.The petition questioned the difference in pricing for the Centre and the states. Both vaccine makers sold their doses to the Centre at ₹150 a shot. Subsequently, in Phase 3, where states have to procure vaccines from the makers, the companies announced a price of ₹400 per dose for states (Covishield; Serum Institute) and ₹600 a dose (Covaxin; Bharat Biotech). On Wednesday, SII reduced this to ₹300 a dose and on Thursday, Bharat Biotech, ₹400 a dose. The petitioner said the prices quoted by manufacturers are not just higher but extremely discriminatory and arbitrary. Rajasthan’s chief minister Ashok Gehlot has last week announced that the state Government shall bear the cost of vaccination of all those above the age of 18 years. Most other states have made similar announcements. The court has set May 12 as the next date of hearing.In another case, the Rajasthan High Court has issued notices to the Centre and the state government on alleged discrimination in the supply of medical oxygen and lifesaving injections to the state. The court will hear that matter on Friday.A division bench of Chief Justice Inderjit Mohanty and Justice Inderjit Singh, heard the petition filed by Advocate Poonam Chand Bhandari, and asked the Centre and the state to respond. “As compared to the other states, the supply of oxygen support system, liquid oxygen and lifesaving injections such as, Remdesivir for treatment of COVID-19 has been much less in Rajasthan.The requirement of liquid oxygen is 220 metric tonnes per day, however, the allocation by the Central Government is 205 metric tonnes per day. There is a short supply of Remdesivir injections also..,” claimed Bhandari’s petition. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-hc-seeks-reply-from-centre-state-over-covid-19-vaccine-pricing-101619721403388.html
30-04-2021||India||Interpol again refuses Red Notice against Zakir Naik||New Delhi: Interpol has for the third time rejected India’s request for a Red Notice (RN) to provisionally arrest controversial television evangelist Zakir Naik while questioning the very basis of invoking money laundering and hate speech charges against Naik in the country.The fact that he raised money from his religious teachings and spent it is “irrelevant” and cannot amount to money laundering, Interpol’s adjudicating panel noted in its order, which has been reviewed by HT.Dismissing the evidence furnished by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for the provisional arrest of Naik for extradition to India, the commission for the control of Interpol’s files noted that asking for donations during speeches and the recording or diffusion of speeches were not in itself a criminal act that could constitute the component of criminal offence for money laundering.While NIA claimed that Naik and his associates promoted enmity and hatred between different religious groups in India through public speeches and lectures, the Interpol panel highlighted that promoting religion and religious views could not be per se considered as committing a criminal act and there was no close link between the alleged incitement by Naik and any ensuing act of violence. It ordered deletion of data on Naik from Interpol files.Advocate S Hari Haran, representing Naik at various legal fora, confirmed the panel’s order, adding the parties received a copy of Interpol’s decision earlier this week. The order was passed following a deliberation by the Interpol panel between January 25 and 29.A spokesperson for NIA wasn’t available for comment. However, an official at the agency, requesting anonymity, said: “We are yet to receive any communication from Interpol but if that’s the case, we will examine the decision and definitely write back to Interpol and address the gaps in the request. His religious views were inflammatory and have inspired several youngsters to join terrorism. We provided detailed evidence on him and his organisation Islamic Research Foundation (IRF).”RNs are requests issued to Interpol’s 194 member states worldwide to locate and provisionally arrest or detain fugitives wanted either for prosecution or to serve a sentence.Naik is wanted in India for money laundering and hate speech and also for allegedly promoting enmity and hatred between religious communities. He fled India after the terrorists, who attacked a cafe in Bangladesh’s Dhaka and killed 22 people in July 2016, said they were Naik’s admirers. In November 2016, the Indian government banned Naik and his organisation Islamic Research Foundation (IRF) for five years. Naik is currently in Malaysia and has secured a permanent residency there.NIA, through the ministry of home affairs (MHA), made its first request to declare Naik an international fugitive in May 2017 but the Interpol panel turned it down, stating there was no charge sheet filed against him and that the charges were based on “vague” accusations.After this, NIA approached Interpol again following the filing of a charge sheet against Naik and IRF before a special court, Mumbai.In July 2019, the Interpol panel shot down the plea for a RN once again, underscoring that Naik was clearly a religious figure and any such action him could be perceived as taking a stance for or against a religious figure and create implications for its neutrality in view of varying positions taken by national entities.The third request was moved by the Indian government in December 2019, citing a different set of facts and changed circumstances but Naik contended that the fresh request superimposed allegations of money-laundering on the same religious activities of Islamic teaching that were targeted in the previous request.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/interpol-again-refuses-red-notice-against-zakir-naik-101619721199360.html
30-04-2021||India||Covid-19 second wave: Madras High Court raps Centre over preparedness||Chennai The Madras high court on Thursday asked questions of the Centre on preparedness and management of the Covid-19 pandemic, saying that the Union government should have acted in an informed and planned manner rather than taking ad-hoc measures.“Why are we acting only in April now even though we had time for one year?’’ asked the court.The bench comprising chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the observations when the counsel for the central government, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) R Sankaranarayanan, submitted a list of measures taken by the Centre to contain the spread of the second wave.The submissions were made during the hearing of a suo motu case taken by the court to monitor the preparation of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in handling the second wave of the pandemic.“I have not met any respectable doctor who has advised the guard to be dropped over the last few months... even if doctors have not advised, who are the experts the Centre has been consulting? We are in this state of absolute despair despite having lockdowns for most of last year,” the court said in its response to the ASG’s submissions that experts were looking into the surge.The chief justice also raised the issue of the pricing of Covid-19 vaccines and the crash of the server running the CoWIN application. The ASG assured the court that he would submit a detailed report by Friday.Regarding Tamil Nadu, advocate general Vijay Narayan said at the hearing that it may not be necessary to impose a lockdown on May 1 before the election counting day.“It’s a public holiday and also the first day of vaccination for people who are above 18,” he said. The government would, however, close all the meat and fish stalls to avoid crowding, he added.However, there would be a lockdown on counting day, May 2, which falls on a Sunday and the state has already imposed a full lockdown on Sundays. The state submitted that there will be no public gathering outside the counting venue and has directed social distancing, disinfection, ventilation in counting centres, number of counting tables as per the size of the room, thermal scanners, sanitisation, and PPE kits for counting agents.Accepting the submission, the bench appealed to all political parties to not have any mass congregations or celebrations at the time of counting to avoid the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-covid-19-wave-madras-hc-raps-centre-over-preparedness-101619721283424.html
30-04-2021||India||PM held 21 meeting over 2nd wave in April||New Delhi: At least 21 official engagements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in April, most done over the past two weeks, were related to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India and the country’s management of it, underlining the crisis facing the country which is now seeing in excess of 350,000 new cases a day on average. This is the highest number of Covid-19 related reviews and meetings in which the Prime Minister has participated since March 2020, when he announced a strict federal lockdown. That month, the PM had 14 official engagements on Covid. The list of Covid-19 engagements of the PM in April included review meetings with union government officials, conferences with state chief ministers, dialogue with foreign leaders such as the ones he had with US President Joe Biden and Russian President Vladimir Putin this week, and addresses to the nation. The PM has had at least 65 official engagements between March 2020 and April 2021 exclusively on Covid, according to the records in Press Information Bureau—the government’s publicity arm. Government officials claim that in addition, the PM has been talking to experts, political leaders and other stakeholders on the crisis, but that these are not listed as official engagements. Between January and March 2021, when India’s covid curve showed a temporary slump, the PM’s engagements on Covid reduced. This also coincided with the campaigning for the elections in four states and a Union Terriory. the Prime Minister campaigned heavily for his Bharatiya Janata Party , especially in West Bengal where elections were held in eight phases (the last phase was on Thursday). In March this year, the PM had just one Covid-19 engagement—a review meeting with all chief ministers on March 17—apart from taking his first Covid vaccine shot at AIIMS, Delhi. In February too, Modi had just one engagement related to the pandemic: addressing a workshop on “Covid-19 Management: Experience, Good Practices and Way Forward” with 10 Neighbouring Countries in his official programme. The PIB archive shows that in January, Modi had two official engagements: launching India’s vaccination campaign on January 16 and interacting with beneficiaries and vaccinators in Varanasi. After peaking in September, India’s first wave of Covid-19 infections tapered off, reaching a low of 10,988 new cases on average a week on February 11, 2021. The second wave emerged in February, powered likely by variants, the relaxation of Covid guidelines, and mass political and religious gatherings. Cases have soared since. As have hospitalisations. And crucial medical commodities such as oxygen have been found to be in short supply (or at least not available when and where they are needed).  In April alone, again, mostly in the past 10 days, the Prime Minister had five engagements only on oxygen—underlining the gravity of the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-held-21-meeting-over-2nd-wave-in-april-101619721223476.html
30-04-2021||India||India set to get assistance from 40 nations in Covid fight: Govt||New Delhi: India is set to receive support from more than 40 countries, mostly oxygen-related equipment and consignments of critical medicines, to bolster the country’s response to an “unprecedented second wave” of Covid-19 infections, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday. Shringla made the remarks at a news briefing hours after two Russian military aircraft flew in 20 oxygen production plants, ventilators and 200,000 medicine packs, while three special flights from the US were expected to bring in raw materials for Covid-19 vaccines, oxygen generating equipment and oxygen concentrators. The external affairs ministry is working with the health ministry and other agencies to expedite clearances and to ensure the equipment and medicines speedily reach areas where they are needed the most. Indian missions around the world have lists of urgently needed items – liquid oxygen, oxygen producing units and critical medicines such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab – so that they can coordinate with foreign governments and corporations to expedite deliveries. “We are facing an unprecedented second wave of the pandemic. As of now, we have over three million active cases. This has obviously put considerable pressure on our healthcare system, on the capacities and resources that we have,” Shringla told the briefing. More than 40 countries, including major powers such as the US, Russia, France and Germany, have committed to provide much needed items and Indian and foreign corporations are helping with procurements. Indian community associations in many countries too are pitching in to provide relief materials. Shringla said India expects to receive more than 500 oxygen generating plants, more than 4,000 oxygen concentrators, more than 10,000 oxygen cylinders, and 17 cryogenic oxygen tankers. Biopharmaceutical major Gilead Sciences has offered 450,000 doses of the antiviral medication Remdesivir while India expects to get some 300,000 doses of Favipiravir from Russia and the United Arab Emirates, and consignments of Tocilizumab from Germany and Switzerland. Gilead and Roche Pharmaceuticals are helping expedite the supply of raw materials so that domestic production can be ramped up. Indian firms currently produce 67,000 doses of Remdesivir a day, whereas the requirement is 200,000 to 300,000 doses a day. Shringla said these firms expect to boost production to up to 400,000 doses once raw materials are brought in. Shringla was more circumspect on the issue of whether the support from other countries amounted to a shift from India’s policy decision after the 2004 tsunami on not accepting foreign aid. “I don’t think we are looking at it in policy terms, we are looking at it in terms of the situation that is very, very unusual, unprecedented and exceptional and we will do whatever it takes to meet the requirements of our people at this point of time,” he said in response to a question on whether there had been a policy shift. “The current situation is something we have never seen before and may never see again...We have certainly prioritised items that we need, we are sourcing many of these items from many countries, but many countries have come forward on their own to offer assistance,” he added. Many countries are responding to the situation in India because New Delhi played a proactive role in providing essential pharmaceutical products and even vaccines in the earlier phases of the pandemic, Shringla said, adding that US President Joe Biden and others had said they would assist India because it had provided help over the past year. India is open to acquiring vaccines from other countries for its immunisation programme till Indian manufacturers ramp up production. Vaccines should be seen in the context of an inter-dependent world with supply chains of raw materials and finished products, Shringla said. The country’s vaccine programme is based on international cooperation, including with the WHO-backed COVAX facility and Indian firms too have international connections for research and development. “Today, our needs are far greater, and all our partners understand that what we require is a ramping up of our vaccination programme. We have to go up significantly,” he said, adding all the existing capacity will be needed once the vaccination drive becomes universal for everyone above 18 years from May 1. “In that context, if we can source vaccines we will do it, whether it’s from the US, Russia or other countries,” he said. Officer on special duty Dammu Ravi, who played a crucial role in guiding India’s response in the initial stages of the pandemic last year, is again dealing with all Covid-19-related issues along with a group of young officers who are working 24x7. On the issue of accepting support from China, Shringla said: “We know that a number of companies in India are sourcing priority requirements, be they oxygen generators and concentrators, and some of it is being sourced from China. Cargo flights are operating...but I think this is part of meeting requirements in the most effective manner possible.” People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that all international assistance would be exempted from taxes if it was approved by the government and routed to the Indian Red Cross Society. This includes government-to-government assistance and materials donated by corporate and individuals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-set-to-get-assistance-from-40-nations-in-covid-fight-govt-101619721043461.html
30-04-2021||India||Domestic travel bans can increase total number of Covid-19 infections: Research||A new study has concluded that policy makers should resist imposing domestic travel bans if they cannot commit to sufficiently long restrictions. Certain travel bans can not only cause severe hardship to the poor migrant population but also counter-intuitively lead to an increase in Covid-19 cases.This is because release of travel bans of intermediate duration are associated with an increase in the total number of infections in the country as the sink destination—where migrant workers (many of whom are likely to be infected due to the time spent in Covid-19 hot spots before being allowed to travel) return — also record a spike. This was seen in the case of Mumbai last year.The working paper by academics at the University of Chicago published in the Becker Friedman Institute for Economics’ website uses data from travel restrictions imposed in Mumbai during the first wave of Covid-19 last year. A nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 which caused immense suffering among migrant workers as the economy rapidly contracted and unemployment rose, according to the paper. Under intense pressure, the government allowed the first wave of migrants to return to homes outside Maharashtra on May 8 (Phase 1). Migrants returning to districts in the Mumbai Metropolitan Area were allowed to leave on June 5 (Phase 2); migrants departing to all other destinations were able to leave on August 20 (phase 3).Also Read | Around 500,000 left Maharashtra in special trains since April 1The researchers used the susceptible-exposed-infective-recovered (SEIR) model, commonly used to study epidemics, to understand the impact of the travel ban in Mumbai on cumulative infections. The approach uses the evolution of Covid-19 cases in each migrant home district from before a ban release and after the release. “After the bans are relaxed, we find that cases rise somewhat in Phase 1 districts (relatively short ban), substantially in Phase 2 districts (intermediate ban), and negligibly in Phase 3 districts (relatively long ban),” the paper states.“The national lockdown in the first wave trapped millions of migrants inside big cities like Mumbai that were fast-growing coronavirus hot spots. Eventually people were able to leave, but variations in government policy meant that the length of time they were detained depended on where they wanted to go. In the case of rural districts where people could return quicker – using the Shramik Special Trains for example – cases rose modestly at the destination. But for those areas where bans were in effect longer, there was a much more intensive increase in coronavirus, likely because the returning population was now more likely to be infected, having been trapped in the hot spot longer,” explained Anant Sudarshan, South Asia Director of The Energy Policy Institute at the university of Chicago and co-author of the paper.The paper refers to travel bans in China, Indonesia, the Philippines, South Africa, and Kenya. The ending of intermediate length bans in South Africa and India produced substantial excess cases per 1,000 migrants. In the Philippines, which had a slightly longer ban duration, ban release led to increase in cases, but to a lesser extent than India or South Africa. Kenya’s long travel ban also increased rural cases. In China, hot spot cases had fallen more quickly than in other countries, nearing zero at the time of ban release, the paper said.“The evidence indicates that if the duration of a travel ban is not long enough, we may end up imposing hardship on people while perversely seeing more spread of infection. Getting the duration wrong is easy because it is not possible to predict in advance what the optimal length should be, and in a democracy, such restrictions cannot be easily sustained. There may be merit in letting people go home early, and indeed encouraging them to do so, rather than forcing them to stay,” said Fiona Burlig, Assistant Professor at the Harris School of Public Policy at the University of Chicago, one of the co-authors of the study in a statement on Thursday.Some of the Covid-19 restrictions, such as large-scale lockdowns, are also associated with significant economic harm. These costs have been especially pronounced in developing countries, where economic slowdowns associated with Covid-19 policies combined with weak social safety nets were expected to push between 71–100 million people into extreme poverty in 2020, the paper said referring to World Bank estimates."Lockdowns with travel bans within a country are always the last resort. International travel bans are feasible because they are easily applied. Kumbh mela and lockdown are two extremes of a pendulum. Together they don't sound right. Why not consider universal mask wearing? It's the most effective way of slowing down infection transmission. Last year's Covid-19 number graphs show a smooth rise indicating the lockdown had no impact on the numbers. Limited restrictions like cutting down numbers to weddings, funerals other gatherings are more effective," said Lalit Kant, a scientist and former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-travel-bans-can-increase-total-number-of-covid-19-infections-research-101619699323201.html
30-04-2021||India||FB blocks hashtag against PM by ‘mistake’, later restores it||Facebook, late on Wednesday, blocked a hashtag “#ResignModi” for several hours before restoring it, claiming this was done by mistake, even as the Union government issued a statement saying it had not asked for anything to be blocked by Facebook. “We temporarily blocked this hashtag by mistake, not because the Indian government asked us to, and have since restored it,” a Facebook spokesperson said.The ministry of electronics and information technology echoed Facebook, and cited a Wall Street Journal story attributing the removal of a “certain hashtag” to the government of India’s efforts to curb public dissent. It called the story “misleading on facts and mischievous in intent”. In a series of posts on the microblogging site Koo, the ministry said the government has not issued any direction to remove this hashtag. “Facebook has also clarified that it was removed by mistake,” it said. The statement went on to make claims about another story in WSJ published earlier in March. India is in the grip of a surging second wave of Covid-19 infections, which have crossed the 350,000 daily cases mark over the past few days. The death toll has crossed 200,000, and both the Centre and the state governments have been criticised for their mismanagement of a situation that seemed in control even a month ago. The blocking and unblocking of the hashtag came days after the Centre issued orders to take down at least 100 “inflammatory” posts and accounts across Twitter, Facebook and Instagram related to Covid-19, including a verified Facebook page of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.The emergency blocking orders, under Section 69(A) of the Information Technology Act, were issued by the ministry of electronics and information technology on Friday, and came into force on Saturday. Rights activists have accused the government of stifling critical content, while the government argued that the decision was taken to counter Covid related misinformation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-unblocks-resignmodi-says-it-was-blocked-by-mistake-101619677901654.html
