01-03-2022||Chandigarh||Sukhbir, Harsimrat meet Bikram Majithia in Patiala jail||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and his wife and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Tuesday met Bikram Singh Majithia in Patiala jail.Talking to reporters in Patiala, Badal accused Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa of registering a “false” case against Majithia.The Shiromani Akali Dal chief said they have complete faith in the judicial system and the entire party stands behind Majithia.Majithia, who is Harsimrat Kaur’s brother, was sent to judicial custody for two weeks on February 24 after he surrendered before a Mohali court in connection with a drugs case. The court had rejected his bail plea on February 25.The Supreme Court had recently directed the Punjab Police to not arrest the former Punjab minister till February 23 in a drugs case so he can undertake electioneering in the state.A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices A S Bopanna and Hima Kohli had, however, directed Majithia to surrender before a trial court after the Punjab assembly polls on February 20.Majithia was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on December 20 last year.On the students from Punjab who are stranded in Ukraine, Badal urged the Centre to intensify its efforts to bring them back safely from the war-torn country.“The students who are stuck in Ukraine should be evacuated immediately,” he said.When asked how many seats the SAD-BSP alliance will win in the assembly polls, Badal exuded confidence, “We will win 80 seats.”The polling for 117 assembly segments in Punjab was held on February 20 and the counting of votes will take place on March 10.Badal took an exception to the Centre’s recent decision of making changes in the rules for selection of two functionaries of the Bhakra Beas Management Board.“The SAD has always supported the federal structure but slowly the rights of the states are diminishing,” he said.The recent change in the rules for appointment of BBMB’s two members kicked up a row with several political leaders in Punjab strongly opposing the Centre’s move.The BBMB, which is a statutory body under the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966 and manages the water resources of Sutlej and Beas, has a whole-time chairman and two members—member (irrigation) and member (power).According to convention, member (power) is always from Punjab and member (irrigation) is from Haryana and they are selected from a panel of senior engineers. However, now the changes in the rules for selection allow anyone to apply for these posts.  #drugs case #Majithia||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-harsimrat-meet-bikram-majithia-in-patiala-jail-374166
01-03-2022||Chandigarh||People throng temples in Punjab, Haryana on Mahashivratri||Devotees on Tuesday thronged temples across Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to offer prayers on Mahashivratri.People started arriving at the temples from the morning to offer milk and fruits on the occasion, leading to long queues outside the shrines like the century-old Thaneshwar Mahadev temple and the Dukhbanjan Shiva temple in Haryana's Kurukshetra.Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his counterpart in Haryana Manohar Lal Khattar extended their greetings to the people."Warm greetings on the auspicious occasion of #Mahashivratri. May this pious occasion brings you and your family peace, prosperity, good health and happiness," Channi said in a tweet.Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal also greeted people."On the auspicious occasion of Maha Shivratri, I pray for everyone's wellbeing. May Lord Shiva shower his blessings on you and your family. Happy Maha Shivratri," Badal tweeted. #mahashivratri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/people-throng-temples-in-punjab-haryana-on-mahashivratri-374153
01-03-2022||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar: 16-yr-old paralysed, family says it happened 5 days after Covid jab||Jalandhar, February 28From February 13, Asha Devi has approached at least six hospitals in Doaba (at Goraya, Wadala and in the cities of Jalandhar and Phagwara), to get the treatment of her 16-year-old son who is currently unable to move or talk. The poor family is running out of money to organise the treatment of the 16-year-old.A healthy and normal kid until the night of February 12, but the next morning, Mohit, a student of Class X, was left paralysed. While he previously had no ailment, his mother Asha says his health deteriorated five days after he received the Covid vaccine.With all region hospitals failing to take him in, he is currently undergoing treatment at the PGI, Chandigarh. Doctors at the PGI, however, said there is no link between the boy’s health and vaccination. While under treatment, Mohit has been prescribed a vaccine which costs Rs 14,500. The family said they are unable to afford the cost of the vaccine.Hailing from Jalandhar, Mohit’s mother Asha is a domestic help and his father is a granthi. He has two more siblings, a brother and a sister, both younger to him.Asha said, “He got his Covid vaccination from a government dispensary on February 8. He stayed fine for a few days but when I woke him on the morning of February 13, he started crying and asked me to get him up. We tried to make him sit but he couldn’t.”She said, “We took him to hospitals in Goraya, Wadala, at least two hospitals in Phagwara and three in Jalandhar, including PIMS. He was finally admitted to a Jalandhar private hospital for a few days where doctors told us the vaccine seemed a plausible cause for the sudden paralysis. However, at the PGI, doctors have told us there is no link between his health and the vaccine. We don’t know whom to believe. He was a healthy child before this. Right now, neither can he walk or move his body nor feel anything. My husband is a pathi and I work at homes. We have very meager earnings. We need financial help to ensure proper treatment of our son.”Asha’s sister Kaushalya, who is handicapped, has also been helping the family. She said, “We have sold our gold to ensure the boy’s treatment. He has been prescribed four vaccines a day. A single vaccine costs Rs 14,500. While we have an Ayushman Card, the injections he’s getting aren’t covered under it. Only other medicines, ventilator costs etc. are covered. A poor family can’t spend that much money. We are currently without money for tomorrow’s vaccines. We just want his treatment to go smoothly. Doctors say there is hope for recovery, but if misses the injection, it might prove fatal.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/16-yr-old-paralysed-family-says-it-happened-5-days-after-covid-jab-374059
01-03-2022||Fatehgarh Sahib||2 die, 1 injured in road mishap||Two motorcyclists were killed and one sustained injuries in a car-motorbike collision near Kheri Bir Singh village today.The deceased have been identified as Jaswinder Singh and Himmat Singh, residents of Kasumbadi village, while the injured is Jarnail Singh.Jarnail said they were returning from a wedding at Gadanga village when a car coming from the opposite direction hit their motorcycle. The driver of the car managed to escape, he added. The police have registered a case against an unidentified man in this regard. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-die-1-injured-in-road-mishap-373995
01-03-2022||Fazilka||Tech award for Fazilka teacher||Vijay Kumar of Fazilka was conferred with National Information and Communication Technology (ICT) award in New Delhi today. He was among the 49 teachers who were honoured with the award. A certified Microsoft educator, Kumar said, “I was not satisfied with teaching social science in a traditional manner, so I decided to prepare a digital lesson plan for students.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tech-award-for-fazilka-teacher-373947
01-03-2022||Chandigarh||Errors in textbook: Conspiracy to distort facts related to Sikh history, alleges AAP MLA||AAP’s MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said a conspiracy has been hatched to distort the facts related to Sikh history, Gurus, Gurbani and and martyrs. He said Class XII history textbooks feature distorted facts. He sought clarification from CM Charanjit Channi, former CM Capt Amarinder and SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal. — #kultar singh sandhwan #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/conspiracy-to-distort-facts-aap-373945
01-03-2022||Chandigarh||0.4% fatality rate during third wave in Punjab||The mortality rate witnessed in the third Covid wave is much lower as compared to two earlier waves.As per the Health Department, the third wave continued for almost six weeks. It started from December 20 and came to an end in January last week.During the third wave, the state reported 3 lakh cases and 1,200 deaths. Thus, the case fatality rate during the third wave was 0.4 per cent.State’s nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the third wave started after a gap of six months (July to December).As per official figures, around 10,000 people lost their lives. During analysis of data of Birth and Death Division, the Health Department found that there were 40,000 access deaths in the second wave. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/0-4-fatality-rate-during-third-wave-in-punjab-373941
01-03-2022||Bathinda||Resume work under MGNREGA: Workers||The MGNREGA workers today staged a protest over non-fulfilment of their demands in front of BDO block here.Parkash Singh, state leader of the Dehati Mazdoor Sabha, said: “We demand an increase in the wage, quality check of the wheat crop before being sent to ration depots and restoration of removed electricity meters.”He added: Labourers must also be provided the compensation for losing out on work on account of the damage to the cotton crop last year. All promises made to us during the meeting held with the state government on September 23, 2021, must be fulfilled on priority basis.” — #MGNREGA||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/resume-work-under-mgnrega-workers-373939
01-03-2022||Patiala||Akali leaders meet Bikram Singh Majithia in jail||A host of senior Akali leaders today met former minister Bikram Singh Majithia, lodged inside the Central Jail in a drugs case.Former SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur, ex-minister Surjit Singh Rakhra, party spokesperson Daljeet Singh Cheema and senior vice-president Maheshinder Singh Grewal met Majithia inside the jail.Interestingly, local SAD leader Harpal Juneja has pitched a tent right next to the jail premises. “We have put up a ‘pucca morcha’ near the jail and it will continue till our leader is released. The jail authorities are not allowing workers and leaders to meet Majithia. Moreover, the process to apply online to meet inmates is very rigorous,” he claimed.Earlier, the authorities had denied permission to Majithia’s son. Shivraj Singh, Jail Superintendent, said he was not aware of any such request. — #bibi jagir kaur #bikram majithia #daljeet singh cheema||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-leaders-meet-bikram-singh-majithia-in-jail-373936
01-03-2022||Archit Watts||20 from Muktsar stuck, parents claim varsity, MEA ignored warning||Muktsar, February 28The parents of some students stuck in strife-torn Ukraine have accused the Kharkiv National Medical University authorities of failing to take timely action in sending the pupils back home.They also blamed the Indian Embassy officials in Ukraine and the MEA for the chaos. They alleged the situation was worsening with each passing day and the authorities were not doing enough to evacuate Indians. Nearly 20 students from the district are stuck in Kyiv and Kharkiv.Ranjeet Singh, whose daughter is a fourth-year MBBS student at Kharkiv university, said, “A few days before Russian invasion, the university authorities issued an order that the classes won’t be held online. It led us to believe the situation is not that grave. The Indian Embassy officials didn’t take a swift action. Our government missed warning signs.”It was only after local immigration agents approached the university authorities, the latter allowed the students to return. “The airfare had spiked to Rs 70,000 from Rs 25,000. I tried to book a ticket to get my daughter back home, but it was too late,” he said.Anil Pasricha, a trader, whose son is a fifth-year MBBS student, said, “The university charges about $2,400 (Rs 1.8 lakh) per semester and the new session begins in February. Fearing loss of revenue, the authorities didn’t allow students to return.”Stay calm, says MEAThe Indian Embassy in Ukraine has advised its citizens to remain calm and not exhibit aggression at railway stations. “We expect delays in train schedules, even cancellation at times and long queues,” the Embassy said in an advisory. #indians in ukraine #russia ukraine crisis #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/20-from-muktsar-stuck-parents-claim-varsity-mea-ignored-warning-373934
01-03-2022||---||6 accused convicted of Issewal gangrape||Rajneesh LakhanpalLudhiana, Feburary 28The court of Additional Sessions Judge Rashmi Sharma has convicted all six accused in the 2019 gangrape case of a 21-yr-old girl near Issewal village.Those convicted are Sadiq Ali of Mukandpur, Nawanshahar; Jagroop Singh, alias Rupi, of Jaspal Bangar village; Surmu of Khanpur village, Dehlon; Saif Ali of Dehlon; and Ajay, alias Lalan, of Jassad Paddi village, and Liyakat Ali of Ludhiana.The accused were produced in the court this afternoon, following which the court held them guilty. Jagroop Singh, who was out on bail, was taken into custody. The court postponed the matter till March 4 for the quantum of sentence.Special public prosecutor BD Gupta and victim’s counsel Hardyal Inder Singh Grewal said the prosecution examined 44 of the total 54 witnesses.The police had filed a 700-page chargesheet based upon the scientific investigation supported by 54 testimony of witnesses against the accused on April 4, 2019. The chargesheet was submitted in less than 60 days of the incident in the court of Judicial Magistrate Ankit Airi.The police had claimed to have recovered incriminating material from the accused, including a stolen amplifier of the car belonging to a victim’s friend.The victim was gangraped on Feburary 8, 2019, near Issewal village along the Sidhwan canal, 15 km from Ludhiana, after the car she was travelling in with her friend was stopped and she was dragged out.An identification parade of the accused was conducted at the local central jail on February 22, 2019, in which the victim identified all the accused. The charges were framed on May 6, 2019.The incident had triggered outrage and rocked the Punjab Assembly with the Opposition Aam Aadmi Party and Lok Insaaf Party slamming the government. The Chief Minister had to make a statement in the Assembly. Thereafter, vigil around the south city area along the Sidhwan canal was heightened.2019 incident||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-accused-convicted-of-issewal-gangrape-373933
01-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court does away with ‘automatic adjournments’||Chandigarh, February 28Just two days after it was reported in these columns that some cases were not coming up for hearing for years or being adjourned for months together without being taken up, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has done away with the system of “automatic adjournments”.The High Court made it clear that “with effect from March 2, ordinary cases will not be adjourned through National Informatics Centre (NIC) and all cases fixed March 2 onwards will be listed for hearing on the date fixed”.The decision comes less than a month after the High Court decided on adjournment of cases to September and October. The High Court in its order dated January 30 had, in fact, made it clear that the cases already fixed/listed from February 1 to February 28 would be adjourned by the NIC for future dates. The order further made it clear that the adjourned cases would be fixed between September 15 and October 18. Similar orders on automatic adjournment of cases were issued earlier as well by the High Court following the outbreak of pandemic.The High Court had initially shifted to virtual mode of hearing in March 2020. Limited physical hearing was ordered to be resumed from February 8, 2021, but it had to be suspended as the second wave took in its grip the High Court Judges, judicial officers in the subordinate judiciary, advocates, and the staff. The High Court was forced to go back to restrictive functioning from April 19 last year.Following a “massive surge” in cases, the functioning had to be restricted further from April 28, 2021. But all the Benches resumed functioning through the virtual mode from July 28 last year, with reduction in the severity of the second wave.The High Court decided to partially resume physical hearing of cases from September 6, 2021. The number of Benches hearing cases physically increased gradually till the third wave once again pushed the High Court back to virtual hearing. As of now, all the Benches are taking up matters both offline and online.The High Court has a total pendency of 4,50,912 cases against 4,47,890 cases in January first week. The cases include 1,65,472 criminal matters involving life and liberty. As many as 61,683 or 13.68 per cent cases remained pending up to one year; 93,625 or 20.76 per cent between one and three years and 1,04,914 or 23.27 per cent between five and 10 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-does-away-with-automatic-adjournments-373932
01-03-2022||Chandigarh||Verka, Amul hike milk prices by Rs 2 per litre||The Punjab State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation Ltd and the Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) have decided to increase the milk prices of their brands Verka and Amul, respectively, by Rs 2 per litre (Re 1 per 500 ml pouch). The new prices will be effective from Tuesday i.e March 1.The GCMMF has increased the price in all markets across India. This is the second time this fiscal that the price of milk is being hiked.“We have increased the procurement price of milk by Rs 2 per litre as dairy farmers were under stress amid rise in production cost. This price hike is being done due to rising input costs, surge in logistics and overall cost of operations,” said Kamaldeep Singh Sangha, Managing Director, Milkfed. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/verka-amul-hike-milk-prices-by-rs-2-per-litre-373930
01-03-2022||Chandigarh||BBMB Row: Ask Centre to withdraw rules, Punjab Speaker to Governor||Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh today met Governor Banwarilal Purohit, seeking his intervention to prevail upon the Ministry of Power to withdraw the recent notification amending the rules for appointment of the two full-time members of the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) and safeguard the interests and rights of Punjab.In a written representation, the Speaker claimed the amendment took away assured representation of Punjab on the board, which was responsible for water management and power generation in the region.Earlier, as convention they were appointed on deputation from the stakeholder states of Punjab and Haryana, among the four member states of the BBMB that provide funds towards the expenditure of the board and even send staff on deputation.Rana along with local MLA and Congress workers also staged a protest against the new rules at Nangal, where he said if Punjab was deprived of its rights over the BBMB, an agitation like the recent farmer’s stir would be started.However, BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh lambasted Congress and Akali leaders for making “misleading” statements on the BBMB working, claiming there was an attempt by some political leaders to create confusion and instigate public sentiment against the Centre.The SSM today said if the BBMB's Member (Power) was not appointed from Punjab, the government should get ready for protests.Meanwhile, SAD (Sanyukt) president SS Dhindsa on Monday proceeded to New Delhi to take up the issue with the MHA. — #bbmb #FarmersProtest #rana kp singh #tarun chugh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ask-centre-to-withdraw-rules-speaker-to-governor-373929
01-03-2022||PK Jaiswar & Gurbaxpuri||18 months on, Amritsar hooch victims' kin await relief||Amritsar, February 28One and a half years after around 135 people died following consumption of spurious liquor in the Majha region, family members of many victims in Tarn Taran are still awaiting compensation.The then Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, had announced Rs 5 lakh compensation each to kin of the deceased. Many families had lost their bread-earners in the hooch tragedy.All families waiting for relief belong to the Tarn Taran area which reported the maximum casualties (112). They have been making rounds of government offices, but in vain.Family members of Dilbagh Singh, a resident of Pandori Gola village, have been struggling to make their both ends meet since he died. Dilbagh is survived by wife Sharanjit Kaur, and three daughters.Sharanjit Kaur said as she was taking care of her daughters and daily household chores, her mother-in-law, sister-in-law and brother-in-law were working as daily wagers to keep the house running. The family lives in a one-room accommodation in the village.She said they had submitted the documents for the compensation to the local SDM office, but they had not got any relief so far.“Whenever we visit the office to know about the fate of the compensation file, officials don’t give us satisfactory answers,” she rued.Another villager Baldev Singh, who lost his son Heera Singh, said he had submitted autopsy reports and other documents for compensation, but had not got a single penny till now. He said Heera Singh’s wife along with her children was now living with her parents.Similarly, family members of Channa, a resident of Bhullar village, are also awaiting compensation.Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the administration received Rs 5 crore against the demand of Rs 5.60 crore for compensation to victims.The DC said the amount was distributed to victims' kin. “Several families are still to get compensation, while others have received it,” he said, adding that the administration had written to the government seeking release of the pending amount.2 SITs probed casesAfter the tragedy, five FIRs were registered in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Batala. Three FIRs were registered with the Tarn Taran police, and one each in Amritsar and Batala. Then DGP Dinkar Gupta had formed two special investigation teams, headed by DIG Ferozepur Range Hardyal Singh Mann and IG Border Range SPS Parmar, at the time. DIG Mann-led SIT investigated Tarn Taran incidents, while Parmar’s team probed Amritsar and Batala cases.Over 100 persons arrested so farOver 100 suspects were arrested in three police districts. The Tarn Taran police had arrested around 77 persons, while 13 and 14 suspects were arrested by the Amritsar rural and Batala police, respectively. One of the prime suspects, Rashpal Singh, who also heads a religious place in Tarn Taran, is still at large.Charges framed against accusedAccording to police officials, different courts in three police districts had already framed charges against the accused in the hooch tragedy. Now, the courts are recording statements of the witnesses, including doctors and those who lost their vision due to the consumption of spurious liquor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/18-months-on-hooch-victims-kin-await-relief-373926
01-03-2022||Chandigarh||Ensure prompt evacuation, Capt Amarinder Singh urges PM Modi||Former CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday sought personal intervention of PM Narendra Modi to seek return of about 500 students from Punjab stranded in Ukraine.He also asked the Punjab Government to appoint a nodal officer who could coordinate with the Centre and the Ministry of External Affairs for speedy return of students.Appoint nodal officerAlthough the Punjab Government has set up a dedicated phone number, it is yet to appoint a nodal officer for the purpose. Capt Amarinder Singh, former CMHe said families were getting more anxious and worried about their kids as reports from Ukraine showed desperate plight of students stranded in bunkers and Metro stations without food supply in harsh weather conditions.He appreciated the Centre’s efforts in bringing back students safely. “I am confident that our government will bring back every single student with safety.” — #capt amarinder singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-prompt-evacuation-capt-amarinder-singh-urges-pm-modi-373925
01-03-2022||Bathinda||Regulate fee to stop students’ exodus, says medical fraternity||The medical fraternity has lauded AAP CM candidate Bhagwant Mann’s commitment to regulate fee of colleges to make it affordable for a common citizen and deter students from seeking admissions in foreign countries.Even govt colleges out of reachForget pursuing MBBS from private institutions, which charge obnoxiously high fee, even studying in a state-run institution is not possible for many. Dr Vikas Chhabra, Vice-president, IMA-PunjabDr Vitull Gupta, chairman, Association of Physicians of India, Malwa branch, said: “We have been demanding reduction of obnoxiously high fee being charged by medical colleges in the state for long, but to our surprise, the government recently revised and hiked the fee structure, instead of lowering it. The war in Ukraine has exposed how a large number of students are seeking admissions in foreign countries because of the high fee for medical education in India. Mann’s assurance on regulating fee of medical colleges is praiseworthy.”He said the plight of thousands of medical students had exposed the hypocrisy and double standard of the government over the fee structure. The powerful lobby of private medical colleges was forcing the government to further increase the fee, making it out of reach of middle-class families, Dr Gupta claimed.Meanwhile, Dr Vikas Chhabra, vice-president of the IMA-Punjab, said: “The government must lower the fee in state-run colleges before regulating it in private institutions.” — #bhagwant mann #ima #MBBS #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/regulate-fee-to-stop-students-exodus-says-medical-fraternity-373923
01-03-2022||Archit Watts||Friends struggling for survival in Kharkiv: Returnee||Muktsar, February 28A Ukraine returnee Gurkirat Singh, who belongs to neighbouring Udekaran village here, said his friends were scared and crying for evacuation from war-torn Kharkiv but were getting no help.“When I was about to board the evacuation flight for India from Hungary, I spoke to some of my friends stuck in Kharkiv. They were literally crying for help. I am, however, helpless. I appeal to the Centre to make some arrangements for their early evacuation as the situation is quite tense in Kharkiv and Kyiv. Students there are now living in groups and struggling for survival,” said Gurkirat Singh, a fifth-year MBBS student at Uzhhorod National University in Zakarpattia Oblast. The situation in this town located close to the Hungary border is currently normal.He said, “When our buses had to cross over to Hungary from Ukraine, a number of vehicles were stranded there. However, we got special treatment and were allowed to cross over the border out of turn. We are thankful to our government for evacuating us. However, now it seems politics has a role in the evacuation of the Indians from Ukraine as nobody is hurting us at the border. There is no requirement of getting the visa and passports were stamped while exiting Ukraine and entering Hungary.”Gurkirat further said, “Our University authorities were so cooperative. They provided us a safe place to leave our belongings there. Besides, just a day ago they had told us that the classes will be held online. Once the situation normalises, I will definitely go there to complete my degree. Nearly 500 Indian students from my university are still there.”Meanwhile, some families claimed their children told them that the situation had slightly improved in Kyiv and Kharkiv today. “A student from Muktsar district stuck in Kyiv said the authorities there had told them to move to safer places by boarding trains and try reaching close to Poland and other countries. Similarly, those who had taken shelter at the Metro stations in Kharkiv returned to their apartments as the situation was slightly better,” said Ranjeet Singh and Anil Pasricha, parents of two stranded students.Another arrival expected todayAnother youth from Udekaran village, Simarpreet Singh, a third-year MBBS student at the Uzhhorod National University, is also expected to return to India on Tuesday. His father Sukhdev Singh said, “My son just told me that he along with many students was about to board a bus to cross over to Hungary. He is expected to board the flight for Delhi on Tuesday.” #indians in ukraine #russia ukraine crisis #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/friends-struggling-for-survival-in-kharkiv-returnee-373922
01-03-2022||GS Paul||Parents of students stuck in Ukraine slam Indian Govt for 'lax approach'||Amritsar, February 28Amid the mounting tension, distressed parents, whose children are stranded mainly in Kharkiv and Kyiv, today criticised the Indian Government for its “lackadaisical approach” in evacuating students from Ukraine.Amid confusion prevailing over contradictory advisories issued to students, some parents have gone to New Delhi to lodge their protest with the Ministry of External Affairs.They also sought intervention of local MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla. The MP said the government’s move to send its ministers to Ukraine’s neighbouring countries appeared to be just an eyewash. “Students stuck in Kharkiv and Kviv are 1,500 km away from Poland or Romania borders. Why is the Indian Government hesitating to convince the Russian authorities to help evacuate the stranded students from Belarus, located just 50-60 km away? We will stage a dharna in New Delhi on the issue.”Lalit Shanghari, whose daughter is studying at Kharkiv National Medical University, said the students who had returned were already in the safe western zone of Ukraine. “The real problem lies in Kharkiv and Kyiv, which are thousands of km away from the safe zone. Along with thousands of her classmates, she has taken shelter in an underground Metro station. They are short of food and even water. India boasts of having cordial diplomatic ties with Russia, what is the use of it if we can’t ensure safe evacuation of our children,” he asked.Seema, whose son Saksham Sharma had gone last month for a medicine course in a university, said the diplomatic ties between India and Russia had drastically failed. “The Poland border is 16 hours away from the place where my son has taken shelter. How can the Indian Embassy ask the students to reach the railway station on their own for journey to the western side amid heavy shelling?” #indians in ukraine #russia ukraine crisis #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parents-slam-govt-for-lax-approach-373921
01-03-2022||Jalandhar||Ukraine: ‘No help’ for those on eastern side||With students from western Ukraine make a beeline for the border amid fresh advisories by the Indian Government, those stranded in bunkers at Kharkiv, in the northeastern part of the country, are on the edge amid intensified shelling.Arrange transportFocus is on relatively peaceful western part. Someone needs to arrange transport for students stuck in the east witnessing intense fighting. Pardeep Aggarwal, Navi’s fatherAs a large number of students from Punjab remain stuck in the town amid dwindling food and other essential supplies, worried parents are making frantic calls to the Indian Embassy and NGOs there. Videos of Indians being assaulted or denied access to trains are adding to the fears of students over whether to venture out or not.Parents back home are having a hard time convincing daughters to stay put in bunkers. Pardeep Aggarwal’s daughter Navi, niece Saphia and friend’s daughter Ridhi Aggarwal are stranded in bunkers at Kharkiv. “Intense shelling is going on. They are surviving on meagre food. There are videos of Indians being prevented from boarding trains. My daughter wants to take a train but I’m having a hard time convincing her not to step out,” Pardeep said. — #indians in ukraine #russia ukraine crisis #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-help-for-those-on-eastern-side-373920
01-03-2022||Aparna Banerji||Indian students hopping trains, from one border to another in Ukraine||Jalandhar, February 28Uncertainty looms for a majority of students looking to board a train from their respective destinations in Ukraine to the border in the hope of exiting the war-torn country.Failing to get a response from the Indian Embassy in Kyiv, students stranded at a nearby school today boarded a train for Kovel in northwest Ukraine in an attempt to cross over to Poland. They had yesterday failed to board a train to Lviv, another border city.Parents said they were sustaining on a “pouch of rice” a day. The biggest problem they faced was Ukrainians being given preference to Indians while boarding trains, forcing students to wait for long periods. At least 3,000 students spent a sleepless night at the Romanian and Polish borders. With Ukrainians having a separate queue, only 200 to 250 students were getting through to the other side daily. Crossing over largely depends on whether students have agents from universities or embassy officials to assist. Amid the mayhem, a Kapurthala student was successful in reaching Romania today.Mehak Baweja, sister of student Shivam Baweja who boarded the train to Kovel, said: “Students walked to the Kyiv station in batches of 18 to 20 this morning. There was a huge rush for the train to Lviv and Ukrainians were given first preference. They took the only other option — train to Kovel. We made frantic calls to the embassy but to no avail. My brother is currently on his way to the Kovel border.”Akarsh Dhingra, a management student at Poltava, has walked 80 km, spent sleepless nights and travelled back and forth from various borders. He also waited the entire night at the Lviv station and finally boarded a train to the Slovakian border this morning.With no pass available for Indian students to cross over, he returned to Lviv. He has now boarded another train to the Shehyni border, from where he has already returned twice.Brother Saksham said: “Students don’t know from where they will finally get the passage. It’s a never-ending spiral. But he will keep trying. It is too cold and they are surviving on biscuits.”Silver lining: Kapurthala lad makes itKapurthala lad Ramanpreet Singh (22), a student of National Pirogov Memorial Medical University, Vinnytsya, crossed over to Romania after a night’s wait. His father Jagbir Singh said an agent from the university brought first and third-year students in a bus to the border and helped them cross over. “Until Saturday, Ramanpreet was in a hostel bunker,” he added. #indians in ukraine #russia ukraine crisis #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hopping-trains-from-one-border-to-another-373919
01-03-2022||Avneet Kaur||Ukraine crisis: No food, water or safe passage for Indians, rue pupils||Jalandhar, February 28On Saturday, a group of 100 students stuck at the Vinnytsia National Medical University hired a bus with the help of Indian immigration consultants and local contractors to travel to the Romania border with the hope that they’ll soon return home. But little did they know that the problems at the border were worse than they imagined.Help appealThe Indian Govt must intervene and speed up evacuation as the Ukrainian military isn’t cooperating with us. Even, the border authorities aren’t treating us well. Ravinder Singh, stranded student“The Indian Embassy advisories say students must reach nearby borders as all arrangements were put in place for evacuation but in reality, the situation is worse than at the Metro stations and bunkers,” said Sumit Nagrath, anMBBS student at Vinnytsia National Medical University, who hails from Jalandhar.Over WhatsApp call with The Tribune, Sumit said there were around 50 students from Punjab among 1,500 Indians stranded at the Romania border since the past three or four days amid freezing cold, but no one from our embassy is there to help them with the evacuation process. “We are making all efforts to contact them, but in vain as they are not responding to our calls or messages,” he added.Sumit said Ukrainian people and students from other countries were given a free passage to cross the border, but they were asked to wait.“We have been out in the biting cold for the past two nights. We are running out of food and water but no one is helping us. Where should we go?” said another student Ravinder Singh of Jalandhar, pursuing MBBS in Vinnytsia, Ukraine. He said the situation at the borders was turning from bad to worse; we are lying on roads and burning trash to light a bonfire to save ourselves from the nail-biting cold.Like Sumit and Ravinder, the other students who hail from Kapurthala, Shahkot and Nawanshahr also narrated a similar ordeal and said there’s no arrangement of food, water or even a tent by the Indian Embassy at the Romania and Poland borders.Sarabjit Kaur, another stranded student from Nawanshahr, said she along with her four friends from UP and Gujarat made it to the Poland border on Sunday. However, once they arrived there, they found themselves among thousands whowere stranded. “We are not getting any help or information. The embassy is not picking up calls. We request the Indian Government to please intervene and get us out of here,” she added. #indians in ukraine #russia ukraine crisis #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-food-water-or-safe-passage-for-indians-rue-pupils-373918
01-03-2022||Anirudh Gupta||Post UN vote, forced to hide our identity: Indian students in Ukraine||Ferozepur, February 28Hundreds of Indian students studying at various universities in Kyiv, who are stranded in absence of any mode of transportation to evacuate them out of the capital city, are now bearing the brunt of the country’s move to abstain on UN Security Council resolution condemning Russia’s aggression against Ukraine.Talking to The Tribune today, Jyoti Rani, whose 17-year-old daughter Saumya is stranded in Kyiv, said: “My daughter was hassled. Indian students are not showing their passport and are forced to hide their identity while seeking help from locals as they are apparently peeved over the country’s UNSC stance.”Last night, Saumya told me that they were starting their journey on foot and were trying to head towards the Hungary border, her father Nitin Kumar said, adding that the Metro trains were running to full capacity and most of the bridges had been damaged to prevent the Russina invasion inside the capital city.“Not just the Ukrainian army, even civilians are destroying the belongings, including passports, of the Indian students,” he added.Studying MBBS (first year) at the Kyiv Medical University, Saumya, however, said there were around 10,000 students of different nationalities, including Indians, who were still stuck in Kyiv.As per information, some students were even harassed at the Poland border by Ukrainian guards. Some videos are being circulated showing a guard kicking a man at the border though the nationality of that person is unclear, but resentment against Indians and other countries, which did not support Ukraine was visible in the local populace, claim sources. #indians in ukraine #russia ukraine crisis #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-un-vote-forced-to-hide-our-identity-373917
01-03-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Indian students stranded in Ukraine face 'racial abuse'||Bathinda, February 28Indian students stuck in Ukraine are allegedly facing racial abuse from Ukrainian security personnel.Also read: Post UN vote, forced to hide our identity: Indian students in UkraineTalking to The Tribune over phone, Meenu Kaur of Ralla village in Mansa, who is stuck in Kharkiv, said, “The situation is grim as around 700 Indian students are stuck in hostel basements and the Indian Embassy is not at all providing any help. When we contact them, they just ask us to reach borders via train or buses. Some students tried to go, but they were manhandled and were not allowed to board the train.”She said, “We have very little food and water with us. Moreover, we keep on hearing sounds of bombs and gun shots at regular intervals.”Meenu said, “In basements bunkers, we don’t have heaters, whereas the temperature here is sub-zero, so people are falling ill.”Videos shared by Meenu showed Indian students being kicked, beaten up, dragged by Ukrainian security personnel and some even had their phones snatched from them.In another video, Garima Mishra of Lucknow, who is also stuck in Ukraine, has made serious allegations that Indian girls were being taken away by Russian forces and the whereabouts of the boys who were going in a taxi towards the border were not known. This video is going viral on the social media. It has also been shared by Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi.Pleading helplessness, she said, “We have been calling the Indian Embassy for help, but no one is responding.”PROTESTS IN MANSA, SANGRURMansa/Sangrur: Kin of the students stuck in Ukraine staged a protest in Mansa on Monday, demanding safe and early evacuation of their kids. Various social outfits also protested in Sangrur. “All countries should take effective steps to end the war at the earliest,” said members of the Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee, Punjab Students’ Union, Naujwan Bharat Sabha and Kirti Kisan Union in a joint statement. TNS #indians in ukraine #russia ukraine crisis #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ukraine-crisis-stranded-students-face-racial-abuse-373916
