02-03-2022||---||Congress MPs meet MoS Meenakshi Lekhi, demand safe return of Punjabi students from Ukraine||New Delhi, March 2Congress Lok Sabha MPs from Punjab Ravneet Bittu, Amar Singh, Manish Tewari, Gurjeet Aujla, Santokh Chaudhary and Jasbir Dimpa on Wednesday met Minister of State for external affairs Meenakshi Lekhi and presented lists of Punjabi students from their constituencies who are stuck in Ukraine.The MPs demanded the Government to arrange the safe return of students at the earliest.The MPs stressed how the unfortunate death of an Indian student from Karnataka and Barnala had greatly stressed parents and that with the on the ground situation was becoming worse day by day.It is imperative that all possible steps be taken to bring back the stranded Indian students at the earliest, they said.The MPs noted that they offered all possible support and stressed that the Punjab Government was ready to provide any support that the Government of India may need in bringing back Punjabi students safely to India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mps-meet-mos-meenakshi-lekhi-demand-safe-return-of-punjabi-students-from-ukraine-374508
02-03-2022||Karam Prakash||Punjab shows ‘generosity’, allows three meetings in 3 days for Bikram Majithia in jail||Patiala, March 2Showing “generosity” towards Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who is lodged in Patiala Central jail, the Punjab government has allowed excess meetings in a week. So far, 12 SAD leaders have met Majithia in four meetings over the past six days.As per rules, an undertrial is allowed to meet a family member twice a week while a convict is allowed only once a week. The local Jail authorities have passed the buck to the higher-ups for the permission.Majithia, who is former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur’s brother, was sent to judicial custody for two weeks on February 24 after he surrendered before a Mohali court in connection with a drugs case. The court had rejected his bail plea on February 25.The Supreme Court had recently directed the Punjab Police to not arrest the former minister till February 23 in a drugs case so he can undertake electioneering in the state.SAD MLA Harinder Pal Chandumajra and former Member of Parliament Prem Singh Chandumajra on Wednesday met Bikram Singh Majithia. Batala SAD MLA Lakhbir Singh also met Majithia.SAD president Sukhbir Badal and Harsimrat Kaur Badal had met Majithia on Tuesday on his birthday. Meanwhile, former SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur, ex-minister Surjit Singh Rakhra, party spokesperson Daljeet Singh Cheema and senior vice-president Maheshinder Singh Grewal met Majithia on February 28.The Patiala Central Jail Superintendent, Shivraj Singh, said an undertrial was allowed to meet family member or anyone else – twice a week. He said, “The rule allows under trial to have two meetings. However, discretion to allow excess meetings is with jail superintendent only.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-shows-generosity-allows-three-meetings-in-3-days-for-bikram-majithia-in-jail-374504
02-03-2022||---||File status reports on disposal of seized drugs: High Court to Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh||Chandigarh, March 1The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the states of Punjab and Haryana, along with the Union Territory of Chandigarh, to file status reports on the disposal of case properties in drug matters under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.The direction came after Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Sandeep Moudgil issued notice to Haryana Advocate-General and UT Senior Standing Counsel for May third week. The case revolves around the disposal of contraband in a timely manner as per the directions already issued by the Supreme Court/ Government of India.Taking up a petition filed against the state of Punjab and other respondents by Jatinder Kumar, the Bench observed the case dealt with “the aspect of disposal of narcotic drugs which have been confiscated or have been recovered from the accused for which cases are pending or have been disposed of”.Enlarging the scope of the matter, the Bench, assisted in the matter by amicus curiae or the friend of the court Ishan Gupta, added the issue was related not just to the state of Punjab, but the state of Haryana and UT Chandigarh as well.In its judgment on storage of seized narcotics, the apex court had ordered destruction to prevent recirculation. The court had, in fact, issued guidelines on the disposal of narcotic drugs, psychotropic and controlled substances.The apex court Bench, comprising then Chief Justice TS Thakur and Justice Kurian Joseph, had issued directions to “avoid any confusion arising out of the continued presence of two notifications on the same subject”.The apex court had also requested the Chief Justices of the High Courts across the country to appoint a committee of judges on the administrative side to supervise and monitor progress made by the respective states in regard to compliance of the directions.The High Court had, subsequently, constituted a committee to oversee action taken on prompt disposal of contraband recovered by the police in view of the apex court guidelines. The counsels for the states of Punjab and Haryana, along with the Union Territory of Chandigarh, also undertook to comply with the Supreme Court directions “in letter and spirit”.The Bench was also told during the course of hearing that half-yearly status report would be submitted in the High Court Registry.Apex court had ordered destructionIn its judgment on storage of seized narcotics, the apex court had ordered destruction to prevent recirculation. The court had, in fact, issued guidelines on the disposal of narcotic drugs, psychotropic and controlled substances. #drug menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/file-status-reports-on-disposal-of-seized-drugs-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-states-374279
02-03-2022||Ferozepur||Youth shot in Zira||Sex racket busted, 14 heldMoga: The police have busted a sex racket being run from a hotel on the outskirts of Moga city. Cops arrested 14 persons, including six women. The kingpin has been identified as Bhupinder Singh of Dharamkot. TNSRs7-cr heroin recoveredFerozepur: The Crime Investigation Agency on Tuesday recovered 1.57-kg heroin worth Rs7.87 crore. The accused has been identified as Ravinder Singh (23). Two of his accomplices, Shiva and Anmol, were on the run. OCBank official assaultedAbohar: Ashu Pratap Mehta, an official of the Punjab National Bank, was allegedly assaulted by some persons at Bhangala village. The injured bank official was admitted to the government hospital. A case has been registered. OCEcoSikh on plantation driveChandigarh: At least 400 Guru Nanak Sacred Forests have been planted in the state and other parts of the nation by EcoSikh, a Washington-based environmental organisation, and its India Chapter EcoSikh Charitable Society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-shot-in-zira-374272
02-03-2022||Chandigarh||Expedite evacuation efforts: Parminder Singh Dhindsa||#parminder singh dhindsa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/expedite-evacuation-efforts-former-fm-374270
02-03-2022||Aparna Banerji||Many Indian students take train out of Ukraine's Kharkiv, made to give up seats for locals||Jalandhar, March 1Fourth-year medical student Naveen Shekarappa, who was killed during shelling today, was a batch-mate of Jalandhar-based Jasmine Pruthi (22), who was on her way to the Kharkiv railway station in a last-ditch effort to escape the war-ravaged city when the incident occurred.Also read: Narrow escape for 10 Punjab students in Ukraine's KharkivFor the past several days, parents of around 4,000 Indian students stuck in Kharkiv have been warning of escalating fighting and lack of focus on students stuck in the eastern part of Ukraine.While some students risked their lives and boarded a train out of Kharkiv to Lviv this morning, thousands of students stayed put in bunkers amid sounds of shelling and supplies running short.Those who have managed to board trains out of the city have alleged preferential treatment to Ukrainians. Monica, mother of Jasmine, said: “Naveen was my daughter’s course-mate. She was inconsolable when she called us up to break the news this morning. They were walking to the station when the incident happened. They took a huge risk amidst shelling. After walking for 5 km, they got a cab. Jasmine is now aboard a train to the Polish border. They are all scared. At the station, they were earlier not allowed in with locals being given the preference. In the commotion, Jasmine’s bag got left behind.”Pardeep Aggarwal, whose daughter Navi and nieces Saphia and Ridhi also took a train to Lviv, said: “Amidst blasts, a batch of 70 to 80 students, including our daughters, went to the Kharkiv station and waited for hours before they were allowed on a train. They had to leave seats and sit on the floor to accommodate Ukrainians. They were first asked to get off, but as they were there first, the students were allowed to travel. Since then, I haven’t talked to my daughter.”There is deep scepticism and angst among parents whose kids are stranded in the country’s second largest city. Monika Batra, whose daughter Rashmi, a first-year medical student, is stuck in a bunker at Kharkiv, said: “We urge PM Modi to get our kids out of the warzone. We just want our children safe back home.”Kapurthala resident Sham Singh, father of first-year medical student Gurpreet Singh (19) who is stranded in a bunker, said: “All we can do is pray. Thousands of Indian students are stranded in Kharkiv as bombing intensifies. Food will run out in a day or two. Now they can’t think of stepping out. There is intense bombing kilometres away. Despite pressure from the university to attend classes, I had booked my son’s air ticket for February 26. But the students were made to stay back.” #indians in ukraine #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/many-take-train-out-of-kharkiv-made-to-give-up-seats-for-locals-374220
02-03-2022||Chandigarh||Ukraine crisis: Come up with escape route, Bhagwant Mann tells Centre||#bhagwant mann #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/come-up-with-escape-route-mann-to-centre-374265
02-03-2022||Ferozepur||Ferozepur ASI arrested for implicating youth in drug case||The police have booked five persons for falsely implicating a youngster in a drug case. The accused have been identified as ASI Hardev Singh, constable Yogesh Kumar and Sunil Gill, besides wife and daughter of the ASI. The ASI allegedly placed intoxicating pills in victim Harjinder Singh’ vehicle to settle a score. Sources said Hardev, Yogesh and Sunil have been arrested, the women are on the run. — #drug menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asi-arrested-for-implicating-youth-374263
02-03-2022||Sameer Singh||PRTC nets Rs 50 crore monthly revenue||Bathinda, March 1Addition of new buses to its existing fleet coupled with reformed timetables have led to a substantial increase in revenue for Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC).The PRTC has added 147 new buses at its nine depots in the last three months in a phased manner.As per information, the PRTC has been generating a daily revenue between Rs 1.50 crore and Rs 2 crore as compared to Rs 1.20 crore earlier. On an average, the PRTC’s revenue receipts has notched up to Rs 50 crore.A senior official on condition of anonymity said change of guard in the state government last year and introduction of “slew of measures” in the Transport Department has started to show results.The official said,“Increase in revenue cannot solely be attributed to addition of new buses. The Transport Department cracked whip on private bus operators evading taxes, cancellation of permits of buses plying illegally, introduction of new timetablea and granting of permits to the PRTC buses. New timetables also ended monopoly of private bus operators having political influence.” The PRTC would add 31 more buses which would most likely to hit roads after the third week of March.Parneet Shergill, Managing Director, PRTC, said, “Apart from introduction of new buses, there are multiple factors that have contributed to it.” Shergill expressed concern over increasing fuel prices. #prtc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prtc-nets-50-crore-monthly-revenue-374262
02-03-2022||Sangrur||Sangrur: Pvt schools not sharing syllabus, allege booksellers||The alleged delay in sharing syllabus by managements of private schools with booksellers before the start of new academic session, is likely to cost dearer to parents.Looking into the matter: DEOWe are looking into the matter. Private schools have been directed to share the syllabus with booksellers. Kultaranjit Singh Singh, District education officerBookstore owners alleged that school authorities want to sell textbooks themselves to students at higher rates. Irate booksellers have written to Sangrur Deputy Commissioner and the District Education Officer (Secondary) in this regard.Ashwani Jindal , chief, Sangrur Booksellers and Stationers Association, said, “We need time for publication of textbooks as per their syllabus. Managements of many private schools have not shared their syllabus with us so far as they want to sell textbooks themselves at higher rates. In 2019, the Education Department had directed private school managements not to compel students to purchase textbooks from them or any particular seller.”Many parents fear that they might be compelled to purchase textbooks from schools or any particular bookseller at higher rates.Gurmeet Singh, a resident, said, “Covid has led to financial crisis. Many parents have shifted their children from private schools to the government institutes. The state government should take stern action against those schools which are trying to rob students.”Another resident, Jasvir Singh, demanded that the government should act quickly to stop harassment of parents and students.Sanjay Gupta, vice-president, Federation of Private Schools and Association, said, “Schools have reopned after a long gap due to the pandemic. This has led to many delays. We are not doing it deliberately. Schools have started to upload their syllabus.”District Education Officer Kultaranjit Singh Singh said private schools have been directed to share syllabus with booksellers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pvt-schools-not-sharing-syllabus-allege-booksellers-374260
02-03-2022||Muktsar||Left to fend for ourselves, rue Muktsar Congress candidates||In Badals’ home district of Muktsar, Congress candidates are unhappy with the party leadership. Reason: No senior leader or star campaigner of the party visited the district to garner votes for the February 20 Assembly elections. The results are slated to be declared on March 10.Approached by noneNone of the candidates approached me to call a state or national-level leader for their election campaign. Harcharan Singh Sotha Brar, Dist Congress committee chiefA Congress candidate and a family member of another told The Tribune even though the party had given them the ticket, they were left to fend for themselves. “I just got 1,500 party flags in terms of support. Let alone the top leadership, not even the district unit president came for my campaign. A Cabinet minister, who belongs to the district, came just once and that too during the opening of my election office,” said a Congress candidate.Similarly, a family member of a Congress candidate said: “We fought the election almost like an Independent. On the other hand, our rival candidates got support from senior leaders of their parties in their campaign.”The district has four Assembly constituencies — Muktsar, Malout, Gidderbaha and Lambi. In 2017, the Congress had won Gidderbaha and Malout. However, some poll observers say the party winning even a single seat in the district this time will be no less than an achievement. The Congress had fielded Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring from Gidderbaha, Bathinda Rural MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby from Malout, Karan Kaur Brar from Muktsar and Jagpal Singh Abulkhurana from Lambi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/left-to-fend-for-ourselves-rue-muktsar-congress-candidates-374258
02-03-2022||Chandigarh||Asif Jalal new BSF IG (Punjab Frontier)||Asif Jalal has been appointed as Inspector General (IG) of the Border Security Force’s “Punjab Frontier” that is responsible for guarding the International Border with Pakistan.He takes over from Sonali Mishra, who was the first-woman officer to head this frontier.Jalal was on on deputation in the Central Bureau of Investigation at New Delhi.He has also served as IG (Shimla Range) and IG (Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau) where he was associated with the launch of Emergency Response Support System, Gudiya Helpline for women’s safety and Shakti button. — #BSF||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalal-new-bsf-ig-pb-frontier-374255
02-03-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Despite notice, govt to go ahead with desiltation||Chandigarh, March 1Despite the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority’s (SEIAA) notice, the Punjab Government will go ahead with the removal of the mining material from the rivers and rivulets as a part of desiltation.Erring contractors to face actionWe’ll continue with the desiltation work as huge deposits, which can meet the state’s demands for years, are available. If any contractor hired for desiltation is found digging the riverbed, he will face action. Senior govt officerLast week, the SEIAA had asked the state government to stop the work, saying the mining of sand and gravel was being done under the garb of desiltation. The State Environment Impact Assessment Authority’s (SEIAA) has objected to the desiltation work, saying that forthe past two years, those given the contracts weren’t lifting the extra silt from the beds, but extracting sand and gravel by digging, that too, without getting the mandatory green clearances.Official sources in the state government have told The Tribune that the process of desiltation, which led to the extraction of sand from the riverbeds, would continue as it was in accordance with the law and Punjab’s policy.“After getting the approval from the Council of Ministers, the process to desilt the riverbeds was allotted to contractors by the government in 2020,” said a senior official in the mining wing of the Water Resources Department, while requesting anonymity.After having received the notice from the SEIAA last week, the government is sending its reply, saying that the desiltation was necessitated after a lot of silt had accumulated in the riverbeds, post the 2019 floods.In its mining policy of 2018, the Congress government had decided to allot mining contracts in seven blocks for 196 sand and gravel quarries. The onus of getting the environment clearance was on the contractors.Inquiries made by The Tribune reveal that to date, the environmental clearance for only 70-odd quarries has been received, as the process to get the nod after a public hearing has become cumbersome. “One of the other reasons for allowing desilting work was to ensure that enough supply of sand was maintained so as to keep the prices of these minor minerals in check. There may be violations in lifting the sand from the surface as part of removing silt. However, the responsibility to ensure that the contractors lifted only the deposits from the surface and not dig and extract sand was of the district administration, police and district mining officers,” said a senior government officer.He said though three cases, seeking stopping of desilting work, had also been filed in the courts, no stay had been granted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-notice-govt-to-go-ahead-with-desiltation-374254
02-03-2022||---||Nangal scandal: Victims hesitant, but proof enough, claims SSP||Ropar, March 1The two accused in the schoolchildren sexual assault case have again been remanded in one-day police custody. The police, after arresting school principal Amritpal Dhiman of Nangran village and his friend Shiv Kumar last week, had sought further remand to complete its investigationWhile Dhiman, who was arrested on February 25, allegedly shot the obscene clips with students, his interrogation revealed that Shiv, arrested by the police on Saturday, had leaked the clips to others after he allegedly tried to blackmail the former.An FIR was filed on the complaint of Ashwani Kumar, who is a resident of Daghor village.None of the victims has so far come forward to record their statement in the case.According to sources, the videos leaked by Shiv were filmed a decade ago, around 2010. At least one of the victims was now married and had kids. Sources confirmed families of some of the victims had approached senior police officials not to reveal their identities or visit their residences due to social stigma attached and risk to their lives.Under such circumstances, it is a challenge for the police to record their statements, which could weaken the case against the accused.Ropar Senior Superintendent of Police Vivek Sheel Soni, however, claimed the police had enough material evidence to bring the accused to justice. “We have sufficient forensic evidence to prove in court that Dhiman had sexually exploited minor students of his school and Shiv leaked the videos,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nangal-scandal-victims-hesitant-but-proof-enough-ssp-374252
02-03-2022||---||Religious body vows help on Modi's call||Raj SadoshAbohar, March 1The Bochasanwasi Akshar Purushottam Swaminarayan (BAPS), a religious organisation, has expressed keenness to make arrangements for food and accommodation for Indians arriving at the Ukraine-Poland border.PM Narendra Modi had sought help from the BAPS for stranded students. The BAPS has mobilised volunteers in European countries to provide food, shelter and other relief material to students.The PM had called up Swami Brahmavihari, BAPS spokesperson, and urged him to provide assistance to students on the Poland, Romania and Hungary borders. The PM also sought help from some other NGOs.Meanwhile, Swami Brahmavihari said PM Modi called him up on Sunday, expressing anguish at the plight of Indian students in Ukraine. “We have contacted and mobilised a large number of volunteers there to help our students. We are doing all we can to help our people.” #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/religious-body-vows-help-on-modis-call-374251
02-03-2022||Vijay C Roy||Caught in Russia-Ukraine crossfire, Punjab exporters peg losses at Rs 1,000 crore||Chandigarh, March 1The exporters’ community of Punjab finds itself caught in the Russia-Ukraine crossfire. Amid uncertainty, the community apprehends deferral of payments for exports as various consignments to these two countries are either on hold or stuck at ports.Payments stuckState manufacturers export plastic, rubber, garments, hosiery, fertilisers, agriculture implements, scaffolding and hand tools to Russia and Ukraine. The major export centres are Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar. Exporters say their payments for shipments that were dispatched or are in transit are stuck.Besides, the decision by the US and its allies to exclude selected Russian banks from the global financial system SWIFT and sudden withdrawal of export credit guarantees for exports to Russia by Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India (ECGC) is likely to compound the losses, they said. All these factors combined will have a cascading impact on the state’s industry with an estimated loss of over Rs 1,000 crore, said exporters.For them, what’s most disconcerting is the lack of clarity on how long this conflict will last. Exporters said their payments for the shipments that had been dispatched or were in transit were stuck. With sanctions in place, many buyers are offering payment through a third country, which is not permitted currently.“Amid this crisis, some importers of Indian goods in Russia have offered payments through third countries like Turkey, UAE, Hong Kong etc as the US and its allies have decided to exclude selected Russian banks from the global financial system SWIFT. So, a request was made to the Centre to permit third-party payments or payments in any other foreign currency by relaxing the current guidelines. The buyer will provide the proof of his relationship with the remitter so as to adhere to the KYC requirements,” said SC Ralhan, president, Ludhiana Hand Tools Association.Many buyers have also expressed their inability to make payments in any foreign currency or from a third party or a country and they have shown their willingness to make payment in Rouble. “In this regard, we have requested the government to examine the possibility of such payments in Rouble and also allow all export benefits to payments received in Rouble as available for exports in free foreign exchange,” he added.Harish Dua, MD, KG Exports, said, “Not only the consignments bound to these countries have been impacted, but also those destined for countries such as France have been hit as importers have told exporters to put these on hold. Nearly 50 containers of garments are stranded at the Tuglakabad depot alone in New Delhi,” he added.All Industries & Trade Forum national president Badish Jindal is of the view that the government should immediately announce compensation for exporters and importers of India. #russia ukraine war||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/caught-in-crossfire-exporters-peg-losses-at-1-000-crore-374250
02-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Jassi murder case: HC grants bail to uncle||Chandigarh, March 1It was about 9.30 pm on June 8, 2000. Sukhwinder Singh and his Indo-Canadian wife Jaswinder Kaur, aka Jassi, were coming on a scooter when a car accosted them near a bridge. Four armed persons attacked the two after alighting from the vehicle. Jaswinder Kaur became the alleged victim of “honour killing”, while Sukhwinder Singh was hospitalised. Among others, allegations were levelled against Jassi’s mother and maternal uncle.Was extradited in 2019Two decades and several flicks later, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has granted bail to Jassi’s maternal uncle Surjeet Singh. The order by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan came after the petitioner-uncle had undergone “long custody” of over three years in India and about seven years in Canada.The foreign media has already covered the issue of “honour killing” with focus on Jassi’s case. After being the subject of no less than three documentary flicks, film “Murder Unveiled” was also directed on the incident.The uncle had moved the HC seeking regular bail in the FIR registered on June 9, 2000, for murder, abduction and other offences under Sections 302, 307, 364, 148, 149 and 120-B of the IPC and the provisions of the Arms Act in Sangrur.The complainant-husband, Sukhwinder Singh, had claimed that he entered into love marriage with Jassi on April 15, 1999, against her parents’ wishes. Residents of Canada, they had come to India on a vacation. He alleged that the mother, perturbed over the solemnisation of marriage, hatched a conspiracy to eliminate the couple and paid Rs 5,00,000 to the contract killers.His counsel PS Brar contended that the petitioner was aged about 75. He was extradited on January 22, 2019, though he was arrested on January 9, 2012, by the Canadian authorities. Brar also relied upon the order dated December 16, 2020, vide which his sister/co-accused and the victim’s mother Malkiat Kaur Sidhu was granted the concession of regular bail by the HC.After hearing the counsel for the parties, Justice Sangwan asserted: “Considering the submissions and the fact that the petitioner is an elderly person; he is in long custody of three years and 21 days in India and about seven years in Canada and is not involved in any other case, this petition is allowed and the petitioner is directed to be released on regular bail, subject to furnishing his bail/surety bonds and subject to the conditions that his passport will not be released; he will not leave the country without prior permission of the court and will regularly appear before the trial court on each and every day….”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jassi-killing-hc-grants-bail-to-uncle-374249
02-03-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Ahead of Punjab Assembly election results, leaders make a beeline for astrologers||Gurdaspur, March 1Candidates of almost all political parties are engaged in the number game of votes following which the demand to consult astrologers has reached an all-time high.Election phenomenonIndians are avid believers in astrology and superstition, and politicians are no exception. In almost every election, the demand for astrologers goes up exponentially. Samrendra Sharma, EducationistBoth the politicians and the astrologers are working in a clandestine manner. “Secrecy is the name of the game. I will never tell you the name of my astrologer nor will he reveal my name,” revealed a politician.Some have already paid obeisance at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine while others are in the process of packing their bags to seek blessings at different shrines.There are also some candidates who have asked their astrologers to be present at their houses at a particular time in the wee hours of March 10, just hours before the EVMs will decide their destinies.Pathankot-based astrologer Mithilesh Shastri confirmed that many leaders got in touch with him once the last vote was polled in their respective Assembly seats. This was corroborated by Dr Samrendra Sharma, a Pathankot-based educationist, who has worked with top BJP leaders in the past. For many politicians he is the conduit to get in touch with a top astrologer.“Indians are avid believers in astrology and superstition, and politicians are no exception. This is a phenomenon not solely linked to the recently held elections. In almost every election, the demand for astrologers and seers goes up exponentially,” said Samrendra.In Gurdaspur district, which is home to seven Assembly seats, Vijay Sharma is the go-to man.Sharma is not keen on making public the names of politicians who have visited him but says, “A lot many have made their way to my home to discuss how numbers can help them cross the rubicon.”An astrologer revealed how he received one such request from a candidate who was born during an eclipse. “Persons born in an eclipse often lead a chaotic life. I doubt if he can win because there is disorder all around him. Even his campaign was conducted in a disorganised manner,” he said.There are leaders who are seeking divine intervention by throwing coins into the Upper Bari Doab Canal which criss-crosses the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ahead-of-results-leaders-make-a-beeline-for-astrologers-374247
02-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab: Congress rubbishes poaching buzz||As March 10, the date of counting, draws near, anxiety has gripped political parties, giving way to reports of parties bracing to keep their candidates out of reach of poachers.Throughout the day, there was buzz in political circles that the Congress was planning to move its potential winning candidates to party-ruled states of Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. The party high command is monitoring the situation closely.Dismissing the reports as speculative, Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary said the party would repeat the government in the state.Amid this, Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on his birthday, which coincided with Mahashivratri.Based on internal post-poll surveys and seat-to-seat assessment by the party’s war room, Congress leaders are claimed to have got a rough idea of where it would stand after the results.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-rubbishes-poaching-buzz-374244
02-03-2022||Patiala||Sukhbir Badal, Harsimrat meet Bikram Majithia in jail||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal met former minister Bikram Singh Majithia at the Central Jail on his birthday today. They stayed inside the jail for over two hours.The Akali leaders also met Balwant Singh Rajoana, a convict in the Beant Singh assassination case. Yesterday, former SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur, ex-minister Surjit Singh Rakhra, party spokesperson Daljeet Singh Cheema and senior vice-president Maheshinder Singh Grewal had called on both Majithia and Rajoana.After emerging out of the jail premises, Sukhbir said: “Majithia is in high spirits. The party and all right-thinking people, cutting across party lines, are rallying behind him as he has been booked in a false case.” He said the case was registered at the behest of CM Charanjit Channi and Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. “It is political vendetta. Majithia is innocent and we have full faith in the judiciary,” he said. — #balwant singh rajoana #bibi jagir kaur #bikram majithia #harsimrat badal #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badals-meet-majithia-in-jail-374242
02-03-2022||---||Engineers' outfit contests Centre's claim on BBMB||Chandigarh, March 1The All-India Power Engineers’ Federation today contested the claim of the Ministry of Power that new rules notified for the appointment of two functional members of the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) were in consonance with a judgment of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, and will not impact the interests of member states.AAP to give memosChandigarh: The AAP will give memoranda to DCs against the new rules. The letters for the Governor would be handed over to DCs first by the district-level leadership of Doaba, said Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema. He urged the Governor to present the letters to PM , asking him to stop attacking the rights of Punjab. TNSFollowing a controversy over the new rules, the ministry had on February 27 issued a statement that the new rules only specified the technical qualification required for appointment of Member (Irrigation) and Member (Power), and complied with the directions issued by the High Court in ‘Jagmohan Singh vs Union of India and others’ case in 2016.The federation said the case related to the selection of BBMB chairman and there was no averment or claim regarding appointment of the two whole-time members. “The HC, while deciding in favour of Jagmohan Singh, did notissue any instructions regarding qualification for whole-time members,” a statement issued by the federation today said.As a matter of convention, Member (Irrigation) and Member (Power) were selected from a panel of senior engineers forwarded to the Centre by Haryana and Punjab governments, respectively.Under the new rules issued by the ministry on February 23, an engineer from any state across the country who meets the laid down qualifications could be selected for these two posts. At present, the post of Member (Irrigation) is vacant and the additional charge of this post is being held by the chairman.A section of stakeholders had opposed the new rules, saying it reduced the chances of appointment of engineers from Punjab and Haryana to these posts. The issued also got a political hue with several state-level leaders across various parties claiming it was a move to scrap Punjab’s representation in the BBMB and would adversely affect the interests of the state.BBMB comprises of a chairman and two whole-time members, besides two members representing the central government and four other members, generally senior bureaucrats, each representing the BBMB member states of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan. The members representing states are responsible for ensuring the interests of their respective state.Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh, which also have financial stakes in the BBMB, have been seeking creation of posts of full-time members for their state for some time.According to the federation, the matter had been discussed at the North Zone Council meeting presided over by the Union Home Minister in September 2019, where Punjab had opposed the proposal. #bbmb #harpal cheema||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/engineers-outfit-contests-centres-claim-on-bbmb-374240
02-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Farm suicides: Most families denied relief||Sangrur, March 1The cumbersome procedure for families of deceased debt-ridden farmers and labourers, who have ended life by suicide, to get financial help from the state government is leading to rejection of majority of cases.In Sangrur, of 823 applications, only 259 approved since 2015511 Rejected52 PendingRs3 lakh compensation for each victim’s familyIn Sangrur, from 2015 to December last year, 823 applications were submitted but only 259 were approved while 511 were rejected and 52 are pending. The maximum cases (201) were rejected in 2017-18.Reasons validNo case is rejected without any valid reason and all formalities are completed before the process. Jaswinderpal Singh Grewal, Agriculture Department Joint DirectorTough normsTo become eligible for government aid, the deceased should own a land and owe institutional debt only, as debt of private money lenders is not considered by authorities.“My son Amritpal Singh took the extreme step on November 18, 2014, after he failed to clear his debt. Since then, we have been applying repeatedly for the aid, but haven’t got anything so far. If the government does not want to help all families, it must stop the scheme,” said Malkiat Kaur from Kanakwal Bhangua village of the district. She said they don’t own any land and also don’t have any source of income. She has two grandchildren and her daughter-in-law works as a maid.A Chhajli village resident, Sulakhan Singh alleged that his brother Niranjan Singh ended his life in 2016 and since then, his family had been making rounds of various government offices, but they were yet to receive any help.“I have visited many offices and met many politicians, but to no avail,” he alleged.BKU Ugrahan leader Sukhpal Singh Manak, who is heading a special committee formed to collect details of suicides across the state, alleged: “Officials reject cases without any valid reason.”The government has formed a five-member committee in each district to clear the cases for the financial aid of Rs 3 lakh to these families. The panel includes a Deputy Commissioner as the chairman, a Chief Agriculture Officer as a member secretary and other members — Civil Surgeon, police officer and village sarpanch or municipal councillor.To be eligible for the aid, the deceased should be an owner of a land and owe institutional debt only, as debt of private money lenders is not considered by the authorities. Senior officers said most of the families did not have any land nor did they owe any money to any bank or cooperative society. #farm suicides #farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-suicides-most-families-denied-relief-374239
02-03-2022||Avneet Kaur||Indian youth's killing in Ukraine's Kharkiv has parents on the edge||Jalandhar, March 1“The moment my mother heard the news of an Indian student being killed in Kharkiv, she went numb. We then immediately called up my brother stranded in Ukraine, who has taken refuge in a Metro station near Kharkiv Medical University and it was after hearing his voice, she regained consciousness,” said Pushpinder Kaur, sister of Milap Singh, a final-year student in Kharkiv Medical University, who hails from Jalandhar.Appeal for evacuationAs the border is just 50 km from Kharkiv, the distressed parents have made an appeal to the Centre to initiate talks with the Russian authorities and evacuate their kids from there as they can manage to reach there in the shortest time possibleShe said it’s been seven days since her mother hasn’t eaten, slept or talked properly to anyone except her brother. “I just can’t express how we are feeling right now. My mother and father are falling into depression, my grandmother keeps crying the entire day. He is the only son of our family and we all are so worried over his safety,” said Pushpinder, requesting the Indian Government to evacuate them immediately.Similarly, Surbhi, sister of Nikita Syal, who is stuck in a hostel in Oleksiivska, Kharkiv, said there had to be some way to remove the students from these areas. She said her mother recently got an anxiety attack after they were not able to contact her sister due to network issues. “The situation is getting worse. There are over 100 Indian students along with my sister in Oleksiivska, while there are thousands more stuck in other areas of Kharkiv,” Surbhi added.She further said, “The evacuation of students stuck in Kharkiv through Hungary, Poland and Romania borders is way too risky as they have to travel around 1,200 to 1,600 km for that. There are continuous airstrikes and shelling in the area, the students can’t afford to leave their bunkers unless the Indian Government makes some arrangements for them.”There are many other parents who narrated a similar ordeal. As many as 52 families have registered their children’s details with the administration in the past three days.Talking to The Tribune, Barinder Kumar of Nurmahal said both his sons Karan (21) and Harsh (23), who left for the Poland border from Kyiv on Friday, were no longer in touch with him. “The last time we spoke to them was on Saturday night when they arrived at the Poland border. But ever since then their phones are switched off. We tried to contact their friends, but they said they got separated due to the huge crowd. We don’t know where they are now or if they have crossed the border or not. We’ve made numerous calls to trace their location, but all in vain.” #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youths-killing-has-parents-on-the-edge-374232
02-03-2022||Archit Watts||Muktsar families look to meet PM Modi for evacuation of students from Ukraine, will camp in Delhi||Muktsar, March 1After the death of an Indian student in Kharkiv, parents of a number of students from Muktsar district have decided to camp in Delhi to seek an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the early evacuation of their children stranded there.Cry for helpWe just want a safe passage for our children to enter Russia, which is very close to Kharkiv. From Russia, the Centre can evacuate our children by sending special flights. Ranjeet Singh, father of stranded girl“My daughter Jasmeen told us that someone had spread a rumour that Russia was set to use an nuclear bomb. In panic, many students today boarded trains to reach close to Poland, Romania or Hungary. Meanwhile, as the news broke out that an Indian student died in the Russian attack, my daughter and her friends got more perturbed,” said Ranjeet Singh from Muktsar.He added, “We have decided to go to Delhi to meet the Prime Minister. Some local BJP leaders will accompany us. We have also spoken to Member of Parliament Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, who is scheduled to meet Home Minister Amit Shah over the crisis. He will also try to meet the Prime Minister tomorrow. We just want a safe passage for our children to enter Russia, which is very close to Kharkiv. From Russia, the Government of India can evacuate our children by sending special flights.”Meanwhile, Kuldeep Singh, whose son Navneet Singh is studying in Kharkiv, said, “My son informed me today that his group would try to board a train from Kharkiv to Lviv today. There are rumours that the trains will stop tonight. They are presently hiding in a bunker at a Metro train station. Meanwhile, we parents have pooled some money to go to Delhi and make some efforts for their early evacuation.” #indians in ukraine #narendra modi #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-families-look-to-meet-pm-modi-will-camp-in-delhi-374231
02-03-2022||Jalandhar||After days of ordeal, 2 Kapurthala lads cross Ukraine border||After days of travelling to the Rava-Ruska, Shehyni and Slovakian borders and checkpoints only to be denied an exit, Kapurthala lad Akarsh Dhingra, who had started his tumultuous journey from Poltava on February 23 night, finally reached Poland this morning. A photograph of him looking out of a train window brought solace to his family that had been awaiting his safe passage out of war-torn Ukraine.Also, Kapurthala lad Shivam Baweja, who was among those stuck at a school near the Indian Embassy at Kyiv, made it out safely today.Amidst no response from the Indian Embassy, students stuck at a school near the embassy in Kyiv had on Monday boarded a train to Kovel to cross over to Poland.Akarsh, who had walked 80 km back and forth from Lviv to Rava-Ruska, Shehyni and Slovakian borders for two days, had spent the night of February 27 and 28 at the Lviv station after failing to board trains heading to the western border, owing to “preferential” treatment to Ukrainians.Staying put at Lviv, he finally boarded a train to Slovakia yesterday. With no passage available for Indian students there again, he returned to Lviv and boarded another train to the Polish border (from where he had already returned twice).Meanwhile, Akarsh’s brother Saksham and Shivam’s sister Mehak confirmed that both of them had crossed the border. — #indians in ukraine #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-days-of-ordeal-2-lads-cross-border-374228
02-03-2022||Abohar/Sriganganagar||More Indian students plan to exit northeastern Ukrainian city Kharkiv||Hours before Naveen Shekharappa from Karnataka’s Haveri was killed in Kharkiv, most of the Ukrainian citizens had moved out of the city to safer places, claimed Charu Ojha, a stranded student from Sriganganagar. “Indian students are living under compulsion,” Charu said.“There was heavy firing on Monday night 6 km away. Around 2,400 students are staying in the city. After the incident, Indian students have decided to leave Kharkiv. I am being accompanied by Anmol of Fazilka, and Abhay and Naman Bansal from Naraingarh,” she said.Indian students have started sharing lists of drivers in Ukraine and Poland. Phone numbers of cabbies ferrying people from Lviv to the borders, schedule of trains and an advisory on how to board special trains are also being circulated. Some have posted pictures of their train journey. — OCSituation grimWe are leaving for the Hungarian border by train as the situation is said to be bad on the Polish and Romanian borders. Charu Ojha, Stranded student #indians in ukraine #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-plan-to-exit-northeastern-city-374226
02-03-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||It's do-or-die for Indian students stuck in Ukraine now||Bathinda, March 1The Indian students stuck in Ukraine are battling hard to reach back home safely. It’s been five days since the Russian troops invaded Kyiv and Kharkiv, students stuck there have been hiding in hostel bunkers or at Metro stations.Also read: It's do-or-die for Indian students stuck in Ukraine nowNo safe routesWe’ve been asked to reach the western border, which is impossible as the connecting bridges have been blown up to stop the invaders. Also, we have no food, but can’t go out due to heavy shelling. We are helpless. - Khushal, Mansa nativeTalking to The Tribune over phone, Meenu Kaur of Ralla village in Mansa district, who is stuck in Kharkiv, said: “The situation here is worse. We are running out of food. Also, we are continuously hearing the sound of explosions. So far, we’ve heard that 10 persons have been killed in the shelling here. We just appeal to the Indian Government to help us.”Also read: Opposition slams Union Minister Pralhad Joshi over NEET remark amid Ukraine crisisShe also shared a video with us in which a Russian missile hit a Central Square building in Kharkiv. Meenu along with many other Indian students has been stuck in a dingy bunker located in the basement of hostels. Most of the students are running low on cash as money transferring services are lying suspended and ATMs are blocked.As per the new advisory issued by the government, all Indians are advised to leave Kyiv urgently today — preferably by trains or through any other means of transport available. However, the situation is quite worse and many students are scared to travel after the death of an Indian student on Tuesday.Meanwhile, Hansil of Bathinda, who has reached the Hungary border by bus, said: “We are at a shelter home near the border, our passports has been taken by the Indian Embassy and we are hopeful of returning home soon. There are around 3,000 Indian students waiting to return home.”Nirmal Singh, father of Sukhpreet Kaur, who is stranded in Ukraine, said after several days of bombardment, the situation in Kharkiv had deteriorated further since last night and students there were badly affected. “Moreover, students are being left to fend for themselves. It is being said if they can get out then they should leave the city risking their lives.”Meanwhile, Gurtej Singh said his daughter Jashanpreet Kaur along with Sukhpreet had left the Kharkiv Metro station at 8 am on Tuesday as now they had no choice after Russia’s threat to bomb the entire city. #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/its-do-or-die-for-students-now-374222
02-03-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Narrow escape for 10 Punjab students in missile attack on Ukraine's Kharkiv||Jalandhar, March 1Even as a Karnataka-based student of Kharkiv National Medical University lost his life today in the war-hit city, it was a narrow escape for about 10 students from Punjab who had just started the journey from Kharkiv to Uzhhorod town, located near Hungary border. Among them was MBBS student Jasmine Kaur, who hails from the Rail Vihar area of Jalandhar. She along with her classmates, who were holed up in the basement of their apartment, were going in two taxis around 8 am (Ukraine time) to the Kharkiv railway station.Also read: Opposition slams Union Minister Pralhad Joshi over NEET remark amid Ukraine crisis Many take train out of Kharkiv, made to give up seats for locals“Just five minutes after we started, a missile hit the area. The deafening sound shook us all. With a great difficulty, we completed the 15-minute journey to the railway station,” she said. Her father Pavittar Singh, who is LIC branch manager in Jalandhar, said, “The attack took place at a time when there was curfew relaxation. I thanked the Almighty a million times that my daughter is safe.” Pavittar Singh said he had been coordinating with a travel agent in Ukraine for the past two days to know about the best way out from Kharkiv. “I still have prayers on my lips as I want her to reach Hungary as quickly as possible. After the 15-hour train journey, she has to take another taxi and walk down a few kilometres before she crosses the border,” he said.A total of 150 students reportedly managed to board trains this morning. “There were three trains from Kharkiv to different places. My son Shivang, too, boarded a train for Lviv. He was in the basement of a building when the missile attack took place in Kharkiv,” said his father Pushpinder Prashar.However, all students could not leave Kharkiv today. Monika Batra, the mother of an MBBS student from Kapurthala, said, “By the time my daughter got out from a bunker in Kharkiv, there were blasts in the area and she called us up. She was petrified and we advised her to cancel her travel plans for today.” #indians in ukraine #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/narrow-escape-for-10-punjab-students-374215
02-03-2022||Chandigarh||Not my birthday, Punjab CM Channi says after greetings pour in all day||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Channi clarified it wasn’t his birthday after wishes poured in for the Congress leader.Harish Chaudhary, the All India Congress Committee general secretary who's in charge of Punjab, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi led birthday greetings.Also read: PM sends birthday greetings to Punjab CM Channi, ahead of Gandhis“Grateful for all the wishes pouring in for me today,” Channi said in his tweet, “however today is not my birthday”.“Your blessings holds utmost importance in my life and motivates me to work harder. I wholeheartedly thank everyone for the love showered on me,” the tweet read. #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-my-birthday-punjab-cm-channi-says-after-birthday-greetings-pour-in-374196
02-03-2022||Peshawar||Pakistani authorities set up team to decide on handing over of historic gurdwara to EPTB||Pakistani authorities have set up a joint committee to decide on the handing over of an over 100-year-old gurdwara in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province to the Evacuee Property Trust Board (EPTB) for its restoration and proper preservation.The team constituted by the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government would visit Sri Guru Singh Sabha gurdwara in Mansehra district before finalising its report and submitting it to the authorities, an official said here on Tuesday.Built in early 1900s, the Sri Guru Singh Sabha gurdwara, which is known as an architectural masterpiece, currently houses a public library and is in the possession of Mansehra's Town Municipal Administration since 1999.The EPTB authorities have now demanded in writing from the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government its handing over of the gurdwara to the board for its proper preservation.The EPTB is a statutory board that manages religious properties and shrines of Hindus and Sikhs who had migrated to India following Partition.The committee comprising deputy secretary of local council board Zahir Khan and Mansehra tehsil administrator Basharat Khan was formed following the EPTB's request, the official said. #Pakistan #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistani-authorities-set-up-team-to-decide-on-handing-over-of-historic-gurdwara-to-eptb-374152
02-03-2022||---||PM sends birthday greetings to Punjab CM Channi, ahead of Gandhis||Aditi TandonNew Delhi, March 1Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday sent birthday wishes to Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi who turned 59.Also read: Not my birthday, Punjab CM Channi says after greetings pour in all day“On his birthday, best wishes to Punjab CM Shri @CHARANJITCHANNI Ji. Praying for his good health and long life,” the PM tweeted ahead of top Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.On his birthday, best wishes to Punjab CM Shri @CHARANJITCHANNI Ji. Praying for his good health and long life.In his Twitter wishes for Channi days ahead of March 10 when the results for elections to five states including Punjab will be declared, the PM sought to make a political statement of camaraderie in times of intense political bickering and fight.From the Congress side, AICC Punjab in charge Harish Chaudhary was the senior-most leader to have wished Channi by the time PM’s tweet came.Twitter greetings for Channi from state unit chief Navjot Sidhu and his predecessor Sunil Jakhar were also missing until the time of PM’s message.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-sends-birthday-greetings-to-punjab-cm-channi-ahead-of-gandhis-374149
