03-03-2022||---||As three-day Indus Commission meeting concludes, Pakistan assures free flow of Fazilka drain into Sutlej river||New Delhi, March 3India has said that its on-going projects including Pakal Dul, Kiru and Lower Kalnai were fully compliant with the Indus Waters Treaty, signed between India and Pakistan in 1960.India’s submission came at the three-day meeting of the Permanent Indus Commission (PIC) composed of Indus Commissioners of India and Pakistan which concluded in Islamabad on Thursday.The Commission also discussed the exchange of hydrological and flood data. Both sides discussed the issue of the Fazilka drain, and Pakistan assured that all necessary actions will continue to be taken to ensure the free flow of Fazilka drain into the river Sutlej.The Indian delegation was led by PK Saxena, the Indian Commissioner for Indus Waters. Under the provisions of the Indus Waters Treaty signed between India and Pakistan in 1960, the two Commissioners are required to meet at least once every year, alternately in India and Pakistan. The last meeting of the Permanent Indus Commission (PIC) was held from March 23-24, 2021 in New Delhi.“The meeting was held in a cordial manner. Both the Commissioners reaffirmed their commitment to interact more frequently in an attempt to resolve issues through bilateral discussions under the treaty. It was agreed to hold the next meeting in New Delhi on mutually convenient dates,’’ stated a MEA statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/as-three-day-indus-commission-meeting-concludes-pakistan-assures-free-flow-of-fazilka-drain-into-sutlej-river-374825
03-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||HC extends stay on ex-Punjab DGP Sumedh Saini’s arrest in all cases till April 20||Chandigarh, March 3About six months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court ordered a clear stay on the investigation in all cases against Punjab’s former police chief Sumedh Singh Saini and his arrest in all the registered or likely to be registered cases, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan on Thursday extended the operation of the order till April 20 — the next date of hearing in the case.Taking up Saini’s plea filed through counsel S.P.S. Sidhu, Justice Sangwan asserted: “List again on April 20. Interim order dated September 10, 2021, will continue till the next date of hearing.”Justice Sangwan had earlier asserted that Saini’s involvement in multiple cases could be a “political ploy in wake of the coming State legislative assembly general elections”.The order, passed on September 10, last year, was directed to remain in force at least till the general election in the State in February. Justice Sangwan had asserted he was conspicuous of the dare shown by the Punjab Police officials in trying to overreach the Court, which was also a circumstance to be considered about the nature and quality of investigation being conducted by the Punjab Police in the FIRs.In his 46-page judgment, Justice Sangwan had asserted the order was being passed considering it to be a case of exceptional circumstances and hardship being caused to the petitioner by the State of Punjab on political grounds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-extends-stay-on-ex-punjab-dgp-sumedh-sainis-arrest-in-all-cases-till-april-20-374820
03-03-2022||Jalandhar||Channi’s jailed nephew Bhupinder Honey admitted to Amritsar hospital||CM Charanjit Channi's nephew Bhupinder Honey, who was lodged in Kapurthala jail, was reportedly admitted to a hospital in Amritsar.He has been admitted to the emergency of Guru Nanak Hospital there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channis-jailed-nephew-bhupinder-honey-admitted-to-amritsar-hospital-374762
03-03-2022||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Students stranded in Ukraine allege no help from Indian embassy||Hoshiarpur, March 2While the Indian Government is making tall claims of making all-out efforts to evacuate Indians stranded in Ukraine, students stuck there have a different story to tell.According to them, neither the Indian Embassy has offered them any support or help, nor do they have anyone at the Romania border to guide them. After reaching Romania, they are stuffed up like cattle in shelters not knowing how to reach Bucharest, which is a six-hour journey to board an Air India flight there.Meanwhile, a Delhi-based doctor, who works as an admission agent, has come to the rescue of Indian students by arranging conveyances for students to reach Romanian borders.Vibhuti from Hoshiarpur, a third-year MBBS student at Danylo Halytsky Lviv National Medical University, Lviv in Ukraine, along with 90 more students, has reached the Romanian border from Lviv through two buses. Her maternal uncle Anuj Vasudev told this correspondent that despite tall claims by the government, the reality is quite opposite. “Vibhuti told us over phone that despite repeated attempts, there was no response from the Indian embassy. A Delhi-based admission agent, Dr Mansoor, arranged two buses for 90 students to reach the Romanian border,” said Vasudev. He told that there was no one from the Indian embassy to help them at the border. The Indian government might have arranged Air India flights from Bucharest but there is no provision to reach the shelter in Badeuti, which is at six-hour drive from Bucharest.“The shelter in Badueti is nothing less than a hell experience. It’s a basketball hall and around 2,000 persons have been stuffed there like cattle. There’s only one bathroom for those 2,000 people and temperature runs in minus. No one knows how to reach Bucharest and there is no support extended from the Indian government or the embassy,” said Vasudev.He demanded that instead of making airy claims, the Indian government must do something in concrete to evacuate the students and help them on ground to reach borders of neighbouring countries and evacuate them. #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stranded-students-narrate-their-ordeal-374695
03-03-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||In wartime, two Adampur youths lodged in Ukrainian jail since Feb 6||Jalandhar, March 2As Russia has been intensifying its attack on Ukraine, two families from Adampur are worried as their sons cannot return back home like others. They are lodged in a Ukrainian jail since February 6 as both of them had overstayed after the expiry of their visa and were attempting to cross the Romanian border.The two youth are Ramandeep and Rajat Sahota, both neighbours from Gazipur mohalla of Adampur here. Both had taken admission in a college in Odessa town and were pursuing a six-month course in language. They had also got a nine-month temporary residence certificate, which had already expired. With no chance of getting any work in Ukraine, they were desperately trying for Schengen visa which they failed to get. In a desperate attempt, they tried to crossover, but were reportedly held by the Ukrainian police and are in custody since then.Harmesh Lal, Ramandeep’s father, who works as a tailor, said: “There had been nearly 2,500 Punjabi youth awaiting Schegen visa while staying in Ukraine. Very few of them could get a chance as the visa processing had been kept slow due to Covid. We had told our son that if he is not able to make it to another European country, he should return home. But he told that he would want to make one attempt as he felt that we had already spent Rs12 lakh on him since he moved there on February 5 last year. So, he had been crossing over along with six more boys, including our neighbour’s son, another boy from Amritsar and some Nepali youth when he got arrested.”Sukhpal Sahota, Rajat’s father, who works at a post office, added, “The boys told us that they would be deported back in 10 days. Later, they told us it could take a few more days. For the next five-six days, they did not call us. We kept on trying their numbers, but there was no response. We were really worried. Last Saturday, they were allowed a two-minute call from the phones of cops there. They sent us a location of their jail, which is 50 km from Poland borders in a jungle. The boys pleaded that the Ukrainian cops were not leaving them, despite the war and that we should try for their deportation from the Indian side. On our part, we have been contacting various officials and on helpline numbers, but to no avail. While the children of all other families are being evacuated from Ukraine and are being sent back, our children are behind the lock-up, unable to return even in the wartime.” #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-wartime-two-adampur-youths-lodged-in-ukrainian-jail-since-feb-6-374697
03-03-2022||Amritsar||SGPC condemns raising issue of already banned book||The SGPC has alleged that some anti-Sikh forces have been trying to tarnish its image by raising an obsolete issue and that the Sikh Panth (community) should be aware of the same.SGPC member and federation leader Bhai Gurcharan Singh Grewal and member Bhai Gurbakhsh Singh Khalsa said Baldev Singh Sirsa, who recently started the protest against PSEB books misrepresenting Sikh history, has been deliberately defaming the SGPC.They protested against a Hindi book ‘Sikh Itihas’ published by the SGPC in 1999.Members maintained that the book was already banned by the SGPC. Following objections, this book was not only banned but advertisements were also published in newspapers first on October 24, 2010, and then on August 11, 2018.“Baldev Singh Sirsa and Lakha Sidhana, who staged a protest outside the PSEB’s office along with their supporters, were bent on tarnishing the image of SGPC under a well-planned conspiracy. SGPC office-bearers also clarified that a special resolution was passed by the General House session, which had banned this book and its printed copies were withdrawn. The issue was blown out of proportion for their personal interests and the sangat should be aware of the same,” they said.They said this book was Hindi translation of Joseph Davey (JD) Cunningham’s book ‘History of The Sikhs’, which was published in the series of 300 books to be printed in view of third centenary of Khalsa Sajna Diwas in 1999.  #baldev singh sirsa #lakha sidhana #SGPC #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-condemns-raising-issue-of-banned-book-374689
03-03-2022||Manmeet Singh Gill||NRIs worried as Russia-Ukraine conflict delaying flights||Amritsar, March 2While the conflict between Russia and Ukraine has worried the families of those stranded in Ukraine, it has also troubled the NRIs ready to return to Canada after spending their winter here.The NRIs said flights, especially those connecting via Montreal and Toronto were getting delayed. They, however, said that flights going via Vancouver were comparatively less troublesome.Kanwaljit Singh Sekhon of Wadala village, near Baba Bakala, who took the flight to Canada via Vancouver on Wednesday morning, said he had to wait for six hours at the Delhi airport as the flight was late.” He said due to delay from Delhi, he would now have to spend eight hours extra at the Vancouver airport.Sekhon had to go to Edmonton, but now there was no flight available from Vancouver to Edmonton. So, he had booked a ticket for Calgary, from where he would take another flight.“Those travelling via Montreal and Toronto have to face delay of almost 25 to 26 hours,” said Gurjant Singh, who took a flight from Delhi on February 2 after a 24-hour delay. Gurjant said as the airlines did not provide boarding during the delay, they had to sleep at the airport itself.With such stories of hardships, those who had plans to return to Canada shortly are worried. Some are even planning to leave children and women behind.“It is very difficult to travel in such crisis especially with small children,” said Gurpreet Singh, who was scheduled to travel next week. He said he was making calls to his travel agent and co-travellers but nobody had any concrete information. #Canada #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nris-worried-as-russia-ukraine-conflict-delaying-flights-374676
03-03-2022||Karam Prakash||Patiala: Jailed Bikram Majithia allowed  four meetings in six days||Patiala, March 2Showing ‘generosity’ towards Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who is logged in the Patiala Central Jail, the Punjab Government has allowed excess meetings in a week. So far, 12 SAD leaders have met Majithia in four meetings over the past six days.As per rules, an undertrial is allowed to meet a family member twice a week, while a convict is allowed only once a week. The local jail authorities have passed the buck to the higher-ups for the permission.Majithia, who is Harsimrat Kaur’s brother, was sent to judicial custody for two weeks on February 24 after he surrendered before a Mohali court in connection with a drugs case. The court had rejected his bail plea on February 25. The Supreme Court had recently directed the Punjab Police to not arrest the former Punjab minister till February 23 in a drugs case so he can undertake electioneering in the state.Shiromani Akali Dal MLA Harinder Pal Chandumajra and former Member of Parliament Prem Singh Chandumajra today met Bikram Singh Majithia. Batala SAD MLA Lakhbir Singh also met Majithia.Yesterday, SAD president Sukhbir Badal and former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had met Majithia on his birthday. Former SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur, ex-minister Surjit Singh Rakhra, party spokesperson Daljeet Singh Cheema and senior vice-president Maheshinder Singh Grewal met Majithia on February 28.The Patiala Central Jail Superintendent, Shivraj Singh, said that an undertrial was allowed to meet family member or anyone else twice a week. He said, “The rule allows undertrial to have two meetings. However, discretion to allow excess meetings is with jail superintendent only.” #bikram majithia||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/jailed-bikram-majithia-allowed-four-meetings-in-six-days-374643
03-03-2022||Abohar||5 peddlers held||The police have arrested five drug peddlers and seized 55-kg poppy husk from them. The police also recovered 600 intoxicating pills from the accused. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-peddlers-held-374546
03-03-2022||Chandigarh||Youth arrested for circulating morphed images||The cybercrime wing of the Punjab Police has arrested a youngster involved in circulating morphed images of the faculty members of a private university.The accused has been identified as Navjosh Singh Atwal, a resident of Ivory Tower, Sector 70, SAS Nagar.The ADGP cybercrime said on February 26, a complaint was received from the university authorities alleging that someone has hacked their email IDs, online teaching sessions and was circulating sexually explicit morphed images of the faculty members.During interrogation, Atwal revealed that he used to circulate morphed images by creating fake WhatsApp accounts using VPN and hacking tools. The accused has been booked under Sections 354-D, 509 and 120-B of the IPC and Sections 66-C and 67-A of the IT Act-2000. — #cyber crime||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-arrested-for-circulating-morphed-images-374545
03-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP’s poll review meet in Chandigarh today||With just a week left for the counting, the Punjab BJP has called a meeting of its candidates from across the state tomorrow in Chandigarh to discuss the recently held elections.Apart from the candidates, district presidents and other office-bearers have also been called. Sources said the main agenda of the meeting is to review the organisational functioning and role of leaders during the elections.The sources revealed that some fireworks are expected during the meeting as factionalism was clearly visible on several seats. Besides, the issue of district presidents getting funds directly from the state unit, but failing to spend it on the candidates is also likely to be discussed. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-bjps-poll-review-meet-in-chandigarh-today-374543
03-03-2022||Bathinda||Cotton growers seek compensation for crop damaged by pink bollworm attack||Citing delay in compensation for the cotton crop damaged by the pink bollworm attack last year, farmers under the banner of BKU (Sidhupur Sangat), today protested outside the DC office.The protesters also submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner.Jagdev Singh, block chief, BKU (Sidhupur Sangat), said, “Even after giving reminders on numerous ocassions, the administration has not released compensation for farmers who suffered damage above 60 per cent due to the pink bollworm attack last year. Marginal farmers are finding it difficult to bear their household expenses.”“We met the Deputy Commissioner and submitted a memorandum. He assured us that the list of eligible farmers will be displayed at the village-level and the compensation will be deposited in bank accounts of farmers,” he said. — #farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/growers-seek-compensation-374542
03-03-2022||Muktsar||Pink bollworm still present in leftover crop, Muktsar farmers worried||The cotton growers are worried as pink bollworm is still present in the leftover cotton balls and the sowing season will start next month.In November 2021, the pink bollworm had attacked the cotton crop in Muktsar district, but the crop was not affected much as picking was under way. Farmers said the government must act swiftly to save the next crop.Teams visiting villages regularlyWe are holding awareness camps in the villages, appealing to farmers to destroy the leftover cotton balls. We have limited staff, but our teams are regularly visiting the villages. We are also worried about the next crop as early sowing of cotton will begin in April and will be in full swing in May. Gurpreet Singh, Chief Agri OfficerGurbhagat Singh Bhallaiana, a farmer leader, said, “A number of farmers have stored leftover cotton balls and stalks, which are infested with the pink bollworm. Besides, the cotton crop leftover is stored in cattle feed manufacturing units. Some serious efforts are required to control the possible pink bollworm attack.”He said, “The Agriculture Department is having nearly a month’s time, but it is just working on papers. If the pink bollworm attacks the crop this year, it will cause widespread damage and huge financial loss to farmers.”Chief Agriculture Officer Gurpreet Singh said, “We are holding awareness camps in the villages, appealing to farmers to destroy the leftover cotton balls. A number of them have even acted on our advice, but some of them are still unwilling. It is impossible to destroy the pink bollworm by spraying pesticide on the cotton stalks.”He said, “If farmers fail to cooperate with the department, then the pink bollworm, which had attacked the crop in November may even advance by three months.”As the cotton fetched a good price in the recent past, a number of farmers would sow cotton crop.The Central Institute for Cotton Research (CICR), Sirsa, has even alerted the Agriculture Department of Punjab and Haryana regarding the pink bollworm. It has even suggested the farmers should cultivate ‘desi’ cotton instead of ‘narma’ for early sowing.The cotton is mainly grown in Fazilka, Bathinda, Mansa and Muktsar districts. In 2021-22, a total 3.25 lakh hectare area was brought under the cotton crop in the state. #farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pink-bollworm-still-present-in-leftover-crop-farmers-worried-374540
03-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Barnala student Chandan Jindal dies of stroke in Ukraine hospital||Barnala, March 2Barnala student Chandan Jindal (22), who had been admitted to a hospital in Ukraine since February 2, died there this morning.The family has written to senior authorities to bring back the body. Chandan’s father Shishan Jindal, who went to Ukraine to take care of his ailing son, is also stuck there. “My cousin Chandan Jindal, who was pursuing MBBS at Vinnytsia National Memorial Medical University in Ukraine, was admitted to a hospital there after suffering an ischemic stroke on February 2. He was operated upon on February 4. Today, we got information about his death,” said Neeraj Jindal, vice-president of the BJP’s Punjab unit.“His father is also stuck in Ukraine. We are in touch with senior authorities of Punjab and the Union Government to bring him back,” Neeraj said. Barnala DC Kumar Saurav Raj held a meeting with the parents of students stuck in Ukraine and said efforts were on to ensure safe evacuation of all students. “We have written to the authorities concerned to take up the matter with MEA to make arrangements to bring back the body of Chandan and to evacuate his father,” he said. #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/barnala-student-dies-of-stroke-in-ukraine-hospital-374539
03-03-2022||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court to decide if undertrial can be shifted sans CJM's permission||Chandigarh, March 2The Punjab and Haryana High Court will adjudicate whether an undertrial inmate can be transferred from one jail to another without the Chief Judicial Magistrate’s permission. Justice Raj Mohan Singh of the High Court has already put the State of Punjab on notice on a plea claiming an undertrial’s transfer without the court’s permission.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after Baljinder Singh filed a petition against the State of Punjab and other respondents against his transfer from Central Jail, Bathinda, to Kapurthala. Appearing before the Bench, counsel Saurav Bhatia contended that the Chief Judicial Magistrate’s permission was required to be obtained before transferring an under trial inmate from one jail to other jail. Bhatia also relied upon a Supreme Court judgment in the case of “State of Maharashtra versus Saeed Sohail and others” for substantiating his contentions.Taking a note of the submissions, Justice Raj Mohan Singh fixed April 25 as the next date of hearing in the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-decide-if-undertrial-can-be-shifted-sans-cjms-permission-374537
03-03-2022||Nangal||Nangal sexual assault accused sent to judicial custody||After five-day police remand of private school principal Amritpal Dhiman of Nangran village, an accused of sexual assault on students, a Nangal court has sent him to judicial custody here today. His friend Shiv Kumar, who was arrested for leaking the obscene video clips of the accused, has also been sent to judicial custody.Ropar SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said the police had completed the questioning of both the accused. The forensic report was awaited and it was likely to be ready in next few days. “The police are likely to file a challan in the court in this regard next week.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sexual-assault-accused-sent-to-judicial-custody-374535
03-03-2022||Chandigarh||BBMB raises security concerns over looming farmers’ protest||The Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) has raised concern over the security of its establishments in the wake of some groups threatening protests against the recent change in rules for appointment of two whole-time members of the board.Sources said the matter had been discussed between the BBMB authorities and law enforcement agencies.Some politicians and farmers’ group had said they would hold protests on the lines of the recent farmers’ stir in Punjab and Delhi if the new rules are not withdrawn.The BBMB is strategically important from the view on irrigation, power generation and supply of drinking water to Punjab, Haryana, HP, Delhi, Rajasthan, and Chandigarh.Besides maintaining two large dams, Bhakra on the Sutlej and Pond on the Beas and some canals, the BBMB also operates several hydro-power stations on these rivers.The security of BBMB establishments is also being taken over by the Central Industrial Security Force that functions under the MHA. It will relieve the Punjab Police and Himachal Pradesh Police.Sources said there was a security issue as the police were unable to spare adequate manpower to secure BBMB establishments. — #bbmb #farmers #farmers protest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bbmb-raises-security-concerns-over-looming-farmers-protest-374534
03-03-2022||Chandigarh||Cybercriminals adopting innovative ways to cheat||A woman of Sector 18 in Chandigarh was looted of Rs 10 lakh by a cyber fraudster, who impersonated a bank representative appointed for updating her Know Your Customer (KYC) details in January.Similarly, a fraudster posed as an Airtel executive and called up a customer on the pretext of updating his KYC form. He allegedly tricked him into revealing his bank details and transferred a large sum of money from his bank account.These are not isolated examples, cyber crooks are adopting innovative ways to cheat people. Unfortunately, such instances of cyber fraud are becoming alarmingly frequent. According to insiders, they are pushing bulk SMS and calls, and ask probable victims to update their KYC details of bank, LIC or mobile phone.The fraudsters call customers claiming to be from a bank or financial institution and asks for account details or an OTP to unblock or renew the existing bank account. The details are then used to withdraw money from the customer’s bank account.For updating KYC, at times they ask the customer to download various remote access applications. Once the customer downloads these applications, they are asked to transfer a nominal amount such as Rs 1 or 10. “Following this, the fraudsters hack the bank account and transfer money to their own account,” said sources.To aware the customers, amid growing frauds, Airtel CEO Gopal Vittal had also written to customers and asked them to be careful. Warning customers, he said there were several fake UPI apps and ecommerce websites which appear authentic by using words and logos such as NPCI and BHIM. “If you download any of these, you will be asked to enter all your bank details and MPIN, thereby granting the fraudster complete access to your account details,” said the Airtel.Don’t share info with anyone #cyber crime||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cybercriminals-adopting-innovative-ways-to-cheat-374533
03-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Will has to be proved by attesting witnesses, not scribe||Chandigarh, March 2A will has to be proved by the attesting witnesses and not by the scribe or the draftsman. Merely because the scribe did not ask for the testator’s identity, it can’t be held that the will’s execution was not proven, the Punjab and Haryana High Court ruled.Justice Sudhir Mittal also made it clear that expert examination of the signature was not necessary as the same could be done through the naked eye. The Bench ruled that the non-production of the will for several years after the testator’s death, too, did not give rise to any suspicion.The ruling came in a case where one of the parties submitted that the scribe had admitted in his cross-examination that he did not see the testator’s identity proof. As such, it could not be said who the testator was. It was also argued that testator’s signatures had not been proved by examination of an expert witness.The Bench was further told that the will remained in one of the attesting witnesses’ custody for seven years. As such, the trial court was justified in holding that the will was surrounded by suspicious circumstances. But the first appellate court accepted the appeal and held that the will dated January 7, 2011, was a genuine and valid document.Justice Mittal asserted the witness was none other than a maternal uncle of the parties and the will was produced from his custody. He was also one of the attesting witnesses. The signature was compared by the appellate court with the testator’s admitted signature before it returned a finding of fact that the same matched.Justice Mittal observed the witness-maternal uncle also stepped into the witness box to prove the will. “Just because the will was produced by the witness after seven years of the testator’s death does not give rise to any suspicion.”Justice Mittal added the only argument that could be raised was that the document was forged, based on its late production. Forgery was not established. For the purpose, examination of an expert was not necessary as signatures could always be compared through the naked eye. “There is no error in the judgment of the first appellate court. The will has been proved in accordance with law and was bound to be accepted, Justice Mittal concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-will-has-to-be-proved-by-attesting-witnesses-not-scribe-374532
03-03-2022||New Delhi||Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar's release deferred again||The Sentence Review Board (SRB) of the Delhi Government headed by Delhi Home Minister Satyendar Jain today deferred the decision on early release of Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar, a 1993 Delhi bomb blast case convict, who is currently lodged in Amritsar jail.The matter has been put off till the next SRB meeting. Seven members of the SRB include director general of Tihar prison, secretaries of Home and Law Departments, director of Social Welfare Department of the Delhi Government, a district judge, and a senior Delhi Police officer.The Sikh bodies have criticised the decision of the SRB. Harmeet Singh Kalka and Jagdip Singh Kahlon, president and general secretary of the DSGMC, respectively, criticised Kejriwal-led Delhi Government for deferring Bhullar’s release. “It shows the malafide intentions of Kejriwal and how much he cares about the feelings of the Sikh community,” the duo said.Bhullar’s release application has been rejected for the fourth time.Bhullar was arrested in 1993 in Delhi bomb blast case and sentenced to death in 2011. Later, the Supreme Court commuted his death sentence into life imprisonment.Meanwhile, former DSGMC chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa said he would go to court if required. He condemned the Delhi Government for delaying the release. — TNSKejri not letting him go free: SADChandigarh: SAD chief Sukhbir Badal on Wednesday slammed Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal for “blocking” the release of Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar yet again. He alleged, “Kejriwal’s hypocrisy stands exposed...” #davinder pal singh bhullar #DSGMC #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/davinder-pal-singh-bhullars-release-deferred-again-374530
03-03-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Over 7K apply for 26 Class IV posts in Bathinda District Courts||Bathinda, March 2More than 7,000 youths have applied for six posts of peon and 20 of process server in Bathinda District Courts.Even youngsters with master’s and graduation degrees along with diploma holders have applied for these Class IV posts. The minimum qualification required is up to the matric level and the pay is around Rs 10,000.The selection process will be completed in six days as around 1,200 applicants are being called for interview daily. Many candidates from far off places like Gurdaspur and Ropar also came here to apply for these posts.A BTech passout said: “I failed to get any decent job in the private sector, so now after exhausting all my channels, I decided to apply for a Class IV job to support my family.”Harmanjit Singh, (name changed), a BCom degree holder, who came all the way from Ropar, said: “I have no job, so I applied for these posts to support my family, who has spent on my education.”Prof NK Gosain (retd) said the main reasons for the high unemployment rate in the state were the mechanisation of agriculture, low rate of industrialisation and lack of government jobs. “The trend shows that there is lack of jobs in the state. People prefer government jobs due to security and fixed hours of working. Even at lower levels, the government salary is better than the private sector.”Meanwhile, Bathinda District Courts Superintendent Om Parkash confirmed that more than 7,000 youths had applied for 20 posts of process server and six of peon.Social activist Gian Chand Bansal, however, said this shows that the state government had miserably failed in providing jobs to the youth in the past many years. He further said it was the duty of the state government to provide jobs to the educated youth for the betterment and progress of the state.High rate of unemploymentPunjab’s unemployment rate is higher than the national average. According to data from the Centre’s Periodic Labour Force Survey 2019-20, released in July last year, Punjab had an unemployment rate of 7.4% as compared to the national figure of 4.8%.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-7k-apply-for-26-class-iv-posts-in-bathinda-district-courts-374529
03-03-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Pre-poll sops take a toll on Punjab’s coffers||Chandigarh, March 2Punjab’s Budget projections for the ongoing fiscal have gone completely haywire, thanks to the distribution of pre-poll sops. In 10 months, the state earned just 60% of the revenue receipts, while the deficit has already exceeded the estimates for the entire fiscal.What is worse is that there are little chances of any improvement in revenue in the remaining two months of this fiscal (February and March). This is because the state has been in an election mode and there has been no “political guidance” on the revenue collection, as the government’s focus remained only on ensuring that benefits were passed on to voters before the polling day (February 20).A look at the fiscal indicators till January (10 months of 2021-22) reveals that the state’s revenue receipts were just Rs 58,021.17 crore, which is just 60.9% of the Budget estimates. Though the state’s own tax revenue collection is good at over 78%, its non-tax revenue collection is rather dismal at 33%, as is the receipt of grant-in-aid from the Centre at 43.3%. In the corresponding period last year, the grant-in-aid received were much higher, and were 78% of the target in the Budget.The low inflow of revenue has affected the deficit figures, which have crossed the estimate of Rs 8,622.31 crore in the Budget. Till January, the revenue deficit was Rs 9,308.58 crore — almost Rs 686 crore more than what was targeted for the entire financial year. Even the primary deficit (difference between the current year’s fiscal deficit and interest payments on earlier borrowings) has overshot the target, with the deficit being Rs 5,601.43 crore against a target of Rs 3,924.15 crore.Even the borrowings till January this year have been much higher at Rs 17,108.82 crore as against Rs 9,928.34 crore in the corresponding period of 2020-21. The state borrowed heavily in December — Rs 3,868.96 crore, in the run-up to the elections. A sum of Rs 11,507. 39 crore has been spent by the state only on interest payment.As a result, whichever party gets the reins of Punjab on March 10, once the poll results are declared, will be inheriting a cash-strapped and highly indebted state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pre-poll-sops-take-a-toll-on-punjabs-coffers-374527
03-03-2022||Amritsar||Ukraine: Indian students in Kharkiv, Kyiv race against time||Students stuck in Kharkiv and Kyiv are risking their lives by trying to move out of the cities on their own.As Russian forces have increased shelling, several students are stuck at a railway station in Kharkiv.We are desperately trying to leave Ukraine on our own, risking our lives. Meenu Kaur, Mansa nativeWalked 9 km from hostelI, along with other students, reached the Kharkiv railway station by walking 9 km from our hostel. More than 700 Indian students are stranded at the railway station. We have been stopped from boarding trains. Piyush Goyal, student stuck at KharkivI took the decision well in advance to head back before the Russian forces invaded the eastern part of Ukraine. My roommates chose to stay back, hoping that the situation would improve. Vishwas Thakur, Amritsar nativeThose who made it back Decision taken well in time #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/race-against-time-374525
03-03-2022||---||Bhagwant Mann mourns death of of Indian student Naveen Sekharappa in Ukraine's Kharkiv||Chandigarh, March 2Punjab Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) president Bhagwant Mann today expressed grief over the demise of Indian student Naveen Sekharappa in Kharkiv. He claimed that vague advisories and non-seriousness of the Modi government on the issue was costing the stranded students.He said ministries concerned and the embassy should act more responsibly and along with advisories, they should suggest route plans and means to reach borders of neighbouring countries.Mann reiterated that it was impossible for students stranded in eastern parts of Ukraine to reach borders in the west. Cities like Kharkiv and Sumy are near Russian border, so Indian government should try to have a dialogue with Russia and evacuate students from that side. #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-mourns-death-of-pupil-in-shelling-374524
03-03-2022||---||Congress MPs meet Meenakshi Lekhi, seek help for evacuating Indians from Ukraine||New Delhi, March 2Congress Lok Sabha MPs from Punjab Ravneet Bittu, Amar Singh, Manish Tewari, Gurjeet Aujla, Santokh Chaudhary and Jasbir Dimpa on Wednesday met Minister of State for External Affairs Meenakshi Lekhi and presented lists of students from their constituencies who are stuck in Ukraine.The MPs demanded the government to arrange the safe return of students at the earliest.The MPs stressed how the unfortunate death of an Indian student from Karnataka and Barnala had greatly stressed parents.With the ground situation worsening, it was imperative that all possible steps be taken to bring back the stranded Indian students at the earliest, they said.The MPs noted that they offered all possible support and stressed that the Punjab Government was ready to provide any support that the Government of India might need in bringing back Punjabi students safely to India.Leaders missing in action: TewariChandigarh: Questioning the absence of CM Charanjit Singh Channi, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Sunil Jakhar and Punjab affairs incharge Harish Choudhary amid the Ukraine crisis, Congress MP from Anandpur Sahib Manish Tewari on Wednesday said he was “appalled that great leaders of the Punjab Congress leaders were nowhere to be seen or heard when thousands of children from Punjab are in jeopardy in Ukraine”. TNS #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mps-meet-meenakshi-lekhi-seek-help-for-evacuating-indians-374522
03-03-2022||Vijay C Roy||Ukraine war effect: Edible oil prices go up by 10-15%||Chandigarh, March 2The ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine has started impacting the household budget as prices of edible oil has increased by 10-15 per cent per kilogramme across the region and Punjab is no exception. The state consumes around 43,000 tonnes of edible oil per month.Sunflower oil supply hitEdible oil prices have gone northwards because there is a gap in sunflower oil supply from Ukraine that has affected the entire kitty of the edible oil sector. AR Sharma, Ricela group ChairmanAccording to distributors and solvent extractors, the war comes at a time when inflation in edible oil is a major concern in the domestic market. In the December quarter alone, edible oil prices surged by 30 per cent on an average due to repeated price hikes in the international markets and steep rise in logistics cost.Harpal Cheema, leader of oppositionStop importsIt is high time that India should rethink about its dependency for edible oils on other countries. According to the data, India’s total consumption of edible oils is about 240 lakh tonnes, of which domestic production stands at about 90 lakh tonnes and the deficit of about 150 lakh tonnes is met through import. So, India is hugely dependent on imports in terms of edible oil, so any disruption is bound to impact the domestic oil prices.As there is a supply chain disruptions especially of sunflower oil from Russia and Ukraine, wholesalers and retailers have jacked the prices of all oils.“Edible oil prices have gone northwards because there is a gap in sunflower oil supply from Ukraine that has affected the entire kitty of the edible oil sector. Currently, the gap is being filled by imported soyabean and palm oil, prices of which has already been increased and that has impacted the domestically produced oil such as mustard and rice bran oil,” Sangrur-based Ricela Group chairman AR Sharma said.“Supply is not a problem but the price has been influenced by other imported oils. So, on an average the prices of edible oil have increased by 10-15 per cent after Russian invasion,” he added.India imports over 80% (25-30 lakh metric tonnes per annum) of its sunflower oil requirement from Russia and Ukraine. The country’s dependence on sunflower oil is around 15 per cent of all oils.“The price is changing on daily basis. As the prices of loose oil or locally produced oil by solvent extractors has risen so the branded one. On an average the prices of edible oil have risen by around 15 per cent after the conflict,”said Ashish Kumar, a edible oil distributor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/war-effect-edible-oil-prices-go-up-by-10-15-374521
03-03-2022||---||Indian students walked miles in bone-chilling cold to leave Ukraine's Kharkiv||Amritsar/Abohar, March 2Thousands of Indian students who are trapped in Kharkiv in war-torn Ukraine have been struggling to make it to the Poland and Hungary borders for their safety.Some have reached back home, yet more than 3,000 Indians were waiting to cross the border to Poland via the Kyiv stretch or Kyiv-Kovel axis. Most of the students are stuck in Lviv, around 60 km from Poland border.Komal Hasija said a group of students, including her daughter Saumya, have managed to reach Lviv from Kharkiv safely. Now they are looking to find a mode of transport to reach the Poland border.“In bone-chilling conditions, the students walked for several miles. The Indian Embassy’s assistance is from the Poland border only for repatriation flights,” she said.Another parent Rekha Mahajan said the girl students, including her daughter, too boarded a train from Kharkiv, but around 700 male students were still stranded in underground hostel of Kharkiv university.Meanwhile, stranded students said means of transport were not available right now.Hrithik Godara from Pakka Saharan villahe in Hanumangarh said she along with Lakshita Sharma and Yash Chaudhary from Sriganganagar was among 150 Indian students who reached Uzhhorod National University on Tuesday evening via buses from Lviv. Here they have been accommodated in the sports complex of the university. The place, located 30 km of western border, was so far safe. “Our next destination is Hungary. Students from Ajmer, Sikar and Jaipur are also in this group,” she said. #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/they-walked-miles-in-bone-chilling-cold-374520
03-03-2022||Archit Watts||Ukraine crisis: Muktsar youth reach Romania, Hungary||Muktsar, March 2A day after the death of an Indian student in Kharkiv shelling, a number of stranded students have managed to leave the war-torn Ukrainian town, their parents have confirmed.However, about 2,000 students are still reportedly stuck at a railway station in Kharkiv. Since Wednesday morning, they have been anxiously waiting for the train, their parents say.“My daughter and her friends, with the help of education service provider Karan Sandhu, reached the railway station on foot in the morning. She told me there are 2,000 students waiting for the train for the past nine hours. The forces are thrashing the stranded students. I was told that a student even suffered a bullet injury,” said inconsolable Ranjeet Singh, whose daughter Jasmeen studies at Kharkiv National Medical University.Some students from Muktsar district were stuck in Kyiv and Zakarpattia Oblast. They have now crossed over to Romania and Hungary. They are waiting for a flight back home.Kuldeep Singh, whose son Navneet is an MBBS student at Kharkiv National Medical University, said, “My son and his friends left for the railway station in the morning in cabs. En route, a missile stuck buy they had a miraculous escape. They managed to board a train in the morning, which is expected to reach Lviv late in the evening. From there, they will cross over to some other country, waiting for the Government of India to evacuate them.” Lviv is in the eastern part of Ukraine and, so far, considered safe. #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-youth-reach-romania-hungary-374519
03-03-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Back home, Shivani is busy taking calls to help stranded friends||Jalandhar, March 2Even though Shivani, final year MBBS student from Uzhhorod National University, returned home safely today, she is constantly busy taking calls and voice messages from her friends who are still stuck in Ukraine. She has been guiding her fellow mates and giving them tips so that they too can return home.Going a step further, she has also taken a toll-free number and has got it circulated in various groups of students so that she can help them. “This was the fag end of my sixth year in Ukraine. I am not only aware of the locations and safe exits but also well verse with their language. Many new students do not know which trains to board and how to cross the border. These are some of the reasons which have been delaying their evacuation,” she said at her place in Ramneek Avenue here.Babita Rani, her mother, said Shivani had been in India for a month’s vacation during her ongoing internship period and went back on January 29. “At that time, we had no idea that a war-like situation would develop in the country,” she said.Two other Punjab students who returned in the flight that Shivani came back in are her classmate Isha Gandhi of Kapurthala and Maninder of Phillaur.Maninder has returned from Kyiv where he was a hosteller as a fresher in a management course. “The first attack in Kyiv was made on February 23 and we left the city the next day. We took a friend’s car and moved towards Hungary border. We saw tanks coming from the opposite side. At some places, we also see firing incidents but did not halt our journey and somehow made it on time,” he said. He had gone there on October 13. #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/back-home-shivanis-busy-taking-calls-to-help-stranded-friends-374518
03-03-2022||Aparna Banerji||Ukraine crisis: Taxis charging hefty rates from students||Jalandhar, March 2Ukrainians aren’t letting our children board trains, say parents of the stranded students.With the situation getting worse with each passing day, thousands of Indian students are still struggling to get aboard trains in Kharkiv and Lviv. Many students have even lost their belongings while jostling with locals. Taxis are charging exorbitant rates from penniless students.Amid the struggle, Navi Aggarwal, a stranded student, made it to Romania on a train from Lviv, while her cousin Saphia got separated from her. With less money and no belongings, Saphia is by herself .Meanwhile, with Russia escalating its war against Ukraine, Saphia’s father Ravi Bhushan Aggarwal is inconsolable.Ravi says, “What do ministers really mean when they say get out of Kharkiv? Do they know what our kids are going through? People have to jostle, slap and punch each other to get on trains. Our kids are literally fighting for survival due to the inordinate delay of information.”Pardeep Aggarwal, whose daughter Navi Aggarwal reached Romania this morning, said, “I am not sending her back. At present, she’s at a refugee camp in the biting cold. They have been given fruits, water and a bun. I am relieved that she has crossed the border.”Another parent, Monica, mother of Jalandhar-based Jasmine Pruthi, who took a train to the Poland border yesterday afternoon, is awaiting a call from her daughter. She says, “I haven’t heard from her since yesterday. I hope she is fine.”‘Thrashed by Ukrainian cops’Abohar: Seeking help from the Ministry of External Affairs on Wednesday, student Aanchal Sharma tweeted that Indians at the Kharkiv railway station were not being allowed to board trains. She said Ukrainian cops were even assaulting them. She has tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri in the tweet. OC #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ukraine-crisis-taxis-charging-hefty-rates-from-students-374517
03-03-2022||Balwant Garg||Low Success Rate: Last year, only 24% students cleared Foreign Medical Graduates Examination||Faridkot, March 2It’s been 15 years since 39-year-old Rajiv (name changed) from Malwa returned to India after having completed his MBBS degree from Kharkiv National Medical University in Ukraine. Today, he is into a truck business.The shift from a medical background to a transporter was not by choice, but compulsion, as he failed twice to crack the Foreign Medical Graduates Examination (FMGE).The FMGE is conducted by the National Board of Examinations (NBE) in India and it is one of the mandatory requirements for an Indian citizen who has a medical degree from abroad to practise medicine in the country.In 2001, when Rajiv left for Ukraine for the MBBS degree, the FMGE was not introduced then.“The exam was introduced on March 15, 2002. I appeared twice, but failed to crack it. Left with no choice, I decided to run my family business,” he says.Another MBBS graduate from Ukraine, 32-year-old Pradeep Kumar (name changed), works as a “hospital administrator” in the family-run hospital. He completed his MBBS degree from Ivano Frankvsh National Medical College. On returning to India, he wrote the FMGE test in 2018, but could not clear it.Under family pressure, he pursued an MBA degree from a private institute and, subsequently, joined the hospital started by his father.He gives medicines for all common diseases, but prefers not to write any prescription. He sometimes assists his father in all minor medical procedures.The FMGE is held twice in a year in June and December. In 2020, 36,911 candidates appeared and only 5,419 (14.68 per cent) passed the test. Last year, only 23.83 per cent of candidates qualified.The qualified candidates undergo one-year internship in a hospital in India. Several coaching centres in New Delhi charge Rs 50,000 to Rs 1.5 lakh for two- to six-month classes to crack the FMGE. Those who fail to crack the exam take up other professions.Like 29-year-old medical graduate from Ukraine did. He shifted to Canada four years ago and, at present, runs a car washing centre there.“My father wanted me to become a doctor. So, he forced me to take up MBBS. Even before appearing for the FMGE, I was not confident of cracking it. My apprehension came true. So I did not appear for the second time. In 2018, I went to Canada on a study visa. After getting the permanent residency, I started my venture.”Most of these students are wards of doctors who want their children to be doctors so that their private clinics remain functional.Baba Farid University of Health Sciences Vice-Chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said, “The poor standard of medical education in colleges of Ukraine, China, Nepal, Philippines and East-European countries is the reason for students facing difficulty in qualifying the FMGE. The education is mostly theoretical in nature. Students have limited or no interaction with patients — an essential component of undergraduate medical education.”WHAT’S ON ANVIL FMGE must to practise in IndiaThe Foreign Medical Graduates Examination (FMGE) is conducted by the National Board of Examinations (NBE) in India. It is one of the mandatory requirements for an Indian citizen who has a medical degree from abroad to practise medicine in the country. #MBBS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/low-success-rate-last-year-only-24-students-cleared-foreign-medical-graduates-examination-374516
03-03-2022||---||'Our kids in jeopardy, Punjab Congress leaders nowhere to be seen': Manish Tewari tweets on Ukraine crisis||Chandigarh, March 2Targeting Punjab’s top Congress leadership, including the Chief Minister and PPCC chief, over response to the Ukraine crisis, party MP Manish Tewari on Wednesday claimed that it is only MPs who are doing heavy lifting, while others are ‘missing’.Tewari, in a tweet, said he was appalled that great leaders of Punjab Congress are nowhere to be seen “when thousands of our children are in jeopardy”.I am appalled great leaders of @INCPunjab Congress are nowhere to be seen/heard when thousands of our children our in jeopardy. Is it only Punjab MP’s who have to do heavy lifting. Where is @CHARANJITCHANNI , @sherryontopp , @sunilkjakhar. , @Barmer_Harish. Is power be & end all?“Is it only Punjab MPs who have to do heavy lifting. Where is Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, former state Congress president Sunil Jakhar and Harish Chaudhary, AICC incharge Punjab affairs,” the Anandpur Sahib MP asked.“Is power be & end all?” Tewari said as he ended his hard-hitting tweet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/our-kids-in-jeopardy-punjab-congress-leaders-nowhere-to-be-seen-manish-tewari-tweets-on-ukraine-crisis-374506
03-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Medical student from Barnala dies of stroke in Ukraine, family seeks help to bring body home||Barnala, March 2Chandan Jindal, a 22-year-old Barnala student, who was admitted to a hospital in Ukraine on February 2, died on Wednesday morning.His family has written to authorities concerned to help bring the body home. The father of deceased is also stuck in the war-torn country as he had gone there to take care of the ailing son.Neeraj Jindal who is vice president of Punjab BJP is related to the deceased.“My cousin Chandan Jindal, who was a student of MBBS in Ukraine, was admitted to Emergency Hospital of Vinnytsia after suffering an Ischemic stroke on February 2. His operation was done on February 4 and today we got information about his death,” Neeraj said.Chandanwas a student ofVinnytsia NationalMemorial Medical University, Vinnytsia, in Ukraine.“His father Shishan Jindal is also stuckinUkraine and we are in touch with all senior authorities of Punjab and central government and trying to make arrangements to bringback my uncle and the body of my cousin. Since the airspace in Ukraine is shut for passenger services,we are trying to make some other arrangement,” said Neeraj.Meanwhile, Barnala Deputy Commissioner Kumar Saurav Raj met parents of the students who are stuck in Ukraine and said they have been trying their levelbest to ensure the safe evacuation of all students.“We have written to our senior authorities to take up the matter with Ministry of External affairs to make quick arrangements to bring back the body of Chandan and toevacuate hisfather,” the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/medical-student-from-barnala-dies-of-stroke-in-ukraine-family-seeks-help-to-bring-body-home-374485
03-03-2022||New Delhi||Decision on 1993 Delhi bomb blast convict Davinder Pal Bhullar's release deferred by sentence review board||The Sentence Review Board (SRB) headed by Delhi Home Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday deferred the decision on the early release of Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar, a 1993 Delhi bomb blast case convict who is currently lodged in Amritsar jail.The matter has been put off till the next SRB meeting, said a Delhi government official.The demand by Sikh groups for Bhullar’s release had gained ground ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab.The seven members of the Board include the director general of Tihar prison, secretaries of Home and Law departments and director of social welfare department of the Delhi government, a district judge and a senior Delhi Police officer.Bhullar was convicted in connection with the killing of nine people and injuring of 31 in a bomb blast in 1993 in Delhi. Among those who survived the attack is former Youth Congress chief M S Bitta.Bhullar was sentenced to death by a designated TADA court on August 25, 2001.He is undergoing life imprisonment after the Supreme Court commuted his death sentence.He was shifted to Amritsar Central Jail from Delhi’s Tihar Jail on health grounds, in June 2015.Former Punjab chief minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch Parkash Singh Badal had recently sought the immediate release of Bhullar in the “larger interest of consolidating peace and communal harmony” in Punjab. He had accused the ruling Aam Aadmi Party in Delhi of obstructing his release.However, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had hit back, saying, “It is a sensitive issue and the SAD is doing dirty politics over it. We strongly condemn it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/decision-on-1993-delhi-bomb-blast-convict-davinder-pal-bhullars-release-deferred-by-sentence-review-board-374483
