04-03-2022||Chandigarh||225 Punjab students have returned from Ukraine so far: Chief Secretary||As many as 225 students have returned safely to Punjab so far, said state Chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari on Friday.He also asked officials concerned to ensure the safe return of remaining students and other persons stuck in war-torn Ukraine.“The state government is sparing no effort to help the distressed families in this hour of crisis,” he said in an official release.The chief secretary said 476 calls have been received so far on the control room numbers and these queries are being immediately forwarded to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) for ensuring safe and secure evacuation of persons stranded in Ukraine.Tewari urged the parents whose children are stranded in Ukraine to contact the helpline so that they could be extended assistance.Punjab Resident Commissioner Rakhee Gupta Bhandari apprised the chief secretary that they are in constant touch with the Indian embassy to ensure that state residents don’t face any kind of problem in returning to their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/225-punjab-students-have-returned-from-ukraine-so-far-chief-secretary-375106
04-03-2022||New Delhi||NIA files chargesheet against 5 Khalistani terrorists in arms, narcotics smuggling case||The anti-terror central probe agency NIA on Friday said it has filed a chargesheet in a special court in Mohali against five Khalistani terrorists in a case relating to smuggling of narcotics, weapons and explosive across India-Pakistan borders in Punjab.Officials in the NIA said in the chargesheet the agency has named Ferozpur residents Harmesh Singh alias Kali and Darvesh Singh, Jalandhar resident Gurmukh Singh, Kapurthala resident Gagandeep Singh and Moga resident Lakhbir Singh Rode.All the named accused persons have been charged for indulging in smuggling of arms, ammunitions, explosives from across the Indo-Pak border via drones, they added. The NIA officials said the case was initially registered by Punjab Police at PS Mamdot, Ferozepur, on August 25, 2021, which after being handed over the anti-terror agency re-registered it on November 6, 2021 under various sections of Arms Act, NDPS Act, Explosive Substance Act and the UA(P) Act.“Investigation has revealed that the charge-sheeted accused persons had smuggled illegal consignments of arms, ammunitions, explosives and narcotics from across the Indo-Pak border to carry out terror activities in India,” a senior NIA official said.The official further said that these illegal consignments were sent by accused Lakhbir Singh Rode (Chief of ISYF, a banned terrorist organisation) and his associates from Pakistan via drones.“These consignments were received by co-accused and further discreetly passed on to other accused persons involved in the conspiracy to carry out subversive activities in India,” the official said, adding that incriminating evidences have been found against all the charge-sheeted accused persons.Till now, five accused have been arrested in the case, while accused Lakhbir Singh Rode is still absconding, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chargesheet-filed-against-5-khalistani-terrorists-in-arms-narcotics-smuggling-case-nia-375077
04-03-2022||Jalandhar||Russia Ukraine war: Eight stranded students from Jalandhar flown back home||When 22-year-old Karan Kishore finally made it safely to the Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi, his family heaved a sigh of relief.The last few days have been hard for this son of a Punjab police inspector: he studies medicine in Kharkiv, a city that has been seeing intense shelling from invading Russian forces.  People like Karan, stranded, alone, and caught in the middle of another man’s war, found their way slowly to Ukraine’s border with Hungary, and from there, were flown home to India by Indian authorities.Karan Kishore was one of several Indian students who landed at the airport on Friday morning. Seven others from the district were with him.  Information from the Jalandhar administration’s control room says 16 of 56 stranded people from the district have been flown back to safety until Friday afternoon.  For people like Karan’s father Gurdip Lal, an inspector in Punjab Police at the local Commissionerate, seeing his son helped lift the anxiety that had plagued him for days.There are others like Karan still awaiting their turn: Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said 21 people from Jalandhar district are waiting at the Polish borders to be flown back home; six at the Hungary border; four students in Romania; one in Germany; and three in Slovakia.Round-the-clock helpline numbers for the district are 0181-2224417 and 1100. Karan Kishore and his family members at IGI Airport, New Delhi, on Friday. Tribune #russia ukraine crisis #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/russia-ukraine-war-eight-stranded-students-from-jalandhar-flown-back-home-375069
04-03-2022||Avneet Kaur||Nawanshahr couple flee war-torn Ukraine with two-day-old baby girl||Nawanshahr, March 3Five members of a Nawanshahr family, including a newborn baby, are among thousands of people who made a desperate bid to flee Ukraine after tensions between the two countries escalated.Speaking to The Tribune, Dharam Paul, father of Swatanter, who runs his immigration company in Kyiv, the capital city of Ukraine, shared a harrowing experience of his family, who had to go through several hardships to reach Poland.“On February 24, when Russia launched its first attack on Kyiv, my daughter-in-law was being taken to hospital for delivery. It was a tough time as tensions were brewing and my whole family — my wife, son, his wife, his sister-in-law and the newborn baby girl — were stuck there,” said Dharam Paul, adding that the family was not in a position to leave the country as the newborn baby and his daughter-in-law were under observation at the hospital.“Seeing no improvement in the situation, I asked my son to seek permission from doctors and leave the country at the earliest possible,” said Paul. He said on February 27, the family left Kyiv on their own risk and started their journey with then three-day-old daughter towards the Poland border.He said during that time, every member of his family was reciting prayers and that he himself used to be in a gurdwara for the whole day reciting Sukhmani Sahib paath, and praying for their safety. “Even though my family faced a lot of problems on the way from Kyiv to the Poland border, the newborn baby proved to be a blessing in disguise as seeing her Ukrainian army personnel gave them a free passage to the family and was not stopped at any checkpoints.He further said his son had carried along all the essentials and baby products and other items as prescribed by the doctors. Besides, as they were on their own car, they were able to keep the baby safe from freezing temperature but driving amid sounds of bombings and taking care of the baby in between was a tough task, he added.He said as it was an 800-km-long journey, they were travelling with the help of Google map. Still they were lost in between and ended up reaching an isolated place. “They then kept on travelling to reach a safer place and their journey was extended by another 200 km and then after seeking help from some local residents, they finally made it to the Poland border on March 1,” he added.“When they reached the Poland border, there was a 50-km-long queue and it was not easy for them to stand in the queue with then five-day-old baby and his ailing wife, so they sought help from border guards, who first asked them to wait and then nearly after 20-22 hours, allowed them to cross over,” said Dharam Paul.Still stuck in PolandDharam Paul said as the family has no birth certificate and other documents required to apply for a newborn’s passport, the family is still in Poland and trying to reach out to officials in case of any alternative available.Indian Embassy not responding“Ever since the family left Kyiv, my son was trying to contact Indian Embassy officials, he even sent them messages and mails informing them that they were carrying a newborn baby with them, but none from the embassy responded,” said Dharam Pal, adding that his son now with the help of Polish officials trying to figure out the way through which they can return.Poland local turns messiah for familyAfter crossing the border, the family stopped at a restaurant for lunch in Poland. However, seeing the newborn with the family, the restaurant owner, who was a Polish man, took the family to a nearby hospital for the baby’s and her mother’s check-up. “He even took them to their residence, provided them rooms to take rest and get fresh. He offered every possible help and arranged a hotel for them to stay until the official formalities are completed,” said Dharam Paul. #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-couple-flee-war-torn-ukraine-with-two-day-old-baby-girl-375003
04-03-2022||Ferozepur||9 booked for murder||Gangster dies in FerozepurFerozepur: Gangster Bharat Bhushan, alias Bhola “Shooter” (30), died under mysterious circumstances at the Civil Hospital after he complained of chest pain. Bhola was a close aide of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi. OCPhones found, inmates bookedMuktsar: Acting on the complaint lodged by the Assistant Superintendent of Muktsar jail, the police have booked two jail inmates, for allegedly carrying cell phones inside the prison. A case has been registered. OC4 held for thrashing studentMuktsar: The police have arrested four youngsters for allegedly thrashing a Class XI student. The staff overpowered them and handed them over to the police. Sources said the incident reportedly occurred due to molestation of a girl.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/9-booked-for-murder-374885
04-03-2022||Patiala||Preneet Kaur assures help to kin of 2 Patiala students stuck in Ukraine's Kharkiv||MP Preneet Kaur today visited the families of two local girls studying in Kharkiv and currently stuck in Ukraine.The Patiala MP met the family of Abhishree Malhotra, a first-year Kharkiv National Medical University student. She also spoke to the student over the phone and assured her that the Centre was doing everything possible for the safe evacuation of all Indian nationals. The MP promised to meet her once she was safely back. — #indians in ukraine #preneet kaur #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/preneet-assures-help-to-kin-of-2-kids-374882
04-03-2022||Ferozepur||BSF recovers Rs 21 cr heroin||The BSF jawans belonging to the 103 Battalion today recovered Rs 21.25 crore heroin near BOP Kalash along the India-Pakistan border.Rs81,000 drug money seizedBathinda: Following a tip-off, officials of the Police and Excise Department in a joint raid, recovered over 1,800 litres of lahan here. In another raid, the CIA staff wing of the police seized 22 gm of heroin with Rs81,000 drug money.As per information, the jawans observed suspicious movement during the wee hours following which they fired towards the Pakistan smugglers, but they managed to flee. Later, a search operation was carried out during which the contraband was recovered.Earlier, on February 16, the BSF had recovered 3.950-kg heroin worth Rs 20 crore along with a Chinese pistol, besides two magazines and 26 live rounds.In another incident, the police have arrested two persons and recovered 10 gm of heroin along with Rs 4 lakh drug money from them. The accused have been identified as Iqbal Singh Mintu of Rannia village in Moga, and Shimla Mahant.SSP Narinder Bhargav said the accused tried to flee from the spot, but were apprehended by cops near grain market. He said during their inspection, 10-gm heroin and Rs 4 lakh was recovered from them. The accused have been booked. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-recovers-21-cr-heroin-374879
04-03-2022||Nangal||Nangal sex scandal: Victim records statement||In a shot in the arm for the local police, one of the victims has come forward to record her statement in the case of sexual assault on students here. School principal Amritpal Dhiman is accused of sexually exploiting students, video clips of which, purportedly leaked by his friend Shiv Kumar, had surfaced on the social media.Though, police officials, including SSP Vivek Sheel Soni, refused to comment on the issue, sources said the victim went to the Nangal court and recorded her statement.While no victim had come forward in the case, an FIR was filed on the complaint of Ashwani Kumar, a resident of Daghor village. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nangal-scandal-victim-records-statement-374876
04-03-2022||Bathinda||Punjab cotton farmers protest delay in aid||Members of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) today held a meet with Bathinda DC and sought compensation for the cotton crop, which got damaged due to pink bollworm last year.The DC assured that the compemsation would be deposited in bank accounts of affected farmers and a special committee has been constituted to provide compensation amount to farm labourers who could not get work on account of cotton crop damage last year.Meanwhile, the SSP assured that cases registered against farmers during the farm agitation would also be cancelled. Later, condemning the Russian invasion of Ukraine, farmers carried out a “peace march” in the city. — #farmers protest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-delay-in-aid-374875
04-03-2022||---||Haven't lost hope yet, says Davinderpal Singh Bhullar's wife||Amritsar, March 3Navneet Kaur, wife of Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar, a 1993 Delhi bomb blast convict, is upset at the Delhi Government’s Sentence Review Board (SRB) putting off premature release of her husband. She has, however, not lost hope.Talking to The Tribune, she said it was “painful” to know her “ailing” husband could not get relief even after remaining behind bars for 24 years. “This time we were hopeful that he (Bhullar) would be with us for the rest of his life. I hope, he (Kejriwal), without any political interest, will be liberal next time the panel meets,” she said.Bhullar was one of the eight Sikh prisoners who were announced to be given special remission in 2019, but it lingered on for want of a nod from the Delhi government.Meanwhile, SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami termed AAP’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal holding sentence review board meeting an eyewash. #davinderpal singh bhullar #SGPC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/havent-lost-hope-yet-says-bhullars-wife-374873
04-03-2022||Chandigarh||BJP holds Punjab election review meeting||With the focus on preparing the cadre for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP today held a meeting to review its performance in the Assembly polls. The BJP had called a meeting of all 73 candidates, district presidents and office-bearers from across the state to review the party cadre’s performance in the recently held elections.In the meeting candidates and office-bearers were asked to share their experiences during the elections. While addressing the leaders and candidates, party’s Punjab campaign committee incharge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said the saffron party had emerged as a significant force in the Assembly elections.Claiming that the way workers had shown enthusiasm in the Assembly polls, Shekhawat said he was confident that the party would win at least 10 Lok Sabha seats from Punjab. Earlier, BJP’s state president Ashwani Sharma said the work for the 2024 Lok Sabha election had already started. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-holds-election-review-meeting-374870
04-03-2022||---||HC extends interim protection to Sumedh Saini||Chandigarh, March 3Around six months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court ordered a clear stay on the investigation in all cases against Punjab’s former police chief Sumedh Singh Saini and his arrest in all registered or likely to be registered cases, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan today extended the operation of the order till April 20 — the next date of hearing in the case.Taking up Saini’s plea filed through counsel SPS Sidhu, Justice Sangwan asserted: “List again on April 20. Interim order dated September 10, 2021, will continue till the next date of hearing.” Justice Sangwan had earlier asserted Saini’s involvement in multiple cases could be a “political ploy in the wake of the coming state Assembly elections”. The order, passed on September 10 last year, was directed to remain in force at least till the election to the state in February.Justice Sangwan had asserted he was conspicuous of the dare shown by the Punjab Police officials in trying to overreach the court, which was also a circumstance to be considered about the nature and quality of investigation being conducted by the Punjab Police in the FIRs.In his 46-page judgment, Justice Sangwan had asserted the order was being passed considering it to be a case of exceptional circumstances and hardship being caused to the petitioner by the state of Punjab on political grounds. #sumedh saini||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-extends-interim-protection-to-saini-374869
04-03-2022||Avneet Kaur||Harassed at Ukraine border despite Union Ministers on job: Pupils||Jalandhar, March 3Even though the Union Ministers have reached the Ukraine border to coordinate the evacuation process of the Indians still stuck in the war-torn country, the students alleged they continue to face harassment and discrimination at the hands of the Polish border guards.They alleged a free passage was being given to Ukrainian people and students from other countries, however, the Indians were being mistreated and asked to move out of queues.Sumit Puri (23), a fourth-year medical student of the Kharkiv National Medical University, who hails from Nawanshahr, said he along with a group of 15 friends had been stranded at the Ukraine-Poland border for 18 hours. He said his friends — four from Punjab, three Haryana, three Kerala and five Uttar Pradesh — left Kharkiv on Tuesday after a lot of struggle.He said they boarded a train for Lviv from Kharkiv as per the government instructions to reach the Poland border, but now they were stuck there in -3°C as the officials were not letting them cross over.“We just don’t know what’s happening. The Indian Embassy advisory asked us to arrive at the border as all arrangements are in place to evacuate us, but on ground the situation is completely different. There is not a single official of the Indian Government present at the border to assist us. We have been making desperate calls to seek help, but all in vain,” Sumit said, adding that there were hundreds of more Indian students stranded here and a majority of them had come from Kharkiv.Talking to The Tribune over a WhatsApp call, Vikas of Haryana, who was with Sumit, alleged an Indian officer on duty at the Poland border received his call last night, but he asked him to manage things on his own as he couldn’t help him and later disconnected the phone.Another stranded student, Abhay Chahal of Gurdaspur, said they desperately want the Indian Government to intervene as they were facing discrimination at the Poland border. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi needs to talk with the Polish government,” he added.Meanwhile, Vijay Khanna, a government official deployed at the Poland border, didn’t take repeated calls or replied to the message.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harassed-despite-union-ministers-on-job-pupils-374867
04-03-2022||Abohar||Religious body BAPS sets up mobile kitchen||Volunteers of the Bochasanwasi Akshar Purushottam Swaminarayan Sanstha (BAPS) from the UK, Ireland, France, Switzerland, Italy, Germany, Austria and Poland have reached out to Indian students in Ukraine and started providing them emergency relief.This included setting up of a mobile field kitchen in the south-eastern Polish city of Rzeszow, close to the Ukrainian border, providing 1,000 meals daily to refugees of all faiths and nationalities. The arrangements have been finalised in consultation with the India Ambassador to Poland.PM Narendra Modi had called up BAPS spokesperson Brahmavihari Swami asking for assistance from his organisation in ensuring safe passage to Indian nationals on the Polish, Romanian and Hungarian borders with Ukraine.“We have been instructed by BAPS chief Mahant Swami Maharaj to mobilise volunteers from all over Europe,” he said.The BAPS is arranging lodging and medical aid in coordination with the Centre and local partners to further expand the humanitarian gesture. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/religious-body-sets-up-mobile-kitchen-374864
04-03-2022||Vijay C Roy||Uphill road ahead, Punjab bicycle makers mull up to 7% price hike||Chandigarh, March 3Bicycle manufacturers in Punjab are contemplating to increase the price by 5-7% to offset the impact of high input costs such as steel, nickel, zinc and plastic prices. The hike is likely to be announced by the mid of this month.India produces about 2.2 crore bicycles every year. Over 1.5 crore bicycles per annum are manufactured in Ludhiana. Steel constitutes almost 85% of the raw material in bicycle manufacturing. In the past two months, steel prices have risen by almost Rs 7,000 per tonne.According to manufacturers, the raw material prices have been rising for the past couple of months and the conflict between Russia and Ukraine has further led to a sharp increase in rates.“In the In past 15-20 days alone, steel prices have risen by Rs 4,000 per tonne. Especially after the Russia-Ukraine conflict, the prices have risen by Rs 2,500 per tonne. We are expecting another Rs 5,000 increase in another 10-15 days, if the conflict continues. Also, nickel price has risen by Rs 500 per kg after the conflict. We are in a fix. We have to absorb the cost as of now as export contract are made for two-three months but we can’t sustain in near future. So we are contemplating to increase the prices by 5-7% to offset the cost,” said Onkar Singh Pahwa, CMD, Avon Cycles Limited.He justified the hike, saying the industry is forced to do so as the cost of the basic main raw material like nickel and steel went up sharply. “We may not be able to continueat this price so most probably by the mid of this month we will increase them,” he added. With the increase, a standard bicycle is likely to cost Rs 190-Rs 220 more.“The steel prices have been rising for the past couple of months. The prices of raw material such as steel, nickel, zinc has further risen by 10-15% after the Russia-Ukraine conflict. The industry is going to raise the prices up to 7%,” said Charanjit Singh Vishwakarma, former president, United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA). He urged the government to set up a Steel Regulatory Commission to regulate the prices.Among the worst-affected are bicycle parts manufacturers. Ludhiana alone accounts for 92% of bicycle parts’ manufacturers in the country. “Raw material prices are increasing on a daily basis. We are in catch-22 situation as we can’t ask for immediate price revision from the Original Equipment Manufacturers because the orders in hand were contracted on old prices. Still we have requested them to revise the prices and we expect something positive will be done,” said Rajeev Jain, partner, R&R Bikes and president of Laghu Udyog Bharti. #inflation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/uphill-road-ahead-bicycle-makers-mull-up-to-7-price-hike-374863
04-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||HC: Touching private parts with sexual intent is assault||Chandigarh, March 3The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that any act involving touching of private parts or a child’s primary/secondary sexual characteristics with a sexual intent involving physical contact amounts to sexual assault. Penetration was not “sine qua non” or an essential condition for attracting the penalty of sexual assault.The ruling by Justice Vinod S Bhardwaj came in a case where three children in conflict with law (CCL) were convicted and sentenced to two year imprisonment for commission of offences under Section 377 of the IPC and 10 of the POCSO Act.Appearing before the Bench, their counsel contended that the eight-year-old victim never deposed about being sodomised and only stated that the CCL had done ‘wrong act/bad act’ with him. Referring to the victim’s medical examination, the counsel added absence of external injury marks or detection of semen on the victim’s body or clothes defied any possibility of forcible intercourse or sodomy. As such, conviction under Section 377 was misconceived.Justice Bhardwaj asserted: “The contention of the petitioners is restricted only to one of the aspects of the scope of Section 377 i.e. sodomy. The suggestive interpretation of the petitioner that Section 377 cannot be attracted, but for occurrence of an eventuality where there is an anal penetration does not find support in the statute.”The very fact that Section 377 was intended to be gender neutral made it clear that the legislature mandated it to be attracted only in the event of a penetration other than contemplated under Section 375. “The offence under Section 377 of the IPC may also be attracted against two women, where the element of penetration, as projected by the counsel for the petitioners, may not be a possible eventuality. Thus, the argument of the petitioners does not fall in tandem with the statutory mandate.”Dismissing the pleas, Justice Bhardwaj asserted Section 377 could be attracted even in a situation where the penetration happened to be on any other part of the victim’s body. The predominant intent in the commission of the act, however, had to be sexual. The petitioners’ arguments that conviction was bad for want of any external mark of injury around the victim’s body was, as such, liable to be rejected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-touching-private-parts-with-sexual-intent-is-assault-374862
04-03-2022||Chandigarh||Repatriation of doctors bid to 'dilute Punjab's share' in Chandigarh||The SAD and AAP have objected to the Chandigarh Administration’s proposal to repatriate 112 doctors from Punjab working on deputation in the UT and hire those from other states, terming it a bid to “dilute” state’s share in the UT’s administration.SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema alleged UT officers had hatched a “conspiracy” to send back 112 doctors to their parent state while campaigning for the Assembly elections was on. The UT advertisement to hire doctors from Haryana, HP, etc. was in violation of the Punjab Reorganisaton Act, he said.Slamming the move, AAP’s Bhagwant Mann said under the Act, 60% share of Punjab was reserved in all kinds of services in Chandigarh. But the Centre had decided to abolish deputation from Punjab to the UT. First, the Congress was violating Punjab’s rights and now the BJP was doing the same, he said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/repatriation-of-doctors-bid-to-dilute-share-in-chandigarh-374861
04-03-2022||Chandigarh||BBMB row: Centre usurping Punjab's rights, will meet minister, says SAD||Accusing the Centre of abolishing the federal system and replacing it with a unitary system of governance by bringing in new rules for the nomination of Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) members, the SAD has said Punjab will not surrender to its coercive decisions.“A delegation of the SAD would meet Union Power Minister RK Singh on his return from Ukraine and take up the issue of permanent membership of Punjab in the BBMB. We will chalk out our next course of action after assessing the outcome of these meetings,” said former MP and senior vice-president Prem Singh Chandumajra.“The Centre is usurping the rights of states and Punjab seemed to have become the main target. Earlier, the jurisdiction of BSF was increased and now the Centre has abolished the permanent membership of Punjab in BBMB,” he said.As if this was not enough, the Centre had now replaced the Punjab security at the Bhakra dam with the CISF, which amounted to lack of trust in Punjab, he said.Meanwhile, AAP CM candidate Bhagwant Mann accused the BJP government of depriving Punjab of its rights. After abolition of Punjab’s representation in the BBMB, the Centre had now decided to remove Punjab Police from the security of dams and expel Punjab’s doctors from government services in Chandigarh, substantiating its “anti-Punjab” stand.Mann urged the Centre not to harass Punjabis by robbing them of their rights and uphold the rights of Punjab in Chandigarh and in the management of dams. He asked SAD (Sanyukt) leader SS Dhindsa and ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh to explain their position on the decision of the BJP government. — #bbmb #prem singh chandumajra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-usurping-states-rights-will-meet-minister-says-sad-374859
04-03-2022||---||2 yrs on, cooking cost of mid-day meal unchanged||Muktsar, March 3Despite steep hike in prices of various grocery items, such as refined oil, gram flour, pulses and condiments, the cooking cost of mid-day meal per student has not been revised for last two years.Status of key food schemes reviewedChandigarh: The Punjab State Food Commission held a review meeting to take stock of the current status of implementation of all major schemes, including mid-day meal scheme, under the National Food Security Act, 2013.Notably, the mid-day meal is provided to students of primary (I to V) and upper primary (VI to VIII) classes in all government schools. Further, the meal is being provided to students of pre-primary classes also and that too without getting any government funds.The cooking cost was last revised on May 15, 2020. It was increased from Rs 4.48 to Rs 4.97 per student for primary classes and Rs 6.71 to Rs 7.45 per student for upper primary classes. The Centre and state governments fund the scheme at a 60:40 ratio.On this, some teachers said the prices of groceries and vegetables were increasing, but the authorities were not bothered to hike the cooking cost of mid-day meal per student. “We appeal to the state government to look into the matter,” said some teachers.Keemat Charaya, an activist of the Muktsar Elementary Teachers’ Union, said: “Everyone is being hit by inflation. The authorities concerned should revise the cooking cost of mid-day meal. They can compare the prices of refined oil, pulses and seasonal vegetables in 2020 and 2022. Further, the schools are providing mid-day meal to pre-primary students too without getting any extra funds.”On this, Harjeet Singh, Deputy District Education Officer (Primary), Muktsar, said: “We have not received any representation in this regard. If the teachers give us in writing, we will forward their demand to the high ups.”The money is provided to the schools to buy groceries and provide mid-day meal to the students six days a week. #mid-day meal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-yrs-on-cooking-cost-of-mid-day-meal-unchanged-374855
04-03-2022||Amritsar||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi's nephew Bhupinder Honey taken to hospital||CM Charanjit Channi’s nephew Bhupinder Honey, who was lodged in Kapurthala jail, was reportedly brought to the Government Medical College here for treatment early this morning. He was sent back after doctors prescribed medicines and said there was no need for admission.Honey had complained of chest pain after which he was taken to the hospital and all required tests were conducted. As the test reports were satisfactory, the doctors felt no need for admission, said Dr KD Singh, MS, Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. — #bhupinder honey #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channis-nephew-taken-to-hospital-374852
04-03-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Congress counts on 'Majha brigade'||Chandigarh, March 3Having won 22 of the 25 seats in the Majha region during the 2017 Assembly elections, the Congress is pinning hopes on its ‘Majha brigade’ in Gurdaspur and Amritsar districts to return to power.Wary of reports of the SAD likely to make gains in the region, the Congress leadership is reassessing the seat-to-seat poll percentage in the two districts to draw an idea about the number of seats likely to go into its kitty.Victories of senior Majha brigade leaders Sukhjinder Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Bajwa and Sukhbinder Sarkaria, besides Gurdaspur MLA Barindermeet Singh Pahra will increase the party’s prospects of forming the government again.Also, the result of PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s Amritsar East is crucial to the party’s equation. The results of the Majha leaders would set the pitch for party’s Jat face after polls. Irrespective of whether it repeats the government or not, Sidhu ‘remains’ the bone of contention for other Jat leaders of Majha.“Resurgence of Akalis in Majha means the Congress will have to perform better in Doaba and Malwa. In 2017, the party won 15 of 23 seats in Doaba and 40 of 69 seats in Malwa. It is also banking on CM Charanjit Channi to perform better in the Doaba region,” said a senior leader.A Doaba leader said polling stations having a high percentage of SC votes showed higher poll percentage. “This could mean vote for Channi or vote for change,” he opined.In Malwa, the narrative built around actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu’s death, undercurrent for change and the dera factor were adding to the confusion for the party. #majha||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-counts-on-majha-brigade-374850
04-03-2022||Aman Sood||Poll factor: Punjab Pollution Control Board 'goes slow' on raids||Patiala, March 3For the past almost two months, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has not resumed its drive to conduct surprise raids on various industries to check compliance of pollution norms.From an average of around 50 to 100 raids or surprise inspections per month, the PPCB is now limited to “only essential checks”, following the elections.Senior board officials said the special drive, which was “suspended” in December, was unlikely to be resumed till formation of a new government. Many senior field officials have claimed that they got verbal instructions from the top brass not to conduct any raids, primarily due to “political reasons”.It’s because of election dutyThere is no politics behind suspension of raids across the state. The real reason is that a majority of our staff is at the disposal of the respective DCs in the districts. We will resume the drive as soon as the employees are back on the field duty. —Karunesh Garg, Member Secretary, PPCBHowever, officially PPCB claims that the raids against polluting industry had been suspended as field staff were on election-related duties. “Once they are back, raids will be conducted across the state,” it said.“Since a majority of the industrialists have political affiliations, the authorities seem worried that conducting raids may raise a storm. Hence, we have been given verbal instructions not to conduct any raids,” said a senior PPCB engineer.“A recent raid at a unit in Sangrur recently led to lot of political hullabaloo. We had to abandon the raid findings midway, following interference from the top,” he said.Notably, in view of the fact that industry plays a significant role in raising funds during elections, the PPCB had stopped conducting raids on various industries, including distilleries, dyeing units, plastic manufacturers, brick kilns, battery manufacturers, etc.Before December 2022, the board had issued show-cause notices to hundreds of violators while a few units were sealed for flouting pollution norms.“On an average, we conduct around 100 raids every month to ensure compliance of pollution-related rules,” said Karunesh Garg, Member-Secretary, PPCB.“Our routine checks are on for the moment. Yesterday we got a report on bio-medical waste being disposed of against norms in Mohali and our teams ensured action,” he added. #Environment #Pollution #PPCB||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poll-factor-pollution-board-goes-slow-on-raids-374849
04-03-2022||GS Paul||5 land in Amritsar, say students in Ukraine on their own||Amritsar, March 3Agony gave way to smiles and tears of joy for five students from Punjab who arrived at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport here safely from war-torn Ukraine this evening.Two of them belonged to Mukerian, while one each hailed from Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Jalandhar. Sharing their travails, the returnees said students were making it to the western border on their own.Recalling the ordeal they faced on way to the Polish border, they said they left Kharkiv when things were relatively better.Mannat Sharma, an Amritsar resident pursuing MBBS at Kharkiv National Medical University, said amid shelling, they shifted to the Metro station on February 27. She had posted a video of her walking towards the Metro station carrying essentials on her shoulder with a group of students headed towards Poland on March 1.Expressing gratitude to the Indian authorities, she said: “Once we reached the Polish border, the Indian authorities made arrangements for our repatriation. I am still worried about those still stuck,” she said.Mukerian-based Gurleen Kaur and Sugandha said it was tough for them to reach the border from Lviv. “With no help to move inside the Ukrainian territory, the real challenge was to reach the border,” they said.Tarn Taran’s Saajandeep Singh Kahlon and Jalandhar’s Milap Singh were also stranded in Kharkiv and fled when curfew was eased. #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-land-in-amritsar-say-students-in-ukraine-on-their-own-374848
04-03-2022||Archit Watts||Worried over kids' safety in Ukraine, parents meet Union Minister Gajendra Shekhawat||Muktsar, March 3Following an advisory of the Indian Embassy to leave Kharkiv before 6 pm (Ukraine time) on Wednesday, many Indian students walked a distance of 11 km to a shelter home at a school hostel in Pesochin last evening.Muktsar youth returnsSimarpreet Singh, an MBBS student at Uzhhorod National University in Zakarpattia Oblast, on Thursday reached his native Udekaran village in Muktsar. He said, “I am thankful to the Indian Embassy for safely evacuating a number of students.”Some parents said now they were staying there as no further arrangements had been made for their evacuation.A delegation of five parents and two local BJP leaders today met Union Minister Gajendra Shekhawat in Chandigarh, requesting him to make arrangements to evacuate students from Pesochin.Muktsar resident Ashok Chawla, whose son Aneesh is a first-year MBBS student at Kharkiv National Medical University, said, “The embassy is issuing advisories, asking students to reach borders. Some of the countries are 1,800 km away from Kharkiv. How can they get any conveyance to cover such a long distance? We have requested the Union Minister to evacuate our children from Pesochin or provide a safe passage to enter Russia, which is much closer.”Some parents also met the DC seeking the evacuation of children. The IMA has also come in their support. #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/worried-over-kids-safety-parents-meet-shekhawat-374846
04-03-2022||Raj Sadosh||Trapped in bunker without food in Ukraine's Kharkiv, four girls from Punjab, Chandigarh send out SOS||Abohar, March 3Trapped in Kharkiv due to the unavailability of transport, four girl students, namely Diksha Vij of Abohar, Harpreet Kaur and Sargundeep Kaur of Amritsar and Shellwin Kutlehria of Chandigarh, in a video message, said two urgent advisories to leave the city on Wednesday forced them to cover 8 km on foot to board a train, which they couldn’t due to heavy rush.“No special trains have so far been arranged for stranded Indians students.”“We had to return from the station. Then an agent advised us to move to a safe settlement following which we again covered 12 km on foot to a bunker, where we are staying without food. The only way out is to provide us transport to the nearest the border. We seek immediate help from the Indian Embassy,” the girls added.MBBS student Rijul, Anoopgarh native, today informed her mother Priyanka and father Ajay Saraswat that she along with a group of students entered Slovakia from Rubizhne in Ukraine late last night after 24-hour cab travel that was followed by a 25-km walk. People in Slovakia, who had arranged food, greeted them. They have been issued a 20-day visa to facilitate easy evacuation to India. While leaving Rubizhne, we had to crawl on the road to keep ourselves safe from shelling, she added.Another MBBS student, Himanshu Khandelwal, informed his parents that he along with a group of students had entered Romania. Indian officials had assured to arrange a flight for them soon, he added.So far, 11 students from Jalore, Jhunjhunu, Kota, Dausa, Rawatbhata, Hanumangarh, Churu, Barmer and Chittorgarh in Rajasthan have returned from Ukraine.  #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trapped-in-bunker-without-food-four-girls-send-out-sos-374843
04-03-2022||Aparna Banerji||On fresh advisory, 1,000 walk to Kharkiv suburb||Jalandhar, March 3Following the Indian Government’s fresh advisory, around 1,000 students have made it to Pesochin, a western suburb of Ukraine’s Kharkiv city, on foot since last night. The Centre had asked its nationals stranded in the country’s second largest city to head to Pesochin, Babaye and Bezlyudovka.Act of kindnessAmid the chaos, some Ukrainians are going out of the way to help Indians, who aren’t being allowed on trains by locals. “At Kharkiv station, my daughter, Jashmeen Kaur (in pic), befriended an elderly woman who waited along with her family to board a train. When Ukrainians got food for their people, the woman insisted on giving it to Indians too. That’s the only meal my daughter had since she left her bunker,” said Tejinder Kaur.Stranded in a heavily bombed area near Kharkiv with no lights or phones, the students now await a ride out. They are putting up in two hostels and parents claimed an additional 1,600 Indian students were expected to arrive by evening.Thousands of students had been desperately trying to board a train out of Kharkiv for the past two days, but with no success, prompting them to head to the nearest of the three sites — Pesochin — walking in sub-zero temperatures amidst heavy shelling.Tejinder Kaur, whose daughter Jashmeen Kaur (19), pursuing second-year in medicine, said: “It was after eight days that my daughter slept on a bed last night. She tried all day yesterday to board a train out of Kharkiv, but couldn’t. After the advisory, their consultant Karan went ahead to make arrangements for students at Pesochin. Around 1,000 students walked two hours inthe rain, having a close shave as one of the shells landed nearby, to reach Pesochin last evening. Power was suspended and they were asked to put their phones in airplane mode. They haven’t eaten anything since last night. Despite assurance, no food had been arranged. Another 1,600 kids are on way.”She said: “Some students were even assaulted with sticks as they tried to board trains at Kharkiv yesterday. In the commotion, their belongings were left behind. They are putting up in five hostels at Pesochin. We expect them to head out shortly.”Kuldeep Singh, father of Ekamdeep Singh from Kapurthala, said: “Around 500 of them tried hard to head out in trains but in vain, forcing them to walk to Pesochin. Ekamdeep hasn’t eaten anything so far. They have been prohibited from posting anything or sharing photos.”Meanwhile, two education consultants Karan Sandhu and Hardeep Singh are with students, helping them out. #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-fresh-advisory-1-000-walk-to-kharkiv-suburb-374841
04-03-2022||Chandigarh/Ludhiana||Of 900 pupils from state, 62 back home from Ukraine so far: Punjab Govt||Sixtytwo Punjab students have returned home from Ukraine since February 27 while nearly 900 got stuck in the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine.Also read: Harassed at Ukraine border despite Union Ministers on job: Pupils“The number of the returnees may be slightly higher as not all may have reported their arrival to the Punjab Government,” said ADGP MF Farooqui, who is nodal officer of the state for handling the crisis.“Nearly 150 to 200 students are in transit and may return by tomorrow,” he said.The government has created a data base for students stuck in Ukraine. “About 900 have got registered on the state helpline number or the respective district administration,” said Farooqui, adding, “the information is scattered and situation is quite fluid.”Information about students from some of the districts revealed that none of the 56 students from Jalandhar and 27 from Kapurthala have come back.Of 37 students from Patiala, two have returned. In Ropar, seven of the 27 students have returned while nine are stuck at different locations. The whereabouts of the remaining was not known till the filing of the report.“Three students (total 7) from Sangrur, one (9) from Malerkotla and one (10) from Barnala have returned,” the information said.Meanwhile, the Ludhiana administration claimed as many as 13 students from district are not in touch with families while nine others are still stuck in the war-torn country, but are in contact with their parents back home.It had so far been able to identify 112 Ludhiana natives, who were pursuing medical studies in Ukraine. Of them, 90 have already been evacuated safely. While 49 medicos have reached India, 41 others have been safely shifted to other neighbouring countries from where their return is being arranged, the administration claimed.Sharing details, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said on Thursday that all these 112 medical students were traced after their families and relatives reached the district administration through a 24x7 helpline launched to trace and evacuate them. #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/of-900-pupils-from-state-62-back-home-so-far-govt-374840
