05-03-2022||Gurdaspur||Five Punjabi students return from Ukraine, thank their stars, country’s embassy||Five medical students belonging to Punjab returned from war-torn Ukraine on Friday evening.They returned to their home towns, heaving a sigh of relief and thanking their stars that they managed to come out of Ukrainian city Kharkiv amid heavy shelling by the Russian forces.Jasmeet Kaur, who is from Gurdaspur, said she along with other students decided to move out of Kharkiv on February 28.They were staying in the basement of their hostel and stepped out of it after being left with no food or water.With private taxis demanding a huge sum of money, they trudged 4 km to reach Kharkiv railway station, she said, adding there was a huge rush of people at the railway station.She said the authorities there were allowing Ukrainians to board the trains first.Kaur said they could manage to board only after missing two trains for Lviv in order to head towards the Hungary border.Harpreet Jassi, who is from Jalandhar said they had been hearing loud sounds of bombing as the Russian forces had intensified their offensive.“We were constantly hearing sounds of bombing and shelling. Had we not decided to leave Kharkiv, we would have been stranded there,” said Jassi.Anmol, another student who is from Amritsar, said they had to stand in the train for maximum time in their over the 24-hour journey.Anmol thanked the Indian embassy for their support.“Officials of the Indian embassy have helped us with essentials including food and water,” said Anmol.Another Kharkiv National University student Smily Sharma said because of shelling, she along with her three friends were first stuck at Kharkiv railway station and then in Kyiv.They later hired a cab to reach the Poland border, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/five-punjabi-students-return-from-ukraine-thank-their-stars-countrys-embassy-375396
05-03-2022||Vibha Sharma||BJP will retain four states; do better than expected in Punjab: Nadda||New Delhi, March 5Exuding confidence of retaining States it currently holds— Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Goa, and Uttarakhand—the BJP on Saturday said it would do “better than expected” in Punjab, a state it fought in an alliance with Captain Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) in these elections.Speaking with mediapersons at the end of the campaign to the five Assemblies, including the marathon seven-phase for UP, BJP chief JP Nadda said he was confident that state government’s works and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s policies will translate into votes for the party.“We received a very positive response from people, which we sensed while campaigning. The way Prime Minister has empowered the poor, oppressed, deprived and exploited, the positive impact was visible,” Nadda said.Home Minister Amit Shah added that PM Modi began an era of the “politics of performance in India instead of that of ‘parivarvaad’ (nepotism), ‘jativaad’ (casteism) and ‘tushtikaran’ (appeasement). “The BJP is returning to power, including in UP, with ‘prachand bahumat’ (complete majority). There was no ‘kante ki takkar’ (close fight),” Shah said, dismissing the claims of the main rival Samajwadi Party.So far as Punjab is concerned, Nadda said this was the first time the BJP contested 65 seats in the state. “Before this, we were limited to 23 seats and confined to the NDA dharma,” Nadda said, adding that henceforth the party will work towards strengthening cadres at booth-level in the state.On who will form a government in Punjab, Shah said: “Stithi mazboot karne ka matalab ye bhi hai ki hum sarkar banane ki stithi main hai.” In other words, according to Shah, “doing better than expected” did not mean the BJP will not form a government in Punjab. Regarding the impact of farmers’ protests, Shah said the issue “only remained in the minds of journalists”.“This is the first time any Indian Prime Minister has seen such popularity, which is why we are saying with confidence that we are returning to power in four states that we have governments in and improving our situation in a much better way in Punjab,” Shah said.“We saw it in the response of the people to Prime Minister’s rallies in all the states, giving us confidence that the BJP is returning to power in a major way in Uttar Pradesh,” he added.“We will not require anyone’s help in forming the government in UP,” Shah added on whether the party was still open to an alliance with RLD’s Jayant Chaudhary, “The BJP is forming a government in UP with a ‘prachand bahumat’ and will not require anyone’s help. Goa, Uttarakhand and Manipur will also see a BJP government with complete majority,” Shah said.The Home Minister also said that India’s response to Ukraine crisis has had a positive effect on elections and the country. “The PM had made arrangements, an advisory was issued on February 15 and Russian-speaking teams were sent to the neighbouring countries. There has been a positive impact in the elections and in the country. And when Modiji met the students, they thanked him and expressed happiness and also gave him good wishes to win the elections,” he said. #elections 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-retain-our-states-improve-tally-in-punjab-says-bjp-as-marathon-election-enters-final-phase-375368
05-03-2022||PK Jaiswar||Rare frescoes at Maharaja Ranjit Singh's palace still await conservation||Amritsar, March 4Even as the Punjab Heritage and Tourism Board has thrown open the museum set up at the Summer Palace of Maharaja Ranjit Singh at the historic Rambagh garden after years of restoration, the rare frescoes found in a room located on the terrace of the palace still awaits conservation.An official in the department wishing not to be named said the frescoes were in bad shape and therefore no conservationists put their hands on it. “When some experts earlier tried to restore the murals adorning the four walls of the room, these were getting ruined due to fragile structure,” said sources. The rooftop is still sealed and locked and visitors cannot go there.One of the rare frescos depicts Lord Krishna during Raasleela. The conservation experts pointed out that the department should have documented the same and then got it restored at any cost.The heritage structure was in the possession of the department for over the past decade and it has failed to do its necessary documentation which is important for restoration. Earlier, a museum used to run on the ground floor of the historic buildings since 1975. Ironically, the room on the terrace remained neglected.The priceless frescoes are an invaluable part of Punjab’s heritage. The period of Maharaja Ranjit Singh was the Renaissance period in Punjab when art and architecture flourished under his patronage.A conservation expert who was involved in the preservation work pointed out on condition of anonymity that the wall paintings should have been restored on a priority basis. He said the damaged portion was not possible to be retrieved or replicated in the absence of any documentation.After lingering on for several years, the conservation work was finally completed and a museum was set up by placing paintings, artefacts, weaponry and other objects reminding the period of legendary Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh. Conservation work was done carefully using the same ingredients which used to prevail during the period of the Maharaja. These materials were derived from natural sources like extracts of plants, lime, eggs, moong dal and others. Before this to happen, the entire old material on the wall was painstakingly scrapped.AR Mishra, project in-charge, said around four years ago, the department tried to restore the same, but it was very difficult as the conservation experts avoided to lay their hands on the same for restoration due to fragile nature of the structure. “I will not be able to comment on the present status. I would have to look into this before commenting,” said Mishra. #maharaja ranjit singh #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-rare-frescoes-at-ranjit-singhs-palace-still-await-conservation-375260
05-03-2022||Satya Prakash||SC shocked at 'unprecedented' HC order protecting Sumedh Saini in all future criminal cases||New Delhi, March 4The Supreme Court today expressed “shock” over an “unprecedented” order passed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court giving a blanket protection from arrest to former Punjab Director General of Police Sumedh Singh Saini in all pending and future criminal cases against him till April 20.“This is an unprecedented order. How can future course of action be stayed? It’s shocking and three of us (on the Bench) feel it’s unprecedented. This will require hearing,” a three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said.Blanket protection from arrest shockingHow can future course of action be stayed? It’s shocking and three of us (on the Bench) feel it’s unprecedented. This will require hearing. — CJI-led Bench“We will request the High Court to dispose of the petition… by another judge and not the same judge within two weeks. We request the Chief Justice (of Punjab and Haryana HC) to take it up himself or by any other judge… we will keep this matter pending (in SC),” CJI Ramana said, posting it for hearing after four weeks. Assailing the HC order, Punjab Advocate General DS Patwalia said, “There’s blanket stay… protection against everything.”On behalf of Saini, senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi sought to defend the HC order, saying, “The state has not followed a single order. He (Saini) has survived an assassination attempt.”“Whatever it may be, you can’t pass an order saying in future cases also he can’t be arrested… What is this?” the CJI told Rohatgi.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan had on Thursday ordered that Saini should not be arrested till April 20 in pending and future cases against him, except the Balwant Singh Multani murder case pending before the top court. Justice Sangwan, who had earlier noted Saini’s involvement in multiple cases could be a “political ploy in the wake of the coming state Assembly elections”, said the order was being passed considering the exceptional circumstances and hardships being caused to Saini by the state of Punjab on political grounds.The Supreme Court had on September 15, 2020 granted protection from arrest to Saini in the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani murder case. #sumedh saini||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-order-in-saini-case-unprecedented-says-supreme-court-375136
05-03-2022||Muktsar||Two die in mishap||Two persons died, while two others got injured as the car they were travelling in rammed into a stationary truck on Sito Gunno-Dabwali Road near Ghumiara village here. The deceased have been identified as Bhagwant Singh (60) and his employee Mangat Singh (40) of Abohar. The police have booked unidentified truck driver. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-die-in-mishap-375128
05-03-2022||Abohar||1 held for using drone near IB||A team from Batala that had come for shooting a video song in Sriganganagar has run into trouble for using a drone camera. The aerial distance of the Indo-Pak border from the site where the shooting was taking place is just 12 km.The district administration had prohibited use of drones without prior permission up to a distance of 25 km from the Indo-Pak border. The drone operator has been arrested.The accused has been booked and arrested. The police have confiscated the drone. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-held-for-using-drone-near-ib-375127
05-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab Govt can't sell Mohali PCL building: Leader of Opposition||Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema wrote a letter to Punjab’s Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju and opposed the sale of the Mohali Punjab Communication Limited (PCL) building.In his letter, the LoP said the PCL is abided by the instructions of the Election Commission and they can’t sell the building while the model code of conduct was in effect. He said a high-level inquiry should be conducted in the matter and appropriate action should be taken against the sale.Cheema said the managing committee of the Mohali PCL decided to sell their building at Plot No. 134, Industrial Area Phase 8, Mohali, during the elections, which is a violation of government rules and poll code. — #harpal cheema||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-cant-sell-pcl-building-leader-of-opposition-375126
05-03-2022||Fazilka||Fazilka: Cop on EVM security dies of gunshot injury||A sub-inspector, Baldev Chand (50), posted outside a strongroom in Government Senior Secondary School (Boys) died of a gunshot injury in the wee hours today.SHO Parvinder Singh, in a statement, said the preliminary investigation suggested that the service revolver of the sub-inspector went off accidentally resulting into the death of Baldev Chand.However, the police said it had been investigating the exact cause of the bullet injury. As per preliminary reports, the sources said Baldev Chand of Simrewala village of Jalalabad had allegedly shot himself dead, the reason for which was yet to be ascertained.The sources said the police personnel posted with Baldev heard the gunshot about 3.30 am and noticed that Baldev was lying on the floor outside the strongroom. He was shifted to a local district hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Baldev was posted outside the strongroom as a police team incharge. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cop-on-evm-security-dies-375125
05-03-2022||---||Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, six others booked for poll violence||Ferozepur, March 4Twelve days after alleged poll violence took place at Gatti Rahime Ke village in the district on February 20, the police have booked seven persons, including BJP’s Ferozepur Urban candidate Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi and former party MLA Sukhpal Singh Nannu. The others booked included Satnam Singh, Vanzar Singh, Mangat Ram, Sonu Singh, Surinder Singh, all BJP workers.As per information, the police have registered a case under Sections 323 and 506, IPC, on the complaint lodged by Surjit Singh at the Sadar police station. It his compliant to the police, Surjit had claimed he was allegedly thrashed by BJP workers on the polling day.Surjit claimed on the day of polling, he noticed Satnam, Vanzar, Mangat Ram, Sonu and Surinder allegedly distributing money to secure votes for the BJP candidate. “When I intervened, the accused threatened me of dire consequences. Later, the accused thrashed me, causing injuring. They also took away my mobile,” alleged Surjit in his statement.The police had reportedly lodged a cross-case against Surjit on the basis of the statement given by Sodhi under Sections 342 and 506, IPC.Sub-Inspector Ajmer Singh, investigation officer, said during preliminary investigation, it came to the fore that no incident regarding snatching of mobile phone took place.Sodhi has already been booked in two cases of poll violation at the Cantonment police station. Sodhi was booked under Sections 188 IPC and 171-F of the IPC for entering a poll booth with security guards when polling was underway.In another case, he was booked for reportedly campaigning at his supporter’s residence at Attari Village in the district on the eve of polling. #rana gurmit singh sodhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rana-gurmit-singh-sodhi-six-others-booked-for-poll-violence-375124
05-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Uncertainty over Punjab poll results, candidates jittery||Sangrur, March 4With no method to exactly assess the votes they have got, a majority of candidates are having sleepless nights. Multi-cornered contests in Assembly elections this time are making evaluation more difficult for them.Leaders of various political parties have been calculating their votes based on their own assumptions, leading to interesting conclusions.Like, AAP leaders have been claiming this time women have been “silent voters” with a majority of them choosing the party.Congress leaders say that the work of CM Charanjit Singh Channi would help them form government again while BJP and SAD leaders also have their own calculations.“It’s the first election, when even after voting, leaders are calling us to get feedback. But neither leaders nor voters know who will win,” said Navdeep Singh, a Sangrur youth. Desperate to get any information, many candidates have deputed their confidants to collect village-wise details from sarpanches. However, this exercise is also disappointing them.“I have got a large number of votes in the Lehra constituency and will definitely win. But the multi-cornered contest has made things uncertain at other seats. Like me, other politicians are also trying to get some information of various seats through their sources, but contradicting information is only multiplying confusion,” said Parminder Dhindsa, Lehra MLA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/uncertainty-over-poll-results-candidates-jittery-375123
05-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Centre, passport authorities get Punjab and Haryana High Court rap for 'bureaucratic attitude'||Chandigarh, March 4The Punjab and Haryana High Court has rapped the Union of India and other respondent-authorities for total “non-application of mind” and “bureaucratic attitude” following refusal to change the names of an applicant’s parents in the passport at the time of its renewal.The names mentioned in the initial passport were based on an earlier school certificate, while the petitioner-applicant was seeking the change on the basis of subsequent certificates and his parents’ passport. The respondents’ stand in the matter was that the names could not be changed as the certificate on the basis of which the names were mentioned had not been corrected.The admonition by Justice Sudhir Mittal came on a petition filed by Lovish Bajaj against the Union of India and other respondents. The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that the passport issued to the petitioner in 2011 mentioned the father’s name as Kuldeep Rai and mother’s as Sangita Bajaj.In the application for reissuance of the passport after its expiry, the father’s name was mentioned as ‘Kuldeep Rai Bajaj’ and mother’s name as ‘Sangita Kumari’. The petitioner’s Class X and XII certificates, along with the passports of the parents, were annexed with the application in an attempt to substantiate his plea.Responding to the contentions raised by the petitioner before the court, the respondents in their reply submitted that the names mentioned in the earlier passport were on the basis of middle school certificate. The certificate had not been got corrected till date. As such, the request could not be granted.“The reply suffers from a total non-application of mind and reflects the bureaucratic attitude adopted by the respondents. After passing the middle school examination, the petitioner has now passed Class X and XII examinations also, wherein the correct names of the parents have been mentioned. Their passports also support the case of the petitioner,” Justice Mittal asserted.Allowing the petition, Justice Mittal directed one of the respondents to take relevant documents into consideration and reissue the passport with the corrected parents’ name. “In case, the same is not possible, the reason for rejection of the request be communicated to the petitioner,” asserted Justice Mittal and set four-week deadline for doing the needful.Change in names of parentsThe authorities refused to change the names of an applicant’s parents in the passport at the time of its renewal. They said the names could not be changed as the certificate on the basis of which the names were mentioned had not been corrected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-passport-authorities-get-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-rap-for-bureaucratic-attitude-375122
05-03-2022||---||Day on, another Nangal scandal victim plans to depose in court||Ropar, March 4Emboldened by one of the victims of sexual assault recording her statement at a Nangal court yesterday, a few others are planning to come forward to “expose” the nefarious acts of the accused principal of a private school. At least one woman is being counselled to depose against her perpetrator, claimed sources.School principal Amritpal Dhiman of Nangran village was arrested by the police on February 25 and a Nangal court on February 2 remanded him in judicial custody. His friend Shiv Kumar, who was arrested for leaking the obscene video clips of the accused, had also been sent to judicial custody.While no victim had come forward till Wednesday, the police had already gathered sufficient digital material against the accused.Sources said the victim in her mid-20s was in class VIII when Dhiman allegedly abused her sexually, threatening to flunk her in the examinations if she reported the matter. He allegedly clicked her pictures and videos and blackmailed her. The victim even informed her mother, who was already facing health complications, and before they could lodge a complaint, the condition of her mother deteriorated and the family preferred to keep mum, said the sources.Kumar, district president of Bhim Army, said Dhiman was able to allegedly exploit students sexually in the absence of awareness among them as well as parents who preferred to keep mum despite knowing the activities of school principal.Whistleblower to hold marchAshwani Kumar, the whistleblower who lodged a complaint in the case on the basis of pictures of victims on the social media, said he would organise a march from Nangal to Nangran village on Sunday to raise awareness among the masses on such issues||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-on-another-nangal-scandal-victim-plans-to-depose-in-court-375121
05-03-2022||---||NIA files chargesheet against five ultras||New Delhi, March 4The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday said it has filed a chargesheet in a special court in Mohali against five Khalistani terrorists in a case relating to smuggling of narcotics, weapons and explosive across India-Pakistan borders in Punjab.Officials in the NIA said in the chargesheet the agency had named Ferozepur residents Harmesh Singh and Darvesh Singh, Jalandhar resident Gurmukh Singh, Kapurthala resident Gagandeep Singh and Moga resident Lakhbir Singh Rode.All named accused persons have been charged with indulging in smuggling of arms, ammunitions, explosives from across the Indo-Pak border via drones, they added.The NIA officials said the case was initially registered by the Punjab Police at PS Mamdot, Ferozepur, on August 25, 2021, after being handed over, the anti-terror agency re-registered it on November 6, 2021 under various Sections of the Arms Act, NDPS Act, Explosive Substance Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.“Investigation has revealed that the chargesheeted accused had smuggled illegal consignments of arms, ammunitions, explosives and narcotics from across the Indo-Pak border to carry out terror activities in India,” a senior NIA official said.The official further said the illegal consignments were sent by accused Lakhbir Singh Rode (Chief of International Sikh Youth Federation, a banned terrorist organisation) and his associates from Pakistan via drones.The official said: “These consignments were received by co-accused and further discreetly passed on to other accused persons involved in the conspiracy to carry out subversive activities in India,” the official said, adding that incriminating evidences have been found against all charge-sheeted accused.” So far, five accused have been arrested in the case, while accused Lakhbir Singh Rode is still absconding, he added.Arms droppingAll accused persons have been charged with indulging in smuggling of arms, ammunitions, explosives from across the India-Pakistan border via drones. #NIA||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-files-chargesheet-against-five-ultras-375120
05-03-2022||Kuldip Bhatia||Railways to run special trains to accommodate Holi rush||Ludhiana, March 4With almost all trains to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other destinations in eastern and northeastern region running full and confirmed reservation being unavailable till the end of April due to the upcoming ‘Holi’ festival, the Northern Railway has decided to run ‘Holi special’ trains during the third and fourth weeks of this month.In addition, steps are under way to provide additional bogies of sleeper and general class to most of the existing trains on these routes to enhance the carrying capacity of the trains to cope with the spurt in passenger traffic.According to railway officials, Amritsar-Patna-Amritsar AC Superfast Gati Shakti Special train would undertake four trips in each direction. The train 04076 would depart from Amritsar at 2.50 pm on March 13, 14, 18 and 19 and reach Patna at 3.45 pm the next day. From Patna, the train 04075 would leave at 5.45 pm on March 16, 17, 21 and 22 and arrive at Amritsar at 6 pm the next day. This special train would have stoppage at Ludhiana while running in both directions.Two more festival special trains would run on Anand Vihar Terminus (AVT) New Delhi – Udhampur and New Delhi - Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra routes.Train no. 04053 will run from March 10 to 21 on every Monday and Thursday from AVT at 11 pm to reach Udhampur at 2.15 pm the next day. On the return trip, the train 04054 would operate from March 11 to 22 on every Tuesday and Friday, leaving Udhampur at 9.40 pm to arrive AVT at 11.15 am the next day.Festival special train 04672 will operate on March 13 and 20, leaving Shri Mata Vaishno Devi at 6.10 pm to arrive at New Delhi at 6.40 am the next day while the train no. 04671 will leave New Delhi on March 14 and 21 at 11.30 pm to reach Katra at 12.30 pm the next day.Both festival special trains (AVT-Udhampur) and New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra would have stoppages at Ludhiana.Meanwhile, railway officials said most of the existing trains operating to various destinations in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other eastern and northeastern states were running full to capacity and in almost all these trains, even the waiting list capacity had exhausted. “Confirmed reservation is not available till the end of April in almost all these trains,” it was stated.The officials added that the proposal had already been sent to the Northern Railway headquarters at New Delhi to operate more festival special trains and also provide additional bogies in trains bound for different destinations in UP, Bihar and West Bengal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/railways-to-run-special-trains-to-accommodate-holi-rush-375119
05-03-2022||Ferozepur||Two arrested in illegal sand mining cases in Zira||The police have arrested two persons related to illegal sand mining registered in Zira.In the first case, the police have arrested Charanjit Singh of Gaggubua village in Tarn Taran. He was nabbed while he was driving a tipper loaded with illegal sand near Malsian Kalan village. In another case, the police arrested Shinder Singh of Nurpur village in Zira with a tractor-trailer of illegal sand. — #illegal mining||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-arrested-in-illegal-sand-mining-cases-375118
05-03-2022||---||Farmers stage protests against new BBMB rules||Chandigarh, March 4Farmers across Punjab today held protests against the central government for changing the rules of appointment in the BBMB, saying it was trying to usurp the rights of Punjab over its river waters.Protests were held in all districts under the aegis of the SKM. Memoranda were submitted to the DCs in each district by farmers, demanding status quo in the BBMB. These were received by the district officials on behalf of the President of India.In Chandigarh, a delegation of Sanyukt Samaj Morcha, the political group of farmers, too, gathered to meet the Governor and submit a memorandum. However, they were stopped from marching to Raj Bhawan, and only five were granted an audience with the Governor. The meeting, however, did not fructify and the farmers protested by sticking the memorandum on the roads outside Raj Bhawan.In Fatehgarh Sahib, SKM leaders alleged the BJP government wanted to abolish the federal system by bringing in new laws and working against the spirit of the Constitution. They said the recent orders of change in the rules regarding nomination of BBMB members and deployment of CISF personnel in place of Punjab Police at dams indicated the Centre’s intent to “teach Punjab a lesson”, which won’t be tolerated.(With inputs from Fatehgarh Sahib) #bbmb #farmers protest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-stage-protests-against-new-bbmb-rules-375117
05-03-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Malwa Belt: 80% groundwater 'unfit' for drinking||Bathinda, March 4Eighty per cent of groundwater in the Malwa region is unfit for drinking and irrigation. Although, there is no exact figure in any recent study, but all experts are unanimous that the chemical contamination of the groundwater is posing a great health risk to the people living there and it is also putting children at risk of a blood disorder.7 dists under watchWe are monitoring the water quality in seven districts. Some areas have high content of uranium, some have fluoride. Prof Dr VK Garg, Central University of Punjab, BathindaTeeth, bone problemsThe quality of the groundwater is quite bad due to which people suffer from teeth and bone problems in the region. Seshandeep Kaur, sarpanch, Manik Khana villageA study of 2018, which was commissioned by the Centre’s Department of Science and Technology, had found concentration of calcium, magnesium, sodium, nitrate and flourine higher than the permissible limits, rendering 80.3 per cent groundwater of Malwa unsuitable for drinking.Prof Dr VK Garg, Dean, School of Environment And Earth Sciences, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, said, “We are monitoring the water quality in seven districts of the region and we have found that some areas have more content of uranium, and some have high content of fluoride or other heavy metals in the groundwater.”He said it had been proven that these metals in the groundwater were affecting the health of people. The presence of 1 mg fluoride in 1 litre of water can make the teeth colour yellow and 4 mg fluoride in 1 litre water can affect bones, he said.Prof Dr Bhupinder Singh Virk of Punjabi University in his study on “The Problem of Drinking Water in the Malwa region of Punjab” has stated that Punjab, a pioneer of green revolution today, is facing an acute problemof drinking water due to water pollution.He said, “During the study, it has come to light that there are different factors responsible for the problem. In Bathinda, we found fly ash of thermal plants, pesticides, weedicides, chemical fertilisers used by farmers, untreated water discharged by industries in seasonal rivulets of this area”.He said, “In Mansa, we found a canal which carried the industrial waste water from the adjoining state of Haryana and polluted water of adjoining villages and towns. Besides, the village common ponds are used as sewage tanks in most villages of the area. Moreover, they had reported that the small industries in every district are disposing untreated/polluted industrial waste into borewells or nearby drains.”According to a study by a team of experts of Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, it is a matter of concern that the polluted groundwater used for drinking, domestic and irrigation purposes is making children vulnerable to both carcinogenic and non-carcinogenic risks, more than adults in Bathinda and Faridkot.Health activist Dr Vitull K Gupta said several studies over the years have documented that groundwater in the Malwa region is unfit for drinking and irrigation because of elevated levels of alkalinity, hardness, fluoride, uranium, nitrate, magnesium, phosphates and several contents of pesticides and fertilisers.More importantly, the carcinogenic risk of arsenic and chromium was the highest in Bathinda district.Over 1,800 RO plants were installed in the state during 2009 and thereafter by the then SAD-BJP government, including 1,075 in Malwa, but now in many villages, these ROs are lying defunct for the past few years.Calcium, sodium above normal level #groundwater #Malwa #Pollution||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/malwa-belt-80-groundwater-unfit-for-drinking-375116
05-03-2022||---||Out of Kharkiv, but not danger, says Mansa girl||Bathinda, March 4Around 1,000 Indian students have been stranded in the city of Pesochin, about 11 km from Kharkiv, without food for the past two days.Talking to The Tribune from Pesochin, Meenu Kaur of Ralla village in Mansa said: “I haven’t eaten anything for the past two days. The situation here is quite bad and taking a toll on us. Though the embassy had told us to leave Kharkiv, we were not allowed to board train at the station. Somehow we managed to reach Pesochin. We don’t know whether we will be able to return safely.” Another student said: “We have walked a lot over the past few days. We don’t have anything to eat. We request the government to evacuate us from here.” #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/out-of-kharkiv-but-not-danger-says-mansa-girl-375115
05-03-2022||Aparna Banerji||On single meal amid bombing in war-torn Ukraine||Jalandhar, March 4With no vehicle to pick them up, around 1,000 Indian students remained stranded at hostels in Pesochin a day after they left Kharkiv for the suburban city following a government advisory.With no basements or bunkers and adequate food, the students are scared amid intensified shelling.While a couple of buses have taken a small number of students out (arranged locally by consultants at exorbitant rates), a majority of the students are staying put. The buses are heading all the way to Lviv, the capital city.Forced to a sleepless night amidst sounds of multiple blasts nearby, most of them are surviving on a single meal. The food is being arranged once a day through education consultant Karan Sandhu, accompanying them since the beginning.Hoping to arrange a safe passage through Russia (the Russian border is 40 km away), a couple of buses that had been arranged locally by consultants are now charging $500 per student.Tejinder Kaur, mother of student Jashmeen Kaur, said: “There is heavy shelling in the area and there are no bunkers. There is no place for students to run for cover. Two buses were arranged, one yesterday and another this morning. The same bus that charged $200 a student yesterday asked for $500 today. My daughter has no money or spare clothes. She ate a little chicken soup yesterday. Today, they will get pasta at 6 pm. This morning, Karan gave them some chocolate. He’s the only one arranging transport and food. That’s their only meal. How will they survive another night?”She said: “The students should immediately be evacuated from Pesochin as there is heavy shelling in the area. Students in other two sites haven’t even eaten. It’s snowing and power goes out at 6 pm. We urge the Indian Government to take them out of there.” Kuldeep Singh, the father of student Ekamdeep, said: “With no government help, students are planning to take a bus out of there.” Another parent said calls to the Indian Embassy mostly went unanswered.Melting snow for waterKapurthala’s Gurleen Kaur is among 700 Indian students stranded at Sumy, a city in Ukraine, with no power or food. Her father Sukhwinder Singh said: “No bus or help has reached them so far. There is no food and students are melting snow to drink water. We urge the Centre to ensure early evacuation. They are stuck in a hostel amid heavy shelling in the area.” #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-single-meal-amid-bombing-375114
05-03-2022||Avneet Kaur||No help from Punjab Govt upon arrival: Ukraine returnees||Jalandhar, March 4Students from Punjab who returned from war-hit Ukraine on Thursday lamented they didn’t receive any such help despite the fact that there was a counter of the state government at the airport.They said all their friends from Maharashtra, Karnataka, Haryana and other states were welcomed by their government officials and they even received free air tickets, railway tickets and cab facility to reach their homes safely, but no such provisions were made by the Punjab Government.Sumit Nagrath, an MBBS student of Vinnytsia National Pirogov Medical University, who returned to India last night, said he didn’t want to trouble his parents, so he asked them not to come to receive him at the airport. “I booked a cab from Delhi to Jalandhar, but unfortunately the driver cancelled the ride at the last moment. I then visited the Punjab Government counter to seek help, but there were empty chairs as no official was seated there,” he said, adding he waited for over an hour, but to no avail.Another student Milap Singh, who returned home on Thursday, said he visited the state counter to ask for air tickets from Delhi to Amritsar airport, but they said they had vouchers for bus or railway tickets. “I then asked them for a railway ticket voucher, but they changed their statement and said they could only help with bus or taxi services,” he added.Nodal officer denies charge #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-help-from-punjab-govt-upon-arrival-students-375113
05-03-2022||GS Paul||14 more Ukraine students back safely in Amritsar; one reaches Abohar||Amritsar, March 4As many as 14 students from Punjab reached safely at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International airport today. The students from Amritsar, Jalandhar and Bathinda were received by family members accompanied by Rajya Sabha Member Shwait Malik, who was approached by parents to get their children evacuated from Kharkiv.Students said many Indians were still waiting to cross the border to Poland via the Kyiv stretch. Most have been stuck in Lviv, around 60 km from the Polish border. They alleged local authorities were treating their own citizens on priority, ignoring Indians.Students said reaching the border was a nightmare as in the absence of transport, they had to walk several miles. They were unable to catch trains with authorities allowing own citizens on board.Amritsar-based Jaanvi, pursuing MBBS in Kharkiv, said there was intense shelling near the place they were putting up in the northeastern city. She expressed gratitude towards the Indian authorities for facilitating their return.Her father Kapil Sharma said several parents had contacted Malik, seeking his intervention. Malik contacted the ministry concerned to locate the students who had reached Lviv by then. “They were to leave for Hungarian border. We learnt through Malik’s contact that instead of Hungary, students should proceed towards Poland as it was time consuming. The students were advised so and evacuated,” he said.Meanwhile, Harjinder Singh, a medical student who was stranded at Kharkiv in Ukraine, returned to hometown Abohar last night. Four local students, who had started their journey before Russia started pounding Ukraine, had reached Abohar last week.Recounting his ordeal, he said: “For three to four days, we faced great difficulty and sometimes we didn’t eat anything... I hired a taxi that charged double the fare and reached the Metro station despite shelling. Many students ran out of money and the ATMs were shut.(With inputs from Raj Sadosh) #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/14-more-back-safely-in-amritsar-one-reaches-abohar-375112
05-03-2022||Mahesh Sharma||In Hungary, Indian volunteers to aid of those facing hardship due to Ukraine crisis||Mandi Ahmedgarh, March 4A group of students from the region, based in Hungary and other countries sharing borders with Ukraine, have emerged saviour for stranded Indians. Besides facilitating their stay at hostels and dormitories hired by the Indian Embassy in Budapest, they have been getting administrative clearance, arranging transport and providing medical care to Indians coming from Ukraine.Malerkotla DC Madhvi Kataria has appreciated the gesture of the volunteers. “We salute these students, who have worked wonders as they themselves are students with meagre resources at their disposal,” said Kataria.Ahmedgarh councillor Aman Afridi said a group of students led by Ramsha Farooqi and Mariyam Farooqi had been facilitating entry of Ukraine students across Hungary borders and their safe and comfortable stay at their flats, besides hostels and dormitories.“After being motivated by their father Prof Irfan Farooqi of Government College, Malerkotla, Ramsha and Mariyam coordinated with the Indian Embassy in Ukraine and volunteered to work for the evacuation of Indian students stranded at various places,” said Afridi, adding that a group of students supervised by embassy official Arvind Kaur had helped hundreds by now. Sonampreet Singh, Sargam Sharma, Ayesha Farooqi and Danish Farooqi were also among the volunteers.“I was upset that irresponsible people had been sending negative impressions about our country... as over two dozen youth of our area are pursuing higher studies in Hungary and Poland, I thought of roping them in for the help of stranded persons,” said Prof Farooqi. #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-hungary-indian-volunteers-to-aid-of-those-facing-hardship-375111
05-03-2022||Karam Prakash||Ukraine crisis: Get kids out of war zone first, Centre urged||Patiala, March 4Individual efforts by students to escape from Ukraine are being appropriated by the Centre, claim students who have returned recently. The government was taking credit of safe evacuation, however, in reality the ground situation was quite different, they say.Migrate them to Indian collegesThe Centre should make efforts to migrate Indian medical students to Indian colleges to ensure their education does not suffer. Dr Harish Kumar, father of Arjun BatishThe students, who were welcomed by their parents on their return, said merely arranging flights from neighbouring countries of Ukraine could not be termed evacuation. “It involves pulling out people from war zones, not from a safe location. Majority of us reached the neighbouring countries at our own risk. We didn’t get any help from the Indian Embassy,” claimed Sawandeep Kaur, who returned on Friday afternoon.Arjun Batish, a student of Kharkiv National Medical University, said he along with other students had to take the risk of fleeing Kharkiv to Kyiv on their own. “After spending three days at a school near the Indian Embassy in Kyiv, we took a train to the Polish border. Thereafter, a native couple helped us cross over to Poland through the Zosin border. There was no role of the Indian Government till then.” He said the government should make efforts to evacuate students from Kharkiv. #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/get-kids-out-of-war-zone-first-centre-urged-375110
05-03-2022||Sameer Singh||Risking lives sole option for those stuck: Ukraine returnee||Bathinda, March 4Students are on their own in war-torn Ukraine and have to take chances to make it to the western borders safely, says Mukesh, a third-year MBBS student, from Mansa who returned recently. “You are on your own there. If you muster up courage and take the risk, there are chances you will make it out, but if you wait to be evacuated, your chances are bleak. There is no one at the border or in conflict areas to rescue you,” he said.Shubhkarman from Talwnadi Sabo, who also returned from Kharkiv, claimed they were “kept in the dark” by Indian Embassy officials until February 15 as they insisted there was no danger if they stayed back. As many as 12 students have returned from Ukraine in Bathinda district since February. Mukesh, who returned with three other students from Mansa, is in touch with other Indian students and has been guiding them on taking a safe route out of Ukraine.“We are coordinating with friends asking them to risk getting out on their own and not count on officials for help. There is little coordination from embassy staff and students are left with no alternative but to take risk. Four of us along with other students made it out on our own. The ground reality is different from what has been portrayed,” claimed Mukesh.Talwandi Sabo’s Harshdeep Singh (19) and his sister Palakpreet Kaur (20), who were pursuing MBBS from National Pirogov Memorial Medical University, Vinnytsia in west-central Ukraine returned on Thursday. “We were lucky to have crossed over after reaching the Romanian border in one day. There are many who have had to spend two to three days at the border. Queues of cars stretch up to 30 km near the border area as people wait anxiously in vehicles for their turn to cross over,” said Harshdeep. “There was no one from the embassy to evacuate us. We hired private buses to travel seven hours to reach at the border,” he added.Rajfreen (21), a medical student at Kharkiv, said: “I had returned a day before the war started, but most of my friends are still stranded there. While two of my friends from Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran returned safely yesterday, another from Mansa is stuck with others in Pesochin. I am in constant touch with them.” #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/risking-lives-sole-option-for-those-stuck-ukraine-returnee-375109
05-03-2022||Amritsar||MP Gurjeet Aujla heads to Poland, says will arrange transport for Indian students in Ukraine||Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla today left for Poland to extend a helping hand in the evacuation of Indian students stranded in Ukraine, especially those stuck in Kharkiv.India has been evacuating its citizens through special flights from Ukraine’s western neighbours, including Romania, Hungary and Poland. Aujla said the main problem students faced was in reaching the western borders, located over 1,500-1,600 km from the northeastern part, where most were stuck.Aujla said he had established some Punjabi contacts in Poland and those living close to Polish and Romanian borders. “Advisories are being issued to students to reach up to the Poland border by putting their lives at risk. The main problem they face is mode of transport. We need at least 20-22 buses that could ferry them to safe destinations. I have been in touch with some persons to arrange transport facility for them. I appeal to the Punjabi community settled in nearby places to come out and help students,” he said. — #gurjeet aujla #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lawmaker-heads-to-poland-says-will-arrange-transport-375108
05-03-2022||Archit Watts||Bus operators in Ukraine fleecing students: Parents||Muktsar, March 4Parents of some students stuck in Pesochin claimed today that private bus operators were demanding $500 (nearly Rs 38,000) from each person to reach Lviv town. Some students had yesterday reportedly boarded buses from Pesochin to Lviv by paying $200 (nearly Rs 15,000) each.$200 a day before, now charging $500They charged $500 per student, against $200 on Thursday. Students will have to further pay more to reach the border from Lviv. I urge authorities to take immediate steps to rescue our children. Ashok Chawla, a student’s fatherAneesh Chawla, a first-year MBBS student at Kharkiv National Medical University, is stuck at Pesochin. His father Ashok said: “After getting reports that a number of buses have been arranged to take stranded students to Russia through a safe corridor, I spoke to officials of the Ministry of External Affairs today. They denied the reports. Our kids are facing a harrowing time and running short on money. They have arranged the buses on their own there by paying $500 each to go to Lviv. The bus fare was $200 yesterday. Students will have to pay more to reach the border of any other country from Lviv. I appeal to authorities concerned to take immediate steps to rescue our children.”Similarly, Ranjeet Singh, whose daughter Jasmeen is a fourth-year MBBS student at Kharkiv and stuck at Pesochin, said: “My daughter paid $500 to reach Lviv. The Government of India has not yet been able to reach them through our embassy officials sitting there in Kyiv. They are just doing lip service. Two buses carrying stranded students had left Pesochin yesterday, which are yet to reach Lviv. Three buses are expected to leave from Pesochin today. Almost every town in Ukraine is witnessing shelling and we are praying for the safety of everyone.”Meanwhile, four students — Akshit Goyal, Rajveer Kaur and two siblings Shubhpreet Kaur and Amulpreet Singh today safely reached India. Akshit, Rajveer have come via Poland and Shubhpreet, Amulpreet via Hungary. “My daughter somehow managed to board a train from Kharkiv on Wednesday and crossed over to Poland yesterday. She got a flight for India yesterday and reached Delhi this morning. The University authorities there have however not returned her Class XII certificate,” said Gurtej Singh, father of Rajveer Kaur.Permission sought to hold relief campHailing from Khunde Halal village in Muktsar, Ravneet Brar, 39, who contested the Assembly polls, has sought nod from Romania to allow his NGO to hold a relief camp there. “We have sought permission from countries sharing their boundary with Ukraine. Poland has denied us permission. The reply from other countries is awaited,” said Brar.6 back in MuktsarSix of the total 21 students reportedly from Muktsar district have returned so far. Four of them reached safely on Friday. Three are still stuck in Pesochin, while 12 others are waiting for their flights from Ukraine’s neighbouring countries #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bus-operators-in-ukraine-fleecing-students-parents-375107
05-03-2022||Satya Prakash||SC shocked at 'unprecedented' HC order protecting Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Saini in all future cases||New Delhi, March 4The Supreme Court on Friday expressed “shock” over an “unprecedented” order passed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court giving a blanket protection from arrest to former Punjab Director-General of Police Sumedh Singh Saini in all pending and future criminal cases against him till April 20.“This is an unprecedented order. How can future courses of action be stayed? It’s shocking and three of us (on the Bench) feel that it’s unprecedented. This will require hearing,” a three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said, wondering how someone could be given protection in cases yet to be registered."We will request the high court to dispose of the petition…by another judge and not the same judge within two weeks. We request the Chief Justice (of Punjab and Haryana HC) to take it up himself or by any other judge…we will keep this matter pending (in SC),” CJI Ramana said, posting it for hearing after four weeks.Assailing the High Court order, Punjab Advocate General DS Patwalia said, “There’s blanket stay…protection against everything.”On behalf of Saini, senior counsel Mukul Rohatgii sought to defend the high court’s order, saying, “The State has not followed a single order. He (Saini) has survived an assassination attempts.”“Whatever it may be, you can’t pass an order saying in future cases also he can’t be arrested… What is this?” the CJI told Rohatgi.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan had on Thursday ordered that Saini should not be arrested till April 20 in pending and future cases against him, except the Balwant Singh Multani murder case pending before the top court.Justice Sangwan—who had earlier noted Saini’s involvement in multiple cases could be a “political ploy in the wake of the coming state Assembly elections”—said the order was being passed considering the exceptional circumstances and hardships being caused to Saini by the state of Punjab on political grounds.The Supreme Court had on September 15, 2020, granted protection from arrest to Saini in the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani murder case. However, it had asked Saini to co-operate with the Punjab Police in the investigation of the case.Multani—a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation—was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini that left three policemen killed. Saini was injured in the attack. Saini’s troubles started in May 2020 when he was booked at a police station in Mohali along with six others for the alleged kidnapping of Multani in 1991. Murder charge was added in August after two of the accused policemen spilled the beans.Saini is also facing trial in a Special CBI Court in Delhi along with three others for alleged abduction and disappearance of automobile businessman Vinod Kumar, his brother-in-law Ashok Kumar and their driver Mukhtiyar Singh in 1994. #sumedh saini||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-shocked-at-unprecedented-hc-order-protecting-ex-punjab-dgp-ss-saini-in-all-future-cases-375051
