06-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM seeks time from Union home minister to discuss BBMB issue||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has sought time from Union Home Minister Amit Shah to take up with him the recent change in rules for the selection of members of the Bhakra-Beas Management Board.Channi also intends to take up the issue of evacuation of Punjabi students from Ukraine with the home minister.The chief minister has sought a meeting with Shah to take up these two issues of “utmost importance”, sources said.Earlier on February 28, Punjab Assembly Speaker Rana K P Singh had met Governor Banwarilal Purohit and said the recent change in rules for the selection of two members of the BBMB would be detrimental to the interests of Punjab and Haryana.Singh had submitted a memorandum to the Governor on the issue and requested him to take up it with the Centre.The change in rules has started a controversy with several political leaders in Punjab strongly opposing the Centre’s move.The BJP alleged a deliberate attempt by some leaders to create confusion on the matter.The BBMB, which is a statutory body under the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966 and manages water resources of Sutlej and Beas, has a whole-time chairman and two members.According to convention, the member (power) is always from Punjab and the member (irrigation) is from Haryana. They are selected from a panel of senior engineers.But now the change in rules for selection allows anyone to apply for these posts.Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) chief Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, whose party is an ally of the BJP, had recently said the decision to abolish the representation of Punjab from the BBMB would “weaken” the federal structure of the country and hence the Union government should immediately reverse its decision.Over a week ago, Punjab Congress leader Sunil Jakhar had said BBMB rules have been tweaked “to the detriment of Punjab” and had written to Channi, urging him to take up with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and also lead an all-party delegation to meet the PM.However, BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh had recently hit out at the Congress and the Akali leaders for their statements on the working of the BBMB.Chugh had said there was a deliberate attempt by some political leaders to create confusion and arouse public sentiments against the Centre.The canard being spread by the Congress has been exposed with the BBMB stating that there is no attempt to change the already existing system to give due representation to Punjab and Haryana, the BJP leader had said.Meanwhile, on the issue of Punjab students stuck in war-hit Ukraine, Punjab Chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari had on Friday disclosed that 225 students have already returned safely and the state government is sparing no effort to help the distressed families.The calls received on the state government’s dedicated control room numbers and these queries are being immediately forwarded to the Union Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) for ensuring safe and secure evacuation of the remaining persons, he had said on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-seeks-time-from-union-home-minister-to-discuss-bbmb-issue-375610
06-03-2022||Aparna Banerji||Russia-Ukraine war: 1000 Indian students on move, 650 stranded nearby||Jalandhar, March 5Over 650 Indian students remain stranded in bunkers in Sumy, north of Kharkiv, on the 10th day of Ukraine’s invasion by Russian forces. In some relief though, evacuation has begun in Pesochin, the western suburb of Kharkiv, to bring back over 1,000 persons stranded there to safety.Left with no food, most students in Sumy are forced to melt snow. With key infrastructure ravaged and the nearest rail line broken, they have run out of transport options. Their problems have been compounded by steady bombardment, leaving parents of the students anxious.Destruction all around, can’t leaveThe train network is destroyed. Buses aren’t plying. There are regular blasts. Our children don’t have the option of leaving their bunker. —Dalwinder Singh, Fateher of a studentFor two successive nights, two major blasts have rocked the precinct near the hostel bunker where 700 students from India are staying put. The blast last night left one of the Indian girl students unconscious. Dalwinder Singh, father of Kapurthala girl Muskan Thind, said: “The blast the night before took out the power and broke the water supply line. Power was restored later but there is no water or food. They have been surviving on biscuits and melted snow. The girls cook a small quantity of rice when hunger is unbearable. The train network is destroyed and buses aren’t plying. There are regular blasts and some girls are unwell. Unlike those stranded in other places, our children don’t have the option of leaving their bunker.”He added: “Students have been making repeated calls to the Indian Embassy, but they are told to stay put. We urge the Centre to evacuate these students immediately.” Sukhwinder Singh, father of another student Gurleen Kaur, said: “They have no food or water. No one has ventured out due to bombing. Government help is yet to arrive. Hungry and thirsty, how long can our kids stay on like this?”In Pesochin, two buses left with students on Thursday and the pace of evacuation was stepped up on Friday. Buses and taxis have hiked their fares for a ride to the western city of Ternopil, some 900 km away, from $200 a seat to $500. Many students who had run out of money said their consultant Karan Sandhu bailed them out. A majority of the students have been brought out through taxis or double-decker buses.Since last afternoon, an estimated six buses left with students and the remaining will be brought out today. From Ternopil, the parents hoped, the students would be evacuated through the Romanian border.Kuldeep Singh, father of Kapurthala student Ekamdeep Singh, said: “My son had set out from Pesochin in a taxi yesterday but I haven’t heard from him due to patchy network. They are still on the way. They may reach Ternopil at night.”Jalandhar resident Tejinder Kaur’s daughter Jashmeen started out late last afternoon from Pesochin and is on way to Ternopil. “She had no money but her consultant helped her get out. A lot of people are heading in the direction, hence there are a lot of bottlenecks,” she said.Families relievedAbohar: Five buses with 250 Indian students, who had walked from Kharkiv to Pesochin have started moving out to border areas. As many as 48 will leave on Sunday. Parents of stranded students, while thanking consultant Karan Sandhu for helping out the students, have heaved a sigh of relief. Sandhu, who is with students, said the Indian Embassy had provided financial help to students, but other essential arrangements were not made. However, the movement of students brought relief to families. Raj Sadosh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ukraine-crisis-1k-on-move-650-stranded-nearby-375408
06-03-2022||Archit Watts||Operation Ganga: Embassy officials resorting to pick & choose, lament parents||Muktsar, March 5The ordeal of medical students, who even reached Poland from war-torn Ukraine three days ago, is still not ending, as they are still waiting for their flights to India. Parents here today alleged officials of the Indian Embassy in Poland rather than cooperating with students had adopted a pick-and-choose policy in sending them back to India.Kuldeep Singh, whose son Navneet Singh is a second-year MBBS student at the Kharkiv National Medical University, said: “My son and his friends entered Poland on Thursday morning. Immigration officials of Poland were very supportive when they crossed over from Ukraine. However, Indian officials are not cooperating with them. Those who reached Poland yesterday have been sent to India. When my son and his friends asked about their turn, they had no answer. Students have reached the Poland border by risking their lives, be empathetic to them.”He added, “Some students even made a hue and cry today when buses were about to take a group of students from a hotel in Rzeszow to the airport. Then sensing the gravity of the situation, they prepared a fresh list of students to be evacuated.”Meanwhile, three other students from Muktsar, who remained stuck at Pesochin for two days, last evening managed to board a bus for Lviv by paying $500 each.“Our children have been travelling for about 24 hours now. Their cell phones are mostly switched off. The bus driver has taken some safer route and is not taking them to Lviv via Kyiv. We are not sure whether they will further go to the border of Poland or some other country. It will depend once they reach Lviv as there is a huge traffic jam ahead,” said Ranjeet Singh and Ashok Chawla, local residents.10 more from Muktsar returnAs many as 16 students from Muktsar have returned via Poland, Hungary and Romania. Ten of them returned on Saturday. Mehakpreet Kaur, a fourth-year MBBS student, who left Kharkiv on February 24, remained stuck at Kharkiv for four days and then at Romania for another four days, finally reached here on Saturday. “I could not bring anything here except my documents,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/embassy-officials-resorting-to-pick-choose-lament-parents-375409
06-03-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Indian students from Ukraine: Absorb us in local medical colleges||Jalandhar, March 5Uncertainty looms large on the minds of MBBS students who were studying in the now war-torn Ukraine. There is no clarity yet in sight from the university authorities, even parents are uncertain about their wards’ future and apprehend a long pause in their academic career.Dr Lalit Sandal of Jalandhar, whose son Bhaveeshya Sandal is in the last year of MBBS at Kharkiv, said: “After such a massive destruction in Kharkiv, it could take months before students can rejoin the course. Some alternate measures need to be thought about thousands of these students.”Ramesh Chander, father of final year MBBS student Shivani who returned back from Uzhhorod, said, “Had things remained normal for another three months, my daughter would have finished the course. But now, we expect the degree to get delayed. Once she clears it, only then she can sit for the Foreign Medical Graduates Examination for practice here.”Those from the first, second and third year of MBBS, want colleges in Punjab to absorb them so that they do not have to go back and face a similar risk. Navdeep Singh, a businessman, whose son Pukhraj Singh is in the second year of his MBBS at Kharkiv, said: “We do not know if the university will allow my son and others online classes. We do not know if we will be able to send our children back to Kharkiv. His future has certainly come on crossroads all of a sudden.”Commenting on the proposal made by parents of absorbing students here, Dr Navjot Dahiya, Vice President, Indian Medical Association said: “I have all the sympathies with the families who have their children caught up in a tense situation in Ukraine but there is no way by which these students can now be absorbed in Punjab colleges. Some of these students had ranks beyond 2.5 lakh. How can we allow them in MBBS when students of the same rank are doing dental or even nursing degrees? Will it not be injustice to our local students?”Willing to appear in any examPatiala: Some of the students have said they are ready to take any exam for getting accommodated in Indian medical colleges. Chandan, a fourth-year MBBS student in Ukraine, said: “We don’t know whether we will be able to complete our degree or not. Even if the situation turns normal in Ukraine, there will be a gap in our studies. Therefore, the government should find out some mechanism to allow us to continue our studies in India.” TNS #russiaukrainewar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/evacuees-absorb-us-in-local-medical-colleges-375411
06-03-2022||Amritsar||Operation Ganga: Test of perseverance for Amritsar students||As part of ‘Operation Ganga’ to evacuate Indians from Ukraine, four students arrived at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport here today. The returnees — Ramnik Kaur of Amritsar, Ravneet Kaur and Gajaldeep of Tarn Taran, and Nikhil of Pathankot — were welcomed by their parents.Recalling their journey out of Ukraine, Ramnik, an MBBS student at Kharkiv, said every move they made tested their zeal to survive. She took a train out of Kharkiv for Lviv, from where they hired a cab to the border. After a stay of two days, she made it out of the country.Nikhil said a Kharkiv resident drove him to the railway station, from where he travelled for two days to the border. Along the way, they encountered many challenges. Gajaldeep said she returned safely but there was uncertainty about her degree. During their train journey, priority being given to Ukrainians was stark, she said.In a video message, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, who is in Poland to help evacuate Indian students, shared the plight of students coming out of the conflict zone. He interacted with students who had taken refuge at a temple run by the Sindhi community in Warsaw. He also visited a gurdwara there.One of the students told him during hiding, he spent three days without water. The MP said he would prepare a report and present it in Parliament. — #indianstudentsinukraine #operationganga||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/test-of-perseverance-students-in-amritsar-375412
06-03-2022||Manav Mander||Operation Ganga: Spent nights out in the open amid snow, shelling, say returnees||Ludhiana, March 5Walking in sub-zero temperature in snow is turning tough for Indian students who are reaching back through Poland and Romania borders. With swollen feet and numb hands, students are facing a tough time but still making it through with a hope that they will be evacuated from Ukraine. With taxi and bus fares going through the roof, students are walking on foot toward the borders.Pooja, a first-year student at Kyiv Medical University, along with her friends reached the Poland border by train. They waited for seven hours in a long queue to cross the border. “At the Poland border, the weather was freezing cold. Our hands and feet went numb in -3°C,” said Pooja.Walked 20 km for 2 daysThe bus dropped us 20 km short of Romania. We reached the border on foot in two days. Our hands and feet went numb in sub-zero temperature. When we finally crossed over, we were taken 600 km inside Romania. —Mohd Zaid Saddiqi, Returnee studentPooja along with her friends walked miles to reach the railway station. From there, they boarded a train to Lviv. It was a nine-hour journey. After that they arranged a bus for $100 and reached the Poland border.Tanu Shree, an MBBS student at Ternopil National Medical University, walked 50 km to reach the border. “We had to spend sleepless nights in snowfall. We boarded a bus that left us midway; we had no other option other than to walk as taxi and bus operators were charging exorbitantly,” said Tanu.She and her friends walked the whole night and the following day to reach the border. But before they could enter Poland, they had to again wait for the whole night in open amidst snowfall without food or water. It was in the evening next day that they were allowed to cross the first check point. After walking for 5 km, they again spent the whole night in open at the second check point. It was on the third day that they were allowed to cross the border.“On the one side, we were braving harsh winter conditions and on the other, keeping ourselves calm amid constant shelling and firing,” she said. Mohd Zaid Saddiqi, who studies at Ivano-Frankivsk National Medical University, walked for two days amidst-4°C to reach Romania border. He has landed in India safely.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spent-nights-out-in-the-open-amid-snow-shelling-returnees-375413
06-03-2022||Our Corresponent||Six more from Ferozepur district back home||Ferozepur, March 5It’s no less than a festival for family members of Saumya (17), an MBBS student at Kyiv Medical University, who reached New Delhi yesterday, after being airlifted from Czechoslovakia.Saumya said, “I had a flight on February 24. On the same day, bombing started. We were around 150 students and all of us moved to the basement. We were told to collect ration during curfew relaxation, but we hardly got anything to eat.”“On March 1, I decided to leave Kyiv during curfew relaxation hours and took train to Lviv city and from there I hired a taxi to Uzhorod, which is a few km away from Czechoslovakian border,” she said.Along with Saumya, Gagandeep Singh, Uttraksh Aggarwal, Tanvi Wadhwa, Shavinder Singh and Chahat belonging to this border district also reached their homes. Gagandeep said, “The Indian embassy helped us a lot. I pray that all the Indian students stuck there are able to come back soon.”As per information, three students — Sakshi, Asees Abrol and Gurwinder — were still stuck in Ukraine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/six-more-from-ferozepur-district-back-home-375415
06-03-2022||Moga||Two Moga girls among 3 back||Three more students, including two girls, from the district have returned safely from Ukraine. A senior official of the district administration said Sanjiti Khinderi, returned on Saturday.Another student, Shubh Madan, returned last evening. The family members celebrated her arrival by cutting a cake. “I spent eight days in a bunker amid heavy shelling,” she said, adding all students stranded in Ukraine were facing the odds bravely despite shortage of water and food.Baljinder Singh reached his native Gholia Khurd village this evening. Jashanpreet Singh, a student of Uzhhorod National University, returned home on February 27. Authorities had identified 10 students from the district who were stranded in Ukraine. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-moga-girls-among-3-back-375417
06-03-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Brick, steel prices spiral as coal rates up||Amritsar, March 5In the aftermath of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the price of coal has gone up by nearly Rs 10,000 per metric tonne in India. It has also triggered a spike in the prices of brick, cement and steel.Already, people are reeling under the spiralling prices of essential commodities, including edible oils, vegetable ghee, refined oil, wheat flour, washing and bathing soaps among others.A week ago, the price of coal stood at Rs 18,200 per metric tonne, which has now gone up to Rs 28,000. Consequently, the prices of steel have gone up from Rs 63 per kg to Rs 74; per 1,000 bricks from Rs 6,000 to Rs 7,000 and a bag cement from Rs 380 to Rs 400.Knock-on effectCoal is widely used as industrial fuel. A rise in its price is likely to impact cost of commodities produced using coal as fuel. —Mukesh Nanda, Joint secretary, All India Brick Manufacturers AssnThe rise in coal prices is said to be the consequence of the supply chain getting affected as Russia is among the top 10 coal-producing nations in the world.Mukesh Nanda, joint secretary, All India Brick and Tiles Manufacturers Federation, said: “Though India is among the top three coal producing countries, we are not getting domestically mined coal. We have been battling spiralling coal prices for the past one year. Price of a metric tonne of coal was Rs 10,000 in March 2021.” Last year, he had procured coal worth Rs 50 lakh to run his kiln. Now, for the same quantity he has to shell out Rs 1.50 crore.Inderjit Verma of the Punjab Brick Kiln Owners Association said unhappy at the upward trend of coal prices, they had approached the Department of Industries and Commerce to provide brick kilns coal under the state industrial coal quota. “We had even submitted cheques in advance. Neither were those cheques drawn nor coal issued under the quota,” he lamented.Ashish Bhalla, another brick kiln operator, said price escalation had come as a jolt to the industry right at the start of the brick manufacturing season in March, which lasts up to June. “Further, the Centre is set to hike the GST on bricks from 5 per cent to 12 per cent from April 1.”On the other hand, the government decided to bring down the GST on cement and cement made bricks from 12 to 5 per cent from April 1. “It apparently wants to discourage the conventional brick kiln industry, which is highly labour intensive and generates employment,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/brick-steel-prices-spiral-as-coal-rates-up-375421
06-03-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Russia-Ukraine War fallout: Demand for wheat from India soars; retail giants approach Punjab traders||Chandigarh, March 5The Russia-Ukraine war has led to an increase in demand for wheat from India in the international market. Being the largest wheat producing state in the country, Punjab could benefit from this rise in demand, provided the government reduces taxes on private purchase of wheat.Commission agents and wheat traders in Punjab have told The Tribune that a number of enquiries were being received for the past week from global food retail giants and foodgrain exporters like ITC, Cargill, Adani Group and Australian Wheat Board. Teams of some of these exporters are already visiting the state to assess the quantum of wheat they can buy from here.Satish Kumar Arora, a flour mill owner in Khanna, said the price of wheat had shot up by Rs 100 a quintal since Wednesday. He said exporters were willing to pay up to Rs 2,450 per quintal (at Kandla port, including freight charges), against Rs 2,000 per quintal a week ago. This interest has arisen because the war has choked the global supply of wheat, pushing its price by over $11 a bushel. Russia and Ukraine account for nearly 40 per cent of the global wheat supply and the war has reportedly held back shipments, said traders.This has led to many traders and commission agents demanding that the taxes imposed on private purchase of grains from Punjab be reduced so the state’s farmers and traders can benefit from the demand. Harbans Singh Rosha, a commission agent in Khanna, said though they expected a good demand from private traders this procurement season (beginning April), the high taxes could prove to be a deterrent.The taxes include three per cent each market fee and rural development fund, 2.5 per cent commission to agents and one per cent service charges.“For many years, private purchase of wheat from Punjab has been negligible, even though the state is its highest producer. Private players prefer to buy wheat from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan because of low prices there. If the government wants to earn profit through wheat export from Punjab in the upcoming procurement season, it should reduce the taxes imposed on private players,” he said.Supply stuckRussia and Ukraine account for nearly 40 per cent of the global wheat supply and due to the war the shipments were stuck, said traders. #russiaukrainewar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/demand-for-wheat-from-india-soars-retail-giants-approach-traders-375422
06-03-2022||---||BKU protests BBMB rules, submits memos||Sangrur/Bathinda, March 5Farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) on Saturday protested at 21 locations across the state against the central government for changing the norms of appointment in the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB).At Sangrur, BKU (Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan announced an agitation in coming days. As per senior BKU leaders, in 14 districts protests were organised in front of the Deputy Commissioners’ offices, while at remaining seven, farmers protested in front of SDMs and Tehsildars’ offices. Farmers also submitted memorandums to the President through senior officers. Protesters alleged the central government had been working against the spirit of federalism and wanted to end the participation of Punjab in BBMB by implementing new rules.Other leaders during protests at Barnala, Malerkotla and other places alleged the Centre wanted to privatise the BBMB and by changing the appointment norms, it has started the process. “In coming days, we would announce our future course of action after discussing the matter with other organisations,”said Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary, BKU (Ugrahan).In Bathinda, the BKU organised a protest march against the Centre. Addressing the protesters, the BKU’s senior vice-president Jhanda Singh Jethuke, district president Shingara Singh Mann and leader Mothu Singh Kotra said in this pollution-free power generation project there were two main grounds for giving 60 per cent representation to Punjab at the time of reorganisation. “One is that the project is located in Punjab, secondly, Punjab alone has to bear the brunt of the catastrophic floods caused by the release of excess water during heavy rains. The new dictatorial orders of the Centre have made it even more unfair to have representatives from outside the participating states as managers/chairman.The new rules are aimed at handing over the cheap and electricity generated through this river and pollution-free hydel project to corporate houses. Farmer leaders strongly demanded that the status quo of BBMB should be restored and its control should remain in the hands of Punjab and other stakeholder states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-protests-bbmb-rules-submits-memos-375423
06-03-2022||Chandigarh||Brain drain worrying: Bhagwant Mann||AAP state president Bhagwant Mann today expressed concern over the migration of young minds and money (brain and money drain) from India, including Punjab.In a statement, Mann said: “Around 1.5-2 lakh youngsters from Punjab go abroad every year to study and earn a living. Around Rs 30,000 crore goes to foreign institutions in the form of fee and other expenses, which constitutes 20% of Punjab’s budget.”The exodus was unfortunate and should be stopped, he said, adding due to high cost of education and private education mafia, students were forced to study abroad. It was crucial to reform the education system with a concrete plan.—||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/brain-drain-worrying-bhagwant-mann-375425
06-03-2022||Chandigarh||Poll staff await postal ballot papers: AAP||With four days left for the counting of votes, a large number of employees who were on election duty and eligible to vote through the postal ballot have failed to get their paper to cast vote. The Election Commission has set March 9 as the deadline for voting by government employees on election duty.The AAP questioned the EC over difficulties being faced by government employees in casting their ballot. In a statement, Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema alleged the EC had not provided sufficient number of postal ballot papers to government employees. Calling it “disappointing and unfortunate”, Cheema said the EC seemed to be working at the behest of the ruling parties at the Centre and in the state.The ruling party in the state feared government employees would vote against it as thousands of workers of various departments had been protesting against the Congress, he said.AAP MLA Aman Arora said government employees had worked day and night to facilitate voting by 2.5 crore people of Punjab, but it was unfortunate that ballot papers were not available for them to vote.“It is everyone’s right to choose the government and it is the responsibility of the EC to protect that right,” he said. Free and fair elections were crucial and the Constitution had entrusted this responsibility to the EC, he said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poll-staff-await-postal-ballot-papers-aap-375426
06-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Complainant must display financial capacity to lend money, rules HC||Chandigarh, March 5In a significant judgment liable to change the way cheque bounce cases are adjudicated, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has held that the complainant’s failure to display his financial capacity to advance the amount allegedly lent would shift the burden on him to prove his financial capacity to lend the money.The ruling by Justice Vinod S Bhardwaj came in a case where the complainant alleged he had advanced Rs 1.35 lakh to the accused without written endorsement and “out of relationship amongst the parties”. But he failed to adduce proof of income and did not even bring forth his account statements or the banking details during the course of trial. The complainant also failed to establish availability of “such a huge amount” considering that he earned a meager monthly salary of Rs 15, 000, while working as a labourer in a factory and was staying in a rented accommodation in Rajasthan.Cheque bounce caseMerely by being in possession of cheque, the complainant does not stand absolved of his obligation to prove existence of liability and a legally enforceable debt prior to issuance of the cheque. —Justice Vinod S BhardwajReferring to a plethora of judgments, Justice Bhardwaj asserted the Supreme Court in a case held that the judgment of conviction suffered perversity and was liable to be set aside after noticing that evidence was not led before the court to indicate the complainant’s financial capacity to lend money.Justice Bhardwaj observed the accused in the case in hand took a specific plea that the cheque was stolen from his shop. Besides, there was no plausible reason for the complainant to lend money to a person with whom he had no relationship and that too without execution of documents. He further observed: “Merely by being in possession of cheque, the complainant does not stand absolved of his obligation to prove existence of liability and a legally enforceable debt prior to issuance of the cheque.”Justice Bhardwaj added the petitioner had denied issuance of cheque, receipt of money from the complainant or any transaction with him. The presumption of law under Section 139 of the Negotiable Instruments Act would not continue to exist against the accused-petitioner. The burden would shift on the complainant to establish that the transaction had duly taken place and that the cheque was issued to him in discharge of a legally enforceable debt.Acquitting the accused after setting aside the conviction orders by the courts below, Justice Bhardwaj added an accused was not expected to prove his defence beyond reasonable doubt as expected of a complainant in a criminal trial. The accused may adduce direct evidence to prove absence of debt or liability to be discharged. The court need not insist in every case that the accused should disprove the non-existence of consideration and debt by leading direct evidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/complainant-must-display-financial-capacity-to-lend-money-rules-hc-375428
06-03-2022||Ludhiana||Act on plaint by Sidhu's sister, NCW tells cops||The National Commission for Women (NCW) has directed the Ludhiana police to take immediate action on a complaint filed by Suman Toor, the NRI sister of PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Toor had filed a complaint two days before the Assembly elections in the state.An NCW letter to the police read: “This has reference to the petition received by the commission from Suman Toor of Vikas Nagar, Pakhowal Road, Ludhiana. The present complaint pertains to the alleged deprivation of property rights/right to live with dignity…. You are, therefore, requested to look into the matter and take appropriate action in accordance with law. The action taken may be communicated to the commission within 15 days from the date of receipt of this letter.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/act-on-plaint-by-sidhus-sister-ncw-tells-cops-375430
06-03-2022||Legal Correspondent||Issewal gangrape: Five get life term till death||Ludhiana, March 5A young girl and boy going out for a drive could never imagine that the settling dusk of that cold February evening would engulf their life with spine-chilling darkness, the traumatic scars of which will haunt them for a lifetime, a Ludhiana court observed as it awarded life imprisonment till natural death to the five convicts in the 2019 Issewal gangrape case.Those awarded life imprisonment by the court of Additional Sessions Judge Rashmi Sharma were Sadiq Ali of Mukandpur, Nawanshahr; Jagroop Singh, alias Rupi, of Jaspal Bangar village; Surmu of Khanpur village, Dehlon; Saif Ali of Dehlon; and Ajay, alias Lalan, of Jassad Paddi village. They were ordered to pay Rs 1 lakh each.A juvenile was sentenced to undergo 20-year rigorous imprisonment and asked to pay a fine of Rs 50,000. The court made it clear the fine amount of Rs 5.5 lakh would be paid to the 21-yr-old victim in compensation.Referring to the 2012 Nirbhaya case, which shook the nation, the court in its 112-page judgment observed the incidents of sexual assault were still on the rise. “Their only hope is to see the face of justice being illuminated by imposition of adequate sentence without permitting mockery and travesty justice,” observed the court, while declining the plea of leniency raised by the convicts.“Needless to say conviction of accused of such offences, primarily gangrape, is not an end of the legal battle for the victim. She still has to fight numerous battles at the social front of disgrace, destitution, anguish and ostracism to overcome psychological wounds, agony, nightmare of fear psychosis to regain the trust and faith in goodness of humanity,” the court observed.“Though the mindset of society still has a long way to awakening, the message must go out loud and clear there is no disgrace being survivors of sexual violence. The shame, in fact, has to be on the aggressor, not the victim,” remarked the court.Special Public Prosecutor BD Gutpa said the prosecution examined 44 witnesses out of the total 54 to prove the guilt of accused. The victim and his friend deposed in the court.On April 4, 2019, the police had filed a 700-page chargesheet based upon scientific investigation supported by 54 witness statements against the accused.The woman was gangraped on Feburary 8 near Issewal village along the Sidwan canal after the car she was travelling in with a friend was stopped and she was dragged out. They later made a ransom call to one of the friends of the eye-witnesses accompanying the victim.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/issewal-gangrape-five-get-life-term-till-death-375431
06-03-2022||Amritsar||Man shot in Amritsar; nephew booked, hunt on||Gurdeep Singh, a resident of Anandpuri mohalla, was allegedly shot dead by his nephew Amandeep Singh, alias Lala, at Ghannupur Kale in broad daylight today.The incident led to panic in the area. Locals immediately informed the police, which reached the spot and took the body into possession.Jugraj Singh, son of the deceased, told the police that Gurdeep used to work as a security guard. He said they had an old enmity with the accused. Jugraj said they received a call that Lala shot my father. When we reached the spot, he was already dead.According to police, it was a revenge killing as Gurdeep had earlier killed his brother and Amandeep’s father Harjinder Singh around eight years ago.Sub-Inspector Sarabjit Singh said Gurdeep came out of jail four months ago after completing his sentence. He said a murder case has been registered against the accused and raids were on to nab him. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-shot-in-amritsar-nephew-booked-hunt-on-375434
06-03-2022||Sangrur||Officials inspect strongrooms||Senior officials inspected strongrooms in Sangrur, Barnala and Malerkotla, today. The authorities said they have adequate security arrangements in place for safety of the EVMs.The EVMs of all five segments of Sangrur district—Sangrur, Sunam, Dirba, Lehra and Dhuri— have been kept in a strongroom at Bardwal College, Dhuri.Ramvir, District Electoral Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner, said, “We have all the required arrangements for security of the EVMs.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/officials-inspect-strongrooms-375435
06-03-2022||Faridkot||2 panchayats form panel to tackle drug menace||Twin panchayats of Khara village in Faridkot today passed a resolution and constituted a committee to tackle drug menace. Gurpreet Singh Brar, sarpanch of the village, said, “Tall claims of the state government and police notwithstanding, drug peddlers are active in our village. Many youth have fallen prey to this meance.”SHO Gurwinder Singh denied the claims of drugs sale in the village. We conduct raids at regular interval to keep tabs on drug suppliers, said the SHO. He claimed that panchayats of Khara village never raised the issue before.No trust in policeWe don’t have much faith in the police and the state government. Thus, we are forced to take an aggressive stand against drug peddlers. —Gurpreet Singh Brar, Sarpanch, Khara villageDr Gurvinder Singh, a panchayat member, said many youngsters were receiving treatment at hospitals. As the menace increased, the panchayats decided to tackle the issue themselves.“The panchayats have passed a resolution to warn those selling drugs and stage protests in front of their houses. If they do not mend their ways, the panchayats will confront them,” said Brar. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-panchayats-form-panel-to-tackle-drug-menace-375437
06-03-2022||Abohar||BSF jawans open fire at Pak drone along border||The Border Security Force (BSF) jawans opened fired at a Pakistan drone, which entered into the Indian territory, during the wee hours on Saturday in Anoopgarh sector in Sriganganagar.Later, a search operation was carried out around pillar number 363 of Binjaur border outpost (BoP), but the wreckage was not found in the Indian territory.According to sources, the jawans posted at Binjaur BoP noticed a suspicious object coming from across the border at 1.37 am. When the object came near the fence, the jawans reportedly fired 18 rounds. The police were informed around 2.30 am. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-jawans-open-fire-at-pak-drone-along-border-375443
06-03-2022||Muktsar||Man held for growing poppy||The Kabarwala police have arrested a man for cultivating poppy at his residence in Gurusar Jodha village in Lambi Assembly segment. The police said a team had gone to arrest Kulwant Singh in a cheque dishonour case, but the team found poppy plants grown amid vegetables. The accused has been arrested and three-kg green poppy plants seized. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-held-for-growing-poppy-375444
06-03-2022||Vibha Sharma||Assembly elections 2022: Will retain 4 states, do well in Punjab, says BJP chief J P Nadda||New Delhi, March 5Exuding confidence that it would retain Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Goa and Uttarakhand, the BJP on Saturday claimed it would do “better than expected” in Punjab.Speaking with the media ahead of the final phase of voting in Uttar Pradesh, BJP chief JP Nadda said he was confident that PM Narendra Modi’s policies would translate into votes for the party. “We received a very positive response from people during campaigning,” he said.BJP will be wiped out in UP: CongressBJP evaded real issues. Press meet of Home Minister Shah and BJP chief Nadda directionless. Supriya Shrinate, CongressIn the frayCurtains on campaign Ph-VII: polling tomorrow54 seats | 9 UP districtsVaranasi | Azamgarh | Mau | Jaunpur | Ghazipur | Chandauli | Mirzapur | Bhadohi | SonbhadraUnion Home Minister Amit Shah said the BJP was returning to power in UP with absolute majority and that there was no “kante ki takkar (close fight with the SP).” He claimed that it was evident from the response at the PM’s rallies that the BJP would win in a big way. “We will not require anyone’s help in forming a government in UP. Goa, Uttarakhand and Manipur will also see BJP governments,” he claimed, asserting the PM had replaced politics of casteism, appeasement and nepotism with politics of performance.Nadda said it was the first time that the BJP had contested 65 seats in Punjab and that the party would henceforth work towards strengthening its cadre at the booth-level. On who would form the next government in Punjab, Shah replied: “Performing better than expected also means we are in a position to form government in Punjab.”Asked if India’s response to the Ukraine crisis had a positive impact on the elections, the Home Minister said: “An advisory was issued on February 15 and Russian-speaking teams were sent to neighbouring countries. There has been a positive impact on the elections and the country. When Modiji met evacuated students, they thanked him and wished him well in the elections.” #UPpolls2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/will-retain-4-states-do-well-in-punjab-nadda-375402
06-03-2022||Chandigarh||3 youths from Punjab's Faridkot die in road accident in Canada||Three youths from Punjab were killed in a car accident near Sarnia in Ontario, Canada.The deceased have been identified as Gurinderpal Lidhar (31), Mono Town, Ontario, Sunny Khurana (24), Brentford, and Kiranpreet Singh Gill (22) of Barry Town.All three belonged to Faridkot in Punjab.According to the reports, a van collided with a trailer on Arthur's Wellington Road near Highway 6 in the Canadian township of Harther, Ontario, which led to the death of the three youths.The trailer driver suffered injuries and been admitted to a hospital. Two youth died on the spot while the third succumbed to his injuries at the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-punjabis-from-faridkot-die-in-road-accident-in-canada-375299
