07-03-2022||New Delhi||Punjab CM meets Home Minister Amit Shah, raises BBMB rules, Ukraine students issues||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi met Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday and raised the issue of change in rules for appointment of top officers in Bhakra Beas Management Board and the safe return of Punjab students stuck in war-hit Ukraine.Channi refrained from any direct comment on the exit polls that predicted a clear majority for AAP in Punjab.“The boxes (EVMs) will only tell what will happen... Wait for March 10 (the day of the election result),” he told reporters.After meeting Shah, Channi told reporters that he has raised the issue of change of rules for appointment of top members of the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) and has been assured by the Union home minister that the matter will be resolved soon.“I came to raise the issue of change of BBMB rules and urged the home minister to once again consider Punjab’s request of making top appointments according to old rules,” he said.According to sources, Channi told Shah that Punjab has a lot of interest and stakes in the BBMB as the state gets a major share in power generated from the Bhakra Dam.The home minister has assured that he will discuss with the minister concerned and will resolve the matter as per Punjab’s wishes, Channi said.About the Ukraine crisis, he said, “Our students are struck in Ukraine. There were a total of 997 students in Ukraine of which 420 have returned and 200 have gone to Poland and are safe.“But some people are still stuck there. I have urged the home minister to help in the return of the students. He has assured me that the government is working to ensure the safe return of all.” The change of rules for the appointment of top officers in Bhakra Beas Management Board raked up a storm with political parties in Punjab and Haryana criticising the Centre.Political leaders have claimed that according to the BBMB Rules, 1974, the member (power) in BBMB was from Punjab and the member (irrigation) was from Haryana but the requirement has been removed in the amended rules.The Power Ministry said the Union government has specified technical qualifications for power and irrigation members of BBMB in the new rules following the directions of the high court.BBMB is engaged in regulating the supply of water and electricity from the Bhakra Nangal and Beas Projects to Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi and Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-meets-home-minister-amit-shah-raises-bbmb-rules-ukraine-students-issues-375873
07-03-2022||New Delhi||Beant Singh assassination case: SC orders listing of plea of death-row convict Rajoana||The Supreme Court on Monday directed its registry to list before a bench headed by Justice U U Lalit the plea of Balwant Singh Rajoana, convicted in the 1995 assassination case of former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh, seeking commutation of his death penalty into life imprisonment.A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana took note of the submissions of senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Rajoana, that his plea has not come up for hearing for the last six-seven months and, he is in jail for the last 25 years.Rohatgi sought urgent listing Rajoana’s plea before an appropriate bench which was allowed.“Upon being mentioned by Mukul Rohatgi, senior counsel appearing for the petitioner, we direct the Registry to list the matter before a Bench comprising Hon’ble Mr. Justice Uday Umesh Lalit,” said the bench, also comprising justices A S Bopanna and Hima Kohli.Earlier, the top court had questioned the Centre over the delay in sending a proposal to the President for commuting the death sentence of Rajoana.It had asked the government to apprise it as to when the authorities concerned will send the proposal to the President under Article 72 of the Constitution. The article deals with the power of the President to grant pardon, suspend, remit or commute sentences in certain cases.Rajoana, a former Punjab Police constable, was convicted for his involvement in an explosion outside the Punjab civil secretariat that killed Beant Singh and 16 others on August 31, 1995.The top court has been hearing Rajoana’s plea seeking commutation of death sentence to life term on the ground that he has been in jail for 25 years.A special court had in July 2007 awarded the death sentence to Rajoana in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/beant-singh-assassination-case-sc-orders-listing-of-plea-of-death-row-convict-rajoana-375864
07-03-2022||New Delhi||RS polls for 5 Punjab seats along with 8 in other five states to be held on March 31: EC||The Election Commission of India on Monday announced holding elections on March 31 to fill five vacancies in Rajya Sabha from Punjab along with eight from five other states including Himachal Pradesh, Assam, Kerala, Nagaland, and Tripura.The Election Commission (EC) said in its notification that vacancies from Himachal Pradesh, Assam, Kerala, Nagaland, and Tripura were created since several members complete their terms on April 2. Five members from Punjab---Sukhdev Singh, Partap Singh Bajwa, Swait Malik, Naresh Gujral, and Shamsher Singh Dullo---complete their terms on April 9.“Out of the five seats to be filled from Punjab three are to be filled by holding one election and other two through another election as these seats belong to two different biennial cycles,” the EC said in the notification. The Rajya Sabha nominations from Punjab will depend on the performance of parties in the state in the February 20 assembly polls. There has been no vacancy in the past five years during the Congress government in the state.From Himachal Pradesh Congress leader Anand Sharma, who is also the chairman of the standing committee on Home Affairs, was completing his term.From Assam, two members—Ranee Narah and Ripun Bora—are completing their terms while three members from Kerala—AK Antony, MV Shreyams Kumar, and Somprasad K. Nagaland and Tripura are going to have one vacancy each—KG Kenye and Jharna Das (Baidya) are both completing their terms. The notification for the biennial elections will be issued on March 14 and the polls will be held on March 31. As per established practice, the counting will be held on the day of polling from 5 pm onwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-polls-for-5-punjab-seats-along-with-8-in-other-five-states-to-be-held-on-march-31-ec-375854
07-03-2022||GS PAUL||BSF constable fires at colleagues, five killed||Amritsar, March 6A BSF constable allegedly opened fire indiscriminately at the force’s headquarters here on Sunday, leaving four of his colleagues dead, before falling to a bullet, officials said.BSF’s Punjab Frontier IG Asif Jalal said the cause of the incident in Khasa HQ, 15 km short of the Attari-Wagah border, this morning was yet to be ascertained. An FIR under Sections 302 and 307 of the IPC and Section 27 of the Arms Act had been registered with Gharinda Police Station.Between 9.45 am and 10.15 am, BSF constable Setteppa S Kilaragi of 114 Battalion opened fire indiscriminately from his duty weapon on his unarmed colleagues in the duty room and barracks, leaving several injured. The injured were shifted immediately to a nearby private hospital. By 11 am, five of them were declared dead, including accused constable Setteppa, who belonged to Karnataka. The other four killed in the incident were all head constables —— Ram Binod from Bihar, Toraskar DS from Maharashtra, Rattan Chand from J&K and Baljinder Kumar from Haryana’s Panipat.Another constable Nihal Singh, who received bullet injuries, is now out of danger.Sources said the accused was apparently upset about his duty hours. It was not clear if he shot himself or was fired upon by others. “It could be a ricochet that killed the accused. It is unclear as of now,” a senior officer said.Speaking to reporters, Jalal, who last week took over as the BSF IG for Punjab, denied that there was any enmity or duty-related issue. He said the police and his force were investigating the cause of the incident.An inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the facts, a BSF spokesperson said.The accused first shot duty clerk Toraskar, reportedly after a verbal duel over his duty schedule. Then he came out of the duty room and moved towards the barracks, and opened fire at his unarmed colleagues.When his ammunition was exhausted, he was overpowered by the troops. As he too was bleeding profusely, he was given first aid before he was moved out with other injured jawans to a private hospital.He reportedly also fired on the vehicle of officiating commandant Satish Mishra, who came to control the situation. The officer escaped unhurt.Sources said Setteppa was on guard duty last night. He returned to the barracks around 3 am after his duty but was again detailed for some escort duty in the morning. That is when he had a verbal duel with his colleagues that turned ugly.He was recently posted to Amritsar from border duty, as he was not keeping well and undergoing some medical treatment, said the sources.Not related to duty hours: BSF IG #BSF||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-constable-fires-at-colleagues-five-killed-375709
07-03-2022||Abohar||3 drug peddlers held in Sriganganagar||Phone snatchers heldAbohar: Two miscreants were held in Sriganganagar on Sunday for snatching a mobile phone from Abhishek Chaudhary of Tatarsar village on January 28. The police identified the accused as Krishan Kumar Phuli and Tushar Kukki after examining some CCTV footage and they were arrested. OCSukhbir visits shrinesMuktsar: Ahead of the poll results, SAD chief Sukhbir Badal paid obeisance at Gurdwara Chormar Sahib in Sirsa district on Sunday. On Friday, he paid obeisance at Dera Baba Rumi Wala at Bhucho Kalan in Bathinda district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-drug-peddlers-held-in-in-sriganganagar-375657
07-03-2022||Gurdaspur||Sunny Deol: No more star campaigner||Voters keep politicians guessingSangrur: Having failed to get the exact information about the votes they polled in the 2022 Assembly elections, candidates are busy meeting voters at social and religious events to gauge the final outcome. Earlier, politicians used to disappear after the voting took place and used to surface on the day of the counting. However, this time, many candidates can be seen interacting with area residents on a regular basis. Seeing huge number of voters surrounding them in functions, candidates somehow feel positive, but after seeing the same crowd with their opponents, they are feeling jittery.Shattered, parents rue lack of supportMuktsar: Parents of some stranded students in war-torn Ukraine said locals and welfare organisations did not come out in their support. Though a march was carried out by residents and a symbolic protest was also lodged, yet a worried parent Ranjeet Singh said, “Today our kids are stuck in Ukraine. It can happen with anyone else. Locals should have come out in large numbers to give a message to society that we are all united in the difficult times. A majority of people preferred to remain silent.”Award for stubble mgmt warriorMuktsar: Gurmeet Singh, a young farmer from Kattianwali village in the Lambi Assembly segment, has been selected for the “IARI Fellow Award” by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI). The award will be bestowed upon him during national agriculture fair “Pusa Krishi Vigyan Mela 2022”, which is scheduled to be held in Delhi from March 9-11. Gurmeet claimed that he did not burn crop residue and farmers stopped burning stubble on around 1,000 acres in the area. Earlier, he was conferred “Innovative Farmer Award 2020”. Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal, Parvesh Sharma and Archit Watts  #sunny deol||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-more-star-campaigner-375654
07-03-2022||Vijay Mohan||BBMB row: Not barred, but aspirants fear they may not qualify||Chandigarh, March 6The recent Union Government notification amending the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) Rules does not change the norms regarding representation for members from Punjab and Haryana, as mentioned in the original notification of 1974.It was a convention rather than a rule to have the Member (Power) from Punjab and Member (Irrigation) from Haryana. The amended rules notified on February 23 do not debar these states from having their representatives apply for these posts. Nor do they change the convention.A ministry note says that representation of all four BBMB member-states — Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh — remains. The states will continue to have a senior bureaucrat on the board nominated by the respective state governments. The power and irrigation benefits accruing to the member-states on pre-determined percentages stay unchanged.The BBMB, a statutory body constituted under the Punjab Re-Organisation Act, 1966, manages the Sutlej and Beas water resources and hydropower stations. It has a whole-time chairman and two whole-time members designated as Member (Irrigation) and Member (Power) appointed by the Centre. Earlier, there were no specific rules in the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966, or the BBMB Rules, 1974, on the eligibility criteria, qualification and experience for appointment as whole-time members. “The new rules will help ascertain the suitability of the candidate for appointment as members,” the note from the ministry reads.Posts of chairman and whole-time members will be filled on deputation/direct recruitment with the approval of the Cabinet Appointments Committee. The Member (Irrigation) is required to be a civil engineer with a minimum 20 years of regular experience of which at least three years must be as head of a project involved in the construction and operation of a large dam with a minimum 50m height and 300m length, or a barrage with a minimum 15m height and 350m length, or a canal network with a carrying capacity of a minimum 1,000 cusecs.The Member (Power) must be an electrical/mechanical engineer with a minimum 20 years’ experience and at least three years as head of a project involved in the construction and operation of large hydro-electric projects with over 200 MW capacity or a minimum 500 circuit kilometre transmission line of 132kV.Under the revised rules, the Chairman must be a civil, electrical or mechanical engineer with a minimum 25 years’ experience, of which at least five should have been as head of a large hydro-electric project of 200MW capacity or above, or operation and construction of a minimum 500 circuit kilometre transmission line with voltage above 132kV. He should be experienced in constructing and operating large dams.‘No big dams, can’t meet criteria’While the amended rules notified on February 23 do not debar Punjab and Haryana from having their representatives apply for top BBMB posts, engineers from these states point out that there are no big dams/barrages in the region. Hence, they do not have the requisite experience to apply for the posts. Their consternation has resonated with the political parties, who have been protesting on the issue. #bbmb||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bbmb-row-not-barred-but-aspirants-fear-they-may-not-qualify-375652
07-03-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bathinda villagers hold 'thikri pehra' to curb drug menace||Bathinda, March 6Irked over drug-related deaths in the district, villagers have taken it upon themselves to catch drug peddlers and smugglers.Several villages, including Harraipur, Kaljharani and Chak Attar Singhwala, have resorted to the age-old practice of “thikri pehra” (community policing) to catch peddlers. Villagers verify the identity of each person entering a village. Only if they are satisfied about the person’s identity, he is allowed to enter the village.Coordination with copsCops held meetings with villagers and assured them of action against guilty. The police have sought cooperation of villagers. I have suspended an ASI, against whom complaints were filed. Amneet Kondal, Bathinda SSPEach village has formed a WhatsApp group of the sarpanch and panchayat members, among others. If any suspected person is found roaming in a village, a message is sent in the group and all villagers gather at the “thikri pehra” spot. The person is later handed over to the police.The death due to drugs have been rising in the district. Around 20 deaths were reported in the past six months. On Saturday, a 22-year-old man died allegedly due to drugs in Sangat Kalan village, while another man was found lying unconscious in the city after having taken drugs.Last year, a woman lost her two sons to drug overdose within a span of 10 months in Ghuman Kalan village. One of them was 29 years old and another 32 years old.Their mother Manjeet Kaur says, “I am unable to sleep as I see the bodies of my sons all the time. Even a 10-year-old child in the village knows where ‘chitta’ (a form of heroin) is sold. There is a nexus that facilitates drug trade in the state.”The Bathinda police held a meeting with villagers a few days ago and promised support in their endeavour.Sonu Maheswari of Bathinda-based NGO Naujawan Welfare Society said, “On an average, two to three deaths due to drug overdose are reported every month. Besides, four to five persons are found unconscious every month because of drug overdose.”Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Amneet Kondal said, “Police officers held meetings with villagers and assured them of action against guilty. The police have sought cooperation of villagers. I have transferred the Nandgarh police station SHO to the Police Lines and launched an inquiry against him. I also have suspended an ASI, against whom several complaints were filed.”He added the police had stepped up vigil against drug peddlers. #drug menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-villagers-hold-thikri-pehra-to-curb-drug-menace-375651
07-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi seeks appointment with Amit Shah||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has sought time from Union Home Minister Amit Shah to put across Punjab’s point of view on its share in the BBMB, besides taking up the cause of Punjabis stranded in Ukraine. Reply from the Home Minister’s office is awaited.Recently, Channi held a meeting with his Cabinet colleagues and MLAs over students stranded in Ukraine. He has already written to the PM as regards bringing back the body of a Punjabi student who died in Ukraine recently.The state government is said to have decided to take necessary steps for the completion of studies of medical students belonging to Punjab who have come back from Ukraine. A formal decision on the issue would, however, be announced only after the formation of the new government in the state. — #amit shah #bbmb #charanjit channi #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charanjit-singh-channi-seeks-appointment-with-amit-shah-375650
07-03-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Acid test for 5 leaders of Gurdaspur Congress||Gurdaspur, March 6The fortunes of five Gurdaspur-based Congress leaders, including three Cabinet ministers and an MP, hang in the balance even as their politically groomed progeny is all set to step into their shoes.Observers claim that given an opportunity and the right environment, sons of these leaders are ready to occupy the space their fathers have so assiduously created for them.Two-time MP Partap Singh Bajwa is locked in a three-way battle in Qadian with Guriqbal Singh Mahal of the SAD and Jagrup Singh Sekhwan of the AAP. The seat is considered to be the Bajwa family’s domain with Partap’s wife Charanjit Kaur winning it in 2012. The ‘General’, as Partap is known in the area, has readied his ‘foot soldier son’ Vikram Partap Singh Bajwa for tougher battles ahead.Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa is involved in a fierce fight with Ravi Karan Kahlon from Dera Baba Nanak. He was considered to be a “clear winner” when the elections were announced but over a period of time Kahlon climbed his way up the ladder. Randhawa suffered a jolt when Bikram Majithia and Kahlon weaned away his long-standing loyalist Baba Amrik Singh.To counter this, Randhawa reminded locals of the development he ushered in the area. How far he has succeeded remains in the realms of speculation. His son, Udayveer Singh, is seen as his heir-apparent.In Fatehgarh Churian, Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa is facing Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal of the SAD. His son, Ravi Nandan Singh Bajwa, was a ticket contender till PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu reminded him that no exception would be made to the “one family, one ticket” rule.In Batala, Ashwani Sekhri’s son, Abhinav Sekhri, is all set to lead the charge. In Dinanagar from where Aruna Chaudhury is tipped to tilt the scales in her favour for the fourth time, son Abhinav Chaudhury has been given the sobriquet of “the rising son”.SONRISEQadian Two-time MP Partap Singh Bajwa has readied his ‘foot soldier son’ Vikram Partap Singh Bajwa for tougher battles aheadDera Baba Nanak Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa’s son, Udayveer Singh, is seen as his heir-apparentBatala Ashwani Sekhri’s son, Abhinav Sekhri, is all set to lead the chargeDinanagar Aruna Chaudhury’s son Abhinav Chaudhury has been given the sobriquet of ‘the rising son’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/acid-test-for-5-leaders-of-gurdaspur-congress-375649
07-03-2022||---||Post-result, will name leaders who didn't canvass, says Ravneet Bittu||Chandigarh, March 6Days ahead of the Assembly election results, Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu has hit out at Punjab Congress leaders who refrained from campaigning for party nominees.“Senior leaders who have been appointed to different positions in the party or the government did not step out of their constituencies. This shows their commitment to the party. Come March 10, I will name all such leaders,” Bittu told The Tribune today.Commitment or lack of itSenior leaders who have been appointed to different positions in the party or the government did not step out of their constituencies. This shows their commitment to the party. When it comes to enjoying power, they are at the forefront. Ravneet Bittu, Ludhiana member of parliamentHe noted, “When it comes to enjoying power, they are at the forefront.”The unease in the party over differences among senior leaders is palpable. Leaders have been giving statements that actions of a section of senior leaders have damaged party’s prospects to return to power.In the run-up to the elections, Congress MPs had to be mobilised to campaign for party nominees. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi flew across the state to campaign for candidates.The differences among leaders had emerged after Rahul Gandhi had named Channi as the CM face of the Congress.“The party is hoping that the Channi card will do the trick and bring the party back to power. The election results will reveal whether or not all leaders stood behind Channi,” said a senior party leader.Recently, Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari had targeted state Congress leaders, claiming that senior leaders were missing in action as thousands of Indian students, including those from Punjab, were stuck in war-torn Ukraine.Rajya Sabha member Shamsher Singh Dullo recently sought a probe into alleged conspiracy to sideline traditional Congress men while distributing tickets for the elections.“Many traditional Congress leaders have been forced to leave the party or sit at home because of wrong distribution of tickets,” Dullo had said, blaming Punjab affairs in charge Harish Chaudhary, CM Channi and the screening committee for the selection of candidates.He cited the example of senior leaders HS Hanspal, Mohinder Singh Kaypee, Raman Behl, Malkit Singh Dakha, Jagmohan Singh Kang, Amrik Dhillon, Joginder Singh Mann, Kewal Dhillon, Harminder Jassi, KK Bawa and Daman Bajwa. Most of them have either joined other parties or sitting at home in protest.To lodge his protest and seek a probe, Dullo had said the party would face the consequences for “sidelining and insulting” traditional Congress leaders. #ravneet bittu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-result-will-name-leaders-who-didnt-canvass-says-ravneet-bittu-375648
07-03-2022||---||Ludhiana resident ends life in police lockup||Ludhiana, March 6A man arrested by the Salem Tabri police in connection with some cases of snatching two days ago committed suicide in the police lockup here on Sunday evening. The deceased was identified as Ashish Kumar Shashi of Goraya.Salem Tabri SHO Inspector Ramandeep Singh said Shashi was caught by a police party on March 4. One motorcycle and seven mobile phones were recovered from him.Yesterday, a court remanded him in police custody. He reportedly ended his life by hanging this evening.Officials posted at the police station are being questioned in connection with the incident. #custodial death||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-resident-ends-life-in-police-lockup-375647
07-03-2022||Aman Sood||Costlier coal adds to fund-starved PSPCL's problems||Patiala, March 6After having faced power cuts during and post paddy season last year, Punjab may face the same situation this season.The Russia-Ukraine crisis has pushed the coal prices up, leaving the state with no option but to rely on indigenous coal. The state needs additional power in June when the paddy season starts. More than 14.5 lakh tubewells draw millions of litres of underground water. According to experts, the demand may rise up to eight per cent this year as there will be no restrictions on power consumption under normal conditions.“Last year, the demand during the paddy season touched 15,000 MW against the supply of around 12,000 MW. This year, the maximum power demand will hover between 15,500 MW and 16,000 MW,” said VK Gupta, spokesperson, All-India Power Engineers Federation. The PSPCL is already trying to arrange more power even as the rate has increased by Rs 1 per unit in the power exchange.The main hindrance to purchasing additional power may come from the transmission constraints. Punjab needs to strengthen its transmission system capacity to draw 9,000 MW of power from outside sources. The PSPCL has been making efforts to revive the Pachhwara coal mine block in Jharkhand. Coal dispatches from the mine is expected to start in May.“Operating own mine could bring down the cost of production by 30-40 paisa per unit and variable cost of state-run thermal plants. With the availability of coal from own mine, the PSPCL can build its stock at Lehra Mohabbat and Ropar thermal plants. This will enhance power generation within the state and meet the breakdown eventualities,” said a senior PSPCL officer.Funds are another stumbling block. Buying additional power means more money. The fund-starved PSPCL already awaits crores of rupees pending towards the state government for subsidised power.“In case the newly elected government does not make arrangements for more funds, the PSPCL will have to rely on loans to buy more power,” said the official. However, good news is that water level in Bhakra and Ranjit Sagar dams is more as compared with last year, implying that slightly more power may be available during the paddy season. #pspcl||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/costlier-coal-adds-to-fund-starved-pspcls-problems-375646
07-03-2022||Fazilka||Scrap dealer dies in 'custody' in Fazilka, kin allege torture||A scrap dealer who was allegedly detained for buying stolen material allegedly died in the Fazilka police custody.Irate family members blocked Fazilka-Ferozepur Road for the entire day and sought action against the police personnel concerned.The deceased has been identified as Kewal Krishan Wadhwa, a resident of Mandi Ladhuka, in Fazilka. Sources said Wadhwa was detained on Saturday evening for buying stolen articles, including transformers. After preliminary investigation, the scrap dealer was taken to Fazilka Sadar police station. Deceased’s son Rajan Wadhwa alleged that his father was given electric shocks by cops. Villagers said no case was registered against Wadhwa and he was kept in illegal detention.Meanwhile, BJP candidate Surjit Kumar Jyani, SAD nominee Hans Raj Josan and Congress candidate Davinder Singh Ghubaya also visited the protest site and expressed solidarity with the aggrieved family. Fazilka Deputy Superintendent of Police Zora Singh said some office-bearers of a farm organisation and residents of Ladhuka village told the police that Wadhwa had been buying stolen material from thieves. He said on the basis of the complaint, the scrap dealer was taken into the custody.The DSP said as interrogation was underway, Wadhwa, who was already suffering from the heart ailment, developed chest pain. He was immediately rushed to the hospital, where doctors referred him to Faridkot Medical College, but he succumbed on his way. The DSP said they would investigate the allegations. #custodial death #punjab police||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-dies-in-custody-in-fazilka-kin-allege-torture-375645
07-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma||'Fake transactions' in Barnala coop society, secretary booked||Barnala, March 6A financial scam of around Rs 1 crore in a cooperative society here has come to the fore wherein its secretary allegedly conducted transactions in the accounts of 17 dead farmers and issued receipts for lakhs of rupees he received as cash from members which he did not deposit in the bank.Demanding a high-level inquiry into the scam, residents and victims have expressed anguish in the delay in the arrest of the accused even after the registration of FIR. They have started an indefinite protest in front of the society office.There are around 900 residents of Malliya and Pakhoke villages as members in Pakhoke Cooperative Society. On February 24, the Barnala Sadar police registered a case under Section 420 of the IPC against society secretary Gurcharan Singh for allegedly committing a fraud of Rs 47,800. However, the inquiry launched by the Cooperative Department’s team has detected more financial irregularities. “After the death of my father Mahinder Singh in 2019, we closed his account. However, the secretary conducted transactions in the account. He used the accounts of total 17 deceased farmers for transactions of worth Rs 20.32 lakh,” claimed Charan Singh, a Pakhoke resident.To put pressure on the Barnala administration for a thorough probe, area residents have formed a struggle committee also. “The secretary has shown he distributed Rs 40,000 for cattle feed to each of 800 members, but not a single member benefited. Besides, we have collected the details of lakhs of rupees for which he issued receipts after receiving cash from area residents, but did not deposit in the bank. We will intensify our agitation for the recovery of money from the accused,” said Chamkaur Singh, Barnala president of BKU (Ugrahan).Confirming that the accused conducted fraudulent transactions in the accounts of deceased farmers, Cooperative Department Inspector Kiranjot Kaur, who is a member of the inquiry team, said: “Prima facie, the fraud seems to be of around Rs 1 crore. However, the investigation is still on. We have started the process to attach the properties of Gurcharn Singh,” said SDM Barnala Varjeet Walia.Pakhoke police post incharge ASI Satwinderpal Singh said they were conducting raids to arrest the accused.Dead farmers’ accounts usedAn FIR has been registered against Pakhoke Cooperative Society secretary Gurcharn Singh for allegedly conducting transactions in the accounts of 17 dead farmers and issuing receipts for lakhs of rupees he received as cash from members which he did not deposit in the bank.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fake-transactions-in-barnala-coop-society-secretary-booked-375644
07-03-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Ukraine Crisis: Some students finding way into European nations||Jalandhar, March 6Even as most MBBS students have returned home from war-torn Ukraine, there are some who are looking at the present situation as an opportunity to find their way into European countries.These youth moved to Ukraine about a year ago to pursue language courses as getting a study visa is much easier than procuring a Schengen visa.Some of these youth, who could now finally cross over to Poland, Romania, Hungary or other neighbouring countries have not returned.In Ukraine, these students survived on the commission from new Indian students needing accommodation there. Their parents, who had spent lakhs on their fee and maintenance for nearly a year, too, want them to settle in Europe.Nitin Arora, a youth from Sangat Singh Nagar in Jalandhar, who was a student of language course in Kharkiv, told The Tribune today that he was in Poland and had managed Schengen visa and would now not return. He was among the first few youth to have crossed the border. Like him, another youth from the Islamganj area, who too had gone to study Ukrainian language, said he had got one-month transit visa to Poland during which he would explore opportunities to settle and work in Europe. Gurbhej Singh from Bhunder Di village of Hoshiarpur, said he had reached Italy where his cousins were settled. "I am not coming homewards as of now", he said. #indians in ukraine #operation ganga #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ukraine-crisis-some-students-finding-way-into-european-nations-375643
07-03-2022||Archit Watts||Ukraine: Muktsar youths travel for 28 hours to cross over to Romania||Muktsar, March 6After having travelled for nearly 28 hours in the war-torn Ukraine, three students of Muktsar district and their friends managed to cross over to Romania today, the father of one of the students has confirmed.Some reliefI am a bit relieved as my daughter and other students entered Romania today. With Ukraine under bombardment, their journey was full of risk. I salute all youths who helped each other in this difficult time. Ranjeet Singh, Muktsar residentThey are now camping at a shelter home and waiting for an evacuation flight to India under Operation Ganga, a central government project to repatriate Indians stranded in Ukraine.Muktsar resident Ranjeet Singh, whose daughter Jasmeen Kaur is a fourth-year MBBS student at Kharkiv National Medical University, said, “I am a bit relieved as my daughter and other students entered Romania today. With Ukraine under bombardment, their journey was full of risk. They had to travel from one corner of Ukraine to the other. I salute all youths who helped each other in this difficult time. Some of them even paid the bus fare of their friends at Pesochin, while others gave food to those stuck at metro stations in Kharkiv.”Ashok Chawla, whose son Aneesh Chawla is a first-year MBBS student at Kharkiv National Medical University, said: “My son has informed me that it took them 28 hours to reach Romania from Pesochin. They hired two vehicles. Now, they are putting up at a shelter home in Romania, hoping for a flight back home tonight.”Meanwhile, two Muktsar residents Navneet Jaura and Sukhraj Bhullar, both students of Kharkiv National Medical University, returned to India via Poland on Sunday. Navneet’s father Kuldeep Singh said, “My son had to wait for two and a half days in Poland to get an evacuation flight for India.”So far, 18 students from Muktsar district have returned from the war-ravaged country. #indians in ukraine #operation ganga #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-youths-travel-for-28-hours-to-cross-over-375642
07-03-2022||---||Ukraine: At Sumy, students melt snow for drinking water; no info on evacuation yet||Jalandhar, March 6As a chilly wind blows amid the sound of explosions at a distance, a bunch of students collect snow in polythene bags to later melt it to satiate their thirst. This is now a daily routine.Trying timesStudents are trying their best to keep themsleves warm with paper, cardboards and tarpualin in bunkers. Food is somehow managed, but they have to step out every day to collect water. Navrose Singh, Kapurthala residentAt their ramshackle bunker, where they have been putting up ever since the war started, cardboards, tarpaulin, polythene, discarded wood boards and paper have been laid down on muddy floors to lend some warmth. In sub-zero temprature and intense shelling, this is how 700 Indian students spend their pensive and desperate day in dusty, unkempt bunkers.On the 11th day of the war, while majority of students from Pesochin have been evacuated, there is still no good news for over 700 Indians who make do with bare minimum amenities at Sumy. Though the Indian Embassy has raised repeated concerns about the students stuck in Sumy, the ground help is yet to reach.“Across Sumy, 650 to 700 students are holed up in several bunkers. Due to the heavy shelling or advisories, all attempts to head out have failed,” said parents. Consultants, who came to the aid of students stuck at Pesochin, are now said to be making attempts to organise their rescue.Navrose Singh, brother of Kapurthala-based Muskan Thind, said: “Their bunker is shoddy and unkempt. The bricks peak out and the floors are dust-ridden. Students are trying their best to keep themsleves warm with paper, cardboards and tarpualin. Food is somehow managed, but they have to step out amid shelling to collect water every day. All means of road and rail transports around them are destroyed. Students planning to walk out were asked to stay put by the embassy, as it was risky. Many students are getting sick in the cold. We don’t know how they will get out.”Kuldeep Singh, the father of Kapurthala-based Gurleen Kaur said, “For the past four days, it is still the same. No help has reached the students today either. We are just waiting and praying for the safety of our daughter. These are the only students left. They should be brought out soon.” #indians in ukraine #operation ganga #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-sumy-no-info-on-evacuation-yet-375641
07-03-2022||Aparna Banerji||Ukraine crisis: Stuck in Pesochin, 1K finally make it to Romania||Jalandhar, March 6Four days after they first stepped out of their bunkers at Kharkiv on March 2 to board a train (which they eventually couldn’t), the 1,000 Indian students stuck at Pesochin for the past two days finally made it safely across the borders of war-torn Ukraine in the wee hours of Sunday morning.Witnessed horrifying scenes on the wayWe saw Kharkiv burn. On way to Pesochin, there were horrifying scenes as entire localities had been bombed, people had died, or left. Our own university was hit. A missile dropped on a building nearby, raining glass on us. Jashneen Kaur, Jalandhar-based studentThey reached Ternopil after a 30-hour journey from Pesochin and crossed over to Romania in the wee hours. Greeted with hot hamburgers and dumplings at the Romanian side by the Indian Embassy officials, students said March 2 was among the most nightmarish days of their lives. Their flights are scheduled for tonight and tomorrow.Fleeing out of a war-ravaged landscape in which much of the town was reduced to rubble in front of their eyes, including bombings at the Kharkiv National University where they studied, students said they had given up all hope.Speaking to The Tribune from Romania, Jalandhar-based student Jashneen Kaur, who left Pesochin on March 4, said, “We were holed up at a metro station in Kharkiv when the Indian advisory came. It was ‘do or die’. That day we had thought we wouldn’t make it alive. We saw the dark horizon lit up with the yellow glow of a bomb in the night and thousands of glass slivers rained on us when a building was hit just metres away while on our way from Kharkiv to Pesochin.She said on March 2, despite repeated attempts Indians couldn’t board any train. Locals would beat them up or scare them away by shooting in the air. And then came the advisory to leave Kharkiv.“We literally saw Kharkiv burn. While going to Pesochin there were horrifying scenes as entire localities had been bombed, people had died, or left. A missile dropped on a building near us raining glass on us. A Ukranian soldier took us aside to give cover. We reached after 3-4 hours. The first night of Pesochin was also very restless, but on March 4 we were evacuated with the help of our consultant Dr Karan Sandhu, who paid for students who didn’t have money. Majority of the students have been evacuated from Pesochin.”Jashneen said, “We are currently in a huge basketball court which has been turned into a relief camp. We reached here past midnight. We reached Ternopil at 6.30 pm last evening. In Romania, we were given hamburgers and bread last night and dumplings and bread today. There are stalls of sandwich, chips, coffee, water, cold drink and chocolates which are available all day. We are very comfortable here.”She said: “The place where students need most help is on the other side of the border. Our prayers are with the students in Sumy as we know what they are going through.” #indians in ukraine #operation ganga #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ukraine-crisis-stuck-in-pesochin-1k-finally-make-it-to-romania-375640
07-03-2022||Amritsar||Five BSF personnel killed in fratricidal incident at Amritsar camp||A trooper of the Border Security Force fatally shot four of his colleagues at the BSF Khasa headquarters of the114 Battalion (Bn), sources said on Sunday.He was also killed in the incident, sources said.The headquarters is located a few kilometres from the Attari-Wagah border.There’s no official statement yet from the BSF headquarters, but sources identified the jawan as Ct Setteppa SK of ‘B’ Coy 144 Bn, who they said allegedly fired at his colleagues in the force’s mess area at 9.45 am.Some other colleagues present in the mess shot him, sources said.All five, including the suspect, were declared dead at the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, where they were brought in for treatment. One trooper was critically wounded and is currently undergoing treatment, the sources said.The BSF has ordered a court of inquiry into the incident, the sources said. #fratricide||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fratricide-five-bsf-personnel-killed-in-amritsar-camp-375580
07-03-2022||Karam Prakash||Patiala Central Jail authorities restrict meetings with Bikram Singh Majithia||Patiala, March 5After reportedly excess meetings, the Patiala Central Jail authorities did not allow excess meetings of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who is lodged in the Central Jail.Many party leaders had approached the authorities for a meeting with Majithia in the past few days, however, no one was allowed to meet.The jail authorities had already allowed three consecutive meetings in the beginning of this week, and The Tribune on Thursday had reported the laxative by jail authorities.As per rules, an undertrial is allowed to meet a family member twice a week while a convict is allowed only once a week. However, the local jail authorities had passed the buck to the higher-ups for the concession.Majithia was sent to judicial custody for two weeks on February 24, after he surrendered before a Mohali court, as per the Supreme Court directives in connection with a drugs case. The court had rejected his bail plea on February 25. However, the Supreme Court had recently directed the Punjab Police to not arrest the former Punjab minister till February 23 in a drugs case so as to make him do the electioneering in the state.It is worth noting that according to The Tribune report, Patiala jail authorities were asked by higher ups to strictly go by the rules and stop further meetings this week. The Patiala Jail Superintendent, Shivraj Singh, said, “Many had requested to meet Majithia, however, no one was allowed to meet as per rules.”The sources said jail authorities would now allow further meetings with Majithia next week. Around 12 SAD leaders have already met Majithia since he was lodged in the jail on February 24. #bikram majithia||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-central-jail-authorities-restrict-meetings-with-bikram-singh-majithia-375446
