08-03-2022||Chandigarh/Barnala||Watch: Charanjit Channi seen milking goat in video; he’s practising for what’s coming, says Twitter||Chief Minister Charanjit Channi is putting his adept milking skills to good use.Two days before votes for Punjab assembly elections are counted, Channi, Congress party’s chief ministerial candidate, spent some time showing off his skills at milking a goat in Ballo village, Bhadaur, on Tuesday.Channi shared the video on his official Twitter handle. “Main Bahut Dhara Choiya Ne, Pura Expert Banda Ha main” (I have milked many animals, I'm an expert),” he said as he milked the goat.Channi had contested the elections from two segments this time—his own constituency Chamkaur Sahib and Bhadaur. He's currently in Bhadaur to thank residents in the constituency for having cast their votes.“Today I have come here to meet you and promise you that there will be a Congress government in the state. I promise to work hard for the development of all of Malwa,” Channi told voters in Tapa. Besides Tapa and Bhadaur, Channi also went around Barnala and met local Congress leaders.Viewers were left wondering if Channi’s act is spontaneous, or whether it was part of a religious ritual before result day. Regardless though users were left in splits.“The right work for the next 5 years,” one user wrote in Hindi.“This is what he’ll be doing after March 10, so he’s learning now,” another one wrote.Exit polls have predicted rival Aam Aadmi Party’s win in the Punjab assembly elections.10 ke bad ehi kaam krege ye es liye abhi se seekh rhe haiAage 5 saal k liye thiek hai kaamAb ye karna hoga bhai .. bola the comedian ko bahar karo #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/watch-chranjit-channi-seen-milking-goat-in-video-hes-practising-for-whats-coming-says-twitter-376116
08-03-2022||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder’s daughter Jai Inder Kaur is new Punjab president of Jat Mahasabha women’s wing||Capt Amarinder Singh’s daughter Jai Inder Kaur was appointed the new president of the Punjab women’s wing of the Jat Mahabsabha on Tuesday.The appointment was made earlier on Tuesday and comes on International Women's Day. She replaces Navjot Kaur Sidhu, the wife of Punjab Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinders-daughter-jai-inder-kaur-is-new-punjab-president-of-jat-mahasabha-womens-wing-376109
08-03-2022||Aditi Tandon||Ahead of election results, Congress deputes Ajay Maken, Khera for poll strategising in Punjab||New Delhi, March 8With exit polls not painting a very happy picture for the Congress and predicting a close fight in Goa and Uttarakhand, the grand old party rushed to strategize ahead of the election results on March 10.Top sources told The Tribune that the party has deputed AICC general secretary Rajasthan Ajay Maken and party spokesperson Pawan Khera to meet with all candidates in the state and keep all posted poll strategies and options in place.The Congress has sent Karnataka party chief DK Shiva Kumar and Maharashtra minister Sunil Kedar to Goa where the exit polls have shown a very close race between the BJP and the Congress giving none a majority in the assembly of 40 where 21 is the majority mark.In Manipur the party has sent Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo and party general secretary Mukul Wasnik.Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda who was deputed for Uttarakhand yesterday had already reached the state.The Congress does not want to be kept napping in the event of election results across the above states placing it within the striking distance of government formation.The party is still hopeful of retaining Punjab where all exit polls have given AAP a comfortable win in a house of 117 members with 59 being the majority mark.Maken and Khera along with state in-charge Harish Choudhary will begin crucial meetings for post poll strategizing today itself. Both will reach Punjab shortly.Likewise in Goa where exit polls have given both Congress and BJP an average of 16 seats each, winning over MLAs from smaller parties will be the key to government formation, should exit poll results hold.The Congress doesn’t want to repeat the mistake of 2017 when despite being the single largest party with 17 MLAs it ended up squandering the mandate while the BJP formed the government.In Uttarakhand, too, the Congress wants to remain pro-active and is hoping for the historical trends to continue.The state has never voted an incumbent government back since its formation in 2000.The Congress is expecting to unseat the BJP in Uttarakhand.In UP, however, the party appears to have conceded defeat with no special observers appointed.The opinion polls have given the ruling BJP a win in UP where a sitting government hasn’t been repeated in over three decades.SP and RLD are projected to finish second in UP.For the Congress, the March 10 results could mean make or break.Retaining Punjab would be crucial as it is one of the only three states where the Congress is in power on its own apart from Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan.A zero score on March 10 would also deal a huge blow to Rahul Gandhi’s leadership with a section of party leaders waiting for March 10 to make their next moves.A major loss in UP as predicted by exit polls would also undermine the electoral influence of AICC general secretary UP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who campaigned relentlessly in the state to rejuvenate a moribund party.She obviously faced an uphill task and was a solitary Congress crusader in UP, where the party can hardly claim any organizational base.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/ahead-of-election-results-congress-deputes-ajay-maken-khera-for-poll-strategizing-in-punjab-376106
08-03-2022||Sanjay Bumbroo||SAD leader Bikram Majithia’s judicial remand extended till March 22||Mohali, March 8A Mohali court on Tuesday extended the judicial remand of SAD leader Bikram Majithia till March 22.Majithia, who was lodged in the Patiala jail, was produced in the Mohali court as his judicial remand ended on Tuesday.His lawyers appealed for bail, citing the election results being declared, but the court rejected the appeal and remanded Majithia in judicial custody till March 22.Majithia had surrended in the Mohali court in the drugs case on February 24 after the completion of the election process in Punjab on the directions of the Supreme Court.Majithia is contesting from Amritsar East Assembly constituency.Earlier, talking to the media, Majithia said he is in high spirits. He rejected the exit poll results saying the Akali Dal would form the government in Punjab. Exit polls in Punjab had always failed, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bikram-majithias-judicial-custody-extended-up-to-march-22-376090
08-03-2022||Washington||Discrimination against Sikhs has increased in US, lawmakers told||Religious discrimination and hate crime against the Sikh community in the United States has increased in recent years, an eminent human rights expert has told the lawmakers urging the administration and the US Congress to take steps to end this.“Congress must take action,” Amrith Kaur Aakre, legal director of the Sikh Coalition, told members of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Constitution, Civil Rights and Civil Liberties during a recent Congressional hearing on Discrimination and Civil Right.“Workplace discrimination harms Sikhs in a range of public and private sector jobs including transportation, entertainment, health care, the military and law enforcement by allowing for the biased interpretation and application of government policies and laws."We've seen Sikhs willing to put their lives on the line in defence of their cities and country, only to be told that uniform and grooming policies prohibit their articles of faith,” she said.“We have seen Sikhs ordered to cut their hair for work-related drug testing even when alternative means are readily available.“And we've seen Sikh first responders in the fight against COVID-19 pressured to shave their religiously mandated beards instead of being given appropriate, safe personal protective equipment that doesn't interfere with their faith,” Aakre said.Regardless of the details, time and again these policies are interpreted in a way which disproportionately impacts minority communities and our system allows it to keep happening, she said.“We also receive Sikh travellers' reports of inappropriate demands to remove articles of faith, discriminatory comments by TSA agents and other profiling in our airports,” she told the lawmakers.“This is a humiliating hindrance for Sikhs and other religious and racial minorities, members of the transgender community and others. And additional discriminatory practices like no-fly list and the lingering effects of the previous administration's Muslim ban continue to perpetuate profiling against too many people,” she said.Responding to a question, Aakre said TSA profiling for Sikh Americans and other minority groups has always been a problem.Bias against travellers is prevalent at every stage of the travelling process and it starts with the fact that the TSA agents do not receive adequate training on TSA policies or cultural competencies, which is evident from the moment many stigmatized groups arrive at the airport and have to go through behavioural detection before reaching security.In response to another question from Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, she said Sikh American students experience high rates of bullying and harassment in our nation's public schools and they continue receiving and documenting nationwide reports of school bullying.“Sikh boys who wear turbans are called terrorists and girls are teased for having long hair. And many of these children are subjected to violence.“Our research shows that the majority of Sikh children, over 50 per cent, have endured school bullying. Over two-thirds or 67 per cent reported that they were bullied in school and turban Sikh children experienced bullying at more than double the national rate,” Jackson Lee said.Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, who is the first and only South Asian American woman elected to the House of Representatives, said 9/11 forever changed what it means to be Muslim, Arab, or South Asian American in America.“In the days and weeks after, I received fearful calls from individuals in the Sikh, Muslim and Arab-American community who were being attacked for wearing turbans or hijabs. I heard from moms and dads who were afraid to send their kids to school, a fear that I shared for my own child,” she said.Jayapal said her resolution, H Res. 629, recognises the climate of hate that Arab, Muslim, Middle Eastern, South Asian and Sikh communities have experienced since September 11 and calls for action to address the event's  lasting impacts.“I hope this hearing becomes one step of many to examine and ultimately dismantle 9/11 era policies that have perpetuated and exacerbated discrimination against these communities,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/diaspora/discrimination-against-sikhs-has-increased-in-us-lawmakers-told-376070
08-03-2022||Mansa||8 held with illicit liquor||Cow killing: Inaction allegedAbohar: To protest the killing of a cow on March 3 near the old railway quarters here, various social organisations, alleging police inaction, took out a protest march in the city on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/8-held-with-illicit-liquor-375977
08-03-2022||Ferozepur||6 phones recovered from Ferozepur jail||The police have booked three jail inmates, besides some unidentified persons, following the recovery of six phones in the Central Jail. The accused have been booked. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-phones-recovered-from-ferozepur-jail-375976
08-03-2022||Fazilka||Judicial probe ordered into Fazilka custodial death||Fazilka District Magistrate has ordered a judicial probe into the death of a scrap dealer Kewal Krishan Wadhwa of Ladhuka Mandi of Fazilka, who allegedly died in police custody on Saturday evening.Sources said a judicial investigation has begun into the allegations of torture of Wadhwa, resulting to his death.Meanwhile, the police have registered a case under Section 304-A of the IPC against Assistant Sub-Inspector Gurbaksh Singh and senior constable Harbhajan Singh. In his statement, SI Nirmaljit Singh said upon receiving a complaint by the panchayat of Behak Khas village, he had forwarded the application to ASI Gurbaksh Singh to probe the matter. He said when the ASI and the senior constable were taking Kewal Krishan to the police station, he felt uneasy. The police officials took him to the Civil Hospital from where he was referred to Faridkot medical college, but he succumbed on the way.The body of Kewal Krishan has been kept in the civil hospital mortuary and post-mortem was yet to be conducted. — #custodial death||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/judicial-probe-ordered-into-fazilka-custodial-death-375973
08-03-2022||---||Police initiate investigation into Amritsar BSF fratricide incident||Amritsar, March 7A day after the incident of fratricide that occurred inside the BSF Khasa sector headquarters (HQ) of the 114 Battalion, the Amritsar (rural) police have started an investigation into the case after gauging the scene of crime.Survivor’s condition stableConstable Nihal Singh, who survived the incident, is under treatment at a private hospital and his condition is stated to be stable. Our team will approach him when he gets better. Deepak Hillori, Amritsar (rural) SSPThe BSF has also initiated the process to handover the bodies to the families of the five BSF jawans who were killed in the incident, including BSF constable Setteppa S Kilaragi of 114 Battalion, who had opened indiscriminate fire on his colleagues with his service weapon.The other four killed in the incident were all head constables — Ram Binod from Bihar, Toraskar DS from Maharashtra, Rattan Chand from J&K and Baljinder Kumar from Haryana.Since Baljinder’s family had moved to the Khandwala area in Amritsar recently, his body was handed over to them. The cremation was performed at a crematorium here. Hailing from Panipat, Baljinder was deputed at Attari six months back. His family includes his wife Anuradha, daughter Deepali (20) and son Karan (14).The police have started the process of gathering the sequence of crime, details of the eyewitnesses and family members. An FIR under Sections 302 and 307 of the IPC and Section 27 of the Arms Act had been registered. Another constable Nihal Singh, who survived the incident, was still under treatment and his condition is stated to be stable. #BSF||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-initiate-investigation-into-amritsar-bsf-fratricide-incident-375971
08-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Can’t take U-turn after agreeing on maintenance allowance: HC||Chandigarh, March 7The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a wife cannot turn around and seek enhancement of maintenance allowance on the grounds of it being meager and inadequate after agreeing to the amount.The ruling by Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul came on a petition filed by a wife challenging an order passed on January 21, 2019, by an Additional District and Sessions Judge/Principal Judge, vide which the respondent-husband was directed to monthly pay Rs 5, 000 as maintenance allowance.Appearing before the Bench, the petitioner’s counsel among other things contended that the wife was 70-year-old suffering from age related medical ailments, with no source of income. The counsel also submitted that the amount awarded vide the impugned order was meagre. As such, it was required to be enhanced for enabling the petitioner to sustain herself as she was currently living at the mercy of her relatives. The counsel added the respondent, on the other hand, was a pensioner, but getting approximately Rs 46,000 per month.After hearing the petitioner’s counsel and perusing the relevant material on the record, Justice Kaul asserted the parties arrived at an amicable settlement before the court below. The fact was not disputed by the petitioner’s counsel. It was also reflected in the impugned order itself.The order made it clear that Rs 5,000 monthly maintenance allowance was settled between the parties with the petitioner’s consent herself. A joint statement to the effect was also recorded before the court concerned. The amount was to be deposited by the respondent in the petitioner’s saving bank account and all litigations pending between the parties were to be withdrawn.“In the aforementioned circumstances, the petitioner cannot turn around and impugn the amount of maintenance on the ground that it is meager and not enough to sustain herself. It is not even her case that she was threatened or pressurized to enter into a settlement or the settlement was effected fraudulently. Still further, the respondent has been regularly depositing the sum of Rs 5,000 per month in the account of the petitioner as per the terms and conditions of the compromise,” Justice Kaul asserted, while dismissing the petition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-take-u-turn-after-agreeing-on-maintenance-allowance-hc-375969
08-03-2022||---||Can forget pain, not humiliation: Ukraine Returnees||Mahesh SharmaMandi Ahmedgarh, March 7The Ukraine war has proven to be an austere tutor to teach the stranded Indians an actual lesson in secularism. Those returning home may be Hindus, Sikhs or Muslims, but they were treated by the military at the borders during evacuation as Indians only.Lesson in secularismProbably, it was the first time we were made to understand what secularism means. Gurjot Singh, student from Phallewal village in Malerkotla districtThey can also forget physical and psychological persecute suffered due to the thundering sounds of shelling, tremors caused during blasts and spasms due to hunger and thirst during the nightmarish days, but can’t ignore the agony of hearing ‘Indians go back’.“We can think of overlooking the physical and psychological trauma suffered during all these days but can’t forget the humiliation at the hands of the military personnel at the Poland border,” said Gurjot Singh of Phallewal village in Malerkotla district.“Probably, it was for the first time that we were made to understand what secularism means,” he added.Gurjot further said the WhatsApp group for Indians stranded in Ukraine and their families under the administration of Malerkotla Deputy Commissioner Madhvi Kataria proved saviour for him and others after they shared their video clips highlighting the discrimination being faced by them, which was then resolved at the diplomatic level.Meanwhile, the DC said: “We are glad that the coordination through the WhatsApp group has expedited the evacuation of our area residents and the shifting of other people from sensitive to safer places.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/can-forget-pain-not-humiliation-returnees-375966
08-03-2022||Kulwinder Sandhu||Spotlight back on oilseed cultivation in Punjab as import hit due to Ukraine crisis||Moga, March 7Russian invasion of Ukraine has put the spotlight back on the cultivation of oilseeds instead of wheat and paddy in the state.At present, India imports 1,371 million dollars worth of sunflower oil from Ukraine every year.The agro-scientists and policy makers had long been advocating this shift to save underground water, check menace of stubble burning and retain soil fertility.BV Mehta, executive director, Solvent Extractors’ Association of India (SEA), said, “It is the need of the hour to shift cultivation to soya-sunflower-maize in kharif season and rapeseed in rabi season.”“The Centre must include mustard, groundnut, sunflower and soyabean in the edible oil mission and allocate at least Rs 5,000 crore per annum, which will help narrow the gap between domestic demand and production of edible vegetable oils,” said Mehta.Dr Harpreet Kaur, Joint Director (statistical wing), Agriculture Department, said, “During rabi season, farmers in Punjab had grown oilseeds (taramira and sarson) on 53,900 hectares. Oilseeds were grown on 33,000 hectares in 2020-2021.”Interestingly, when Green Revolution was given a push in this agrarian state, the area under mustard and rapeseed crops was more than 1 lakh hectare. It was 1.06 lakh hectare in 1960-61, 1.03 lakh hectare in 1970-71, 1.46 lakh hectare in 1980-81, 69,000 hectare in 1990-91, 1.02 lakh hectare in 1995-96, 53,000 hectare in 2000-01, 31,000 hectare in 2010-11 and 31,000 hectare in 2015-16.A couple of years ago, former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had asked the Agriculture Department officials to increase the area under oilseed, particularly canola. He had asked officials to facilitate farmers with subsidy on seeds and setting up drip irrigation system. Even Markfed was asked to assist farmers in marketing of the oilseeds.Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar, Agriculture Scientist, advocated the cultivation of hybrid oilseed crops to get good yield. The hybrid variety, including GSC-7 developed by Punjab Agricultural University, gives a yield of at least 10 quintal per acre, he said.Sukhdev Singh, a progressive farmer of Khosa Randhir Singh village, and Jassa Singh of Dhalleke village asked the government to purchase oilseeds at assured minimum price through the government agencies, provide subsidies on purchase of quality seeds and setting-up of drip irrigation system to push for diversification. #Agriculture #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spotlight-back-on-oilseed-cultivation-375963
08-03-2022||Faridkot||856 Punjab students evacuated from Ukraine: Police||Of the total 992 students from the state reported to be stuck in Ukraine, the Police Department claimed that 856 had been evacuated till Monday evening. While the data of 992 students was provided by the Centre, the state police could verify 859 students in the state and 856 of them had returned home, said ADGP MF Farooqui, who is also the nodal officer of the state for handling the crisis.The data was compiled after the families of these stranded students contacted the district administrative authorities across the state on the helpline numbers provided.So far, the police could contact the families of 859 students as the information about others was found to be incorrect. “We are still working on it,” said Farooqui.The details collected from various districts revealed that among the stranded students in Ukraine, Amritsar had 121 students, of which 120 have been evacuated. In Bathinda all 28, Faridkot 7, Fatehgarh Sahib 12, Ferozepur 19, Gurdaspur 72, Jalandhar 106, Kapurthala 48, Ludhiana 119, SAS Nagar 54, SBS Nagar 14, Muktsar 23 and Tarn Taran 33 students have returned home. Also, 22 of 23 in Mansa, 50 of 58 in Patiala, 26 of 32 in Ropar, 4 of 32 in Pathankot, 31 of 32 in Sangrur, 1 of 2 in Malkerkotla, 65 of 71 in Hoshiarpur, and 2 of 17 students in Barnala are back home. — #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/856-students-evacuated-police-375961
08-03-2022||---||Warm welcome for Ukraine returnee Amloh girl||Fatehgarh Sahib, March 7Amloh resident Shruti Lotava, a third-year student of MBBS in Kharkiv National Medical University, reached home safely from war-torn Ukraine. She was accorded a warm welcome by residents at Mandi Gobindgarh town today.Talking to mediapersons, she said after days of nightmare, she along with four other girl students made it to Hungary, where they were attended to warmly by representatives of the Indian Government. They were provided with free accommodation and food and transported to India.She said their journey through the war-torn country was nothing short of an ordeal. They travelled on foot for long distances before boarding a train to reach the Hungarian border.Four students from the district were stranded in Ukraine. While Sharuti Lotava has returned home, three others — Jashanpreet Singh, Harjit Singh and Gurminder Singh — are still stranded. #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/warm-welcome-for-abohar-girl-375957
08-03-2022||Archit Watts||Kin of 3 from Muktsar refused aid: Admn||Muktsar, March 7At a time when everyone, who had sent his/her child to Ukraine, appealed to the Centre for immediate evacuation of their wards from the war-torn country, two families of Muktsar did not even share their details with the district administration.Got help from NGO in RomaniaThe Indian Embassy has done nothing for us, except issuing last minute advisories. All students have come on their own by risking their lives. Further, arrangements for our stay in Romania were made by an NGO there. Jasmeen Kaur, Kharkiv nat'l medical varsity MBBS StudentTalking to The Tribune today, Malout SDM Parmod Singla said: “We got information that two persons from Bhagu village and one student from Dabwali Dhabh village had gone to Ukraine. However, when we sent a patwari, tehsildar, police and village panchayat members to their houses, the families refused to share their details. We requested them for two days, saying that the Deputy Commissioner had just demanded their present locations and phone numbers, but they did not share any information. These families told us that they do not want any kind of assistance. As of now, three students from Malout subdivision, who were stuck in Ukraine, have returned.”Meanwhile, some residents of Bhagu village said a young boy and his wife from Bhagu village had gone to Ukraine. “The boy’s mother is staying in the village. According to information, the couple is safe and has crossed over to Poland. They are staying at a gurdwara there. They don’t want to return to India, thus the family is not sharing the details with the administration,” they said.Further, the present status of Lukesh, a fifth-year MBBS student of the Kharkiv National Medical University, who hails from Dabwali Dhabh village, is also known to the administration. Repeated attempts to contact the family have proved futile. Some village residents said: “The boy’s father is a government teacher and is under trauma. We are told in the village that the boy has crossed over to Romania and awaiting a flight for India.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kin-of-3-from-muktsar-refused-aid-admn-375955
08-03-2022||Ferozepur||BSF shoots down Pakistan drone in Ferozepur||The alert jawans of the 103rd Battalion of the Border Security Force shot down a Pakistan drone near Thathi Jaimal Singh border outpost along the International Border and recovered heroin worth Rs 21 crore.As per information, the jawans heard buzzing sound emanating from the Pakistan side in the wee hours of today.Sources said BSF personnel on duty sounded the alert and subsequently opened fire towards the flying object.The jawans illuminated the area by firing flares to spot the object, following which the drone was brought down.Later, the BSF cordoned off the area and seized the drone, which also had a green colour bag containing four packets of contraband.Officials said the gross weight of the contraband was found to be 4.267 kg.The quadcopter (DJI Matrice 300 RTX) shot down by the security forces today has been used by Pakistan-based agencies time and again to drop arms and contraband inside the Indian territory. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-shoots-down-pak-drone-in-ferozepur-375954
08-03-2022||New Delhi/ludhiana||Revisit BBMB rules, Punjab CM Charanjit Channi urges Amit Shah||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and claimed the main issues discussed included amending the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) rules and the ongoing ‘Operation Ganga’ to evacuate stranded Indians from Ukraine.Also read: Will oppose amended BBMB rules, says Haryana CM KhattarCapt Amarinder meets Home MinisterNew Delhi: Former CM and Punjab Lok Congress leader Capt Amarinder Singh met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and held “general discussion” ahead of the poll results slated for March 10. He later said the results were “not here yet” and he held a general discussion. “There will be a detailed discussion once the results come in. It was a general discussion on Punjab, not on elections,” he added. TNSIncidentally, the meeting took place here at the official residence of the Home Minister two days ahead of the announcement Assembly poll results, as also after former Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh held parlays with Shah earlier in the day.Talking to reporters after the meeting, Channi, said: “Main issue was the BBMB; officers should be deployed like before. The Centre wants to deploy people from outside. I requested the Home Minister to reconsider it. He assured me that he will discuss this with his minister in 1-2 days and act according to the wishes of Punjab.”Notably, political parties in Punjab, barring the BJP, are against the Centre’s decision to amend the rules regarding appointments to two key positions on the BBMB. The Centre issued a notification on February 23 to amend the BBMB Rules, 1974, thereby changing the criteria for the selection of whole-time members on the Board.Channi said he also discussed with the minister the issue of students from Punjab still stranded in Ukraine. “I made a request. The Home Minister assured me they are monitoring the situation and the students will be evacuated,” he added.The Centre has arranged for flights from neighbouring countries of Ukraine for the evacuation of Indian students under “Operation Ganga”.Meanwhile, several farm bodies, including the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha , today staged a dharna outside the Ludhiana mini-secretariat. They sent a memorandum to the President through the DC against the Centre’s BBMB move and non-implementation of their other demands, which were accepted by PM Modi during the stir. #amit shah #bbmb #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/revisit-bbmb-rules-channi-urges-shah-375951
08-03-2022||New Delhi||SC orders listing of Balwant Singh Rajoana's plea||The Supreme Court on Monday directed its Registry to list before a Bench headed by Justice UU Lalit the plea of Balwant Singh Rajoana, convicted in the 1995 assassination case of former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh, seeking commutation of his death penalty into life imprisonment.A Bench headed by Chief Justice NV Ramana took note of the submissions of senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Rajoana, that his plea has not come up for hearing for the last six-seven months and, he was in jail for the past 25 years.Rohatgi sought urgent listing of Rajoana’s plea before an appropriate Bench, which was allowed.“Upon being mentioned by Mukul Rohatgi, senior counsel appearing for the petitioner, we direct the Registry to list the matter before a Bench comprising Hon’ble Justice Uday Umesh Lalit,” said the Bench, also comprising Justice AS Bopanna and Hima Kohli.Earlier, the top court had questioned the Centre over the delay in sending a proposal to the President for commuting the death sentence of Rajoana.It had asked the government to apprise it as to when the authorities concerned would send the proposal to the President under Article 72 of the Constitution. The article deals with the power of the President to grant pardon, suspend, remit or commute sentences in certain cases.Rajoana, a former Punjab Police constable, was convicted for his involvement in an explosion outside the Punjab Civil Secretariat that killed Beant Singh and 16 others on August 31, 1995. The top court has been hearing Rajoana’s plea seeking commutation of death sentence to life term on the ground that he has been in jail for 25 years. — #balwant singh rajoana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-orders-listing-of-rajoanas-plea-375949
08-03-2022||Aman Sood||CAs hired to keep poll expenses in check||Patiala, March 7With just three more days to go for the counting of votes on Thursday, candidates and their chartered accountants (CAs) are on toes to ensure that the expenditure on the polls and the celebrations, if they win, “remains strictly in Rs 40 lakh limit”.Teams keeping tabs: DEOOur teams are still keeping tabs on all candidates till the poll code is in place. This means any celebration after the win will be added to their expenses. Sandeep Hans, DEOWhile the voting was over on February 20, the expenses incurred on celebrations, in case of victory, will be added to the candidate’s poll expenditure on Thursday.With the Election Commission keeping a strict vigil on the expenditure in the Assembly polls, many candidates have roped in tax experts like CAs to ensure that their spending remains within the maximum limit. Further, the candidate has to make every payment and receive donation above Rs 10,000 by cheque/draft.The CAs are not only helping the candidates avoid the “nitty-gritty” of maintaining the account books, but also providing them ample time to concentrate on other poll activities.With the EC tightening its noose to prevent the misuse of monetary power in the elections by allowing videography of the campaigning, tax experts are of the view that it was almost impossible for the candidates to suppress their expenditure.In every district, the administration has formed expenditure monitoring committee and accounting teams at the constituency levels, which would closely monitor the poll expenses of the candidates through shadow registers.The CAs are having a tough time with the EC keeping a strict vigil on the poll expenditure. “The election expenditure should not go beyond the ceiling of Rs 40 lakh by any means,” said a CA from Ludhiana, whose firm is managing six candidates in these elections. “Candidates need special assistance from tax experts as we need to keep an eye on every rupee spent as any difference between expenditure made and reported can cause severe action,” he added.“I have told my supporters to ensure that they keep their celebrations low profile after the win as the EC teams are on the prowl. Celebrations, including the distribution of sweets and firecrackers, can be added to the poll expenses,” said a SAD candidate.“Supporters should wait for a couple of days after the poll code is lifted, so that the EC guidelines are not violated. I have managed the entire record of our candidate, but now we have a tough task to ensure that the supporters don’t do anything silly for the next one week,” said a Congress candidate.Meanwhile, District Electoral Officer, Patiala, Sandeep Hans said their teams were still keeping a close eye on all candidates and it would continue till the poll code was in place. “This means any celebration after the win will be added to the expenditure limit of the candidates,” he said, adding the candidates and their tax experts get 30 days after the counting was over to submit their expenditure details that were later tallied by their teams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cas-hired-to-keep-expenses-in-check-375946
08-03-2022||---||Will wait for results, but open to tie-up: Akalis||Tribune ReportersChandigarh, March 7Reacting to the exit polls projecting an AAP government in Punjab, the SAD said it would wait for people’s mandate on March 10. The party, however, said it was open to a post-poll alliance with the BJP, even though no such talks were currently on with the saffron outfit.May ally with BJPIf the party falls short of the half-way mark, it may consider the BJP as an alliance partner. No talks are currently on. Prem Singh Chandumajra, Akali LeaderMost of the exit polls have predicted Akalis getting between nine and 26 seats. Dr Daljeet Singh Cheema, SAD spokesperson, said the exit polls can’t be correct as there was such a vast difference between the polls conducted by different agencies and media houses. “If these pollsters have their finger on the pulse of people, their projection should be similar or at least close to one another’s.”Meanwhile, asserting that the SAD-BSP alliance will form the next government in the state, senior Akali leader Prem Singh Chandumajra today said if they fall short of the half-way mark, they may consider the BJP as an alliance partner. He, however, clarified the SAD was currently not in talks with the BJP in this regard, and was rather opposed to the “anti-Punjab” decisions of the Centre.Lashing out at CM Charanjit Channi for seeking time from Home Minister Amit Shah for a meeting regarding the BBMB and other “anti-Punjab” decisions, he said 10 days ago, senior Congress leader Sunil Jakhar had raised the issue and urged the CM to lead an all-party delegationto the PM. The CM didn’t bother then, but had sought time from Shah now in an apparent bid to save his family from the ED, he claimed.He further said it was the need of the hour for all Punjabis, irrespective of the party affiliation, to join hands and force the Centre to withdraw all “anti-Punjab” decisions taken after the state went to the polls.(With inputs from Fatehgarh Sahib) #prem singh chandumajra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-wait-for-results-but-open-to-tie-up-akalis-375942
08-03-2022||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Punjab: Parties take exit polls with a pinch of salt, cite ’17||Chandigarh, March 7Despite different post poll survey reports released this evening predicting a clear majority to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), workers and leaders of various parties are adopting a guarded approach, citing the example of the 2017 elections when the surveys had gone “horribly wrong”.Survey size smallThe biggest issue in accepting the results of poll surveys is the small size of the people surveyed. Also, the voter may not reveal the party he has actually voted for. A senior Congress leaderCertain exit polls in 2017 had predicted the formation of an AAP government in Punjab. However, the party failed to cross the 20 mark. There were others that showed the AAP in a direct contest with the Congress. However, the latter sprung a surprise by bagging 77 seats. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had himself expressed “total surprise” at the results.In the last election, the CVoter survey had given the AAP a clear edge, predicting 59-67 seats, while ABP Lokniti CSDS survey had given 36-46 seats to the party and 46-56 to the Congress. The CVoter gave 5-13 seats to the SAD, while ABP Lokniti CSDS survey gave 19-27, India Today Axis 4-7 and NewsX MRC only 7 to the Akalis.Similarly, India-Today Axis poll had given 42-51 seats to the AAP, while it gave only 10 to the SAD. The AAP was shown as the major party in at least three surveys, including India Today Axis (42-51), India Today CVoter (41-49) and ABP Lokniti CSDS (36-46). However, the Congress won the 2017 Assembly elections with a clear majority, bagging 77 seats. The AAP won 20, the SAD 15, BJP three and Independents two. The 2012 Assembly elections were won by the SAD-BJP alliance.Reacting to variance in the exit poll and the actual outcome, a senior Congress leader said: “The biggest issue in accepting the results of poll surveys is the small size of the people surveyed. Poll surveys is a specialised job and I am not sure how many can afford a fully professional team. The voter is also smart these days and may not reveal the party he has actually vote for. There is no guarantee of them telling the truth.”Daljit Singh, a Sanyukt Samaj Morcha worker, said: “The results of poll survey differed last time. We were very surprised with the final results. The important thing this time is that all poll surveys have given a clear majority to the AAP, so it may be true.” #exit polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parties-take-it-with-a-pinch-of-salt-cite-17-375939
08-03-2022||Chandigarh||AAP wary of horse-trading in Punjab||Though officially, the Congress says it will repeat the government, its leaders are apprehensive of touching the magic figure. “We may fall short by 5 to 10 seats. This will open up the possibility of horse-trading within parties,” said a leader. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/party-wary-of-horse-trading-375934
08-03-2022||Chandigarh||Congress rejects exit polls, claims edge in Majha, Doaba||With the exit poll surveys projecting a clear majority for the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Punjab, state Congress leaders have rejected the projections.Truth will be out on March 10In 2017, the exit polls had got it all wrong. We will form government with clear majority. Only results will tell the truth. Charanjit Channi, CMNavjot Sidhu meets functionariesCiting the 2017 exit poll predictions, Congress leaders said the party had formed the government with 77 seats, adding it would have a clear edge in the Majha and Doaba regions this time.Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary said the party would form the government in Punjab with clear majority. The development in the past few days ahead of polling worked in favour of the Congress, he said. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi dismissed the survey projections as baseless. “In 2017, the exit polls had got it all wrong. We will form government with clear majority. Only results will tell the truth,” he said. Former Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Sunil Jakhar said: “Rather than the exit polls surveys, I will wait for the exact poll results.”Without commenting on any of the surveys, Jakhar said the predictions are likely to be off the mark and the party will comfortably repeat the government.PCC general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh said by retaining its vote bank, the party would comfortably repeat the government. He said the party had the edge over others in the state. #Doaba #exit polls #majha||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-rejects-surveys-claims-edge-in-majha-doaba-375931
08-03-2022||Chandigarh||Will fare much better in Punjab, says BJP||While the exit polls have predicted a dismal performance by the BJP in Punjab, the party says it will perform much better when the counting begins on Sunday.The party had contested 23 seats as a junior alliance partner of the SAD for 24 years, before the latter walked out over the farm laws. This time, the saffron party was contesting 73 seats, leaving the rest for the alliance partners — the PLC and SAD (Sanyukt).Two days ago, Home Minister Amit Shah had claimed the party would do better than expected and hoped it would play an important role in the government formation in Punjab. But exit polls have predicted that the party may be restricted to a single digit.Reacting to the poll surveys, party’s state general secretary Subhash Sharma said they don’t agree with what was being shown in the exit polls and their performance would be much better. “In the past too, the exit polls have gone way off the mark.”— #exit polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-fare-much-better-says-bjp-375927
08-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Bhagwant Mann visits counting centre, strongroom||Sangrur, March 7Amid speculation over formation of alliance between various parties, AAP’s CM face and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann, who is the candidate from the Dhuri constituency, on Monday said the party would form the next government in Punjab with majority.Will raise BBMB issue with govtOnce we form the government, we will quickly raise the BBMB issue with the Centre. Other parties are only offering lip service. Bhagwant Mann, State AAP ChiefAfter meeting senior officers and taking a tour of the counting centre and EVM strongroom, Mann thanked AAP volunteers for their hard work, saying since a majority of voters had voted for their party, volunteers were standing guard outside the counting centres. “Other party leaders are not sitting at any EVM strongroom or counting centre as they know they have not got the people’s mandate.”Congress MLA Dalvir Singh Goldy, SAD-BSP’s Parkash Chand Garg and BJP’s Randeep Singh Deol are in the fray from Dhuri. The sitting MLA had got a push after the visit of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to Dhuri during the campaigning. Mann, however, continued to pull crowds with his satirical speeches during his visits to various villages.Asked about the ongoing row over tweaking of rules for the appointment of members to the BBMB, he said: “After the formation of our government, we will quickly take up the matter of BBMB officially with the Centre. Other parties are only offering lip service and have failed to take up the issue effectively.” #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mann-visits-counting-centre-strongroom-375924
08-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab: Buoyant AAP says it's vote for change||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is buoyant at the release of exit poll surveys, which have predicted a big win for the party in the state. The surveys have predicted a clear majority for the party in the Assembly polls.Also read: BJP in UP, AAP in Punjab: Exit pollsExit polls: 2017 on mind, Punjab waryThough the results for the polls held on February 20 will be announced on Thursday, the party is upbeat at the predictions. Various exit polls have given the party between 100-58 seats (from a total of 117 seats).“We are all set to form the government and rid Punjab of the traditional parties that worked in tandem against us in this poll,” said AAP leader.Talking to The Tribune, Harpal Cheema, senior AAP leader, said the exit polls had predicted a victory for the state people, whose cause was being espoused only by the AAP. “People have voted for change. They are sick of the misgovernance that has been unleashed on them in turn by both Congress and Akalis. They want good schools and healthcare, which they believe will come only under the rule of AAP.”Cheema said once they assumed office, they would root out all mafias and bring good governance to the doorstep of the common man.LEADER SPEAKLikely to be off markRather than exit poll surveys, I will wait for the exact results. The predictions are likely to be off the mark. The party will comfortably form the govt. Sunil Jakhar, Former PCC ChiefPeople tired of misruleExit polls have predicted victory for state people, whose cause was being espoused only by AAP. People are sick of misgovernance. Harpal Cheema, Leader of oppositionNo faith in poll surveysWe have no faith in pre or exit polls. These were woefully wrong in 2017 and the result will be same this time too. The SAD will storm back to power. Dr Daljeet Singh Cheema, SAD spokespersonWe have done wellI am not somebody who can predict the results, but my party has done well and the BJP has done well. Let us see what happens. Capt Amarinder Singh, PLC Leader #bhagwant mann #exit polls #harpal cheema||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/buoyant-aap-says-its-vote-for-change-375923
08-03-2022||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Exit polls: 2017 on mind, Punjab wary||Chandigarh, March 7Exit polls project the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) as the clear winner in Punjab. As in 2017, there are vast variations regarding the number of seats falling in the kitty of various political parties, but all major surveys show AAP well ahead of its rivals with tally above the half-way mark of 59 in the 117-member Assembly.Also read: BJP in UP, AAP in Punjab: Exit pollsPunjab: Buoyant AAP says it’s vote for changeObservers take these poll surveys with a pinch of salt. In 2017, some surveys showed AAP getting absolute majority but the party won only 20 seats. Considering that it was a five-cornered contest this time, predictions can go awry. Today’s Chanakya gives 100 seats to AAP and News X 56-61. The Times Now Veto and Republic surveys give a maximum of 70 seats to the party.News X gives Congress 24-29 seats, Chanakya 10, Times Now Veto 22 and Republic 23-31. Chanakya gives SAD only six seats, Times Now Veto 19, Republic 23-31 and News X 24-29. Whereas the latter gives a maximum of six seats to the BJP, Today’s Chanakya gives one. All survey reports indicate that the BJP will not reach the double-digit.Of the 2.14 crore registered voters in Punjab, 1.54 crore cast their ballot (72%), which was 5% less than the Assembly elections in 2017. Congress’ Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary claimed: “Our party will form the government with a clear majority. People saw progress during Charanjit Channi’s tenure as CM.” The Chief Minister dismissed the projections as “baseless”.SAD spokesperson DS Cheema claimed the Akalis were returning to power. “Pre-poll and exit poll surveys were wide off the mark during the previous elections. It will be no different this time,” he added. #exit polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2017-on-mind-punjab-wary-375887
08-03-2022||---||How Punjab exit polls went way off mark in 2017||Chandigarh, March 7Despite a clear majority to the Aam Admi Party (AAP) in different post poll survey reports released on Monday evening, there is a guarded reaction from different party workers and leaders to the predicted results quoting the example of 2017 elections when the poll surveys had gone “absolutely wrong”.Read also: AAP surge in Punjab, BJP set to regain UP, photo-finish in Uttarakhand, Goa; saffron sweep in ManipurCertain exit polls in 2017 had given the name of Aam Admi Party (AAP) as the one forming the government in Punjab, however the party failed to cross the number of 20. Others showed the AAP in direct contest with the Congress. However, the clear majority of Congress with 77 seats surprised all. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh himself expressed “total surprise at the results”.The CVoter survey gave AAP a clear edge predicting 59-67 seats. The ABP Lokniti CSDS survey gave 36-46 seats to the AAP and 46-56 to Congress. The CVoter gave 5-13 seats to the Shiromani Akali dal and the ABP Lokniti CSDS survey gacve 19-27 to the SAD. India Today Axis gave 4-7 and India ndews MRC gave only 7.The India-Today Axis poll gave 42-51 seats to the AAP while gave only 10 to the SAD. The AAP was shown as the major party in at least three surveys, including India Today Axis (42-510, India Today CVoter (41-49) and ABP Lokiti CSDS (36-46).The Congress won the 2017 assembly elections with a clear majority of 77 seats. The AAP won 20, the Shiromani Akali Dal 15, BJP three and independents two. The 2012 assembly elections were won by the SAD-BJP alliance.Reacting to difference in the poll results as compared to the actual results, a senior Congress leader said, “The biggest issue in accepting the results of poll surveys is the small number of people contacted for the survey. Poll surveys is a very specialised job and I am not sure how many can afford a fully professional team. The voter is also smart these days and will not like to reveal the vote that he cast his secret ballot. There is no guarantee of them telling the truth.”Daljit Singh, an SSM worker, said “The results of the poll survey differed last time. We were very surprised with the final results. The important thing this time is that all poll surveys have given a clear majority to the AAP so should be true.”No faith in exit polls: SADReacting to the exit polls, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) said it would wait for people’s mandate on March 10 when the counting is done.“We have no faith in pre-poll or exit-poll claims. These were woefully wrong in previous elections and this time also the poll pundits will be wrong. The Akalis will storm back to power,” said Daljeet Singh Cheema, SAD spokesperson.Most of the exit polls have predicted Akali will get between 9 to 26 seats.Cheema said the exit polls can’t be correct as there is such a vast difference between the polls conducted by different agencies and media houses, “If these pollsters have the pulse of people, then they should claim same results or at least be close with each other.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/how-punjab-exit-polls-went-way-off-mark-in-2017-375863
08-03-2022||Chandigarh||BSF shoots down Pakistani drone in Punjab's Ferozepur||A Pakistani drone was shot down by the Border Security Force in the Ferozepur area on Monday.BSF men heard humming sounds of a suspicious flying object coming from the Pakistani side at about 2.55 am.The troops were alerted immediately and the ‘flying object’ was shot down. Para bombs were also fired to illuminate the area. According to sources, the drone recovered is a DJI’s Matrice 300 RTK.The security forces also recovered a small green-coloured bag attached to the drone, containing four yellow packets and a small black one.Gross weight of the contraband items was 4.17 kg. The black packet weighed about 250 gm, the BSF spokesperson said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-shoots-down-pakistani-drone-in-punjab-375803
