09-03-2022||Ropar||Low-intensity explosion at police station near Nurpur Bedi||An explosion caused some damage to the boundary wall of a police station near Nurpur Bedi on Tuesday night, police said on Wednesday.The explosion at Kalma police post was low intensity, Ropar Senior Superintendent of Police Vivek Sheel Soni said. Not much else is known about the incident.Police kept the explosion under wraps until Wednesday.The explosion, incidentally, comes a day before counting for Punjab assembly elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/explosion-at-police-station-near-nurpur-bedi-376415
09-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress to hold first legislative party meeting on Thursday evening||Punjab Congress said it was holding the first Congress legislative party meeting on the evening of Thursday—the day votes for Punjab assembly elections get counted.Punjab Congress Chief Navjot Singh Sidhu made the announcement after he met All India Congress Committee observer Ajay Maken in Chandigarh on Wednesday.“It has been decided that the First Congress Legislative Party meeting will be held on 10th March at PPCC office (Congress Bhawan, Sector 15) at 5 PM. All newly elected @INCPunjab MLAs are requested to kindly attend,” Sidhu wrote in his tweet.Sources in the Congress said if the party fell short of the required 59-seat mark, it would take their newly-elected Members of Legislative Assembly to Jaipur to preempt any horse-trading. Simultaneously, the sources said, the party would engage with independent MLAs to enlist their support to stake claim in Punjab. Punjab voted for its 117-member assembly on February 20.Counting is scheduled to begin at 8 am on Thursday.It has been decided that the First Congress Legislative Party meeting will be held on 10th March at PPCC office (Congress Bhawan, Sector 15) at 5PM.All newly elected @INCPunjab MLAs are requested to kindly attend. pic.twitter.com/rn4mIrD8k2 #election 2022 #punjab polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-to-hold-first-legislative-party-meeting-on-thursday-evening-376408
09-03-2022||Amritsar||BSF recovers a drone in Amritsar||The Border Security Force has recovered a white coloured drone coming in from across the India-Pakistan border in the farm fields near village Havelian in Amritsar sector today.According to information, the alert BSF troops deployed at the border heard the sound of a suspicious flying object coming from Pakistan to the Indian territory and opened fire on it.A BSF official said that only a quadcopter (make DJI Phantom 4) has been recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-recovers-a-drone-in-amritsar-376391
09-03-2022||Moga||BSF seizes 9kg heroin in Punjab’s Ferozepur||Border Security Force while carrying a regular special search operation to foil the nefarious attempts of anti-national elements recovered two plastic bags containing 9 packets of contraband (weighing 9 Kg) suspected to be heroin from the fields across the fencing area of Ferozepur sector along the Indo-Pak international border on Wednesday.These drugs were possibly dropped with the help of a drone. A green coloured bag was attached along with it, containing 4 yellow wrapped packets and 1 small packet in black wrapping (weighing 2.50 gm).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-seizes-9kg-heroin-in-punjabs-ferozepur-376389
09-03-2022||---||Exit poll not trustworthy, it should be banned, says Sukhbir Badal||GS PaulAmritsar, March 9A day prior to Assembly poll results, the Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal demanded a ban on the exit poll by the Election Commission.Sukhbir, alongwith his family members, paid obeisance at the Golden Temple on Wednesday.He said that SAD is a Panth Punjab’s organization and voice of Punjabi people and he prayed that the Almighty should give it a chance to serve them. “As Punjab progressed during our earlier terms, we will take it to the path of progress more than that”, he said.Questioning the credibility of the exit poll, he said that the exit poll and the opinion poll prior to the elections should be banned as these would just be the paid promotions by the parties having least credibility. Citing the example of West Bengal, he said that the results were contrary to the claims of the exit poll.“Ask any Punjabi about the exit poll, he would never believe it. On an earlier occasion, the exit poll had granted over a hundred seats to AAP, but was restricted to just 20 seats in Punjab. Not only exit polls, but the opinion poll prior to elections too should have been banned with a view to curb influencing the voters. The election commission has been countering every move that could influence the voters, but now the governments resort to ill-usage of public money to do paid opinion polls through the media. This time, AAP did it on a large scale”, he said.Predicting that Congress would wipe out in the state, Sukhbir believed that the SAD-BSP would pocket at least 16-17 seats in Majha only. “Congress would get less than 20 seats”, he said.When asked if SAD-BSP could get in to an alliance with any other party post polls, if need be, he kept his fingers crossed saying ‘lodh he nahin paini, Akali-BSP apne dam te Sarkar banayegi (there would be no need for it, SAD-BSP would form government on its own impact).On the state government’s cold attitude in contributing to the evacuation of Punjabi students stranded in war-torn Ukraine, he said that it was the liability of the state government to have sent a delegation in advance to neighbouring countries of Ukraine to coordinate the evacuation process.“I request Channi Sahib (CM) to take the call of duty as CM instead of indulging in irrelevant things. I want to remind him that the voting process was already executed and it would not help influencing the voters. Actually, Congress has already accepted its defeat ahead, that’s why it showed no interest in it”, he said.Kejriwal is anti-Sikh, the Delhi based powers have acted against Punjab’s interests, says HarsimratMeanwhile, Former Union Cabinet Minister of Food Processing and currently MP from Bathinda Harsimrat Kaur Badal alleged that the powers that operated from Delhi had always damaged the interest of Punjab.She opined that the AAP wanted the Punjabis to hold ‘jharu’ instead of Kirpan that had saved the Nation, in their hands.“Tomorrow they would want the Punjabis to replace their ‘turban’ with ‘topi’. I believe, that this could never be acceptable to our Gurus and the people of Punjab”, she said.Terming AAP national convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal as anti-Sikh and anti-Punjab, she said that he had submitted an affidavit in the court fighting against Punjab’s interests on Punjab Waters issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/exit-poll-not-trustworthy-it-should-be-banned-says-sukhbir-badal-376387
09-03-2022||Mumbai||Diljit Dosanjh goes global, to perform with Tory Lanez, Diamond Platnumz||Actor-singer-songwriter Diljit Dosanjh has signed a strategic deal with a major record company to amplify his presence on a global level. Under the partnership, he has forthcoming singles with Canadian rapper Tory Lanez and the Tanzanian star Diamond Platnumz.Commenting on his partnership with Warner Music, Diljit, whose earlier track 'Lover' generated more than 68 million views on YouTube, said "I'm delighted to be collaborating with Warner Music. Together, we'll take Indian music way beyond the usual diaspora audiences to the top of the global charts." As a part of the deal, he has already set the ball rolling in motion by collaborating with artists across the globe, "I've already started working with some of Warner Music artists from other countries and it's proving an exhilarating creative process. I'm just so proud to be playing my part in putting Indian music firmly on the global map."  Diljit has recorded 13 studio albums and established himself as one of Punjabi music industry's biggest stars. His 2020 album 'G.O.A.T.' was featured on Billboard's Global Chart.The partnership is the latest landmark move from Warner Music India, which launched two years ago in March 2020. The company swiftly signed a licensing deal with another Hindi record label, Tips Music.It also founded the Maati label, in a bid to strengthen the Indian folk music genre.  In the Punjabi music scene, Warner Music has signed partnerships with Ziiki Media and Sky Digital.Jay Mehta, Managing Director, Warner Music India, said that the label is looking forward to work in tandem with an artiste of Diljit's stature, "We're excited to partner with the versatile and supremely talented Diljit Dosanjh." "He's a true entertainer and has struck a chord with the audiences across the globe with both his acting and singing prowess - a true rarity.  His songs are already a rage with anybody who enjoys Punjabi music across the globe", he added.Punjabi music has the potential to click with the masses on a global scale, making it a perfect genre to capitalize on.Max Lousada, CEO, Warner Recorded Music, said in a statement, "Punjabi music has long been popular in India and it's now igniting international interest. You don't get many bigger names in the genre than Diljit Dosanjh and with our creative expertise and global marketing network, we can help him reach new audiences worldwide and become a truly global name. We're really honored to have Diljit sign to Warner Recorded Music." IANS #diljit dosanjh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/diljit-dosanjh-goes-global-to-perform-with-tory-lanez-diamond-platnumz-376379
09-03-2022||Abohar||Abohar: Tribute paid to terror victims||Kisan melas from March 14Moga: Dr Ashok Kumar, Director, Extension Education (PAU), said: “Kisan melas will be held at Ballowal Saunkhri (Nawanshahr) and Nagakalan Jahangir (Amritsar) on March 14. This will be followed by the kisan mela at Rauni (Patiala) on March 16 and at Faridkot and Gurdaspur on March 21.” “The virtual kisan mela at PAU will be held on March 24 and 25. The last mela will be held in Bathinda on March 29. TNSMemorial to Deep SidhuMuktsar: The panchayat of Udekaran village has decided to make a memorial gate in the memory of late actor Deep Sidhu. Notably, Deep Sidhu had died in a road mishap on February 15 in Sonepat district of Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-tribute-paid-to-terror-victims-376253
09-03-2022||---||Bathinda: Schoolteachers clash, one hurt||Bathinda, March 8Two schoolteachers (couple) posted at Government Primary School Dhobhiana Basti allegedly attacked their colleagues today.In the melee, a teacher sustained injuries, following which he was admitted to the Bathinda Civil Hospital.Bir Devinder, who suffered injuries, said, “As we were serving mid-day meal to students, a teacher and his wife obstructed, following which a heated argument ensued.School head Manish Mehta said, “Teachers fought with each other over some issue. Bir Devinder had to be hospitalised.We have sent a report to the District Education Officer for the departmental probe.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-schoolteachers-clash-one-hurt-376251
09-03-2022||Abohar||Abohar: 7 held with contraband||The police have arrested seven peddlers who tried to smuggle poppy husk and heroin from Rajasthan.In the first incident, cops intercepted a truck and seized 45 kg of poppy husk. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered. In another case, the police foiled a bid to smuggle 35 kg of poppy husk in a truck. The driver and his helper were arrested. In Sadulshehar, the police seized 30 gm of heroin from Ravinder Shakya of Abohar. In the fourth incident, 1.7 kg of opium was seized from Krishan Lal and Raja Ram, both of Suratgarh. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-7-held-with-contraband-376247
09-03-2022||Chandigarh||As Covid cases decline, Punjab and Haryana High Court withdraws interim orders||Amid steep decline in Covid cases, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has withdrawn its interim orders issued on April 28, last year, on the functioning of the justice delivery mechanism.As the cases started to ascend following the third wave Covid, the HC on January 21 had — among other things — made it clear that orders of eviction, dispossession, demolition, so far unexecuted, would remain in abeyance till February 28. Interim protection given in anticipatory bail applications by the HC or Court of Sessions for a limited period was also extended till then.The Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli asserted: “Looking at the situation as it exists today and in view of the submissions made by the counsel for the parties especially by the amicus-curiae, all interim orders passed by this court are hereby withdrawn.” Disposing of the petition, the Bench observed the matter may be taken up again “in case any occasion arises”. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/as-covid-cases-decline-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-withdraws-interim-orders-376246
09-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Special Court can decide civil suit when criminal trial pending: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, March 8A Special Court constituted under the Electricity Act has the jurisdiction to entertain, try and decide civil suits only when criminal trials are pending before it, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has held.The ruling by Justice Anil Kshetarpal came on a bunch of two appeals by the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited and the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam among other appellants. The question for adjudication before Justice Kshetarpal’s Bench was whether the Special Court constituted under Section 153 of the Act has the jurisdiction to entertain, try and decide a civil suit even when no criminal trial was pending for electricity theft and other offences under Section 135 to 140 and Section 150 of the Act.Justice Kshetarpal asserted careful reading of Section 153 made it evident that the provision for establishing the Special Courts was made for providing speedy trial of offences referred in Section 135 to 140 and Section 150 of the Act. While Section 135 provided for “the constituents of the theft of energy”, Section 136 provided for the theft of electric lines and material. Section 150 provided that whosoever abetted an offence punishable under the Act would also be liable to be punishable for having committed an offence.The case has its genesis in a consumer’s application seeking a decree of declaration that checking report and assessment order demanding Rs 93, 918 was unlawful and illegal. The Special Court vide judgment dated March 16, 2021, declared the report and assessment order illegal after holding that the petition was maintainable as the plaintiff was established to be a consumer.Justice Kshetarpal asserted Section 154 conferred jurisdiction on the Special Court to determine the civil liability against a consumer or a person in terms of money for theft of energy, only when criminal trial was pending. Sub-Section 5 further provided that such orders passed by the Special Court would be executed against the judgment debtor, as if it were a decree of the Civil Court. Sub-Section 6 provided that the excess amount would be liable to be refunded, along with interest, if the civil liability so determined by the court was less than the amount deposited by the consumer of a person’s domestic electricity connection.Justice Kshetarpal ruled: “Section 155 again provides that the Special Court shall be deemed to be a Court of Session and shall have all the powers of a Court of Session. It nowhere provides that it shall have powers of Principal Civil Court of the District.” Justice Kshetarpal added a conjoint reading of Sections 153, 154 and 155, showed that the power to determine civil liability was dependant on criminal trial’s pendency.Conjoint reading of Sections 153, 154 & 155Section 155 again provides that the Special Court shall be deemed to be a Court of Session and shall have all the powers of a Court of Session. It nowhere provides that it shall have powers of Principal Civil Court of the District. Justice Anil Kshetarpal, Punjab and Haryana High Court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/special-court-can-decide-civil-suit-when-criminal-trial-pending-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-376245
09-03-2022||Raj Sadosh||Daily wage workers demand equality||Abohar, March 8To mark International Women’s Day, various programmes are organised across the state and hundreds of women are honoured for their outstanding performance in their respective fields of work but the day has no meaning for some women, who work as labourers from 9 am to 6 pm.“Carrying kids in our arms, we have to brave harsh sun or biting cold. We may not be able to reach a good position by studying, but our hard work should also be given equal respect. Till date, neither the government nor any non-profit organisation has tried to honour us,” a women labourer said.Sanguti Devi of Chhattisgarh, who works as a labourer and is a mother of two children, said she was unaware of women’s day. She said: “I work hard from morning to evening to feed my children. My husband is also a daily wager and earns Rs 400 per day.” Another woman Sarojini Devi is also completely ignorant of women’s day.A social activist, requesting anonymity, said it is a great irony to not honour hard-working women deserving respect on this day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/daily-wage-workers-demand-equality-376243
09-03-2022||---||NRI wife dupes Moga man of Rs 33 lakh, booked||Moga, March 8Sukhwant Singh (28), a resident of Rattian village, has been duped of Rs 33 lakh by his wife who is settled in Canada.The accused has been identified as Manmeet Kaur, a resident of Duneke village.The duo got married on December 20, 2018. Sukhwant alleged that he spent Rs 33 lakh on the marriage and also funded her study in Canada.He alleged Manmeet promised that after completion of her study and obtaining the work permit, she would call him to Canada.Sukhwant said after three years, she started ignoring him. She stopped responding to my calls and off-late changed her mobile phone number as well, he said.“I met my mother-in-law numerous times and requested to impress upon her daughter to complete the formalities for taking me to Canada, but, she expressed her inability to help me,” alleged Sukhwant.Recently, Sukhwant lodged a complaint with the Moga SSP, who asked the SP (Investigations) to look into it the matter.The police found Manmeet and her mother Karamjit Kaur prima-facie guilty of the allegations levelled against them by Sukhwant.After seeking a legal advice from the district attorney, the police have registered a criminal case against Manmeet and her mother under Sections 420 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nri-wife-dupes-moga-man-of-33l-booked-376242
09-03-2022||---||Farm women of Punjab launch Mahila Kisan Union||Jalandhar, March 8Having realised their strength in the year-long farm stir at Delhi border and the need to have a separate union, women farmers of the state have set up the Mahila Kisan Union (MKU) today.The MKU was formally launched by Rajwinder Kaur Raju, who would lead it as its state president. A 42-year-old farmer from Nangal Shama village, Raju had been doing the spadework of the MKU since January.Raju said, “Despite being a part of women wing of various existing unions, we were sidelined and our demands were always ignored. So, we felt the need to have a separate union of women farmers and farm labourers. We will also form the district-level units.”She said, “The farm stir was the time when our role came to the fore for the first time. The agitation gave us a chance to stay outside for so long. Fellow women farmers from Doaba, Majha and Malwa, came together for the first time on a common platform. Our presence remained huge and we successfully organised a ‘mahila sadan’ on March 8 last year, wherein we had resolved to launch an all-women farm union.”She said, “There are various basic issues which we are fighting for. When we go to mandis with our produce, we do not even have the facility of separate washrooms for women. Some of our women farm labourers who work in the fields have children going along. There are lactating mothers too. They at least need to have separate sheds to feed their babies.”Raju said the MKU would work along with the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. #farmers #women||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-women-of-punjab-launch-mahila-kisan-union-376240
09-03-2022||---||Nangal scandal: Scribe booked, aide arrested||Nangal, March 8Had a local journalist not compromise with his professional ethics, the alleged sexual abuse of Nangran school students at the hands of their principal could have been unearthed years ago.Instead of exposing the prime accused, school principal Amritpal Dhiman, a journalist running a web portal in Nangal having material evidence allegedly took money from him to hush up the case. Though the journalist is at large, Naresh Kumar, a resident of Sangatpur village, who provided him objectionable pictures was arrested by the police today.The police have already arrested Dhiman and his friend Shiv Kumar in the case.According to sources, Kumar, who was first to get hold of the obscene pictures and video clips of students, had prepared two CDs in 2015 and handed these over to some prominent people of local villages, who wanted the case to be brought to the notice of senior politicians of the area for action against the principal.As Dhiman, being a supporter of the Congress, wielded clout in the area, the villagers were unable to get action initiated against Dhiman. However, they did not return the CDs to Kumar, said sources. Kumar was also not sure about whether the CDs had actually reached senior politicians, said the sources.Meanwhile, Naresh Kumar, an acquaintance of Kumar, got hold of the pictures and video clips from him. According to sources, he handed over a few of the pictures to a local journalist, who instead of exposing Dhiman, demanded Rs 7 lakh from him to hush up the case. The deal was finalised at Rs 3.5 lakh, said the sources.Ropar SSP Vivek Sheel Soni confirmed a journalist had been booked and Naresh arrested in the case. The role of both in the case was still under investigation, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nangal-scandal-scribe-booked-aide-arrested-376238
09-03-2022||Karam Prakash||3 yrs on, Punjab government fails to resume luxury bus service to IGI airport||Patiala, March 8Even after over three years, the state government has failed to resume luxury bus service of state transport undertakings (STUs) from various terminals in Punjab to Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi.Notably, private bus operators — owned by politicians and their supporters in Punjab — are plying their luxury buses continuously to the Delhi airport, but the Punjab Roadways and Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) are yet to restart the service.In December last year, state Transport Minister Amrinder Raja Warring, himself had visited the national capital to meet Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to get a green signal for the same. Conspicuously, things are as they were before the minister’s visit.Awaiting meeting to sign pactAll required documents for the Reciprocal Common Transport Agreement were sent to the Delhi Government. We are waiting for a special meeting to sign the agreement. — A PRTC senior officialIn 2018, the Delhi Government had banned the entry of Volvo buses of the state transport undertakings beyond the ISBT — just months after the service was started. The PRTC and state roadways buses were charging around one-third fare as compared to private buses.Meanwhile, the sources said no meeting in that regard had taken place between the transport departments of Delhi and Punjab. A senior official of the PRTC said: “All required documents for the Reciprocal Common Transport Agreement (RCTA) were sent to the Delhi Government. We are waiting for a special meeting to sign the agreement.”PRTC Managing Director Parneet Shergill said: “We haven’t received any communication to resume our services so far. As the issue is being taken up at the government level, I am not aware of the current status.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-yrs-on-punjab-government-fails-to-resume-luxury-bus-service-to-igi-airport-376236
09-03-2022||Faridkot||NGOs ask nominees of Punjab to conserve environment||Various NGOs today wrote to 1,304 candidates who contested the 2022 Assembly poll and urged them to ensure that environmental conservation stays in their agenda whether they become part of the government or stay in the Opposition.The NGOs raised the issue of depleting groundwater, high pollution in rivers and poor quality of air. “We have the lowest area under the forest cover among all the states of India and our cities and villages are overflowing with garbage and plastic waste,” reads the letter.During campaigning the NGOs also released green manifestos highlighting problems and solutions related to environmental challenges.The letter further states that a lot of transparency in handling of environmental projects and contracts was required so that good policies and laws do not fail at the implementation stage. Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal, Giani Kewal Singh, former jathedar, Takht Damdama Sahib and Sant Baba Sewa Singh Khadoor Sahib among others have joined hands under the banner of the “Punjab Vatavaran Chetna Lehar”. — #balbir singh seechewal #Environment||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ngos-ask-nominees-of-punjab-to-conserve-environment-376235
09-03-2022||Chandigarh||Decide plea against Rana Gurjeet Singh in 3 weeks: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Justice Sureshwar Thakur of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has set a three-week deadline for Punjab and its functionaries to decide a representation or complaint alleging “body shaming” filed against Cabinet Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh by retired judicial officer contesting elections from Kapurthala Manju Rana.Justice Thakur observed the petitioner was seeking appropriate direction to Kapurthala police to take appropriate action and the state counsel did not have any objection to an order by the High Court. — #rana gurjeet singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/decide-plea-against-rana-gurjeet-singh-in-3-weeks-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-376234
09-03-2022||Chandigarh||Save debt-ridden farmers: Rana Gurjeet Singh||Cabinet Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his urgent intervention to save Punjab as “the state is on the cusp of disaster” and appealed to all political parties to rise above their partisan considerations and draw a common minimum programme for the state.Stressing the revival of agriculture, he said: “Farmers are now debt ridden and can hardly survive and sustain with agriculture. Since the onset of the Green Revolution, land holdings have mostly been reduced to one-fourth. Majority of the farmers in Punjab, about 70 percent, hold less than five acres. An entire family cannot survive on that.Drawing the Prime Minister’s attention to depleting water table, he said it was the most serious threat to Punjab’s survival as the stateruns the risk of turning into a desert within 20 to 25 years — #rana gurjeet singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/save-debt-ridden-farmers-rana-gurjeet-singh-376232
09-03-2022||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder's daughter gets Jat body's top post replacing Navjot Kaur Sidhu||The Congress’ hold on the All India Jat Mahasabha seems to waning with Jai Inder Kaur, the daughter of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, being appointed the new president of the women wing of the Punjab unit of Jat Mahasabha.She replaces the wife of PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu, who was appointed in April last year. Dr Sidhu was appointed when rebellion against Capt Amarinder was growing before he was asked to step down as CM last year. — #capt amarinder singh #navjot kaur sidhu #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singhs-daughter-jai-inder-kaur-gets-jat-bodys-top-post-376228
09-03-2022||Amritsar||Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla seeks action plan to curb drug menace||Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla has urged leaders across the party lines to work towards curbing the drug menace in the state once the poll results are declared on March 10. Aujla, who is on the Polish border to assist in the evacuation of Indian students stranded in war-torn Ukraine, on the social media said any party that came in power should prioritise dealing with the drug abuse in Punjab, which borders Pakistan.Extending his best wishes to party leaders for the election results, Aujla tagged CM Charanjit Singh Channi, AAP’s CM face Bhagwant Mann, SAD chief Sukhbir Badal, Punjab BJP, and former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, a copy of a letter sent to the DGP VK Bhawra, expressing displeasure over police’s anti-drug campaigns and probes in drug peddling cases.He had given an ultimatum to the police to come up with an action plan to root out drug trafficking by the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illegal Trafficking, which falls on June 26, otherwise he along with supporters would launch a dharna outside the offices of top police officers.“We stand by the letter sent to the DGP. We have given time till International Drug Day to devise a mechanism to eradicate drug. Otherwise, we will have no option but to stage protest. Drug, liquor and satta is rampant, be in urban or rural areas of Amritsar,” he said. — #drug menace #gurjeet aujla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-mp-gurjeet-singh-aujla-seeks-action-plan-to-curb-drug-menace-376225
09-03-2022||Amritsar||Amritsar cop who opposed Navjot Singh Sidhu tested for dope||The city police today conducted a dope test on Head Constable Sandeep Singh, who had called out PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu over a derogatory remark made against police officers from a political stage in Sultanpur Lodhi in the run-up to the elections.Sandeep Singh is part of the quick reaction team (QRT), a wing of the city police. He claimed police personnel from the ACP’s office asked him to accompany them to the Civil Hospital today.Alleging harassment, he said: “I had opposed Sidhu for his remark. Three women from the area had earlier approached me with a message from Sidhu’s residence asking me to delete the video and upload an apology, but I refused. They then asked me to be ready for the consequences. After polls, a woman filed a complaint against me of abuse and sent it the Commissioner of Police”.Accusing Sidhu of role in police action, he said he had “faith in my officers”.Sandeep is a resident of Amritsar East, from where Sidhu is the sitting MLA. He had circulated a video on the social media saying he was disappointed with Sidhu’s remarks in December.Police sources claimed the dope test came out “positive” and a departmental action would be taken in this regard. #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-cop-who-opposed-navjot-singh-sidhu-tested-for-dope-376223
09-03-2022||Surinder Bhardwaj||Charanjit Channi backed brother in polls, alleges Bassi Pathana MLA||Fatehgarh Sahib, March 8Bassi Pathana MLA Gurpreet Singh GP today accused CM Charanjit Channi of working against the interest of the party and its candidates.Talking to The Tribune, he claimed the CM openly supported his brother Dr Manohar Singh, contesting as an Independent from Bassi Pathana, during his campaigning. “How is the party expected to win when the head of the government is working against own candidates?” he said, adding ever since Channi became the CM, he had been ignoring him and other party workers of the constituency just to support his brother.He said people had to approach CM’s brother to get their work done, lowering the morale of party workers.The MLA claimed he had been complaining to the party high command in this regard but to no avail. Dr Manohar Singh refused to comment on the allegations. #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charanjit-channi-backed-brother-in-polls-alleges-bassi-pathana-mla-376219
09-03-2022||---||In Bhadaur, CM Charanjit Singh Channi takes feedback, thanks voters||Barnala, March 8While anxiety is palpable among candidates ahead of the election results on March 10, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today spent time in the Bhadaur constituency, from where he is in the fray. A video of the CM milking a goat at Ballo village on the embankment of a distributary has gone viral. “I have milked many animals in the past, I am an expert,” the CM is heard saying in the video.As for the election results, Channi said he couldn’t predict anything as everything was locked in EVMs. The CM is also contesting from the Chamkaur Sahib segment.CM Channi visited various areas of the constituency to thank residents. He reiterated that after the formation of the Congress government in Punjab, the area would witness overall development. He also met the family members of Chandan Jindal, who died in Ukraine, and assured them of taking steps to bring back the body.“I thank the voters of Bhadaur, who have worked hard for me. Today, I have come here to meet you and assure you that after the formation of the Congress government, I will not leave this area. I will work hard to bring development to the entire Malwa region. Though I could not spare much time here, I know you all have worked hard,” said Channi at Tapa.The CM visited Barnala, Tapa and Bhadaur areas, meeting Congress leaders and taking feedback from them. The Congress’ attempt to cash in on the Dalit connection of the CM had prompted other candidates from the reserved constituency to try extra hard to ensure he did not cut into their votes. #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-bhadaur-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-takes-feedback-thanks-voters-376216
09-03-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Stunned by projections, many  to stay away from counting halls in Punjab||Gurdaspur, March 8Shock and awe ran through the rank and file of candidates belonging to the rival parties of AAP following the trends shown by exit polls, with many of them, fearing humiliation, deciding to stay away from the counting hall on March 10.Candidates of almost all political parties gathered in front of their TV sets last evening in anticipation of the poll projections. Half an hour into the proceedings, when the grain was separated from the chaff, those belonging to the Congress, SAD-BSP and the BJP alliance were left dumbstruck. Optimism had been replaced with a high sense of pessimism, all within minutes.A sitting MLA had a hard time controlling himself. He got better only when a late night poll revealed his party would end up with more than 50 seats. This was a far cry from the figure of 10 seats given earlier, but was enough to revive his spirits, if not political fortunes. Nevertheless, despite this acting as a morale booster, he made it clear he would not go to the counting hall.Barring AAP candidates who kept claiming the authenticity of the exit polls was not to be doubted, scepticism prevailed among leaders of other parties, almost all of whom rubbished the results. Congress candidates gave much-needed succour to each other. They also started stitching up post-poll alliances “just in case the results went awry for the AAP.”“How is it possible that a party which had 80 legislators in the Assembly will end up with just a dozen this time? Last time too exit polls had been proven wrong when they projected the AAP to form the government with a majority. In reality, it got just 20 seats. There are many factors that have a bearing on the outcome,” said a legislator.Verka questions survey sampleChandigarh: Claiming that the exit polls surveys were table reports far away from the ground realty, Cabinet Minister Dr Raj Kumar Verka on Tuesday said the Congress will win 60 seats. He said their calculations were based on the ground survey. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stunned-by-projections-many-to-stay-away-from-counting-halls-in-punjab-376211
09-03-2022||Chandigarh||Harpal Singh Cheema: Parties in Punjab plotting against us||AAP senior leader Harpal Singh Cheema termed the meeting of CM Charanjit Singh Channi and his predecessor Capt Amarinder Singh with Home Minister Amit Shah as ‘betrayal with Punjab’. He alleged the sole agenda of these meetings was how to stop the formation of AAP government in Punjab.Also read: Exit polls: AAP ecstatic in Punjab, rivals advise caution“As all exit poll results are indicating an AAP government in the state, leaders of these traditional parties are again joining hands to hatch conspiracies,” he said. — #harpal cheema||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harpal-singh-cheema-parties-in-punjab-plotting-against-us-376206
09-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Exit polls: AAP ecstatic in Punjab, rivals advise caution||Sangrur, March 8Elated at the exit polls predicting an AAP government in Punjab, party leaders have started preparations for celebrations in the district, a party stronghold. On the contrary, leaders of Opposition parties have rejected the projections, advising AAP leaders not to jump the gun.Also read: Harpal Singh Cheema: Parties in Punjab plotting against us“A majority of residents and our leaders have started preparing for celebrations on March 10, immediately after the results are announced. But our leaders do not want to be boisterous about it, unlike other political parties. We plan to celebrate by distributing clothes and other essential items among poor,” said Anwar Bhasaur, AAP leader from Dhuri.Many top leaders, including party’s chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Mann, Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema and Sunam MLA Aman Arora are from district. The presence of these leaders on various Assembly seats of the district seems to have made the fight tough for opponents.“We have been confident of forming the next government in Punjab from the beginning. With exit polls projecting our government, area residents are asking us to prepare for celebrations. But we plan to keep it simple,” said Gurmale Singh, Sangrur district president of AAP.On the other hand, leaders of the Congress, SAD and BSP have been trying to counter the exit polls results in a bid to keep the morale of their workers high.“AAP leaders must remember exit polls have lost their credibility. They will meet the same fate as in 2017, when all exit polls had projected an AAP government. In reality, the Congress came to power. This time, too, the Congress will win,” asserted Sangrur district Congress committee president Mahinderpal Singh Bhola.SAD spokesperson Winnerjit Singh Goldy, who contested from Sangrur, said before the announcement of results, no one could say anything. “Exit polls have lost relevance as in the past, these have been way off the mark. The euphoria of the AAP will be short-lived as they have lost base in Punjab,” said Goldy.‘Corrupt’ rejectedThe exit poll results have made it clear people of Punjab have rejected the ‘corrupt’ politics of the Congress, BJP and SAD. — Kultar Singh Sandhwan, AAP leaderOff the markExit polls have lost relevance as in the past, these have been way off the mark. The euphoria of Aam Aadmi Party will be short-lived. — Winnerjit Singh Goldy,SAD spokesperson #exit polls #kultar singh sandhwan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/exit-polls-aap-ecstatic-rivals-advise-caution-376204
09-03-2022||Ludhiana||Nine more from Ludhiana traced in Ukraine||Nine more students belonging to Ludhiana district have been traced in war-torn Ukraine, taking the total number of youth, mostly medical students, from the district to 138, the official figures have revealed.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the families of nine students from the district had shared their information with the helpline being run by the administration in the past 24 hours. He said all nine students had been successfully reached out and their safe evacuation arranged. In the past 24 hours, nine more students from the district have returned, taking the count of returnees to 79. Seven more students have been able to escape the war zone. A total of 48 students are waiting for their return and at least 11 are still stuck in the war-torn country. — #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nine-more-from-ludhiana-traced-in-ukraine-376196
09-03-2022||---||SGPC to facilitate free transport of Ukraine returnee Punjab students||Amritsar, March 8The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has offered free ride for Ukraine returnee Punjab students from New Delhi to their final destination in any part of the state. Also, a liaison will be set up with the Office of the Prime Minister urging to start direct to and fro flights from Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport for US, Canada, UK and European countries.The annual budget session of the SGPC for the 2022-23 fiscal will be held at its headquarters Teja Singh Samundri Hall on March 30.These announcements were made by the SGPC after conducting an executive body meeting here today.SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami, who chaired the meeting, said an agreement had already been reached with Indo-Canadian bus service, which would bring these students from New Delhi airport to Punjab.The SGPC will also provide them with refreshments and assistance in Delhi. On the issue of launching direct flights to foreign countries, he said various Sikh organisations from Canada, US and other countries have been approached by the SGPC to take an initiative in this matter. #indians in ukraine #SGPC #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-to-facilitate-free-transport-of-ukraine-returnee-punjab-students-376192
09-03-2022||Archit Watts||All 23 students from Muktsar district back from Ukraine||Muktsar, March 8With the return of Lukesh Kumar, a fifth-year MBBS student of Kharkiv National Medical University, who hails from Dabwali Dhabh village in Lambi here, all 23 students who were stranded in war-torn Ukraine have returned safely to their home district Muktsar.The first student to return from Ukraine on February 27 belonged to Udekaran village. Of all 23 returnees, 22 are pursuing MBBS and one is an engineering student. Further, 16 students hails from Muktsar town, three Malout town, two Udekaran village, one each from Gidderbaha town and Dabwali Dhabh village.Lukesh said, “I was staying in a bunker in my hostel until the Indian Embassy issued an advisory to leave Kharkiv at the earliest. I walked to a nearby town, where we were told to reach Pesochin. I again walked to reach Pesochin the same day. I spent three days there and got a bus to reach Romania border on March 6. Bus operators had been demanding $500 a student for the ride, but that day not even a penny was charged from the leftover students. I crossed over to Romania yesterday morning and finally got a flight at night to come to India. Now, no student is stranded at Pesochin.”All students had to face a harrowing time till their evacuation. “We had to risk our lives to cross over to countries sharing their borders with Ukraine. Some of us even had miraculous escapes from missiles. There was an acute shortage of water and toilets. Luckily, somehow we managed to return to India safely. We are now concerned about our studies. We are thankful to the residents of Ukraine, who helped us a lot,” one of the students said.Meanwhile, a couple from Bhagu village here was also reportedly stuck in Ukraine. It reportedly crossed over to some other country. However, the family has not shared their present location or contact numbers with the local administration.Miraculous escapeWe had to risk our lives to cross over to other countries from Ukraine. Some of us even had miraculous escapes from missiles. We are now concerned about our studies. — A Muktsar returnee #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/all-23-from-muktsar-district-back-376189
09-03-2022||---||Ukraine crisis: Teachers in Punjab oppose move to adjust returnees||Patiala, March 8The Punjab State Medical & Dental Teachers Association (PSMDTA) has decided to oppose any move of the Government of India or the National Medical Commission (NMC) to accommodate Ukraine returnees.Medical students, who have returned from the war-torn country, want to complete their MBBS in state-run medical colleges here.Dr Diwan Singh Bhullar, state president, PSMDTA, said the association was sympathetic towards the students who had to leave Ukraine without completing their medical courses. Also, it was the moral duty of the Indian authorities to take care of the future of these students on humanitarian grounds. However, the decision, if taken, would affect the studies of meritorious students already pursuing undergraduate courses in the state-run medical colleges.He said: “The decision will demoralise students already pursing MBBS in state-run colleges. Allowing returnees, who didn’t compete in NEET, into government medical colleges will be termed a backdoor entry.”Gaurav Gupta, a fourth-year MBBS student in Ukraine, said: “The government should make one-time exception to adjust students, who have returned from Ukraine, in Indian medial colleges.”Chitwan Garg, whose brother Utkarsh Garg returned from Ukraine, said: “The focus should be on opening new medical colleges in the state rather than hitting out at returnees. Besides, students back from Ukraine should be allowed to pursue studies on humanitarian grounds.”Backdoor entryAllowing returnees, who didn’t compete in NEET, into government medical colleges will be termed a backdoor entry. — Dr Diwan Singh Bhullar, PSMDTA state president #MBBS #NEET #nmc #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ukraine-crisis-teachers-in-punjab-oppose-move-to-adjust-returnees-376188
09-03-2022||Mohali||Bikram Majithia's judicial custody extended till March 22||A Mohali court today extended the judicial custody of SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia till March 22 in a drugs case. He was brought from the Patiala jail and produced in the court here on the expiry of his earlier remand term. His lawyers appealed for bail citing March 10 election results, but the court wasn’t convinced. Majithia surrendered in the Mohali court on February 24 after the completion of the election process in Punjab on the instructions of the Supreme Court. He was booked in a drugs case in December last year.Majithia is contesting from the Amritsar (East) Assembly constituency while his wife Ganieve Kaur is contesting from the old Majithia Assembly constituency.Talking to mediapersons earlier, Majithia categorically rejected the exit polls claiming the Akali Dal would form the new government in Punjab. Last time also, the exit polls had given around 100 seats to the Aam Aadmi Party, but it was reduced to 20. This time, AAP would get only around 10 seats, he said. #bikram majithia||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/majithias-judicial-custody-extended-till-march-22-376184
09-03-2022||Vishav Bharti||100 Punjab government employees found holding fake degrees, experience certificates||Chandigarh, March 8A recruitment scam has come to the fore in Punjab’s Department of Rural Development and Panchayats involving hiring of around 100 employees on the basis of fake degrees and experience certificates, degrees from unrecognised universities and fake reservation under the Punjab State Rural Livelihood Mission (PSRLM). The matter came to light during an ongoing inquiry being conducted by the department.In the past three years, the state had hired 311 employees against various positions, including district programme manager, block programme manager, cluster coordinator, etc. under the PSRLM — a poverty alleviation project implemented by the Ministry of Rural Development, Government of India, focusing on promoting self-employment and organisation of rural poor.Sources said multiple complaints were received regarding recruitment based on fake degrees and reservation certificates. Following the complaints, the department formed a four-member panel to verify the basic qualification of the employees recruited under the scheme across the state.The sources revealed the probe panel had so far scrutinised data of 225 employees from 18 districts, including Amritsar, Barnala, Bathinda, Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Ludhiana, Malerkotla, Moga, Sangrur, Pathankot, SAS Nagar, SBS Nagar and Muktsar.It has been found that over 100 of the employees were not qualified for the post they were recruited for. The data of around 90 employees of five districts is yet to be analysed.The sources revealed degrees of around 50 employees were fake or from unrecognised universities. Seven candidates were seen possessing degrees from two universities — one from Uttar Pradesh and one from Sikkim, which has been derecognised by the University Grants Commission (UGC). And the original degrees of 47 candidates were not found in the official record. Besides, eight employees are suspected of using fake SC certificates.In some districts, the process of recruitment examination followed by the department is under the scanner. In certain places, interviews of candidates were conducted, which against the government recruitment rules, enacted in 2016, for such posts.Rahul Bhandari, Principal Secretary, Department Rural Department and Panchayats, said it was a serious matter and was being probed in detail. “Those found using the fake certificates won’t be spared,” he said.225 scrutinised so farThe DiscrepanciesSerious matterIt is a serious matter and is being probed in detail. Those found using fake certificates will not be spared. — Rahul Bhandari, Principal Secy, Department of Rural Development and Panchayats||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/100-punjab-government-employees-found-holding-fake-degrees-experience-certificates-376181
