11-03-2022||GS Paul||A day after Assembly poll results, PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu welcomes power shift in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 11A day after the Congress was routed in the Punjab Assembly election, PPCC President Navjot Singh Sidhu has welcomed the change ushered in by the electorate.The Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) President today moved in the East constituency, he represented as a lawmaker. Congress was decimated in Punjab and was restrained at just 18 seats in the recent assembly polls.  Welcoming the power shift in favour of AAP in Punjab, he said, “This politics was for the change. I congratulate AAP people who have changed the ‘traditional’ system and laid a new foundation for ‘badlav’ (change). It should be accepted humbly because people’s voice is the voice of God. I never see win or lose in them. I see my progress with their prosperity. There is no question of profit or loss”, he said.Taking a veiled dig at his own party and its choice for the ‘CM’ post, he said, “It is not proper to go deep into whether the people liked high command’s choice or not. I don’t want to go deep into it”, he said while refusing to comment on whether the results could be different had he been the CM face of the Congress.On party’s dismal performance and his negligible presence in the party’s campaigning in other places as a star campaigner, he said that when party high command had given the reins in the hands of  his  ‘younger brother’ Charanjit Singh Channi, he kept aside.He said that the mandate was given to Congress five years back, but we were unable to take advantage of it. “Now AAP has been given a chance for the next five years. We will analyse its performance as a watchdog”, he said.Launching an attack on his rivals, he said that they fell in the same pit they dug for him.“As you sow, so shall you reap. ‘Tin-chaar tan main much mantri bhugat te (I have dealt with three-four CMs.) Who says that punishment of sacrilege is not given? Where did they go who used to do politics in the name of Panth? I always raised my voice to bring justice to sacrilege cases and corrupt systems. Punjab’s progress is not possible till its income is streamlined”, he said.On his future plans, he said that his aim was the prosperity of Punjab from which he could never deviate from. “I stand by Punjab and will always be there for its progress”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab-election/a-day-after-poll-results-got-announced-sidhu-welcomes-power-shift-in-punjab-376984
11-03-2022||Chandigarh||Amarinder targets Congress leadership for blaming party's bad showing in Punjab on his tenure||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday hit out at the Congress for blaming the anti-incumbency of his four-and-half-years tenure on the poor show in assembly polls, saying the party's leadership will never learn.Singh, who was unseated from the post of chief minister last year, tweeted: “The @INCIndia leadership will never learn! Who is responsible for the humiliating defeat of Congress in UP? What about Manipur, Goa, Uttrakhand? The answer is written in BOLD LETTERS on the wall but as always I presume they will avoid reading it”.The @INCIndia leadership will never learn! Who is responsible for the humiliating defeat of Congress in UP? What about Manipur, Goa, Uttrakhand? The answer is written in BOLD LETTERS on the wall but as always I presume they will avoid reading it. https://t.co/Dp646fwQgR  Singh's remarks came a day after Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said that in Punjab, even though the party presented a humble, clean and grounded leadership, it failed to overcome the anti-incumbency of four-and-half-years of Amarinder Singh government."The election results of five states are against the party's expectations. We were expecting good results in Uttarakhand, Goa and Punjab, but we accept that we failed to get people's blessings", Surjewala had said.The Congress was routed in the polls with AAP taking 92 seats in the 117-member assembly, leaving it with only 18 seats. While the Shiromani Akali Dal got three seats, the BJP got two and the BSP just one.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-targets-congress-leadership-for-blaming-partys-bad-showing-in-punjab-on-his-tenure-376964
11-03-2022||Aditi Tandon||Punjab CM-designate Bhagwant Mann meets Arvind Kejriwal in Delhi, invites him to oath ceremony||New Delhi, March 11Bhagwant Mann will take oath as the Chief Minister of Punjab on March 16 at Khatkar Kalan, the ancestral village of iconic freedom fighter Bhagat Singh, party sources said on Friday after he met the party’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal in Delhi.On March 13, the party will take out a roadshow in Amritsar. Both the events will be attended by Kejriwal, the sources said.A day after the Aam Aadmi Party’s stupendous victory, Punjab CM-designate Mann met Delhi Chief Minister Kejriwal at his residence on Friday and extended an invitation to him to attend both the events, the sources said.The over-an-hour-long meeting was also attended by Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and AAP in-charge of political affairs in Punjab Raghav Chadha.Mann later left for Punjab.“My younger brother Bhagwant Mann will take oath as the chief minister of Punjab. Today he came to my house to extend invitation for the oath-taking ceremony. I am sure that as a chief minister, Bhagwant will fulfil every expectation of the people of Punjab,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. He also shared a picture of the meeting.मेरा छोटा भाई भगवंत मान पंजाब के मुख्यमंत्री पद की शपथ लेगा। आज वे शपथ ग्रहण का न्यौता देने मेरे घर आए। मुझे पूरा भरोसा है कि भगवंत एक मुख्यमंत्री के तौर पर पंजाब के लोगों की हर उम्मीद को पूरा करेंगे। pic.twitter.com/u2JoH1ZKtH  This was Mann’s first meeting with Kejriwal after the Assembly election results were declared on Thursday.Earlier in the day, Mann, accompanied by Punjab in-charge of the party Raghav Chadha, got delayed for the meeting with Kejriwal due to a huge traffic jam along the route.The AAP CM candidate preferred the road rather than air route to Delhi and lost two hours in the jam.Mann and Kejriwal were expected to discuss the details of government formation in the state, including the names of ministers to be sworn in, the bureaucratic structure with an eye on the party’s principal election promises and the road ahead.The meeting was the first since AAP’s historic victory in Punjab which had elected the first non-Congress and non-Akali Dal government in the state, a first in the state’s history.The oath-taking of AAP government is expected on March 16. The Aam Aadmi Party romped home in 92 of the 117 Assembly seats. Mann won from the Dhuri seat by a huge margin of 58,206 votes. —with PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-begins-key-meeting-with-kejriwal-first-meeting-of-aap-mlas-in-chandigarh-today-376962
11-03-2022||New Delhi||Thank you sir, says Kejriwal after Modi congratulates AAP on its Punjab victory||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi after he congratulated the Aam Aadmi Party for its victory in the Punjab Assembly elections.In a tweet, the prime minister had on Thursday night congratulated the AAP."I would like to congratulate AAP for their victory in the Punjab elections. I assure all possible support from the Centre for Punjab's welfare.@AamAadmiParty," Modi had tweeted.In his reply, Kejriwal tweeted, "Thank you sir."   The Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday stormed to power in Punjab, bagging a record 92 of the 117 seats by decimating the Congress and the SAD-BSP combine, and handing a defeat to stalwarts Parkash Singh Badal and Amarinder Singh.In terms of vote share, the AAP won 42 per cent of the total votes cast, as against 23.7 per cent it had five years ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/thank-you-sir-says-kejriwal-after-modi-congratulates-aap-for-its-victory-in-punjab-376958
11-03-2022||Archit Watts||Sukhbir Badal congratulates Bhagwant Mann, says SAD will support AAP on matters concerning state||Badal (Muktsar), March 11A day after the SAD’s worst ever show in Punjab, party chief Sukhbir Badal on Friday said he accepted the verdict given by the public with humility.While talking to the media at his Badal village residence here, Sukhbir said, “I congratulate the AAP's CM candidate Bhagwant Mann, assure him that the SAD will support him on all matters concerning the state. However, as opposition, we will also point out their mistakes. I thank the SAD workers who worked hard. We will play a constructive role. The SAD is a party of Sikh Panth and Punjabis. We have to live and die here in Punjab."About no Badal presence in the coming Vidhan Sabha, Sukhbir said, "It does not matter if we are in or out of Vidhan Sabha. We will continue to work for the welfare of the state. We will soon hold a meeting to review the results and take remedial action.”Sukhbir said, “I take the responsibility of the party's defeat. Our workers were upbeat and are still upbeat. You will see us soon winning the election."About the defeat of bigwigs, including Parkash Singh Badal, he said, "One predicts the defeat when the workers are not working on the ground or are having a low morale. I went to almost every constituency. It was our bad luck coupled with the AAP tsunami. Badal sa’ab has served the state admirably."He said the cadre of no political party could compete with that of the SAD.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-congratulates-bhagwant-mann-says-sad-will-support-aap-on-matters-concerning-state-376955
11-03-2022||New Delhi||Thank you sir: Kejriwal after Modi congratulates AAP for its victory in Punjab||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi after he congratulated the Aam Aadmi Party for its victory in the Punjab Assembly elections.In a tweet, the prime minister had on Thursday night congratulated the AAP."I would like to congratulate AAP for their victory in the Punjab elections. I assure all possible support from the Centre for Punjab's welfare.@AamAadmiParty," Modi had tweeted.In his reply, Kejriwal tweeted, "Thank you sir."  Thank you sir https://t.co/YuSe9BA52LThe Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday stormed to power in Punjab, bagging a record 92 of the 117 seats by decimating the Congress and the SAD-BSP combine, and handing a defeat to stalwarts Parkash Singh Badal and Amarinder Singh.In terms of vote share, the AAP won 42 per cent of the total votes cast, as against 23.7 per cent it had five years ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/thank-you-sir-kejriwal-after-modi-congratulates-aap-for-its-victory-in-punjab-376954
11-03-2022||Chandigarh||Charanjit Singh Channi resigns as Chief Minister; Punjab Assembly dissolved||Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Friday dissolved the 15th Vidhan Sabha, an official spokesperson here said, a day after results for the Assembly polls were announced.The move comes after Charanjit Singh Channi submitted his resignation as Chief Minister to the Governor following the Congress Party’s drubbing in the Assembly polls.The Channi-led Cabinet, which met for the last time on Friday, had recommended dissolution of the Assembly, paving the way for the constitution of a new Aam Aadmi Party-led legislature. “I have tendered my resignation to the Governor,” Channi, who went to the Raj Bhavan to hand over his resignation letter to the Governor, told reporters a day after the results.The Congress was routed in the polls with AAP taking 92 seats in the 117-member Assembly, leaving it with only 18 seats. The AAP sweep decimated  the SAD-BSP combine as well. While the Shiromani Akali Dal got three seats, the BJP got two and the BSP just one.Several stalwarts, including Channi, Parkash Singh Badal and Amarinder Singh, were defeated.Channi lost both the seats he contested from. He was defeated by the AAP's Labh Singh Ugoke with a margin of 37,558 votes from Bhadaur. He also lost from Chamkaur Sahib, where he was defeated by the AAP's Charanjit Singh by a margin of 7,942 votes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-submits-resignation-to-governor-376953
11-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet recommends dissolution of 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha to governor||The Punjab Cabinet on Friday approved the recommendation for dissolution of the 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha to Governor Banwarilal Purohit.The decision was taken at a virtual Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi at his official residence here in the morning.Announcing this, a spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office said the Punjab governor is authorised to dissolve the state legislature under Article 174 of the Constitution.The move will eventually pave the way for formation of the 16th Punjab Vidhan Sabha.The chief minister thanked all his cabinet colleagues, officers, employees and people for the overall development and maintaining peace and tranquillity in the state.The chief minister congratulated the new dispensation and hoped the new government would earnestly implement the promises made to the people.He also hoped that the decisions taken by his government in the public interest such as reduction of electricity rates, slashing VAT on oil besides decreasing rates of sand and gravel, etc, would be continued by the next government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-recommends-governor-banwarilal-purohit-for-dissolution-of-15th-punjab-vidhan-sabha-376951
11-03-2022||Karam Prakash ||Change of guard seemingly spurs Patiala's Rajindra hospital authorities to issue orders for improved patient care||Patiala, March 11Government Medical College (GMC) and Rajindra Hospital authorities issued orders, here today, to their doctors and other staff that read: ‘conduct laboratory tests of patients from the hospital lab, be sympathetic towards patients and stay on duty during OPD hours’.The authorities have warned the doctors of action for laxity in duty. The upcoming change of guard of the state government is said to have prompted the said orders.Dr Harjinder Singh, Director Principal, Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital, said that it had come into his notice that some doctors and workers were not punctual, therefore, he would be conducting surprise checks. The OPD timings of the hospital during summers are from 8 am to 2 pm and everyone should stick to it. It has been learned that the majority of the doctors, especially seniors, reach the hospital after 9.30 am. The Government Rajindra Hospital – which is the largest hospital in Malwa region – has to cater to thousands of poor patients every day. The hospital had faced a lot of flak during first and second COVID wave for lack of patient care.Notably, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) – over the past few months – had repeatedly said that they would focus on the health sector. Dr Balbir Singh, who won election from Patiala rural, has recently said, “As soon as AAP forms government in Punjab, all government hospital will provide world class health services, absolutely free to all the citizens”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/change-of-guard-seemingly-spurs-patialas-rajindra-hospital-authorities-to-issue-orders-for-improved-patient-care-376949
11-03-2022||Chandigarh||Senior advocate DS Patwalia resigns from Punjab's Advocate-General post||Punjab Advocate-General Deepinder Singh Patwalia submitted his resignation on Friday afternoon.The resignation came a day after the ruling Congress suffered a resounding defeat in the Assembly elections.In his letter to Punjab Governor, Patwalia wrote: “Keeping with the long-standing Constitutional convention, I, hereby, tender my resignation from the post of Advocate-General, Punjab.”Patwalia took charge as the Advocate-General in November. He was the first to be offered the post by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi in September. It was after senior advocate Atul Nanda resigned following the change of guard in the Congress and Channi replacing Capt Amarinder Singh as the Chief Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/senior-advocate-ds-patwalia-resigns-from-punjabs-advocate-general-post-376945
11-03-2022||Chandigarh||Old pal Kapil Sharma congratulates Bhagwant Mann, shares picture of the Punjab CM face from his wedding||As Bhagwant Mann, the CM face of Aam Aadmi Party in Punjab, won elections, good wishes started pouring in from new and the old knows.Actor-comedian Kapil Sharma also took to Instagram to congratulate Bhagwant Mann for his historic win in the recently held Punjab assembly elections.Also read: Old video of political satirist Bhagwant Mann performing at a comedy show where Navjot Sidhu was judge goes viralAmid Punjab result, Archana Puran Singh trends on Twitter, netizens say she may lose seat to Navjot Sidhu48-year-old Mann was a popular standup comedian before he stepped into politics.Congratulating Bhagwant, Kapil on Instagram wrote: “History remember those who creates history. many congratulations to @bhagwantmann1 paji for his historic victory. you not only won the elections but also the heart of Punjab.” Congratulating Bhagwant Mann, Kapil Sharma wrote on Instagram that Bhagwant Mann has not only won the election but also the hearts of the people of Punjab. Sharma wrote, “History remember those who creates history. many congratulations to @bhagwantmann1 paji for his historic victory. you not only won the elections but also the heart of Punjab.”A post shared by Kapil Sharma (@kapilsharma)The comedian-host continued, “I pray to God that under your leadership Punjab will progress and achieve new heights. big hug. lots of love n respect ❤.” Along with the note, The Kapil Sharma Show host shared a picture of Mann at his wedding.Earlier, Kapil Sharma had talked about Bhagwant Mann’s interest in politics. “Right from his first hit Kulfi Garma Garam in 1993, political satire was an essential part of his repertoire,” said the TV host, who grew up in Amritsar listening to Mann.AAP’s chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Mann won from Dhuri Assembly seat by a margin of over 58,000 votes. #bhagwant mann #kapil sharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/old-pal-kapil-sharma-congratulates-bhagwant-mann-shares-picture-of-the-punjab-cm-face-at-his-wedding-376939
11-03-2022||Chandigarh||Old video of Bhagwant Mann performing at a comedy show where Navjot Sidhu was judge goes viral||Who would have known that Bhagwant Mann, who started his career as a political satirist and comedian, would be the Chief Minister of Punjab one day?Also read: Amid Punjab result, Archana Puran Singh trends on Twitter, netizens say she may lose seat to Navjot SidhuThe oath-taking ceremony of the new Punjab Government headed by Bhagwant Mann as the Chief Minister will take place at Khatkar Kalan on March 16.The Aam Aadmi Party won the Punjab Assembly election in style bagging 92 of the 117 seats.Amid all this, an old clip of Bhagwant Mann participating in a reality laughter challenge show during his stand-up comedy days where Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu was a judge has surfaced and is being widely shared online.PUNJABIt’s pretty clear that @BhagwantMannwill be the next CMAmong his competitors was @sherryontopp#Throwback to the Laughter Challenge - where Bhagwant was cracking a joke on politics and Siddhu was laughing as the judge. #PunjabElectionspic.twitter.com/gcoCnRa91RIn the clip, Bhagwant Mann jokes about politics. He says, “I asked a politician what 'rajneeti' (politics) means. He told me that it is the act of deciding how to govern. Then I asked what ‘gormint’ (read government) means. He said it means those who 'gaur' (look closely) at each issue only to forget it a minute later.”Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was judging the act along with Shekhar Suman, bursts into laughter as soon as he hears the joke. After all these years, this clip on the day of the election results in Punjab has a new meaning now and is being related to the present situation.Bhagwant Mann won the election from Dhuri Assembly constituency in Sangrur. #bhagwant mann #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/old-video-of-political-satirist-bhagwant-mann-performing-at-a-comedy-show-where-navjot-sidhu-was-judge-goes-viral-376932
11-03-2022||Ferozepur||BSF recovers arms and ammunition in Punjab's Ferozepur||In a joint operation carried out by the sleuths belonging to 2nd Battalion of Border Security Force and Special Task Force, a huge cache of firearms have been recovered in Ferozepur sector. Among the recovered weapons are five AK-47 rifles along with 10 magazines, three US-made Colt rifles along with six magazines and five China-made pistols along with 10 magazines and cartridges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-recovers-huge-cache-of-arms-and-ammunition-in-ferozepur-376931
11-03-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Bhagwant Mann leaves for Delhi to meet Kejriwal ahead of govt formation||Chandigarh, March 11The oath-taking ceremony of the new Punjab government headed by Bhagwant Mann is likely to be held at Khatkar Kalan on March 16.Though the final decision on the date will be taken by the party on Friday, sources say the day has been chosen because the term of the current Vidhan Sabha is till March 16.It is learnt that Bhagwant Mann and Punjab affairs in charge Raghav Chadha have already left for Delhi to meet party national convenor Arvind Kejriwal.Among other things to be decided on Friday are the candidates who will be inducted into the Cabinet.Sources in the party say all 17 ministers may not be inducted immediately; only five to six candidates may be inducted now.The names of the probable candidates who could be inducted are Aman Arora, Harpal Cheema, Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Harjot Bains and Baljinder Kaur.A meeting of the party’s elected 92 MLAs is likely to be held either on Friday evening or Saturday morning.It is after this meeting that the party leaders led by Mann will meet Governor Banwari Lal Purohit on Saturday, to stake his party’s claim to form the government.On Sunday, he along with 91 AAP MLAs will visit Golden Temple to pay obeisance. #arvind kejriwal #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-leaves-for-delhi-to-meet-kejriwal-ahead-of-govt-formation-on-march-16-376925
11-03-2022||Mann of the moment||You win some, you lose some; Punjabi celebs who won and who didn't||The newly elected ‘maharaja’ of the Punjab, Bhagwant Mann started his public innings as a stand-up comedian whose speeches from Parliament were equally famous.He started his comedy career with youth festivals and inter-college competitions. Known for his satire-laden political speeches, he performed many skits, took out comedy albums, and had his own show on MH1 called Jugnu Hazir Hai. In 2008, Mann took part in the Great Indian Laughter Challenge which was judged by Navjot Singh Sidhu. Bhagwant Mann also acted in National Award winning film Main Maa Punjab Dee, directed by Balwant Dullat. Political comedy being his forte, before joining AAP, he had worked with People’s Party of Punjab. Mann won from Dhuri by a margin of 58,206 votes. . Creating historySharing a picture with Bhagwant Mann on Instagram, Kapil Sharma wrote, “History remembers those who create history. Many congratulations to @bhagwantmann1 paji for his historic victory... you not only won the elections but also the heart of Punjab.I pray to God that under your leadership Punjab will progress and achieve new heights... big hug... lots of love n respect.”Singing a happy tuneBalkar Singh Sidhu learnt music from Dhadi singer Gurbakhsh Singh Albela, who is his uncle. His first Punjabi music album was Karna Chhad De Pyar, released during the first year of his graduation. Later, he released Din Pepran De and other albums. The singer joined the AAP in 2014 ahead of Lok Sabha elections and had previously contested election from Talwandi Sabo constituency. In between, in 2017, he contested as an independent contestant and severed his ties with AAP. But this year he had again joined AAP and won the election from Rampura Phul constituency.Political danceAnmol Gagan Maan, the singer-turned-politician’s real name is Gagandeep Kaur Maan. She hails from Mansa district, but because of her career as a singer and lyricist, she has been living in Mohali since many years. A winner of the World Folk Dance Competition in England in 2014, she had started taking an interest in music and dance at the early age. She graduated from MCM DAV College, Chandigarh in psychology and music. Participated in pageants, she won the Miss Mohali Punjaban title at Miss World Punjaban in 2013. She has sung songs like Sherni, Patiala and Gal Chakvi. She also wrote a motivational book, How To Be Real Human. The Sherni singer won from the Kharar constituency by a margin of 37,885 votes.Missing the targetSinger Sidhu Moosewala, who was from the Congress, conceded defeat to the AAP opponent, Dr Vijay Singla, from Mansa. The So High hit-maker has earned as much fame as notoriety with his songs involving guns and violence. Last year, he had come out with 30 songs and collaborations in a single album called Moosetape. Many of his songs like So High, Just Listen, 295, Old Skool, Legend, Tibbeyan Da Putt talk about the youth of Punjab.The last laugh!Navjot Singh Sidhu turned to comedy with telly shows The Great Indian Laughter Challenge in 2005. Known for his loud guffaws in Comedy Nights with Kapil, he was a constant in The Kapil Sharma Show in 2016. He started his political innings with theBJP in 2004. He joined the Congress in January 2017, he was appointed as president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee in 2021. Contesting on Congress ticket, he lost from Amritsar East. #anmol gagan maan #bhagwant mann #navjot sidhu #sidhu moosewala||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/lifestyle/you-win-some-you-lose-some-376901
11-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab Election 2022: Punjab CM, ministers to take oath on March 16||The Aam Aadmi Party Government will take oath on March 16.It was said on Thursday that they would take oath at Khatkar Kalan, the native place of martyr Bhagat Singh.On March 13, the party will take out a roadshow in Amritsar, sources said.AAP had swept the Assembly election results on Thursday bagging 92 seats out of 117.Meanwhile, AAP elected Bhagwant Mann as Leader of its Legislative Party in Punjab on Friday.In a meeting of the newly elected AAP MLAs held in Punjab's Mohali, Budhlada MLA Budh Ram proposed the name of Mann as Leader of the Legislative Group, which was unanimously accepted by all other 91 MLAs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-ministers-to-take-oath-on-march-16-376916
11-03-2022||Jalandhar||BJP's Vijay Sampla, sitting Cong MLA Navtej Cheema lose deposit||In the multi-corner contest wherein many rebels too had contested the assembly election, several candidates of big parties lost their security deposits.Congress candidates lost its security deposits from at least two seats in Doaba. Sitting Congress MLA Navtej Cheema faced forfeiture of his deposit getting only 12.55 per cent vote share against a set percentage of 16.66 to save it. Likewise, party candidate Satvir Palli Jhikki lost the deposit from Nawanshahr seat. He polled only 6,998 votes out of the total polled votes of 1.23 lakh.Several Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders lost their deposit. Mohan Lal Banga, two-time MLA and son of former BJP minister Swarna Ram, got only 3,974 votes out of 1.15 lakh votes polled here. BJP’s Nawanshahr candidate Poonam Manik also performed dismally getting only 3,226 votes. BJP candidate from Balachaur Ashok Bath, too, lost his deposit getting only 5,566 votes. Even ex-MoS Vijay Sampla faced a humiliating defeat coming fourth from Phagwara and getting only 12.08 per cent vote share and thus losing his deposit too.Meanwhile, almost all candidates of the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha and BJP allies, including the Punjab Lok Congress and the SAD (Sanyukt), lost their deposits. — #vijay sampla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sampla-sitting-mla-cheema-lose-deposit-376903
11-03-2022||Mandi Ahmedgarh||NRIs take keen interest in counting of votes in Punjab||Non-resident Indians (NRIs) from this part of Malwa showed keen interest in the counting of votes for the Punjab Assembly elections, which began at 8 am today.Though the final outcome of almost all seats was cleared to them during initial hours of counting, more curious NRIs continued asking about various trends and leads till late in the evening.Despite the clock time difference in various countries, residents continued receiving queries regarding candidates contesting the elections from various constituencies falling under Ludhiana and Malerkotla districts. Telephone calls, SMSes and social media sites were cited as popular modes of communication.SAD (Amritsar) chief and Amargarh candidate Simranjit Singh Mann, Sanyukt Samaj Morcha president and Samrala candidate Balvir Singh Rajjewal, Congress candidate Gurkirat Singh Kotli (grandson of former Chief Minister Beant Singh) and Hond Chiller Action Committee activist Manvinder Singh Giaspura were among candidates whose fate majority of the NRIs wanted to know besides getting update about overall performance of Aam Aadmi Party candidates.Investigations revealed that residents of the town and surrounding localities had started receiving calls about trends in Punjab Assembly election results early in the morning from their friends and relatives settled in various states of US, Canada, New Zealand, Norway and Australia.Sikandar Singh Jartauli, who had recently returned from Canada, said he had received many calls from Punjabis settled in various segments of British Columbia. “As I received a call early in the morning I thought that my son had made a routine call. Later I came to know the call was to enquire about the fate of candidates,” said Sikandar Singh Jartauli.Nirmal Singh, a social activist from Jandali Kalan village, said some of his relatives settled in New York had started enquiring about results early in the morning. Though there is a difference of almost 12 hours between the clocks of the two countries, the NRIs continued asking for the results till these were declared. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nris-take-keen-interest-in-counting-of-votes-376877
11-03-2022||Vijay C Roy||Industry leaders hail AAP’s win||Chandigarh, March 10Industry leaders of the state hailed the AAP victory, saying the strong mandate would give a renewed push to much needed industrialisation.Amit Thapar, president, Ganga Acrowools Limited, who is also the newly elected CII’s Punjab chairman, said, “Nearly 36% of the state’s employment comes from the industry. The new government to work on policies and reforms to give fillip to the industrial sector."Sharad Aggarwal, president, Northern Chamber of Small & Medium Industries, said, “We hope that the issues raised before the party before elections and the announcement made in the manifesto would be implemented.”Badish Jindal, president, Federation of Punjab Small Industries Associations said, “The industryis fed up of corruption. The corruption is causing a big harassment to industries besides causing a big loss to the exchequer.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/industry-leaders-hail-aaps-win-376793
11-03-2022||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Only 13 of 93 women make it, 11 from AAP||Chandigarh, March 10Only 13 out of 93 women in fray for the Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections won today, once again showing a poor representation of the nearly 48% of the state population. According to the 2011 census, Punjab’s population is 27,743,338 and 13,103,873 of them are female.With exception of Ganive Kaur of the Shiromani Akali Dal and former Congress minister Aruna Chaudhary, all winning women belong to the AAP. Ganieve Kaur was contesting her first elections on the seat of Majitha which her husband Bikram Singh Majithia had vacated to contest against PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu. Aruna Chaudhary retained her Dinanagar seat.Baljinder Kaur, a member of the national executive of the AAP, has won once again from Talwandi Sabo with a margin of 15,252 votes. Another sitting MLA of the AAP, Sarvjit Kaur Manuke, won the Jagraon seat.Other AAP winners are Neena Gupta, an old time AAP worker from Rajpura; Dr Amardeep Kaur Arora, a first-timer from Moga; Jeevanjot, a social worker from Amritsar who defeated Navjot Singh Sidhu and Bikram Majithia; farmer Inderjit Kaur Mann from Nakodar; Dr Baljit Kaur from Malout; Narinder Kaur Bharaj from Sangrur; Anmol Gagan Mann from Kharar; Rajinder Pal Kaur from Ludhiana South and Santosh Kumari Kataria from Balachaur.Former Cabinet minister and social worker Laxmi Kanta Chawla said, “The biggest reason for poor representation of women is because very few of them have come forward and demanded their rights.”LEADER SPEAKAAP to be national forceIn the coming days, the AAP will become a national force... The party will emerge as the national and natural replacement of Congress. — Raghav Chadha, State aap co-inchargeTook on the challengeI was keen to enter the fray against him (Badal) and Kejriwal reposed faith in me. It was my will to fight against Badal. Most politicians avoid entering a political battle with the Akali stalwart from his bastion Lambi. — Gurmeet Singh Khudian, AAP’s nominee from LambiQUICK NOTESCongress activist opens fire: AAP supportersMalout: Some young supporters of the Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday alleged a Congress activist, Pappi Mann, of their village opened fire on them when they were celebrating the victory of their party candidate Dr Baljit Kaur at Jhorar village here. Meanwhile, the police have started investigation and said the accused had already deposited his two weapons, but they were verifying the allegations. TNS #bikram majithia #ganieve kaur #women||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/only-13-of-93-women-make-it-11-from-aap-376792
11-03-2022||Vishav Bharti||Two seats, abysmal show by BJP in Punjab||Chandigarh, March 10Though BJP was expecting the role of a kingmaker in the Assembly elections, the party had a dismal outing, winning just two seats. Party’s state president Ashwani Sharma won the Pathankot seat by over 7,759 votes, while Jangi Lal Mahajan registered victory by 2,691 votes from Mukerian.Four days ago, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and party president JP Nadda had claimed the party would do “better than expected” in Punjab and was hoping for the party playing an important role in government formation.Since 2014, people of Punjab have bucked the ‘Modi wave’. The party was banking on polarisation of Hindu votes in urban areas, but didn’t seem to have happened. The party’s vote share stood at 6.60%. Five years ago, the party had won three seats.This was the first time that the saffron party was contesting 73 seats of 117.The party left no stone unturned to make its presence felt in the elections. Apart from three rallies by PM Narendra Modi and 12 Union Ministers, Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur and Haryana’s Manohar Lal Khattar, and leaders from neighbouring states were roped in for the campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-seats-abysmal-show-by-saffron-party-376790
11-03-2022||Vishav BhartiChandigarh||'Pad woman', sweeper's  son emerge giant slayers in Punjab election||From the son of a sweeper to a ‘pad woman’ promoting menstrual hygiene and from an eye surgeon to a small-time politician — they all emerged as giant killers, defeating a Chief Minister, three former chief ministers and several other stalwarts.Also read: When AAP’s Jeevan Jyot defeated political bigwigsHogging limelightAAP’s Labh Singh Ugoke, who defeated CM Charanjit Singh Channi from Bhadaur by 37,000 votes was repairing mobile phones till recently. He had earlier worked at a harvester manufacturing unit in Barnala’s Handiaya.He had studied up to class XII and had just Rs 4.1 lakh worth of assets. Ugoke’s mother works as a sweeper at a government school and father as a driver. He got associated with the AAP in 2013.Similarly, Dr Charanjit Singh, who defeated CM Channi from Chamkaur Sahib, is known for his social work for the blind. He is an alumnus of the PGI, Chandigarh, and had lost to Channi by 12,308 votes in 2017.Jeevan Jyot Kaur who defeated two stalwarts — PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and former Cabinet minister Bikram Majithia — was known was ‘pad woman of Amritsar’ for promoting menstrual hygiene. Gurmeet Singh Khudian left the Congress in July to join the AAP and defeated five-time CM Parkash Singh Badal from Lambi. His father Jagdev Singh Khudian was a Member of Parliament and won from Faridkot in 1989.Barinder Kumar Goyal, who is known as ‘vakeel’ (lawyer) among people, defeated former Chief Minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal. He graduated in law from Meerut University in 1980 and worked in most parties before raising his voice against alleged rigging by the Congress in the last local bodies elections.Narinder Kaur Bharaj, who defeated Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla and former MLA Arvind Khanna from Sangrur, had been AAP’s long-time star campaigner in the area.She is just 27 years old and first made it to the news in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections when she single-handedly put up and managed a booth for party candidate Bhagwant Mann in her village. Three years ago, she contested for the post of sarpanch in her village but lost.Jagdeep Kamboj, who defeated former Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Badal in Jalalabad, is a farmer by profession. As per his election affidavit, he had declared assets worth Rs 3.2 crore.Jagroop Singh Gill defeated Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal by over 60,000 votes from Bathinda Urban. Gill, once a close aide of Manpreet, also served as chairman of District Planning Board Bathinda. He left the Congress after he was ignored for the post of Bathinda mayor and joined the AAP in August last year. #bikram majithia #jeevan jyot kaur #labh singh ugoke #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pad-woman-sweepers-son-emerge-giant-slayers-376788
11-03-2022||Arvind Kejriwal||Architects of AAP's success: Arvind Kejriwal, Raghav Chadha, Bhagwant Mann||Arvind Kejriwal conceptualised the party’s agenda. Promising 300 units of free power, quality education and healthcare was his vision. Facilitating protesting farmers on Delhi borders, he showcased his model of governance to the people of Punjab. Frequenting Punjab for almost one year and holding regular meetings with people, he was able to prop up his party as “reformist” and the only hope for change. By declaring the party’s CM face first, he allayed the fear among public that a Punjabi wouldn’t get the top post.Raghav Chadha, co-incharge, PB affairsKejriwal was the planner and Raghav Chadha ensured smooth execution. From selection of party candidates to running the social media campaigns through his own teams; deciding on the party slogans to guiding important state leaders on how and when to say what — his micro management did wonders. He also ensured that the party campaign centred around Kejriwal and Mann. It is thus that people voted for the party, without even knowing who the candidates were.Bhagwant Mann, AAP CM candidateBhagwant Mann is the only one to have won as AAP MP twice, representing Sangrur. A known political satirist, he used his wit and satire to make a way into the hearts of the public. His roadshows drew immense crowds. The fact that he and his party were literally hounded by their opponents, who could find nothing against him, endeared him to voters. Since Mann comes from a humble rural background, it worked to his advantage as aspirational lower income groups look up to him as an icon of success.(Ruchika M Khanna) #arvind kejriwal #bhagwant mann #raghav chadha||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/architects-of-aaps-success-376785
11-03-2022||Jupinderjit Singh||Worst-ever drubbing for SAD in 102 years||Chandigarh, March 10The SAD suffered its worst drubbing ever in the 102 years history of the party, winning just three seats in the Assembly elections, results of which were declared on Thursday. Its alliance partner — BSP — could bag just a single seat.Core panel meet on March 14The SAD has called its core committee meeting on March 14 to discuss and reflect on the poll debacle. Party senior vice-president Harcharan Bains said the committee would meet at 2 pm.To add insult to injury, party stalwart and five-time CM Parkash Singh Badal lost from Lambi, which he had been winning since 1997. His son and party president Sukhbir Singh Badal lost from Jalalabad, which many said was a cakewalk for him.Bikram Majithia, lodged in Patiala jail in a drugs case, came third in the Amritsar East constituency. He can find solace in the fact that he contributed in the defeat of his bête-noire and Congress state chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.Party’s vote percentage fell from 25.2% last year to 18.4%. The Akalis lost badly in all three regions — Majha, Doaba and Malwa — winning one seat each from the three regions, out of the 117 seats.The defeat margin of the stalwarts or main candidates is equally worrisome. Badal lost to Gurmeet Singh Khudiyan of the AAP by 11,396 votes. Sukhbir fared even worse, losing to Jagdeep Kamboj of the AAP by 30,930 votes. Majithia returned third from Amritsar East. Other Akali senior leaders, including Prem Singh Chandumajra, Dr Daljeet Singh Cheema and Sikander Singh Maluka, also lost badly.Jagtar Singh, a political historian, termed it a disgrace for the party. “The party seemed badly disconnected with the masses. It was alienated from the ground realities in 10 years of rule from 2007 to 2017 and later during the Congress regime since 2017.”Political analyst Dr Pramod Kumar termed the result as historic that threatens to change the contours of the state politics. “The voters have not been swayed by dera-based politics or village-level factionalism. The AAP has clearly emerged as a catch-all party and this will impact politics in north-western India at the peril of parties like the SAD.”Political commentator Prof Manjit Singh said the Akalis could not wash off the stains of sacrilege cases, drugs smuggling and other mafia. #bikram majithia #parkash singh badal #SAD #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/worst-ever-drubbing-for-sad-in-102-years-376781
11-03-2022||Vishav Bharti||Parkash Singh Badal loses after 50 yrs; SAD's worst-ever show in Punjab||Chandigarh, March 10Former CMs Parkash Singh Badal, Capt Amarinder Singh and Rajinder Kaur Bhattal and incumbent CM Charanjit Channi were among the stalwarts who tasted a crushing defeat in the Assembly polls. The biggest upset was in Lambi where SAD patriarch and five-time CM Badal, whose career spans over seven decades, lost his traditional seat to AAP’s Gurmeet Khudian by 11,357 votes. After being elected as sarpanch, Badal had won his first Assembly poll in 1957 and had remained invincible since 1969.Two-time CM and Punjab Lok Congress chief Amarinder couldn’t defend his citadel Patiala, losing to Ajitpal Kohli of the AAP by 19,697 votes. Ex-CM Bhattal finished third from Lehra and lost to AAP’s Barinder Kumar Goyal Vakeel. CM Channi lost both from Chamkaur Sahib and Bhadaur by 7,833 and 37,220 votes to AAP’s Dr Charanjit Singh and Labh Singh Ugoke, respectively.SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal lost by 30,374 votes to AAP’s Jagdeep Kamboj from Jalalabad. Amritsar East sprang a surprise with both PCC chief Navjot Sidhu and SAD stalwart Bikram Majithia losing to greenhorn Jeevan Jot Kaur of the AAP.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal lost to AAP’s Jagroop Gill from Bathinda Urban by 62,319 votes.Margin of defeatHighest marginSunam: 74,811Lowest marginJalandhar-Central: 247 #capt amarinder singh #charanjit channi #parkash singh badal #rajinder kaur bhattal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parkash-singh-badal-loses-after-50-yrs-sads-worst-ever-show-in-punjab-376780
11-03-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Botched campaign did Punjab Congress in||Chandigarh, March 10For the Congress it has been a downhill journey from an advantageous position. A botched campaign plagued with infighting and its obsession with the AAP proved to be its undoing in the Punjab Assembly elections.Till six months ago, the grand old party had increased its strength from 77 MLAs to 80, with the trend continuing after Charanjit Singh Channi took charge as the CM last September, when two more AAP MLAs — Rupinder Ruby and Jagtar Singh Jagga — joined the party.With Navjot Singh Sidhu taking over as the PCC chief last July and Channi as the CM, the party wrongly assessed it had addressed anti-incumbency by changing Capt Amarinder in a dramatic chain of events. Congress leaders had said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) was in a shambles and its top leadership in a state of disarray.As the party went overboard to criticise AAP’s Delhi model, it within a matter of weeks committed self-goals, one after another — right from infighting and mismanaged campaign to questionable distribution of ticket and the counter-productive move to use the Channi’s SC card to polarise the Dalit vote.Unable to sustain Channi’s “aam aadmi” image and with ED raids on his nephew, the party couldn’t match up to the development-oriented social media campaign of the AAP.Right from the controversy over Sunil Jakhar raising the “Hindu” angle for overlooking him as the CM to traditional Congress men levelling allegations of wrongdoing in distribution of the ticket, multiple factors contributed to the party’s downfall.In yet another miscalculation, the Congress positioned Navjot Sidhu as the PCC chief and declared Channi as the CM face. “From resigning as the PCC chief over appointment of DGP and Advocate General (AG) and controlling mafia, Sidhu and Channi were like two horses pulling away in different directions,” pointed out a senior leader.After being publicly humiliated and forced to resign, Capt Amarinder after joining hands with the BJP openly announced that he would ensure Sidhu was defeated and the Congress lost the game.Knives out yet againHours after the drubbing, knives were out in the Congress with senior leaders questioning those in charge of the state party affairs. PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu is expected to call a meeting of party MLAs in the coming days. Leaders close to him rejected reports of him resigning. Outgoing CM Channi has called a virtual Cabinet meeting on Friday, before he submits his resignation to the Governor. Blaming “anti-incumbency” inherited from Capt Amarinder’s tenure, Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu questioned Channi and Sidhu. Bittu said Sidhu promoted his Punjab model and targeted Channi. MP Shamsher Singh Dullo said Punjabis had rejected mafias. #charanjit channi #navjot sidhu #pargat singh #sukhbinder sarkaria #sukhjinder randhawa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/botched-campaign-did-cong-in-376779
11-03-2022||Aparna Banerji||Punjab: Hindu urban votes consolidate in AAP’s favour||Jalandhar, March 10The consolidation of the Hindu urban strongholds of Doaba, from where the BJP had claimed that it would win, helped the AAP emerge victorious from the region.The AAP has won four seats in Jalandhar, five in Hoshiarpur and one in Nawanshahr. Of the four Doaba districts, Kapurthala is the only one from where the AAP failed to open its account.The 10 seats that AAP won included Kartarpur, Jalandhar West, Jalandhar Central, and Nakodar in Jalandhar district. In Hoshiarpur, it registered a sweeping win across five of the seven constituencies — Garhshankar, Dasuya, Sham Chaurasi and Urmur. Of the three constituencies in Nawanshahr district, AAP won only one segment — Balachaur.In many of the Doaba seats, little known and greenhorn candidates of the party emerged victorious against veterans from other parties. The AAP also managed to capture the heart of the Jalandhar urban bastion, winning two of the four seats — Jalandhar West and Central.The party had faced criticism for fielding candidates with questionable antecedents from the two seats.In the traditional BJP stronghold of Jalandhar Central, which has alternated between BJP and Congress’ veterans Manoranjan Kalia and Rajinder Beri, AAP’s pick Raman Arora won by a mere 247 votes. #Doaba #hindus||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hindu-urban-votes-consolidate-in-aaps-favour-376778
11-03-2022||---||Change will be visible in a month in Punjab: Bhagwant Mann||Chandigarh, March 10“It’s a victory of the people. They have rejected established political leadership and voted for a better future,” Aam Aadmi Party’s CM candidate Bhagwant Mann told The Tribune.He said he was overwhelmed with the tsunami that the party could create in Punjab, drowning political bigwigs. He promised to live up to people’s expectations and deliver on the promises made by the party. “These are not promises, but guarantees,” he stressed.Mann, who was in Sangrur, said there was a huge crowd outside his house and that he was moved by their love and the hope he saw in their eyes.“I am indebted to the people of the state for reposing faith in the development-oriented agenda spelt out by our party’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal.”He said the voters had rejected those who symbolise “all corrupt practices that are associated with power.” Mann, who shot to fame as a political satirist, has been an MP from Sangrur for two terms now. This election is as much a personal victory for him as for the party as people have largely voted for him as the CM. In many constituencies, party candidates were not very known faces and people voted for a government under the leadership of Kejriwal and Mann.After the historic victory in Punjab, Bhagwant Mann, flanked by his mother Harpal Kaur and sister Manpreet Kaur, addressed the people outside his house in Sangrur. Thanking them, he said, “You have fulfilled your responsibility very well, now it is my turn to fulfil my responsibility.”He assured people that change would be visible in a month, and that AAP would bring governance to people’s doorstep. Mann said, “Opposition parties abused us and tried to defame us, but we have forgiven everyone, provided they start respecting the 3.5 crore Punjabis now.”“Those who did not vote for us need not have any kind of doubt or fear. I am their CM too. I have the same love and empathy towards everyone. We will work for the betterment of all,” he said.Creating jobs top agendaI will start working towards eradicating unemployment from Day 1. We are committed to creating adequate job opportunities. Instead of pictures of leaders, those of Shaheed Bhagat Singh and BR Ambedkar will be seen at govt offices #bhagwant mann #Sangrur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/change-will-be-visible-in-a-month-in-punjab-says-bhagwant-mann-376777
11-03-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Congress puts up a fight in Doaba||Jalandhar, March 10If the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) sprung a surprise by winning 10 out of 23 seats from Doaba, the Congress retained some of its ground by bagging nine seats from the region. This means that of the total 18 seats in the Congress’ kitty from across the state, half of them are from Doaba. Other parties such as the BJP, BSP and SAD won just one seat each.Rana Gurjeet’s son winsOf the eight reserved constituencies, the Congress won four (Phagwara, Chabbewal, Phillaur and Adampur), AAP three (Sham Churasi, Jalandhar West and Kartarpur) and the SAD one (Banga).The Congress had, in 2017, won 15 seats from Doaba. The party’s tally of reserved segments was the same.This time, too, the dominating Dalit votebank did not get consolidated in favour of any particular party.The Congress tried to woo the SCs by appointing Charanjit Singh Channi as the first Dalit Chief Minister, but it did not go in his own favour, as he lost from both seats (Chamkaur Sahib and Bhadaur). His candidature, however, did help some Congress candidates in Doaba. Maybe his stay at Dera Sachkhand Ballan on the eve of Republic Day did the trick.Even as most stalwarts of the party lost, ministers Rana Gurjeet Singh and Pargat Singh won from Kapurthala and Jalandhar Cantt, respectively.Pargat won by 5,808 votes, while Rana emerged victorious by a margin of 7,254 votes. Pargat broke the jinx of Education Ministers not retaining their seats.The Akali Dal’s move to enter into an alliance with the BSP and win over the SC community did not help the party much. Its tally came down from five seats in 2017 to just one this time, with Dr Sukhwinder Sukhi winning for the second time from Banga.All its bigwigs, including Pawan Tinu and Gurpartap Wadala, failed to make a hat-trick. Its ally won a lone seat from Nawanshahr, a general constituency. State BSP president Jasvir Garhi lost from Phagwara by nearly 6,000 votes.It was projected that AAP would not win more than five seats as there had been allegations of tickets being sold. This projection fell flat as the results have shown.However, some of its newcomers helped raise AAP’s numbers. Among those who won were nominees from different walks of life — Inderjit Kaur Mann (Nakodar) is a farm worker, Raman Arora (Jalandhar Central) is a cloth trader, Balkar Singh (Kartarpur) is a retired PPS officer and Dr Ravjot Singh (Sham Churasi) is a medico.From the BJP, all bigwigs, including former ministers Vijay Sampla, Manoranjan Kalia and Tikshan Sood, and former Chief Parliamentary Secretary (CPS) KD Bhandari, lost. The party’s only winner was Jangi Lal Mahajan from Mukerian, who won by 2,730 votes.Congress activist opened fire: AAPMalout: AAP supporters on Thursday alleged a Congress activist, Pappi Mann, of their village opened fire on them when they were celebrating the victory of their party candidate Dr Baljit Kaur at Jhorar village. The police said the accused had already deposited his weapons, but they were verifying the allegations. TNSKejriwal’s kin expect better admnAbohar: Buoyed by Aam Aadmi Party’s victory, party chief Arvind Kejriwal’s relatives here expect a better administrative system in the state. Kejriwal had last visited his relatives here in December 2015 and had a brief halt outside their house during the roadshow on February 18. OC #arvind kejriwal #charanjit singh channi #Doaba #manoranjan kalia #pargat singh #rana gurjeet singh #sukhpal khaira #tikshan sood #vijay sampla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-puts-up-a-fight-in-doaba-376776
11-03-2022||GS Paul & Ravi DhaliwalAmritsar/Gurdaspur||Majha: Finally, border belt opens up||Voting for a change, the silent ‘Majhails’, the local terminology used for the Majha people, gave a decisive mandate in the favour of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Majha, comprising Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot, has 25 seats; 16 went to AAP.Gurdaspur, Pathankot buck trendThe party appears to have eaten into rival Congress’ votes too which had in 2017 won 22 of the 25 seats. AAP, which couldn’t get even one seat in 2017, has won nine in Amritsar, four in Tarn Taran and three in Gurdaspur. The SAD-BSP and the BJP got one seat each in Amritsar and Pathankot, respectively. The Congress got six seats in Gurdaspur and Pathankot, and one in Amritsar.The Congress had a very strong line-up in Majha, including Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu in Amritsar East, working president Sukhwinder Danny Bandala in Jandiala Guru, Deputy CMs Sukhjinder Randhawa in Dera Baba Nanak and OP Soni in Amritsar Central, Raj Kumar Verka in Amritsar West, Sukhbinder Sarkaria in Raja Sansi and senior ministers Tript Rajinder Bajwa in Fatehgarh Churian, Aruna Chaudhary in Dina Nagar and former PCC chief Partap Singh Bajwa in Qadian.The Akali Dal, too, had fielded senior Panthic leaders such as Ranjit Singh Brahmpura in Khadoor Sahib, Gulzar Singh Ranike in Attari, Virsa Singh Valtoha in Khemkaran, Gurbachan Singh Babehali in Gurdaspur, Adesh Partap Singh Kairon in Patti and Sucha Singh Chhotepur in Batala. Barring Partap Singh Bajwa, Sarkaria, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, all had to taste the defeat against “lesser-known opponents” of AAP.Unlike the SAD which had tried to influence the voters with their ‘jumlas’ of not to replace their ‘turbans’ with ‘topis’, AAP was successful in penetrating into the Panthic belt without banking either on the religion or caste card this time.It appeared that the AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal’s ‘Delhi model’ and frequent rounds in the region focussing solely on the “work done by him” for overall development and revamping the education and health system in Delhi, has paid off.In rural Majha, there are close linkages between sarpanches, party cadre and people at the local level which were the advantages of traditional parties — the SAD and Congress. AAP did wonders here too and secured its place.The real surprise, however, came from the Amritsar East where poll analysts had written off AAP. Its nominee Jeevan Jyot Kaur emerged as a dark horse. She defeated SAD’s Bikram Majithia and Congress’ Navjot Sidhu. She led the race by a margin of 6,750 votes, and Sidhu and Majithia followed, in that order.In Amritsar North, debutant Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, the ex-IG, toppled SAD candidate Anil Joshi, a former minister, by a margin of 28,318 votes. In Amritsar Central, Deputy CM Om Parkash Soni tasted defeat for the first time in his political career against AAP’s Ajay Gupta by 14,026 votes.In Amritsar district, the SAD, the Congress and BJP had to console themselves with just one seat each. SAD’s Ganieve Kaur won in Majitha, Congress’ Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria in Rajasansi in Amritsar district and BJP’s state president Ashwani Kumar got single seat of Pathankot. Tarn Taran district’s all four seats were grabbed by AAP.Winners from the regionAgainst expectations, AAP eats into Congress’ vote share in Majha; Jeevan Jyot emerges dark horse in Sidhu-Majithia fight #arvind kejriwal #bikram majithia #majha #navjot sidhu #op soni #sukhbinder sarkaria #sukhjinder randhawa #tript rajinder bajwa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/finally-border-belt-opens-up-376774
11-03-2022||Patiala||Capt Amarinder loses citadel Patiala; AAP wins in all 8 segments||After almost a decade, the Patiala power centre will shift from Moti Bagh Palace to the house of former Akali-turned-AAP leader Ajit Pal Kohli in Nihal Bagh. Known as the Congress stronghold, none of the ruling party or SAD leaders could register win, with all eight seats bagged by AAP candidates, who all are eager for a Vidhan Sabha debut.In a major embarrassment to two-time Chief Minister and Congress rebel Capt Amarinder Singh, he lost to AAP’s greenhorn Kohli by 19,873 votes from his stronghold Patiala Urban, the seat he had won for four consecutive terms since 2002 when he first contested.Since morning, over a dozen SUVs were seen entering and leaving Moti Bagh Palace — the official residence of Capt Amarinder Singh. The mood turned sombre by the afternoon, with only a handful of supporters staying put. Meanwhile, supporters were seen dancing on the lawns of Kohli’s house.In a clear signal that the corridors of power have shifted from the palace to the colony set in the Baradari Gardens, senior officials rushed to greet Kohli. Besides Captain, Congress MLAs Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Hardyal Kamboj and Madan Lal Jalalpur also lost the elections. — #capt amarinder singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-loses-citadel-patiala-aap-wins-in-all-8-segments-376765
11-03-2022||Aman Sood||Stellar show in Malwa: AAP bags 66 of 69 seats||Patiala, March 10The Panthic Malwa belt comprising 69 seats, known to elect the government in Punjab with whosoever gets the maximum here — lived up to its expectations. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) made deep inroads into this southern belt by winning 66 seats. Party's previous tally stood at 18. While two chief ministerial faces lost, another from the belt will be at the helm.Little impact of deraThe politically-influential Dera Sacha Sauda, which decided to extend support to SAD and BJP candidates, could not make much of an impact. Its support could not turn the prospects of leaders of traditional parties, and majority of them lost by a huge margin. “We are shocked at the outcome as we had conducted our survey as well, before extending support,” said a dera man.The Congress won two seats of Gidderbaha and Abohar, while the SAD won in Dakha. AAP had a clean sweep in districts of Ferozepur, Patiala, Sangrur, Fatehgarh Sahib, Barnala, Faridkot, Ropar, Khanna and Ludhiana (barring Dakha).The Malwa belt held significance not only for the number of seats on the offing, but the fact that all three CM faces were locked in intense battles. While AAP’s Bhagwant Mann won from Dhuri, Congress’ Charanjit Singh Channi in the fray from his second seat of Bhadaur lost to AAP and Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD) Sukhbir Badal from Jalalabad biting the dust too. Even ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh got swept away by AAP’s wave in his citadel of Patiala.All through its campaign in Punjab, AAP was successful in selling its Delhi model of governance. The party’s successful projects in Delhi in the areas of education, health, power, etc., appealed to the electorate of a state reeling under a governance deficit. AAP launched dedicated campaigns and dialogues to win over traders also. “We came with a vision and ensured to talk about good governance. People accepted it with open arms. Now we will perform and turn that vision into reality,” says AAP leader Harpal Cheema, who held the party together even when majority of its leaders decided to be turncoats in the past five years.Punjab was yearning for change even in 2017 with discontent brewing against the Congress and the SAD-BJP. However, not going into the polls with a CM face, perception of high-handedness by the Delhi high command and allegations of flirting with hardliners dented AAP's prospects. As a result, the AAP had to eventually content with 18 seats from the region.“AAP has emerged as a substantial player in the state’s electoral politics. Without any grassroot organisational network that the SAD or the Congress has, AAP ensured it touched issues that concerned Malwa the most,” said a senior political analyst.LEADER SPEAKIt’s time to deliverThe Aam Aadmi Party came out with a vision for Punjab and talked about good governance. People of the state believed in it and accepted us with open arms. Now we will perform and turn the vision into reality.— Harpal Singh Cheema, AAP LeaderAccept the mandateWe accept the mandate with total humility. We will continue to serve people of the state with humility in the role they have assigned to us. I offer AAP my good wishes for success. I am sure it will live up to the people’s expectations. — Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD PresidentQUICK NOTESMother, sister behind Bhagwant Mann’s landslide winSangrur: Behind the landslide victory of Bhagwant Mann were the efforts of his mother and sister holding fort for the AAP’s CM candidate, who remained busy campaigning across Punjab for party candidates in Dhuri. The gentle demeanour and outreach of Mann’s mother Harpal Kaur and sister Manpreet Kaur helped connect with the electorate, which voted in large numbers for Mann. TNSJakhar scion bucks trend, wins from AboharAbohar: Congress candidate Sandeep Jakhar won the election from the Abohar segment by defeating AAP’s Kuldeep Kumar by a margin of 5,471 votes in a closely contested poll. He is the fourth member of the Jakhar family who succeeded in the Assembly elections. The Akali Dal had fielded former Congress MLA Mohinder Rinwa. Sandeep got 49,924 votes, Kuldeep 44,453, BJP’s Arun Narang 21,534 and Rinwa 14,345 votes. OCShock defeat for Sood’s sister MalvikaBathinda: Congress candidates Sidhu Moosewala and Malvika Sood, actor Sonu Sood’s sister, got a shocking defeat in Mansa and Moga segments, respectively. The Rampura Phul segment witnessed a major upset as singer Balkar Sidhu defeated former ministers Sikander Singh Maluka and Gurpreet Singh Kangar. TNS #bhagwant mann #dera sacha sauda #harpal cheema #malvika sood #Malwa #sidhu moosewala #sonu sood #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stellar-show-in-malwa-376763
11-03-2022||Chandigarh||Kejriwal's Inquilab: AAP bags 92 seats, a record in Punjab||Punjab created history today by wiping out the traditional political establishment and, for the first time, handing over the reins of the state to the Aam Aadmi Party. Till now, Punjab has been ruled alternately by the Congress or the Shiromani Akali Dal.Swearing-in at Bhagat Singh’s native village Khatkar Kalan Editorial: A cry for clean governanceBy giving an astounding victory to AAP, people of Punjab have apparently rejected the politics of caste, dera and religion. They have instead given the mandate to the pro-development agenda of AAP, which has promised good education, healthcare, employment and a conducive atmosphere for business and trade.AAP has won 92 of the 117 Assembly seats — a massive jump from the 20 seats it acquired in the last state elections. The last time any party got such a decisive victory was in 1992, when the Congress had won 87 seats amidst a boycott by the SAD. The victory has also led to AAP claiming its arrival on the national political stage. Party incharge of Punjab affairs Raghav Chadha declared today that the party had become a national force and party supremo would be a principal challenger to PM Modi in times to come.As expected, AAP emerged the strongest in the Malwa region, where it won 66 of the 69 seats. It was believed that the party wouldn’t have it easy in Doaba, but here too it won 10 of the 23 seats. In Majha, the party emerged victorious in 16 of the 25 seats, indicating that the AAP tsunami was across Punjab, sinking all political stalwarts. CM Charanjit Channi, 10 sitting ministers, five-time former CM Parkash Singh Badal, two-time former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, former CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, all were swept away in the AAP wave. In Amritsar East contest, which was dubbed the “mother of all battles” between Sidhu and Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, social worker and AAP candidate Jeevan Jyot Kaur turned out to be a “giant slayer”.The Congress, which had swept the 2017 poll by winning 77 seats, suffered a drubbing. It was reduced to just 18 seats, while the SAD won just three seats. This is the worst-ever performance of the over 100-year-old party and it could lead to questions over the leadership.The BJP won two seats, the BSP got one seat (Nawanshahr), which is not reserved, while one seat (Sultanpur Lodhi) has been won by Independent Rana Inder Partap Singh.The BSP, which fought the elections in alliance with the SAD, had contested on 20 seats. Sanyukt Samaj Morcha, a political front formed by farmers’ unions, failed to even open its account. SSM CM face Balbir Singh Rajewal, who contested from Samrala constituency, ranked sixth among 14 candidates.It’s a revolutionA revolution in Punjab, it will now spread all over the country. Arvind Kejriwal, AAP #arvind kejriwal #bhagwant mann #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwals-inquilab-376762
11-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP MLA Aman Arora records highest margin, AAP's Raman Arora wins by lowest margin||Aam Aadmi Party’s sitting MLA from Sunam, Aman Arora recorded the highest victory margin in the Punjab Assembly polls by defeating Congress nominee Jaswinder Dhiman.Arora won by a margin of 75,277 votes.Meanwhile, the lowest victory margin was also secured by an AAP candidate.AAP’s Raman Arora defeated Congress candidate Rajinder Beri by a margin of 247 votes from Jalandhar Central seat.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) stormed to power in Punjab by bagging 92 of 117 assembly seats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-aap-mla-aman-arora-records-highest-margin-aaps-raman-arora-wins-by-lowest-margin-376752
11-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Among 13 winning women candidates, 11 belong to AAP||Thirteen of the 93 women who contested the Punjab polls tasted victory and 11 of them belong to the Aam Aadmi Party, which registered a landslide win bagging 92 of the 117 assembly seats.Most of the AAP women candidates who won are greenhorns.From Amritsar East, Jeevanjyot Kaur of AAP defeated Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu by a margin of 6,750 votes. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia was also contesting from the seat, but he ended up at the third spot.However, Majithia’s wife Ganieve Kaur tasted victory from Majitha seat, from where she had entered the fray after her husband, a sitting MLA from there, decided to leave the seat and contest from Amritsar East.Ganieve, a SAD candidate, defeated Sukhjinder Raj Singh of AAP by a margin of 26,062 votes.Punjab Minister and Congress candidate Aruna Chaudhary retained her Dina Nagar seat defeating by a margin of 1,131 votes her nearest AAP rival Shamsher Singh.From other seats won by AAP women candidates were Sangrur where Narinder Kaur Bharaj defeated Punjab Minister Vijay Inder Singla by 36,430 votes, while in Balachaur, Santosh Kumari Kataria defeated SAD’s Sunita Rani by 4,541 votes.Sarvjit Kaur Manuke won from Jagraon defeating S R Kaler of SAD by 39,656 votes while Prof Baljinder Kaur defeated SAD’s Jeetmohinder Singh Sidhu from Talwandi Sabo by 15,252 votes.Anmol Gagan Mann, actor-singer, defeated SAD’s Ranjit Sing Gill from Kharar seat by a margin of 37,885 votes.Rajinder Pal Kaur won from Ludhiana South defeating Satinderpal Singh Tajpuri of BJP by 26,138 votes.Amandeep Kaur Arora defeated Congress’ Malvika Sood, sister of actor Sonu Sood, by a margin of 20,915 votes from Moga while Baljit Kaur won from Malout defeating SAD’s Harpreet Singh by 40,261 votes.Inderjeet Kaur Mann defeated SAD’s Gupratap Singh Wadala from Nakodar by 2,869 votes.Neena Mittal defeated Jagdish Kaur Jagga of BJP by 22,493 votes from Rajpura seat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-among-13-winning-women-candidates-11-belong-to-aap-376751
11-03-2022||Parvesh SharmaSangrur||You will see the change in Punjab in a month: Bhagwant Mann||After the victory of his party, Punjab AAP CM face Bhagwant Mann  in his first address to locals from the rooftop of his house in Sangrur  predicted a visible improvement in the working of the Punjab government within a month.Also read: It’s victory of the people, says AAP’s Bhagwant MannAAP landslide buries Congress, Bhagwant Mann set to become Punjab CMHe also announced to replace the CM’s photos in government offices with those of martyr Bhagat Singh and BR Ambedkar.“People face harassment in government offices as officers do not meet them. But from now on, officers would come to your villages as they are public servants. With your help, we would run the Punjab jointly as I am your CM. Though we need time as Punjab is amid a crisis, within a month, you would see a difference,” said Mann.He said they would take oath at Khatkar Kalan, the ancestral village of  Bhagat Singh, and the date would be announced later.“Earlier, the Punjab government was being run from various palaces, but now the government would be run from villages, cities and wards,” said Mann.He said he had forgiven his political opponents for mudslinging and targeting them personally.“But in future, they will have to respect all Punjab residents and we will not tolerate insult to any Punjabi,” said Mann.About the defeat of political heavyweights, Mann said he had predicted the defeat of all senior leaders.  “I am apprehensive about unemployment in Punjab. First of all, I will take steps to provide jobs to Punjab youth. Your have done your job, and now it’s my turn,” said Mann.  Mann said they would take the help of the Centre in improving the situation of health and education sectors, to provide cheaper electricity to Punjab residents and to contain crime against women.“Being a sports lover, I know that we need to bring improvement in sports facilities. We will open a sports university in Jalandhar,” said Mann.    #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/you-will-see-the-change-in-punjab-in-a-month-bhagwant-mann-376697
11-03-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||It's victory of the people, says AAP's Bhagwant Mann||Chandigarh, March 10Aam Aadmi Party CM candidate Bhagwant Mann on Thursday termed the party’s victory as a victory of the people of Punjab.Also read: AAP landslide buries Congress, Bhagwant Mann set to become Punjab CMCharanjit Channi, Navjot Sidhu, Amarinder, Parkash Badal, Majithia lose electionIn an exclusive telephonic interview with The Tribune, Mann said, “They have pushed away the established political leadership, known for their vices, and given their mandate for a better future for the state and their own selves.”He said he was overwhelmed with the massive tsunami that the party could create in the state that drowned all political bigwigs, and he owed it to the people to live up to their expectations and deliver on all promises made by the party. “These were not promises, but guarantees that we will keep,” he said.Mann, who was in Sangrur, said that there was a huge gathering of people outside his house. “I am indebted to the people for reposing faith in the positive development-oriented agenda given by Arvind Kejriwal, and rejecting those who symbolise all corrupt things associated with power,” he said.Mann, who shot to fame as a political satirist, has been Member of Parliament from Sangrur for two terms now. This election is as much a personal victory for him as for the party as people have largely voted for him as chief minister. In many constituencies, the party candidates were insignificant and people voted for Kejriwal and Mann.Till the filing of this report, the result for Dhuri constituency (where Mann contested from) was not declared but Mann was leading by around 30,000 votes. “We have made arrangements for ‘langar’ for the public, who are waiting to get a glimpse of him,” said his long-time friend and associate Manjit Singh Sidhu. #aap punjab #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/its-victory-of-the-people-says-aaps-bhagwant-mann-376685
11-03-2022||Aparna Banerji||'You bought votes, won't let you survive in Kapurthala': Defeated AAP candidate hurls abuses at Cong MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh||Jalandhar, March 10AAP candidate from Kapurthala Manju Rana hurled abuses at sitting MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh following her defeat as the two crossed path outside the counting centre at Virsa Vihar here.Also read: Navjot Sidhu among first Congress leaders to congratulate AAP, says 'voice of Punjab's people is voice of God'A visibly flustered and angry Manju Rana rained abuses on Rana Gurjeet Singh as he quietly stared at her. In Kapurthala district, AAP has not gained a significant lead in any of the four constituencies so far even though it registered significant votes.While Kapurthala seat has been won by Rana Gurjeet, his son fighting as Independent is leading in Sultanpur Lodhi while Congress leads in Phagwara and Bholath.Shouted down by Rana Gurjeet’s supporters and Congress workers, she kept on abusing the veteran Congress leader. Rana Gurjeet Singh has won the Kapurthala seat by a margin of 7,254 votes. He received 43,752 votes against 36,498 by Manju Rana.He has also emerged as one of the biggest winners in Doaba as both him and his son Rana Inder Partap (contesting as Independent from Sultanpur Lodhi) have registered big wins.Ranting out at Rana Gurjit, Manju Rana said in chaste Punjbai: "Tu tan sapp ban ke dasda, tusi do ghante ch lokan nu kharideya (You bite like a snake, bought votes in two hours).” While Rana Gurjit's supporters, Congress leader Advocate Neelam Mahajan among others raised slogans supporting Rana Gurjeet Singh, she again returned shouting at Rana.She added, "Peo di jammi nahi je tennu jeen daungi Kapurthale ch. Jee ke dikhain mere hunde kiddan jinda (won’t let you survive in Kapurthala now)."As she said these words, Rana remained surprised but quiet as he silently as he looked at her with a slight grin on his face.Until the filing of this report, Rana Gurjeet’s son also maintained his consistent day long lead at Sultanpur Lodhi with 38,053 votes. Congress' incumbent at Sultanpur Lodhi Navtej Singh Cheema has received only 12,229 votes so far. #Kapurthala #rana gurjeet singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/you-bought-votes-wont-let-you-survive-in-kapurthala-defeated-aap-candidate-hurls-abuses-at-cong-mla-rana-gurjeet-singh-376681
11-03-2022||Vishav Bharti and Sanjeev Singh Bariana ||Charanjit Channi, Navjot Sidhu, Amarinder, Parkash Badal, Sukhbir, Bikram Majithia lose election||Chandigarh, March 10  In a major upset in Punjab elections, most of the stalwarts had to bite the dust.Those who lost the polls are SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal, Capt Amarinder Singh, Sukhbir Badal and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Also read: AAP landslide buries Congress, Bhagwant Mann set to become Punjab CMIt’s victory of the people, says AAP’s Bhagwant MannPunjab Election Result 2022 LIVE updates: Aam Aadmi Party heading towards a clean sweepAmarinder who contested from Patiala as Punjab Lok Congress candidate in alliance with the BJP lost to Ajitpal Singh Kohli of AAP.   Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi lost both from Chamkaur Sahib and Bhadaur.  SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal lost in Jalalabad.  From Amritsar East, PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and senior SAD leader Bikram Majithia lost to AAP’s Jeevan Jot Kaur.  Finance Minister Manpreet Badal was trailing behind Jagroop Singh Gill of AAP in Bathinda (Urban).    #bikram majithia #capt amarinder singh #charanjit channi #manpreet badal #navjot sidhu #parkash singh badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-parkash-singh-badal-trail-from-patiala-urban-lambi-376658
11-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab Election Result 2022: AAP storms to power, wins 92 seats; PM Modi assures all support for state's welfare||The Aam Aadmi Party stormed into power in Punjab, winning 92 seats, according to the Election Commission’s website.In the 117-member Assembly, a party needs to get 59 seats to form the government.The Congress had won 18 seats, showing the ruling outfit performed poorly.Meanwhile, in a tweet Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, "I would like to congratulate AAP for their victory in the Punjab elections. I assure all possible support from the Centre for Punjab’s welfare."While the SAD won three seats, it’s ally BSP won one, and the BJP won two seats and one seat went to an Independent candidate.AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal hailed the party’s performance in Punjab as a “revolution”.The AAP tsunami made several stalwarts, including three former chief ministers, bite the dust.Apart from Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who lost from his Chamkaur Sahib as well as Bhadaur, former CMs Parkash Singh Badal, Amarinder Singh and Rajinder Kaur Bhattal were also among the heavyweights who were defeated.Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia and several Punjab Ministers also tasted defeat.Prominent winners included AAP’s chief ministerial face Bhagwant Mann from Dhuri, Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema from Dirba, Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Kumar Sharma from Pathankot, Congress leader Pratap Singh Bajwa from Qadian and minister Rana Gurjeet Singh from Kapurthala.In the 2017 Punjab assembly polls, the Congress had ended the SAD-BJP’s 10-year rule by bagging 77 seats.  AAP had managed to get 20 seats while the SAD-BJP had won 18. Two seats went to the Lok Insaaf Party.“Many congratulations to the people of Punjab for this revolution,” Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi.He also posted a picture of himself standing with AAP’s chief ministerial face Bhagwant Mann.Mann won with a margin of 58,206 votes from Dhuri, defeating Congress candidate Dalvir Singh Goldy.The oath-taking ceremony of the new Punjab cabinet will be held at Khatkar Kalan, the ancestral village of legendary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh in Nawanshahr district.Mann said no government office will display photograph of the chief minister. Instead, photos of Bhagat Singh and B R Ambedkar will be put on walls in government offices.“The oath-taking ceremony will not be held at the Raj Bhawan, but at Khatkar Kalan. The date will be announced later,” Mann said addressing party workers and supporters at Dhuri.Appealing to people to work unitedly, Mann said those who did not vote for APP need not worry as the government will work for all sections of society.On the other hand, the rival parties accepted the people’s verdict and congratulated AAP.“I humbly accept the verdict of the people of Punjab and Congratulate @AamAadmiParty and their elected CM @BhagwantMann Ji for the victory. I hope they will deliver on the expectations of people,” said Channi.State Congress chief Navjot Sidhu in a tweet said, “The voice of the people is the voice of God. Humbly accept the mandate of the people of Punjab. Congratulations to Aap !!!”        Former CM and Punjab Lok Congress president Amarinder Singh said he accepted the verdict with all humility as democracy triumphed.Amarinder Singh had floated his own party after quitting the Congress last year, owing to his unceremonious exit as the CM. He lost from his home turf Patiala Urban by a margin of 19,873 votes to AAP candidate Ajit Pal Singh Kohli.Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal said that his party whole-heartedly and with total humility accepts the mandate given by the people of the state.“We whole-heartedly & with total humility accept the mandate given by Punjabis. I am grateful to lakhs of Punjabis who placed their trust in us & to SAD-BSP workers for their selfless toil. We will continue to serve them with humility in the role they have assigned to us,” Sukhbir Badal tweeted.AAP senior leader Raghav Chadha said the party will emerge as the national and natural replacement of the Congress in the coming days.Chadha said people of Punjab have chosen Bhagwant Mann and the Kejriwal model of governance.There was jubilation in the AAP camp right from the morning as early trends clearly put AAP away ahead of rivals.Lakhwinder, an AAP supporter in Kharar, said, “Those parties which until yesterday were questioning the exit poll surveys, which showed clear majority to AAP, will have no face to show now.”The results also showed that the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha, a political outfit floated by various farmer bodies, failed to make any mark.In the 2022 elections, AAP sought to project itself as an agent of change and designed its poll campaign likewise and accused its rivals of “looting” the state.  It also announced its chief ministerial face ahead of polls to give clarity to voters.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Congress have alternatively been forming governments after the reorganisation of Punjab in 1966.The Congress fought the elections with Charanjit Singh Channi as its CM face, hoping for the consolidation of the Scheduled Caste votes.The stakes were also high for the SAD, which contested the polls in alliance with the BSP after breaking electoral ties with the BJP over farm laws.The BJP, which used to be a junior partner during its alliance with the SAD, fought this election as a major partner after allying with the Punjab Lok Congress and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-led SAD (Sanyukt). (With PTI inputs) #aap punjab #bhagwant mann #charanjit channi #punjab poll 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-election-result-2022-live-updates-fate-of-1-304-candidates-to-be-decided-today-as-counting-for-117-assembly-seats-begins-376604
