12-03-2022||Satya Prakash||SC rejects plea for appointing OBC candidates against posts reserved for SC/ST in Punjab||New Delhi, March 12The Supreme Court has dismissed a plea seeking a direction that 595 unfilled posts of elementary trained teachers (ETT) of SC/ST category in Punjab be filled up with Other Backboard Classes (OBC) candidates, saying the appointing authority doesn’t have the power to do so.“The interchangeability of the vacant unfilled posts of SC category may be possible due to not having eligible candidates by the department concerned but not by appointing authority,” a Bench of Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice JK Maheshwari said in its March 9 verdict.After analysing Section 7 of The Punjab Schedule Castes and Backward Classes (Reservation in Service) Act, 2006, the Bench said, it’s clear that de-reservation for the reserved vacancy by the appointing authority was restricted.“The said de-reservation may be possibly directed by the Department of Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes if it is expedient in public interest after recording satisfaction for such de reservation. In the said contingency the department shall pass an order assigning those reasons.”The Bench upheld the Punjab and Haryana High Court order refusing to direct the state government to permit interchangeability of unfilled 595 posts reserved for the SC/ST candidates, to OBC category.The HC had initiated a suo motu PIL following alleged inaction of the Punjab Government in filling up of vacancies of ETT advertised on November 8, 2015 and July 30, 2016 and threat from certain OBC candidates that they would commit suicide.A total of 4,500 and 2005 vacancies of ETT were notified under various categories inclusive of SC/ST, OBC, freedom fighter, handicapped etc. respectively.As some SC/ST category posts remained vacant. Now, the appellants wanted the unfilled posts of SC/ST category to be filled from the eligible candidates from OBC category on the basis of interchangeability.In 2018, the HC directed the Department of Welfare, Government of Punjab to take a decision after affording due opportunity of hearing to the applicants. However, the Department of Welfare declined to interchange the vacant post of SC/ST category to the OBC category.Referring to the Punjab Schedule Castes and Backward Classes (Reservation in Service) Act, the top court said,”…it is clear that de-reservation of any reserved vacancy which is to be filled up by direct recruitment or by promotion cannot be done by the appointing authority.”It said, “In case due to non-availability of the eligible candidates of any of the category, the posts remain unfilled, the appointing authority may request to the Department of Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes for de-reservation of the said unfilled vacancy. On such request after recording satisfaction, if necessary or expedient in the public interest, subject to the condition to carry forward the said vacancy against subsequent unreserved vacancy the order may be passed by the said department.”The Bench said the issuance of such direction after six years of notifying the selection list for filling up the unfilled vacancies of SC/ST category by OBC would be wholly unjustified. The selection list prepared in the year 2016 would not survive after the lapse of a long time to fill up the vacancies after interchangeability, it said, pointing out that the unfilled posts of ETT had already been re-advertised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-rejects-plea-for-appointing-obc-candidates-against-posts-reserved-for-sc-st-in-punjab-377282
12-03-2022||---||CM-designate Bhagwant Mann directs DGP to probe killing of cows near Cholang in Hoshiarpur||Chandigarh, March 12Taking serious note of incident of killing of cows near Cholang railway crossing in Hoshiarpur district, Punjab CM-designate Bhagwant Mann on Saturday directed the state DGP to get a thorough probe conducted to book the culprits of this heinous crime.Giving directions to the DGP, Bhagwant Mann said bad elements should refrain from such inhuman acts as law and order would be maintained at all cost. He said none would be allowed to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere of the state by perpetrating such crimes.He also asked the DGP that strict action should also be ensured against those found indulged in beheading of cows as a deterrent for others indulged in such dastardly acts.Bhagwant Mann also appealed the people to exercise restraint in this situation in larger public interest as the State Police had already been directed to bring the culprits to the book.Meanwhile, the Hoshiarpur police have registered an FIR in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-designate-bhagwant-mann-directs-dgp-to-probe-killing-of-cows-near-cholang-in-hoshiarpur-377278
12-03-2022||Phagwara||Rs 23 lakh looted from ATM in Punjab’s Phagwara||Two unidentified car-borne miscreants looted Rs 23 lakh in cash from the ATM of a bank at a village in this district in the early hours of Saturday, police said.ASI Mohinder Singh said the locks of the ATM cabin at Khajurala village, located along the Phagwara-Jalandhar national highway, were cut with a gas cutter.CCTV camera footage showed two men committing the crime, he added."We got information about the incident from the village head," the ASI said.Ravi Kumar, the branch manager of the bank who got a police complaint lodged, said the incident took place around 3.05 am.He said there was no security guard at the branch at night.A case had been registered and a probe is under way, police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-23-lakh-looted-from-atm-in-punjabs-phagwara-377221
12-03-2022||---||Removing Amritsar Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu won't be easy for Congress now||Amritsar, March 11Karamjit Singh Rintu may continue on the post of Mayor as the Aam Adami Party (AAP) won clear majority in the Assembly elections. Rintu along with three other councillors had defected from the Congress to the AAP three days before the elections.The Congress councillors, who were repeatedly writing to the MC Commissioner to conduct the floor test and wanted to move a no-confidence motion, seems disheartened and may not make hard efforts to replace the Mayor.As per the rules, the Mayor is a competent authority to convene a meeting and decide on the proposals and agendas. The councillors, even if they have a majority, cannot call a meeting, leave alone decide about agendas. However, councillors tabled their agenda during the House meeting.“The Congress councillors have an absolute majority, but cannot call the meeting. We will prove the majority in an upcoming House meeting,” said a Congress councillor.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said, “They need a two-third majority to displace me from the post. The Congress is not able to prove it in the House. We have now five MLAs from the city which are also members of the House. I will continue till the end of the tenure of House.”However, there are speculations that some other Congress councillors are joining the AAP before the Budget meeting, which is scheduled to be held on March 21.When asked about it, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu denied such speculations.Rintu was a prominent Congress leader, who joined the AAP just a few days before the poll. Political experts claimed that this shift of Rintu gave a major boost to the AAP in the Majha belt. The AAP leaders, who were expecting five seats from the Majha and only one seat from the city, got 16 seats from the Majha. The decision of Karamjit Singh Rintu hit the Congress and Navjot Singh Sidhu badly. Rintu has good base in the North and East constituencies from where Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh and Jeevan Jyot Kaur won by a record margin.What the rules sayAs per the rules, the Mayor is a competent authority to convene a meeting and decide on the proposals and agendas. The councillors, even if they have a majority, cannot call a meeting, leave alone decide about agendas. However, councillors tabled their agenda during the House meeting #karamjit singh rintu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/removing-amritsar-mayor-karamjit-singh-rintu-wont-be-easy-for-congress-now-377152
12-03-2022||Abohar||310 kg poppy husk seized||‘Inaction’ in kidnapping caseAbohar: A group of people staged a dharna and blocked traffic outside the City-2 police station on Friday. They protested against police inaction in alleged kidnapping and thrashing of a minor student of a government school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/310kg-poppy-husk-seized-377085
12-03-2022||Chandigarh||Deepinder Singh Patwalia quits as Punjab Advocate-General||Advocate-General Deepinder Singh Patwalia submitted his resignation on Friday afternoon. The resignation came a day after the ruling Congress suffered a resounding defeat in the Assembly elections.In his letter to the Governor, Patwalia wrote: “Keeping with the long-standing Constitutional convention, I, hereby, tender my resignation from the post of the Advocate-General, Punjab.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patwalia-quits-as-ag-377082
12-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Frame, issue timetable for operation of buses on permitted routes: HC||Chandigarh, March 11The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the state Transport Department to frame and issue final timetable for the operation of buses on permitted routes. For the purpose, Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi of the High Court has set a six-week deadline.Justice Sethi also granted the state Transport Department the liberty to issue, within seven days, a temporary timetable for smooth operation of the buses till the final schedule is out. The Bench also made it clear that the State counsel’s submission on permitting buses only on routes for which they had a valid permit and not beyond the permitted routes would also remain in operation till the temporary timetable was framed.The direction by Justice Sethi came on a petition filed against the State of Punjab and other respondents by the New Deep Bus Service and another petitioner through senior advocate Akshay Bhan with counsel Sangram Singh Saron, Surabhi Kaushik, Rohit Sud and Rohit Nagpal.The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that the petitioners’ grievance stemmed from the fact that the buses, already operating under the old timetable, were not being allowed to run without framing a new timetable. It was, as such, causing prejudice to the petitioners.Their counsel submitted that the petitioners had no grievance regarding the framing of a new timetable by the department concerned. But the buses should be allowed to operate according to the old timetable till then “keeping in view the validity of the permit which they hold on the respective routes”.State counsel Navdeep Chhabra added on instructions that the old time table would be allowed to operate till a temporary timetable was framed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/frame-issue-timetable-for-operation-of-buses-on-permitted-routes-hc-377081
12-03-2022||Chandigarh||Election rout: Capt Amarinder Singh deflects blame||A day after the Congress suffered a drubbing at the hands of the AAP, former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh today said the party was trying to blame it on anti-incumbency of his four-and-half-year tenure instead of its own poor performance.Capt tweeted: “The INCIndia leadership will never learn! Who is responsible for the humiliating defeat of the Congress in UP? What about Manipur, Goa, Uttarakhand? The answer is written in bold letters on the wall but as always I presume they will avoid reading it.” The ex-CM’s remarks came a day after Congress’ Randeep Surjewala said in Punjab, even though the party presented a humble leadership, it failed to overcome the anti-incumbency of the Captain government. — #capt amarinder singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/election-rout-amarinder-deflects-blame-377080
12-03-2022||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal: Parties jittery after AAP's landslide victory in Punjab Assembly poll||Shimla, March 11Fear of AAP making inroads into Himachal, especially in the border districts, seems to have gripped both BJP and Congress in Himachal after the party’s landslide victory in the neighbouring Punjab.Even though AAP has negligible presence in Himachal, with practically no cadre base or leaders of standing, the apprehension of the Kejriwal party making its presence felt in the hill state in the Assembly polls, due later this year is already giving sleepless nights to most netas.Even as the news of AAP’s historic win in Punjab had started trickling in, posters of Kejriwal started appeared in the state capital yesterday itself. State AAP in-charge Ratnesh Gupta said AAP offered an alternative to people who are fed up alternating between BJP and the Congress.The news of AAP scouting for some credible faces, be it from the BJP or Congress to gain foothold in the hill state, is also doing the rounds in political circles. The party which has a skeletal party organization in the state is keen to rope in a tall leader having clean image.AAP, despite announcing that it would field candidates in the 2017 Assembly polls, failed to do so. However, it is certain that having emerged victorious in the neighbouring Punjab, now they would want their presence felt in Himachal. The Shimla Municipal Corporation elections, due anytime in April-May, will be the first test of AAP for testing its popularity in Himachal.AAP has only tried its luck unsuccessfully in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls when it fielded candidates from all the four parliamentary seats of Kangra, Mandi, Shimla and Hamirpur. Barring former minister in the BJP regime Rajan Sushant who polled about 20,000 from Kangra seat, the other three AAP candidates had forfeited their security.Attempts by AAP to field Kamal Kant Batra, mother of Kargil hero Capt Vikram Batra from the Hamirpur Lok Sabha seat, failed to pay off as she lost her security deposit along with the other two candidates from Mandi and Shimla.However, now, sitting MLAs or senior leaders from both the BJP and Congress, who are denied the Assembly poll ticket, will have an alternative in AAP to try their electoral fortunes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-parties-jittery-after-aaps-landslide-victory-in-punjab-assembly-poll-377079
12-03-2022||GS Paul||Winning, losing part of game: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Amritsar, March 11A day after the Congress debacle in the Assembly elections, PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu said winning or losing was part of the game.Foundation for ‘badlav’I congratulate the AAP people who have changed the traditional system and laid a new foundation for ‘badlav’ (change). I see my progress with their prosperity. — Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC ChiefSidhu today went to the Amritsar East constituency, which he represented as a lawmaker. Asked whether accountability would be fixed or if he would own moral responsibility, the PCC chief replied: “In cricket, a player may score a century on one day, and may fail to score on another day.”On his negligible presence in the campaigning in other places, he said when the party high command had given the reins in the hands of his younger brother Charanjit Singh Channi, he stepped aside.Welcoming the power shift in favour of the AAP in Punjab, he said: “This politics was for change. I congratulate the AAP people who have changed the traditional system and laid a new foundation for ‘badlav’ (change). It should be accepted humbly because the people’s voice is the voice of God. I never see win or loss in them. I see my progress with their prosperity. There is no question of profit or loss.”On the party’s decision on the CM face, Sidhu said: “It is not right to go deep into whether the people liked the high command’s choice or not.”Meanwhile, launching an attack on his rivals, he said they fell in the same pit they had dug for him. “As you sow, so shall you reap. Who says that the punishment for sacrilege has not been given? Where are those who pursued politics in the name of Panth? I have always raised my voice for justice in sacrilege cases and against corruption. Punjab’s progress is not possible till its finances are streamlined,” he added.On his future plans, Sidhu said his aim was to ensure prosperity of Punjab. “I stand by Punjab and will always be there for its progress,” he added. #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/winning-losing-part-of-game-377078
12-03-2022||Sameer Singh||Manpreet Badal saves security deposit by thin margin||Bathinda, March 11The security deposit of as many as 80 candidates (78%) have been forfeited in Bathinda and Mansa districts, owing to a big margin win for the AAP in all nine Assembly seats.However, Finance Minister and Congress candidate from Bathinda Urban Manpreet Badal managed to save his security deposit from being forfeited by a thin margin of just 2,360 votes (polled 29,476 of total 1,62,698 votes).There were in 103 candidates in the fray on these nine seats falling in the Bathinda parliamentary constituency.Prominent among those who lost their security deposit include SAD’s Sarup Chand Singla (from Bathinda Urban), Congress’ Pritam Singh Kotbhai (Bhucho), Congress’ Manju Bala (Maur) and Independent Harminder Singh Jassi (Talwandi Sabo), ex-MLA and a close relative of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh.In order to save their security deposit, candidates in the fray had to secure a minimum 27,116 (1/6th of total polled) votes in Bathinda Urban seat.In Bathinda district alone, of total 69 candidates in the fray from six Vidhan Sabha constituencies, 53 got their security deposit forfeited. Similarly, 27 of total 34 candidates contesting from three Assembly constituencies got their security deposits forfeited; nine of 11 from Mansa, 10 of 13 in Sardulgarh and eight of 10 in the fray from Budhlada. Also, 11 of 13 candidates in Bathinda Urban, five of eight in Bathinda Rural, 12 of 15 in Rampura Phul, 7 of 10 in Maur, 12 of 15 in Talwandi Sabo and six of eight in Bhucho Mandi got their security deposit forfeited. #manpreet badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fm-through-by-a-whisker-377077
12-03-2022||Chandigarh||Ex-CM, 5 ministers, BJP's 54, Cong's 30, SAD's 27 candidates lose security deposits in Punjab||A former Chief Minister, five ex-Cabinet Ministers and a former Union Minister were among those who lost their security deposit in the election results announced on Thursday.The BJP has the maximum candidates (54) who lost their security deposits, followed by the Congress (30), Shiromani Akali Dal (27) and Capt Amarinder’s Punjab Lok Congress (27), BSP (13), SAD-S (14) and AAP (one).The biggest embarrassment has come for Capt Amarinder, whose party had contested on 28 seats. Only Capt could save his security deposit. Similarly, in SAD (Sanyukt) only Parminder Singh Dhindsa was the saving grace. AAP’s only candidate who lost his security deposit was Rana Ranjeet Singh from Bholath who got just 13,612 votes.Any candidate who fails to secure more than one-sixth (16.7%) of the total valid votes leads to forfeiture of the candidate’s security deposit. For the Assembly elections, the security amount is Rs 10,000 for general category candidates and for SCs and STs, it’s Rs 5,000.The prominent among those who lost the security deposit includes former Congress CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal (Lehra), Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha (Amloh), Industry Minister Gurkirat Kotli (Khanna) and Forest Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot (Nabha).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-cm-5-ministers-lose-deposit-377075
12-03-2022||Badal (Muktsar)||Sukhbir Badal owns responsibility for defeat||A day after the SAD’s worst-ever show in Punjab, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal today said there was an AAP storm in which all other parties suffered.Party to play constructive roleThe SAD will play a constructive and positive role. It will support the government on defending the interests of the state on religious, economic, territorial and river waters issues. Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD ChiefInteracting with mediapersons at his Badal village residence here, Sukhbir said: “The voice of the people is like the voice of the God. I accept this verdict by bowing my head. Being the party chief, I also take the responsibility for this defeat instead of passing the buck to party workers, candidates or alliance partners. The people of the state have given a huge responsibility to AAP and I congratulate the party’s CM candidate Bhagwant Mann.”He added, “I express my gratitude to all SAD workers who fought very hard. They worked round the clock, but the results are in the hands of the God. We are holding a meeting on Monday to discuss the election results.”On the question of no Badal family member in the Assembly for the first time, Sukhbir said, “It does not matter whether it is inside or outside the Assembly. The SAD is the voice of Punjabis, Sikhs and the Panth, this voice will always be loud. The SAD will go ahead and fight. The wars are won and lost, but the armies survive. No one can compete with the SAD army. Our workers were upbeat and are still upbeat. You will see us winning the election in future.”On the defeat of former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal in Lambi, Sukhbir said his politics was not dependent on victory or defeat. “Badal sahib has spent 16 years in jails for the issues concerning the state. He is a selfless leader and no one could serve the state like him.” Responding to a question as to whether he expected such a result in the hot seats, he said it was absolutely not predictable. #parkash singh badal #SAD #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-owns-responsibility-for-defeat-377070
12-03-2022||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann warns MLAs against indulging in malpractices||Heralding a tectonic shift in governance in Punjab, AAP CM-designate Bhagwant Mann has said that his government would be run from villages, wards and mohallas of the state. “We will ensure that the public gets governance on their doorstep.”Darbar Sahib visit likely tomorrowAmritsar: The AAP team is expected to offer prayers at Golden Temple on March 13. As per info, party’s CM-designate Bhagwant Mann and supremo Arvind Kejriwal will lead newly elected 92 MLAs. They are also expected to pay obeisance at Ram Tirath Sthal. TNSMann made it clear to his party colleagues that they would have to remain among the public, which chose them with an overwhelming majority, rather than living in Chandigarh and dealing with their constituents remotely. “Remain in public, solve their issues and be public servants in the true sense,” he said.Mann, while addressing the first meeting of the AAP Legislature Party, exuded confidence and being incharge, as he cautioned the other 91 party MLAs to not to indulge in any vendetta politics or get their political opponents embroiled in police cases. “I will be very strict with anyone who indulges in these malpractices,” warned Mann, adding that they should learn a lesson from the “khandaani” politicians who indulged in such vendetta politics and have now been shown their place by the public, who had rejected them. “Irrespective of the fact that a person voted for you or against you, you will act in an unbiased manner and work for each one of your constituents,” he added.The meeting was initially supposed to be held at 4 pm, but was delayed as Mann could not reach the venue at Mohali on time. He had gone to Delhi from Sangrur in the morning to meet AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal after the party’s big win, and reached here only at 7.30 pm. He was accompanied by party’s Punjab affairs incharge Raghav Chadha. During the meeting, Budhlada MLA Budh Ram proposed the name of Mann as the leader of the AAP Legislature Party.Taking to his colleagues, he said though only 17 among them could be taken in the Cabinet, but for him they were all ministers and would get equal respect. “You should not have any personal ambitions, or people will revolt against you as they have revolted against the other political parties and the turncoats from our own party,” he said. — #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mann-warns-mlas-against-indulging-in-malpractices-377069
12-03-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Day after, Punjab AAP legislators keep it simple||Chandigarh, March 11As Punjab prepares to administer oath of office to CM-designate Bhagwant Mann and other Cabinet ministers at Khatkar Kalan on March 16, winds of change are already sweeping the state.Notification for 16th Vidhan SabhaThe dissolution of the 15th Vidhan Sabha was recommended by Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Saturday. The notification for the constitution of 16th Vidhan Sabha was also issued on Friday.Major changes at Civil Secretariat likelyCivil Secretariat — the seat of power — is buzzing with anticipation of major administrative changes with the change in government. The grapevine has it that the main contenders for the post of Chief Secretary are VK Singh and Anurag Aggarwal, while the names of A Venu Prasad and Sarvjit Singh are doing the rounds for the post of Principal Secretary to CM. Sources say the new government was unlikely to make changes in the Police Department.Nothing sums up the mood in Punjab better than the scenes outside a hotel in Mohali, where the Aam Aadmi Party MLAs converged this afternoon. Other than the 10 MLAs who have been re-elected, the remaining 81 (minus Mann) were unrecognisable to all, including their own party colleagues.Also read: Little-known faces knock bigwigs out in Punjab assembly pollLike Hardev Singh Dev Mann, the MLA Nabha MLA and son of a cycle mechanic who gave up his permanent residency in Canada to come back and contest the polls, who was being asked to introduce himself. “I was a radio jockey in Canada, but decided to come here and contest the polls. I come from a family which we did not have enough to eat. The party reposed faith in me and will thus serve the people better,” he said.Gone is the paraphernalia associated with the other parties that have ruled Punjab alternatively. Mann himself travelled from Sangrur to Delhi in his personal car, and though he arrived back in the evening by air, he travelled from the airport to the hotel in Mohali for a meeting with the party MLAs, in his personal car, while the official Landcruiser tailed his vehicle.The MLAs had not cordoned themselves behind police men and barricades from their party workers and supporters. They were freely mingling with them, joking and some even pleasantly shocked at the complete sweep. “People have given us the mandate as we are not like other party leaders”, said the first-time MLA from Sangrur, Narinder Kaur Bharaj.Breaking the convention, Mann and other Cabinet Ministers will take oath of office at Khatkar Kalan, the native village of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, on March 16. AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal will be present at the ceremony. The swearing-in ceremony has traditionally been held at Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-after-aap-legislators-keep-it-simple-377067
12-03-2022||Aparna Banerji||Khatkar Kalan readies for oath-taking ceremony of Bhagwant Mann and his Cabinet||Jalandhar, March 11Massive arrangements are afoot for the oath-taking ceremony of CM-designate Bhagwant Mann and his Cabinet at Khatkar Kalan in Nawanshahr, the venerated native place of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, on March 16.Preparations onThe preparations are in full swing. A meeting in this regard was held on Friday. The event will include seven acres behind the martyr’s memorial and more nearby land will be utilised, if need be. Vishesh Sarangal, Nawanshahr DCThe martyr’s native village has been chosen as the site for the first ever oath-taking ceremony of a state Chief Minister, which will not be hosted at the Raj Bhavan. Arrangements for 1 lakh people have been made across a 13-acre land behind the martyr’s memorial at Khatkar Kalan inNawanshahr. As many as 6,000 police personnel will be deputed for the set up. While 6.5 acres on the memorial’s property will be used for the pandal, the ceremony’s set up will also extended to the nearby fields.Gates will be installed on the boundary wall of the memorial, to ensure maximum people could be hosted without being obstructed. Sources said 100 trucks of materials were being brought up to set up the massive pandal for the event.Help is being sought from five to six other districts to help with setting up the arrangements. Security has been increased at the memorial and a special police post has also been set up ahead of the event.Meanwhile, the Chief Architect of the state also reached on Friday at the site to draw a plan for the arrangements for the AAP’s government’s oath-taking ceremony. #bhagwant mann #khatkar kalan #shaheed bhagat singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/khatkar-kalan-readies-for-oath-taking-377064
12-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi submits resignation to Governor Banwarilal Purohit||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi submitted his resignation to Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Friday, paving the way for the constitution of the new government.Channi has been asked to continue till the new government takes over. Channi, along with outgoing Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa, went to meet Governor after the outgoing Cabinet in its last meeting recommended dissolution of the 15th Vidhan Sabha.The CM hoped the incoming government would earnestly implement the promises made to the people. He also hoped that the decisions taken by his government in the public interest such as reduction of electricity rates, slashing VAT on oil besides decreasing rates of sand and gravel, etc., would be continued by the next government. — #banwarilal purohit #charanjit channi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-submits-resignation-377061
12-03-2022||Chandigarh||Fix accountability for debacle in Punjab: Congress leaders||As the Congress loss in the Assembly elections sinks in, fingers are being pointed at PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, outgoing CM Charanjit Singh Channi and other senior leaders for not burying their differences and for “giving the government on a platter” to the Aam Aadmi Party.Lack of disciplineThere was lack of discipline in the party as senior leaders spoke in different voices. The central leadership did not take action against such leaders, leaving workers confused. Sukhjinder Randhawa, Outgoing Dy CMGave govt on platter to AAPThe Congress gave the government on a platter to the AAP. There was complete lack of leadership. Our leadership was busy fighting, spoiling the chances of victory. Rana KP Singh, SpeakerPCC leaders have started asking the party high command to fix the accountability for the poll debacle that saw the party being reduced to 18 seat from 77 in 2017.“If Sidhu is being blamed for making it tough for Channi by countering his government, the former CM has to reply to allegations levelled by losing Bassi Pathana MLA GP Singh that Channi helped his brother Dr Manohar Singh against the party candidate. Rana Gurjeet fielding his son against the party candidate in Sultanur Lodhi. Some blame Sunil Jakhar for raking up the ‘Hindu’ angle for overlooking him as the CM. The party high command proved to be weak in maintaining discipline despite senior leaders KV Venugopal and Harish Chaudhary repeatedly pointing this out,” said a senior PCC leader.Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa accused Sidhu along with other leaders of speaking up against the party. The central leadership did not take action against leaders indulging in indiscipline, leaving the workers confused, he said. Transport Minister Raja Warring said there were multiple reason for the debacle. Churning had started and action in the right direction would be taken soon. — #charanjit channi #navjot sidhu #raja warring #rana gurjeet singh #rana kp singh #sukhjinder randhawa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fix-accountability-for-debacle-cong-leaders-377058
12-03-2022||Commoner who breached SAD patriarch’s fortress||Little-known faces knock bigwigs out in Punjab assembly poll||AAP leader Gurmeet Singh Khudian, 59, son of former Faridkot MP late Jagdev Singh Khudian, emerged as a ‘giant killer’, defeating grand old man of Punjab politics and five-time former Chief Minister-cum-SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal from his home turf Lambi.LAMBIWill address staff shortageMy priority will be to wipe out drug menace from Lambi. Further, a number of government institutes lack staff, which needs to be looked into immediately. — Gurmeet Singh Khudian, Lambi MLAGurmeet’s father was elected to Parliament in 1989 as an SAD (Amritsar) candidate. But within a few days, he disappeared mysteriously and his body was found from a canal six days later. Later, the family joined the Congress.Till last year, Gurmeet was the lone Congress leader to take on the Badals in Lambi. However, after staying in the Congress for 30 years, Gurmeet joined the AAP last July on the assurance of a party ticket from Lambi.Gurmeet, a matriculate and an agriculturist, was keen on contesting the elections in 2017 too, but ended up being a covering candidate of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh in Lambi. After the polls, he was removed as the district Congress chief.Gurmeet said: “Badal’s younger brother Gurdas used to tell people only a commoner can defeat Badal in Lambi. Now, the public has proven it right.” — Archit WattsSteadfast Labh Singh Ugoke countered ‘poor CM’ narrativeUp against outgoing CM Charanjit Singh Channi, AAP’s Bhadaur MLA Labh Singh Ugoke remained confident of victory right from the start, targeting him regularly with his “real versus fake poor” narrative.BhadaurVoters bore my poll expenseMoney is crucial during polls, but I have proved one can contest and win an election even if you don’t have it. My voters have borne my poll expenses. — Labh Singh Ugoke. Bhadaur MLAUgoke’s humble background helped him counter Channi’s claim of being a “poor CM”. His father works as a driver, while his mother is a contractual sweeper at a school. He had studied up to class XII and had been earning his livelihood repairing mobiles at his village. Ugoke joined the AAP in 2013 and became its block and circle president before being made the halqa incharge. His name was considered for a ticket during the 2017 polls, but the party gave it to Pirmal Singh Dhaula. Ugoke continued to plug away for the party in the area.After Dhaula joined the Congress, many had predicted end of the AAP in the constituency. Ugoke not only revived the party’s prospects with his efforts, but ended up defeating the Congress stalwart. As per his affidavit to the Election Commission, Ugoke had assets worth Rs 1,29,634. With meagre assets, Ugoke managed his campaign with the help of area residents. — Parvesh Sharma8 years on, eye surgeon exacts revenge on ChanniA minor objection to his appointment as chairman of the doctors’ cell of the Congress prompted eye surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh to consider contesting the Assembly election and settle a score with the sitting MLA, his namesake. Eight years on, the medico defeated MLA Charanjit Singh Channi, the outgoing CM.Chamkaur SahibWill set up govt collegeMy priority will be to set up at least one govt college and build a bridge over the Sutlej, besides providing playgrounds in all villages & towns. — Dr Charanjit Singh, Chamkaur Sahib MLAAfter completing his education in Chandigarh, Dr Singh got enrolled in Government Medical College, Patiala, and completed his MS from Chandigarh in 1989. Having worked in the public sector, Dr Singh opened a private clinic at Morinda in 2000. Known for his social service in the area, Dr Singh had so far organised over 2,000 free eye check-up camps, conducting 45,000 surgeries free of cost.His reputation in the area drew him closer to politicians and in 2002, he assisted Congress candidate Jagmohan Singh Kang in his victory from Morinda. In 2014, then PCC president Partap Singh Bajwa appointed him chairman of the doctors’ cell.The surgeon said he had never thought of foraying into active politics. But Channi objected to it. Dr Singh joined the AAP in 2015 and contested for the first time in the 2017 polls. — Arun SharmaSocial work by ‘pad woman’ caught Kejri’s attentionTesting the electoral waters for the first time, social worker Jeevan Jyot Kaur, 50, toppled two political giants — PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia — in the “mother of all battles” witnessed in the Amritsar East constituency.Amritsar East‘Sankalp patra’ readyI have prepared a ‘sankalp patra’. People need efficient sewage system and road connectivity. I will ensure jobs to youths addicted to drugs. — Jeevan Jyot Kaur, Amritsar East MLAWithout holding big rallies, she used her humble demeanour to her advantage in reaching out to the voters.A law graduate, Jeevan Jyot chose to set up a non-profit organisation in 1996-97. Her initiative ‘EcoShe’ earned her the title of ‘pad woman’ for raising awareness on the ill-effects of using plastic sanitary pads.She tied up with a Swiss firm that provides reusable sanitary pads free of cost to underprivileged women. Lately, she had been distributing free reusable sanitary pads to women inmates in Punjab jails. For the past two decades, she had been working for the underprivileged sections in the fields of health, literacy, slum-rehabilitation, vocational education, women empowerment by making them self-reliant. It was her selfless service to uplift the lives of common man that caught the eye of Arvind Kejriwal, who offered her to join the party. — GS PaulLast-minute switchover works for ex-Mayor Ajit Pal Singh Kohli, 43, will make his debut in the Vidhan Sabha, defeating former CM Capt Amarinder Singh in his citadel. A former Mayor during the SAD-BJP tenure in 2011, Ajit Pal’s father Surjeet Singh Kohli had served as a Cabinet minister under the SAD-BJP regime.Patiala UrbanCapt paid for inaccessibilityCapt Amarinder and his aides reaped what they had sown. Corruption and his inaccessibility led to their failure as they forgot people who had elected them. — Ajit Pal Kohli, Patiala MLAA month before the elections, Kohli had quit the SAD and joined the AAP, which fielded him from Patiala Urban — the stronghold of the royal family. Working closely with AAP volunteers to kept the local unit together worked for Kohli as there were no fissures within the party when his name was announced.Kohli’s victory was so resounding that even Capt Amarinder’s and Congress candidate Vishnu Sharma’s votes put together were far less than his. Interestingly, Capt Amarinder had defeated Kohli’s father from the seat in 2002. Two decades on, his son defeated Capt Amarinder in a political revenge of sorts.A businessman, the 43-year-old has assets worth Rs 32.4 crore, as per his affidavit to the EC. He completed his schooling from Yadavindra Public School and did his postgraduation in political administration from Punjabi University in 2006. — Aman SoodManpreet aide Gill proves his nemesisVeteran municipal councillor and former Manpreet Singh Badal aide Jagroop Singh Gill defeated the five-time MLA and two-time Finance Minister by a record margin of 63,581 votes from the Bathinda Urban seat.Bathinda UrbanCommon minimum programme priorityMy priority is to bring in a common minimum programme for the city. We will resolve the problem of waterlogging and ensure law and order in the area. — Jagroop Singh Gill, Bathinda Urban MLAThe 69-year-old was first elected as a councillor in 1979, and made it to the MC again in 1992, 1997, 2007, 2015 and 2021. He also held the posts of the chairman of the Improvement Trust, vice-president and president of the civic body and president of the District Bar Association. Gill served as the chairman of the District Planning Board, but just before the MC polls last year, he quit the post to contest the elections.A lawyer, Gill won the MC polls last year for a record sixth time and was the frontrunner for the Bathinda Mayor’s post. But he was ignored by Manpreet, who chose first-time councillor Raman Goyal over him for the post. Irked, Gill left the Congress to join the AAP.Gill was declared an AAP candidate for the polls and it is learnt several Congress leaders “helped” him behind the scenes. The seat has lived up to its reputation, as no sitting MLA has been able to keep it, with an exception in 1962. — Sukhmeet BhasinSocial work, resilience paid off for GoyalAAP MLA Barinder Kumar Goyal, 63, sprang a surprise defeating three political heavyweights — five-time Lehra MLA and former CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, five-time legislator and former Finance Minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa, and former SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal — from the Lehra constituency.LehraBhattal, Dhindsa failed to deliverBhattal and Dhindsa failed to bring about development in the area. I am confident that our government will bring about overall growth in our area. — Barinder Kumar Goyal, Lehra MLAGoyal’s social work played an important role in winning over voters of his constituency. Goyal contested his first election on a BJP ticket in 1992, but lost to Bhattal. He subsequently tried hard to get the party ticket several times, but to no avail.Determined to fight for the welfare of area residents, Goyal formed the Lehra Vikas Manch in 2021 and started raising issues such as lack of basic amenities, including potable water and others, in the area. With his hard work, he succeeded in getting elected to the nagar council.When he finally got an AAP ticket on January 21, some leaders opposed it initially. But Goyal’s connect with local residents paid dividends and he was able to overcome the obstacle. Within a short span, he successfully built his campaign and ended up defeating the three big guns. — Parvesh SharmaKamboj lost security deposit in 2019 bypollAAP’s Jagdeep Goldy Kamboj, 35, who had lost his security deposit during the Jalalabad bypoll in 2019, trounced SAD president Sukhbir Badal in his stronghold. Sukhbir represented Jalalabad thrice in 2009, 2012 and 2017, but lost to a relatively lightweight candidate.JalalabadWill root out drug menaceMy priority is to eradicate drug menace and end illegal distillation of ‘lahan’. Lack of health facilities remains a major concern. — Jagdeep Goldy Kamboj, Jalalabad MLAThe bypoll was necessitated by Sukhbir vacating the seat after being elected to the Lok Sabha from Ferozepur in 2019. Congress’ Raminder Singh Awla had won the byelection, in which Kamboj, a former Congress man, ended up with just 5,836 votes. Kamboj, a then general secretary of the All-India Youth Congress, was expelled from the party for contesting the byelection against the party candidate. He later joined the AAP and was appointed as the state president of the BC wing of youth wing.Starting his career as a youth Congress leader a decade ago, advocate Kamboj learnt the lesson of politics from his father Surinder Kamboj, who contested the Jalalabad seat twice and remained the chairman of the Punjab Agriculture Development Bank, Jalalabad. Kamboj also served as incharge of the J&K and Haryana Youth Congress for several years. — Praful Chander Nagpal #bikram majithia #capt amarinder singh #charanjit channi #gurmeet singh khudian #jeevan jyot kaur #manpreet badal #navjot sidhu #parkash singh badal #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/little-known-faces-knock-bigwigs-out-377055
12-03-2022||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann to stake claim to form govt in Punjab||Bhagwant Mann was elected Punjab AAP Legislature Party leader in Mohali today. His name was proposed by Budhlada MLA Budh Ram. Mann will meet the Governor on Saturday to stake claim to form the next government. The swearing-in will take place at Khatkar Kalan in Nawanshahr on March 16.Also read: Khatkar Kalan readies for oath-taking ceremony of Bhagwant Mann and his CabinetBhagwant Mann warns MLAs against indulging in malpracticesAddressing the first meeting of the AAP Legislature Party, Mann said AAP government would be run from villages, wards and mohallas to “ensure governance on people’s doorstep.” He cautioned the MLAs against pursuing vendetta politics.Comment: After victory, burden of proof now on AAP“We will introduce people-oriented schemes. Some guidelines will come from Delhi. We will study welfare schemes in other states and implement these in Punjab,” he said. Earlier in the day, Mann met party convener Arvind Kejriwal in New Delhi for “detailed discussions” on government formation. The meeting was attended by Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, Health Minister Satyendar Jain and AAP in-charge of Punjab affairs Raghav Chadha. — #arvind kejriwal #bhagwant mann #khatkar kalan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-to-stake-claim-today-oath-on-march-16-377024
