13-03-2022||Chandigarh||Election commission announces Rajya Sabha poll schedule for 5 seats in Punjab||As the term of five Rajya Sabha members elected from Punjab is going to expire in April, the Election Commission (EC) has announced the schedule for the biennial election to the Upper House of Parliament from the state.The term of office of Rajya Sabha members Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa (Shiromani Akali Dal), Partap Singh Bajwa (Congress), Shwait Malik (BJP), Naresh Gujral (SAD) and Shamsher Singh Dullo (Congress) is due to expire on April 9.Punjab’s Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju on Sunday said according to the schedule, the notification for the biennial election will be issued on Monday (March 14).The last date for filing nominations is March 21, while a scrutiny of the nominations will be carried out on March 22, according to an official release.The last date for withdrawal of candidature has been fixed on March 24.Polling will be held from 9 am to 4 pm on March 31 and the counting of votes will be taken up at 5 pm on the same day.The poll process shall be completed before April 2, Raju said.He added that the nomination papers are to be filed with the secretary of the Assembly, who is the returning officer for the Rajya Sabha election.Nomination papers cannot be presented on March 18 because of the festival of Holi and on March 20 (Sunday).However, nomination papers can be filed on March 19.In order to become a member of the council of states, a candidate should be registered as a voter in any parliamentary constituency in the country.To satisfy the returning officer on this count, the candidates should produce a certified copy of the relevant entry of the electoral roll in force, the release said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/election-commission-announces-rajya-sabha-poll-schedule-for-5-seats-in-punjab-377510
13-03-2022||Amritsar||16 municipal councillors in Amritsar join AAP||Sixteen municipal corporation councillors in Amritsar joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) here on Sunday in the presence of Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia.Most of them are from the Congress.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu had left the Congress and joined AAP in the presence of party’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal and senior leader and now CM-designate Bhagwant Mann on February 16, few days before the Punjab assembly polls.The total strength of the municipal corporation is 85 and of them, 65 are from Congress.In the recently held Punjab assembly polls, the AAP romped home by winning 92 seats in the 117-member Assembly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/16-municipal-councillors-in-amritsar-join-aap-377489
13-03-2022||New Delhi||SC's no to plea on appointing OBCs on vacant posts in Punjab||Dismissing a plea seeking direction to fill 595 posts of elementary trained teachers (ETT) of SC/ST category in Punjab with other backward classes (OBC) candidates, the Supreme Court (SC) said the appointing authority doesn’t have the power to do so. These posts were advertised on November 8, 2015 and July 30, 2016.The bench of Justice Indira Banrejee and Justice JK Maheshwari upheld the ruling of the Punjab and Haryana HC, refusing to direct the state government to permit interchangeability of these SC/ST reserved posts for candidates of OBC category.The SC stated that it was clear that de-reservation for the reserved vacancy was restricted. The bench made the statement after analysing section 7 of the Punjab Schedule Castes and Backward Classes (Reservation in Service) Act, 2006.“The interchangeability of the vacant unfilled posts of SC category may be possible due to not having eligible candidates by the department concerned but not by appointing authority,” the bench said.It added that de-reservation may be possibly directed by the Department of Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes if it was expedient in public interest. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/scs-no-to-plea-on-appointing-obcs-on-vacant-posts-in-punjab-377354
13-03-2022||---||Giant killer AAP MLA Labh Singh Ugoke's mother won't give up sweeper's job||Ugoke, March 12Her son Labh Singh Ugoke may have shot into prominence by defeating outgoing Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi from Bhadaur, Baldev Kaur isn’t ready to give up her contractual sweeper’s job at a government school.In fact, Baldev Kaur took everyone by surprise when she reported for duty holding a broom on Friday, a day after Labh Singh had emerged as the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) giant slayer by defeating the Congress’ CM candidate by a comprehensive margin of 37,558  votes. “They all thought I won’t come for work, at least a day after my son’s victory. But I made it clear that my son has become an MLA, not me. I am still a contractual sweeper. Why should I leave my job?” she asserts, seated confidently inside her two-room tenement in the centre of the village.Working at the school in their native Ugoke village in Barnala district for the past 22 years, she, however, is upset with the government for not regularising her services. “My case for regularisation was pushed repeatedly, but it was rejected each time,” she says.In her late fifties, Baldev Kaur says she has categorically told her MLA son that she won’t give up her job. “I am proud of what I have been doing. My job has been a crucial source of income all this while when our family was struggling to make ends meet,” she affirms.The family’s house is a proof enough of Labh Singh’s humble origins, on the basis of which the AAP succeeded in building a poll narrative of “real versus fake poor” against CM Channi. Baldev Kaur’s husband Darshan Singh had been a labourer all his life, but stopped working after undergoing an eye surgery recently.“We have lived in penury all our life and seen the worst of days. I have told Labh not to forget where we belong to. He must fight for the downtrodden,” she says, her daughter-in-law Veerpal Kaur, a housewife, nodding in unison and grandsons Abhijot (10) and Armanjot (7) watching curiously.Labh Singh’s father is happy, but apprehensive too about the future challenges. “Changing the system isn’t that easy. Punjab residents have high hopes from the AAP government. I pray for its success,” he says. Running a mobile phone repair shop in the village, the MLA wasn’t available when The Tribune visited his house on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mlas-mother-wont-give-up-sweepers-job-377312
13-03-2022||Chandigarh||Lok Adalat settles 1.7L cases||Headmaster among 4 end lifeAbohar: Four persons reportedly ended their lives on Saturday. Mohinder Kumar, a headmaster of a school, reportedly ended his life in a room of the school building. Body of Bablu (28), a farm worker, was found in Ramsara village. Two more persons, Jaspal Singh (45) and Radha (21), ended their lives. The reason behind the incidents was yet to be ascertained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lok-adalat-settles-1-7l-cases-377310
13-03-2022||---||122 Punjab politicians lose security cover||Ruchika M. KhannaChandigarh, March 12Aam Aadmi Party set in motion its agenda of running a government for the people. Not only has the party invited every citizen of Punjab to be a part of the oath-taking ceremony at Khatkar Kalan on March 16, but it also started the exercise of taking back privileges from the “erstwhile” political class. Since Punjab has been alternatively ruled by the Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the privileges have always remained with political leaders from across the two parties. In one of the first major decisions by AAP, the new political dispensation has ensured that the police security given to 122 politicians from the two parties, including some of those who left AAP to hop on to the other parties, has been withdrawn. Two politicians (former MLAs)  who joined AAP from Congress too will have to forego their security. In Punjab, where having security is considered a status symbol, this decision is being viewed as adding insult to injury on the leaders - all of who have suffered a humiliating defeat in the just concluded assembly polls. The security of seven Congress MLAs who have been re-elected - Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Rana Gurjeet Singh,  Aruna Chaudhary, Pargat Singh, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Barindermeet Singh Pahra- too has been withdrawn.The security personnel, around 399, have been asked to report to their parent units immediately. “The police stations are vacant. Why do we need police sitting in tents outside the houses of these people. The security of 2.75 crore punjabis is much more important,” said CM elect Mann, reiterating that the VIP culture had to end immediately. So far, the security of former chief ministers Charanjit Singh Channi, Capt Amarinder Singh, Parkash Singh Badal and their family members (barring Badal’s son-in-law Adesh Pratap Kairon) and former deputy chief ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa have not been withdrawn. The name of PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu too does not figure in the list, though the name of his wife is there. Mann has also decided on A Venu Prasad as the additional Chief Secretary to Chief Minister. Prasad, a 1991 batch IAS officer, remained the CMD of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and headed the Mining department, for a long time.  He is presently heading the Excise and Taxation department. Sources say that he has been chosen to oversee implementation of mainly two major promises of the AAP- ensuring 300 units of free power to all and generating funds in the cash- strapped state. Earlier in the day, Punjab Chief Minister designate Bhagwant Mann said that each MLA of Aam Aadmi Party will work for the growth and progress of Punjab, once their government assumes office. The state will be run on the principles laid by Bhagat Singh - of public welfare and putting the state over self. He was taking to media persons after staking his claim to form the government. He met the Punjab Governor Banwari Lal Purohit this morning and submitted his proposal to form the government, along with a list of 92 AAP MLAs. “The Governor welcomed us and asked us where we would like to have the oath-taking ceremony. We told him that the ceremony will be held at 12.30 pm on March 16, at Khatkar Kalan,” he said. The CM designate, while refusing to divulge details of who would be inducted in the cabinet immediately, said that the Cabinet will be good. “The Council of Ministers will be taking historic decisions,” he added. Sources say that the AAP is unlikely to fill all posts immediately and only six to seven ministers will be inducted immediately. Mann had arrived at the Raj Bhawan in his personal car, though the sarkari cars and jammers followed him. Last night, he held a meeting with the Chief Secretary Anirudh Tiwari and the DGP V K Bhawra, and reportedly asked them to ensure discipline amongst the employees, while ensuring that there was no public harassment. Venu Prasad Addl CSA Venu Prasad, a 1991-batch IAS officer, has been appointed Addl Chief Secretary to the CM. He has served as CMD, PSPCL, and now heads the Excise Dept. Sources say he will be asked to ensure 300 units of free power to all, as promised by AAP, and to generate funds for the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/122-punjab-politicians-lose-security-cover-377309
13-03-2022||Hoshiarpur||Carcasses of 17 bovines found along highway||As many as 17 carcasses of slaughtered cattle were found near the railway track along to the Jalandhar-Pathankot highway this morning. On information by a passerby, teams of the Tanda police and Railway Police reached the scene.Carcasses were found with severed heads. Flesh and skin had been removed. It is suspected the suspects may have dumped these near the railway track, 500 metres from the highway. Some potato sacks were also found, suggesting the carcasses may have been hidden behind these while being ferried.Members of various Hindu organisations and political parties protested the killings. The Railway Police have registered a case against unidentified persons and started investigation. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/carcasses-of-17-bovines-found-along-highway-377308
13-03-2022||---||Banker among two killed in road mishaps||Abohar, March 12Two persons were killed in separate accidents today. The victims have been identified as a bank employee Mohit Bishnoi (25) of Panniwala Mahla village and an auto-rickshaw owner Rajinder Sharma (55).Mohit, who worked with a private bank at Sriganganagar, died on the spot when his car reportedly collided with a truck near an over-bridge. Meanwhile, Rajinder, who was standing near his vehicle on the Rawatsar Mega Highway, died when a biker reportedly hit him and fled the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/banker-among-two-killed-in-road-mishaps-377307
13-03-2022||Bathinda||Punjab Assembly: 12 doctors make it to House||For the first time, as many as 12 doctors have been elected to the state Assembly, in which the AAP has registered a landslide victory. Of the 12 doctors who have become MLAs, nine are from AAP, and one each from the SAD, Congress and BSP. Of these, two are pulmonologists, four are ophthalmologists, one a general surgeon and another a dental surgeon.The winners include AAP candidates Dr Charanjit Singh from Chamkaur Sahib, Dr Amandeep Kaur Arora from Moga, Dr Ravjot Singh from Sham Chaurasi, Dr Balbir Singh from Patiala Rural, Dr Inderbir Nijjer from Amritsar East, Dr Kashmir Singh Sohal from Tarn Taran, Dr Baljit Kaur from Malout, Dr Vijay Singla from Mansa and Dr Jasbir Singh Sandhu from Amritsar West, while Congress’ Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal from Chabbewal, BSP’s Dr Nachhatar Pal from Nawanshahr and SAD’s Dr Shukwinder Kumar Sukhi from the Banga constituency. — TNS2 Profs elected tooTwo Professors — Baljinder Kaur from Talwandi Sabo and Jaswant Singh Gajjan Majra from Amargarh — and Punjabi singers — Gagan Anmol Mann from Kharar and Balkar Sidhu from Rampura Phul — have also been elected||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-assembly-12-doctors-make-it-to-house-377306
13-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Trend of filing bail petition after withdrawal of first must stop||Chandigarh, March 12The Punjab and Haryana High Court has described as “unfortunate” the tendency among dishonest litigants to file second anticipatory bail petition after withdrawing their initial plea sensing its dismissal by the Bench. Making it clear that the practice was required to be tightly reined in, the Bench also slapped Rs 50,000 costs on a bail petitioner.The ruling by Justice Vikas Bahl came in a case where an accused sought permission to withdraw the anticipatory bail petition after seeing that the High Court was not inclined to grant the relief. A statement was also made by his counsel that the petitioner was ready to surrender before the police within 10 days. But the petitioner backtracked from the undertaking/statement and chose to file the second petition under Section 438 of the CrPC.Dubbing it as “complete abuse of the process of the court”, Justice Bahl asserted: “This court would also like to take a note of the unfortunate trend being adopted by unscrupulous litigants in which, as in the present case, the petition for anticipatory bail is argued. When the court is about to dismiss the petition, the counsel for the petitioner, in order to avoid a detailed adverse order, seeks to withdraw the petition and after some days, without any justification, files a second anticipatory bail petition.”Justice Bahl observed the trend not only wasted the court time, but was also an abuse of the process of the court and was required to be curtailed with a heavy hand.Justice Bahl asserted the court was also of the opinion that the filing of the second anticipatory bail petition by a different counsel was non-maintainable and also misconceived. As such, it deserved to be dismissed with costs.Justice Bahl added there was a stark difference between the filing of subsequent/successive anticipatory bail applications and subsequent/successive regular bail applications or pleas for suspension of sentence. Subsequent regular bail plea filed after the withdrawal of first would normally be considered in case of regular bail applications where a person was already in custody. This was because the factum of “further custody” would normally be a “changed circumstance”.It was always open for an accused in custody to show that his further incarceration for some months/years was a changed circumstance, entitling him to regular bail. Similar would be the position in the case of suspension of sentence. But anticipatory bail could not be treated to be on the same pedestal.Slaps costs of Rs 50K on petitionerMaking it clear that the practice was required to be tightly reined in, the Bench also slapped Rs50,000 costs on a bail petitioner. The ruling by Justice Vikas Bahl came in a case where an accused sought permission to withdraw the anticipatory bail petition after seeing that the High Court was not inclined to grant the relief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-trend-of-filing-bail-petition-after-withdrawal-of-first-must-stop-377302
13-03-2022||Karam Prakash||Delay in diagnostic tests at Patiala hospital hits services||Patiala, March 12Delay in medical treatment — owing to long waiting line for getting diagnostic tests conducted — has become a common practice at Government Rajindra Hospital.It has been learned that waiting period to get an MRI or CT scan conducted is around four weeks for OPD patients at the hospital. Due to this, the potential health risk and worsening of the patient’s condition due to the postponing of the course of treatment looms large, say health experts.Admitted patients given priorityHigh patient load at the hospital is also a major reason behind the delay. Besides, the admitted patients are given priority and their scans are run the same day. Dr Manoj Mathur, radiodiagnosis dept headEven for an ultrasound, which takes hardly 20 minutes, the waiting period is around two weeks. The Tribune discovered that poor patients, who come from far-off places, can’t even muster the courage to question the untimely delay.In one such incident, a woman from economically-weaker background had to plead a lady doctor to get an early date for her husband’s scan. A doctor at the hospital said: “A test report of an MRI or CT scan is must to proceed with the further treatment. If there is a delay in the tests, the treatment gets delayed consequently.”Hospital authorities said they had to give priority to in-patients. The department claimed that they had only one machine for CT scan and MRI, which was leading to the delay.However, there is no staff shortage at the department. As per records, there are 27 junior residents, three senior residents and 10 faculty members, including two professors, whose average salary is above Rs 2 lakh per month.Dr Manoj Mathur, head of the Radiodiagnosis Department, said: “High patient load at the hospital is also a major reason behind the delay. Besides, the admitted patients are given a priority and their scans are done on the same day.”No staff crunch at radiodiagnosis deptThere is no staff shortage at the Radiodiagnosis Department. As per records, there are 27 junior residents, three senior residents and 10 faculty members, including two professors, whose average salary is above Rs2 lakh per month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delay-in-diagnostic-tests-at-patiala-hospital-hits-services-377301
13-03-2022||Chandigarh||Model code of conduct goes in Punjab||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has lifted the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) with immediate effect, which came into force on January 8 with the announcement of schedule for the Assembly Elections.Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab, Dr S Karuna Raju said the ECI issued a letter to the Chief Secretary and Chief Electoral Officer of Punjab, in this regard. In a written communication, the ECI has stated that now the results in respect of general election to the State Legislative Assembly of Punjab have been declared. the Model Code of Conduct has ceased to be in operation with immediate effect. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/model-code-of-conduct-goes-in-punjab-377299
13-03-2022||Amritsar||Return to Panthic agenda, Jathedar urges Akali leaders||After the crushing defeat of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in the Assembly elections, Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has asked the party to return to Panthic agenda.The SAD got only three seats and its vote share dipped from 25.2 per cent in 2017 to 18.48 per cent. The Jathedar termed it fatal for the country and the Sikh society. Giving a clarion call to all factions of the SAD, he asked them to come together at the Akal Takht to chalk out the future course. He said this after the release of the Nanakshahi calendar here today.Stressing the Akali Dal had played a major role in liberating the country from foreign yoke, he said the party was not constituted for acquiring political power, but for the ‘Charadi Kalan’ of Khalsa Panth. He also expressed concern over the rise in caste and factionalism in the Sikh community.The Jathedar’s call for return to the Panthic agenda is in contravention to the moderate Punjabi secular agenda of “Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiyat” adopted by the SAD in the 1996 Moga conference.Meanwhile, a calendar of Nanakshahi Sammat 554 (Year 2022-23) was released today by Panj Singh Sahibans — Giani Raghbir Singh, Jathedar of Takht Kesgarh; Giani Malkiat Singh, Head Granthi of Akal Takht; Bhai Sukhwinder Singh; and Bhai Baljinder Singh — besides Jathedar Akal Takht. This year’s Nanakshahi calendar is dedicated to the first centenary of the martyrdom of Panja Sahib, as the massacre was a watershed event in the recent Sikh history. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/return-to-panthic-agenda-jathedar-urges-akali-leaders-377298
13-03-2022||Chandigarh||Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa resigns as SAD(S) chief||Accepting the responsibility for the crushing defeat of the SAD (Sanyukt), party president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa today submitted his resignation from the post.Dhindsa submitted resignation in a meeting of the core committee of the party. He said it was the responsibility of the president to accept the reasons of defeat and introspect. He also demanded that SAD president Sukhbir Badal resigned from the post of party president.However, the decision regarding the fate of his resignation is to be taken by the core committee of the party. The SAD (Sanyukt) had contested on 15 seats as part of the NDA alliance, but the party could save security deposit only from Lehera where party leader Parminder Singh Dhindsa fought. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhdev-singh-dhindsa-resigns-as-sads-chief-377297
13-03-2022||Vishav Bharti||BJP fought 50 more seats, saw just 1%  rise in vote share||Chandigarh, March 12While the BJP claims its performance in the Assembly elections is another feather in its cap, the party seems to have failed to make major impact on the ground.The party had contested 50 more seats this time, as compared to 2017, but saw just over 1% increase in its vote share. Compared to the last polls, the party’s performance this time remained dismal.The party contested 73 seats and polled 6.60% votes. In 2017, when the BJP had contested just 23 seats, it had got 5.43% votes, showing an increase of 1% in its vote share. In fact, the party’s best performance was in 1992, when it got 16.48% votes. But the elections were held amid a boycott call by militants.Further, the party lost security deposit on 74% of the seats this time. Of the 73 seats, BJP candidates lost security deposit on 54. This belies state general secretary Jiwan Gupta’s claim that not only did the vote share increase, but it offered stiff contest on most seats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-fought-50-more-seats-saw-just-1-rise-in-vote-share-377296
13-03-2022||Sameer Singh||More Bathinda, Mansa voters opted for NOTA||Bathinda, March 12The number of voters who opted for NOTA (none of the above) in this elections has increased as compared to the 2017 polls in Bathinda and Mansa districts.As per official data, in 2017, as many as 8,104 voters opted for NOTA, this time 9,792 voters went for the option, an increase of 1,688 votes. Also, there was a three-fold increase in NOTA votes (13,323) in the 2019 LS polls as compared to 2014 General Election, when 4,701 voters exercised the option.Interestingly, while voters opting for NOTA in majority of the constituencies in these two Malwa districts increased, these declined in other constituencies. Of the six constituencies of Bathinda district, except Bathinda Urban, voters opting for NOTA increased.In Talwandi Sabo segment, the figure stood at 1,008 as against 578 in 2017. In Bhucho seat, it was 1,555 this time and 711 in 2017. However, Mansa and Sardulgarh segments in Mansa witnessed fewer people opting for NOTA this election as compared to 2017 polls. Prof Dr Bawa, political science, Central University of Punjab, said: “The increase in NOTA votes is not a good sign for democracy, but a minor increase such as this does not really going to impact much. But if it increases in future, it would be worrisome.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-bathinda-mansa-voters-opted-for-nota-377295
13-03-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bathinda thermal plant employees ‘punish’ SAD, Congress over closure||Bathinda, March 12The impact of the shutting down of the Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP) is quite evident on the election results of the Bathinda Urban segment. In stark contrast to 216 votes polled by AAP candidate Jagroop Singh Gill at polling station No. 13 in Thermal Colony, former Finance Minister Manpreet Badal could garner only 16 votes, while SAD’s Sarup Chand Singla polled 18 votes.One planned, other implementedWhen the Akalis were in power, they mooted the plan to shut down the GNDTP, while Manpreet Badal got it executed during the Congress regime. Gursewak Singh, President, GNDTP employees’ federationIn the four polling stations (Nos. 13, 14 and 15, and at a special school) in the colony, Gill secured 561 votes, while Badal and Singla could manage only 60 and 63 votes, respectively, suggesting thermal employees clearly rejected the traditional parties and voted one-sided for the AAP.In the 2017 polls, Badal had promised the city residents of restarting the thermal plant once the Congress came to power, but his government did quite the opposite, even dismantling its units, causing resentment amongst employees and people.Gursewak Singh, president, Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant Employees’ Federation, said: “When the Akalis were in power, they mooted the plan to shut down the GNDTP, while Badal got it executed and shut the plant during the Congress regime, due to which majority vote went to the AAP.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-thermal-plant-employees-punish-sad-congress-over-closure-377294
13-03-2022||Archit Watts||Muktsar gets ruling party MLA after 2 decades||Muktsar, March 12For the first time in the past two decades, the Muktsar constituency has got an MLA of a ruling party. The constituency had maintained a record for over four decades of not re-electing an MLA in a row.Muktsar is the home turf of former Chief Minister Harcharan Singh Brar’s family from where his daughter-in-law and former MLA Karan Kaur Brar was in the fray this time. However, she lost her security deposit in the “AAP tsunami”. She got 14,290 votes. The family has however won this seat seven times in the past. Harcharan Brar won from Muktsar in 1957, 1962 and 1992; his son Kanwarjit Singh Sonny Brar won in 1977 and 2007; Harcharan Brar’s wife Gurbinder Kaur Brar won in 1985 and Karan Kaur Brar in 2012.The Shiromani Akali Dal had this time fielded its sitting MLA-cum-district president Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi, who got 42,127 votes, fewer than the votes polled to him in 2017.On the other hand, Aam Aadmi Party candidate Jagdeep Singh Kaka Brar, who got the third position in the 2017 elections, created a record by winning the seat by a margin of 34,194 votes. He got 76,321 votes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-gets-ruling-party-mla-after-2-decades-377293
13-03-2022||Malout (Muktsar)||MLA takes stock of healthcare services||Two days after the election results, newly-elected Malout AAP MLA Dr Baljit Kaur today inspected the Malout Civil Hospital. The MLA claimed that the state government would leave no stone unturned in providing better healthcare services to public.Baljit Kaur said: “I am told that there are just four specialised doctors at the civil hospital, who have to perform the emergency duty as well. Due to staff shortage, the healthcare services are getting affected. As a result, patients have to go to private hospitals, which charge them exorbitantly. I will convey it to my seniors in the government and try to get more doctors posted here. No government doctor will be allowed to run or work in any private hospital. They will also have to be punctual.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mla-takes-stock-of-healthcare-services-377292
13-03-2022||---||Decide quickly on changes: Sunil Jakhar||Chandigarh, March 12As pressure mounts on Congress leaders to fix accountability for the poll debacle, former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar has urged the party high command to take whatever decision it wants to take immediately.“Be it removing Navjot Singh Sidhu as PCC chief or retaining him, decision must be taken without delay. Delay in taking decisions in the past has cost the party dear. Party poll manifesto was released at the eleventh hour. Decisions have to be taken to move forward,” he said.He further said: “If you want to hang me for the debacle, do it but at least take quick decisions and look for opportunity in adversity by lifting morale of the workers”. On being targeted by party leaders, he said every leader should introspect over the reasons for the loss. He further said it was time for the state leadership to camp in Sangrur, where the byelection to the Lok Sabha had been necessitated with CM-designate Bhagwant Mann getting elected as Dhuri MLA.Delay costing dearBe it removing Sidhu as PCC chief or retaining him, decision must be taken without delay. Delay in taking decisions has cost the party dear. Sunil Jakhar, PCC Ex-chiefReacting to former Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa’s charge of him being among those responsible for ruining party’s chances of returning to power, Jakhar shared an old video in which Randhawa is heard praising Jakhar for making him a minister in the Congress government in 2018. Randhawa maintained Jakhar had only helped PCC Navjot Sidhu play the role of Opposition.After the debacle, blame game has begun within the Congress over the reasons for the grand old party being reduced to 18 seats in the Assembly from 77 in 2017. After the results, the Charanjit Channi camp and other party leaders who lost the election have blamed Sidhu for targeting his own government and giving the government on platter to AAP.Jakhar, who had raked up the issue of “Hindus being ignored” as his name was not considered for the CM post after Capt Amarinder Singh was ousted, is also in the line of fire for allegedly deflecting the party’s minority vote bank to rivals.Seeking accountability of all those in charge of the affairs, outgoing Speaker Rana KP pointed out there was complete lack of leadership. Party leadership was busy fighting, spoiling the chances of victory, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/decide-quickly-on-changes-sunil-jakhar-377291
13-03-2022||Sangrur||Many good officers, will use their services: Bhagwant Mann||The bureaucratic reshuffle is imminent with the formation of AAP government and CM-designate Bhagwant Mann has hinted at utilising the services of senior officers, who have remained sidelined in previous governments. He also raised questions about the reasons behind not using “good officers”.Can work freelySince the intentions of earlier regimes was not good, they did not allow good officers to work. But our government has come with good intentions and we will let them work for the state’s welfare. Bhagwant Mann, AAP president“There are many good officers in Punjab. Since the intention of earlier governments was not good, they did not allow them to work. But our government has come with good intention and we will allow them to work for the state’s welfare,” said Mann.On Saturday, Mann paid obeisance at Gurdwara Janam Asthan Cheema Sahib to thank the Almighty for the historic win of his party. Dr Davinder Singh, president, The Kalgidhar Trust; Baru Sahib; and Bhai Jagjit Singh, Sevadar, Gurdwara Janam Asthan Cheema Sahib honoured Mann. His announcement has revived the dashed hopes of many senior officers, who have remained sidelined. Sources said many had already been trying to get in touch with AAP senior leaders with their service details of punishment postings they faced during previous governments.“We are hopeful that good officers would get a chance in the new government as our CM-designate has been giving repeated hints for this since the victory of his party,” said an officer on anonymity.Mann said as a child he used to visit the gurdwara to practice harmonium. He visited Akal Academy, Cheema Sahib, and heaped praise on it. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/many-good-officers-will-use-their-services-bhagwant-mann-377290
13-03-2022||Aparna Banerji||Punjab CM-designate’s connect with Khatkar Kalan||Khatkar Kalan, March 12In 1998, a lanky, humorous Bhgwant Mann performed for a packed audience on March 23 at Khatkar Kalan in the middle of fields at Shaheed Bhagat Singh’s native village with singer Harbhajan Mann and artist Amardeep Banga (now an AAP member) accompanying him.Back in the day, when Mann was a petite comedian and he targeted the ruling class in his characteristic satire, and his charming skits “Mitthiyan Mirchan” (sweet chillies) and “Kulfi Garma Garam” (hot ice popsicles) were a rage in Punjab homes, Khatkar Kalan was a hallowed place for him then and Bhagat Singh an integral part of his ideology.As the sleepy and iconic town of Khatkar Kalan gets ready to host him on March 16 — now as a CM — the town remembers both his comedy skits and his political speeches. The jubilation of old associates and AAP colleagues — some of whom have seen him in both avatars — knows no bounds.Mann’s historic departure from the norms in his decision to take oath at Bhagat Singh’s native place has brought Khatkar Kalan to the centre of Punjab’s political discourse. The government has changed and the sleepy town is suddenly abuzz.Amardeep Singh Banga, AAP’s block incharge, Banga, says: “We are very proud, he is the same as before. I had an affinity with him as an artiste also. Back then, we didn’t know he would go on to become the CM. He has held many programmes at Khatkar Kalan. His satire was always on status quo, political corruption. Harbhajan, Bhagwant and I were together here in 1998 also — in the fields near where the memorial now stands. It was a packed show. He and Jagtar Jaggi used to perform together. The punch was always on political leaders. He hasn’t forgotten Bhagat Singh or the ethos.”Shiv Kaura, founder member of AAP and general secretary of party’s trade wing, said: “After becoming the MP in 2014, the first place Mann visited was Khatkar Kalan. He came with his wife and placed his certificate at the feet of martyr’s statue. His tears just wouldn’t stop. He subsequently visited the village several times. For him, this is where martyr’s ideology lives on.”About yellow turbanMann brought in vogue the yellow turban — a symbol of Bhagat Singh — during AAP’s Swaraj Abhiyan in the 2014 polls. Mann sported it when he visited Khatkar Kalan after becoming an MP and also when the four new AAP MPs held a meeting at the village. AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal and Deputy CM Manish Sisodia also visited regularly and took out road shows. While the freedom struggle icon took a back seat in AAP’s politics lately, he was back in party’s discourse recently with its decision to hang only the martyr’s and Bhimrao Ambedkar’s portraits in government offices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-designates-connect-with-khatkar-kalan-377289
13-03-2022||---||After Randhawa targets Sunil Jakhar over Punjab poll debacle, ex-Cong chief posts tongue-in-cheek reply||Chandigarh, March 12A day after former former deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa targeted Congress leader Sunil Jakhar for being among those who ruined the party’s chances of returning to power, the latter on Saturday shared an old video in which Randhawa is heard praising Jakhar for making him a minister in the Congress government in 2018.सोचता हूं कि वो कितने मासूम है क्या से क्या हो गए देखते देखते ! -between 28th Aug ,'21 to 11th March, '22. pic.twitter.com/2btEJSm3x0After Congress debacle, blame game has started in the party over the reasons for the grand old party being reduced to 18 seats this time in the Punjab Assembly from 77 in 2017. Randhawa maintained that Jakhar only added to Navjot Sidhu playing role of opposition.After the poll results, infighting in the Congress has surfaced with the Channi camp and other party leaders, who lost election, blaming Navjot Sidhu for bashing his own government and giving the government on platter to AAP.Jakhar, who had raked up the issue of “Hindus being ignored” as his name was not considered for the CM post despite being sought by MLAs, is also in the line of fire for allegedly deflecting the party’s minority vote bank to rivals. Seeking accountability of all those in charge of the affairs, outgoing speaker Rana KP has pointed out there was complete lack of leadership. Party leadership was busy fighting, spoiling the chances of victory, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-randhawa-targets-sunil-jakhar-over-punjab-poll-debacle-ex-cong-chief-posts-old-video-of-former-dy-cm-praising-him-377250
13-03-2022||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann withdraws security of 122 ex-MLAs, including PCC Chief Navjot Sidhu's wife, ahead of swearing-in as Punjab CM||Punjab CM-elect Bhagwant Mann on Saturday withdrew security of 122 ex-MLAs ahead of the swearing-in.These also include wife of PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-withdraws-security-of-122-ex-mlas-including-sidhu-ahead-of-swearing-in-as-punjab-cm-377225
13-03-2022||Chandigarh||A Venu Prasad appointed Principal Secretary to Punjab CM||A Venu Prasad has been appointed Principal Secretary to the CM.He is a 1991 batch IAS officer.He has remained the CMD of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited for long, and was currently posted as ACS, Excise and Taxation.This has set in motion the administrative changes to be effected by the new AAP government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/a-venu-prasad-appointed-principal-secretary-to-punjab-cm-377207
13-03-2022||Ruchika M Khanna ||Bhagwant Mann meets Punjab governor, stakes claim to form govt||Chandigarh, March 12 Punjab CM-elect Bhagwant Mann on Saturday said that each MLA of the Aam Aadmi Party would work for the growth and progress of Punjab, once their government assumed office.The state would be run on the principles laid by Bhagat Singh - of public welfare and putting the state first, he said. He was taking to the media after staking his claim to form the government.He met Punjab Governor Banwari Lal Purohit in the morning and submitted his proposal to form the government.“The Governor welcomed us and asked us where we would like to have the oath-taking ceremony. We have told him that the ceremony would be held at Khatkar Kalan at 12.30 pm on March 16,” he said. Inviting each Punjabi to the function, Mann said theirs would be a government for the people.While refusing to divulge details of who would be inducted into the cabinet, Mann said the cabinet would be good. “The Council of Ministers will take historic decisions,” he added.Sources say only six to seven ministers will be inducted immediately. Mann arrived at the Raj Bhawan in his personal car, though the government cars and jammers followed him.On Friday night, he held a meeting with Chief Secretary Anirudh Tiwari and DGP VK Bhawra and reportedly asked them to ensure discipline among the employees, while ensuring that there is no harassment to the public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-designate-bhagwant-mann-arrives-at-raj-bhavan-to-meet-governor-377201
