14-03-2022||Chandigarh||Parties face ups and downs, SAD will continue to fight for Punjab’s interests: Parkash Badal after poll debacle||After his party’s worst-ever performance in an assembly poll in Punjab, SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal on Monday said sometimes parties do face ups and downs but asserted that the Shiromani Akali Dal will continue to fight for the interests of the state.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) romped home by winning 92 seats in the 117-member Punjab assembly, decimating the Congress and the SAD-BSP alliance.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) could win just three seats.Among several political stalwarts, the five-time chief minister, Parkash Singh Badal, and his son SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal faced defeat from their respective seats Lambi and Jalalabad in the state assembly elections, results for which were declared on March 10.The 100-year-old SAD on Monday called a meeting of its core committee to analyse reasons behind the loss in the elections.Reacting to the poll results, 94-year-old Parkash Badal said, “Sometimes parties face ups and downs.” “It happens in politics,” he added and pointed out that after the Emergency in 1975, his party won all seats.“During the Emergency, the wave was in our favour and nobody else could win,” said Badal while talking to reporters before the meeting.“People will see this experience (AAP government) too but we will continue to fight for the interests of Punjab and the country,” he said.“It is not only the Akali Dal which lost (in the polls). It was a wave. When there is a wave, people do not see candidates or anything else. All these things, the party will discuss in the meeting,” said Badal.Asked how a political stalwart like him could lose in the assembly polls, Badal said, “I cannot say anything. But we bow down before the people’s mandate.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parties-face-ups-and-downs-sad-will-continue-to-fight-for-punjabs-interests-parkash-badal-after-poll-debacle-377779
14-03-2022||New Delhi||PM Modi greets people at start of Sikh New Year||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday greeted people at the start of the Sikh New Year and wished that the teachings of gurus keep illuminating the world with their brightness."Greetings at the start of the Sikh New Year. May Waheguru bless everyone with good health and prosperity. May the teachings of the Guru Sahibs keep illuminating the world with their brightness," he tweeted.Modi also tweeted his greetings in Punjabi.Nanakshahi calendar is used in Sikhism. The year begins with the month of Chet, with 1 Chet corresponding to March 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-modi-greets-people-at-start-of-sikh-new-year-377733
14-03-2022||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann invites all Punjabis to oath-taking ceremony on March 16||Bhagwant Mann invites all Punjabis to his oath-taking ceremony on March 16. आइये सभी मिलकर शहीद भगत सिंह जी के सपनों का पंजाब बनाएं, 16 मार्च, बुधवार को खटकड़ कलां में शपथग्रहण समाहरो में आने का आप सभी को निमंत्रण देता हूँ।Says it’s time to build a Punjab that Bhagat Singh had dreamt of.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also tweeted: "Punjab will become Rangla Punjab again. Sardar Bhagat Singh's dreams will come true. On 16th, the whole of Punjab will take oath along with my younger brother Bhagwant Mann. I am also participating in this program along with the people of Punjab, you all must also come."पंजाब फिर से रंगला पंजाब बनेगा। सरदार भगत सिंह के सपने साकार होंगे। 16 तारीख़ को मेरे छोटे भाई भगवंत मान के साथ पूरा पंजाब शपथ लेगा। पंजाब के लोगों के साथ मैं भी इस कार्यक्रम में शामिल हो रहा हूँ, आप सब भी ज़रूर आएँ । https://t.co/TjzKl8bOcO||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-invites-all-punjabis-to-his-oath-taking-ceremony-on-march-16-377716
14-03-2022||New Delhi||Will miss this House, have a huge responsibility now: Bhagwant Mann after resigning as Sangrur MP||Punjab Chief Minister-elect and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann on Monday attended the Lok Sabha for the last time before tendering his resignation to Speaker Om Birla.After resigning, Mann said he would miss the House.Speaking to reporters before leaving for Punjab, Mann, on his last day in Lok Sabha, said, "I will miss this House. The people of Punjab have given me a huge responsibility to serve the whole of the state. I promise the people of Sangrur that another AAP voice will soon resonate in Lok Sabha."Asked how he proposed to govern a sensitive border state like Punjab, Mann thanked three crore Punjabis for trusting AAP and Arvind Kejriwal's guarantees and gave love to him."I have been a seven-year MP. We have the experience of running the administration. We are running the government in Delhi for the third time. We are not new. We know how to run governments", said Mann.He also said that several youths had been elected and titans defeated."New, out of the box ideas will come, and Punjab will again become Punjab", the soon to be sworn in Punjab CM said.Asked if he would take directions from Delhi, Mann said, "Will take guidelines from Delhi, Delhi will also take guidelines from Punjab. We will learn good things from Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Bhagat Singh was from Punjab, Chandra Shekhar Azad, Ashfaqullah Khan was from UP, Subhash Chandra Bose was from Bengal. Their aim was to strengthen the country. That is our aim too."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-elect-bhagwant-mann-to-resign-as-mp-from-sangrur-377701
14-03-2022||Abohar||Farmer dies by suicide||13 tubewell motors stolenMuktsar: A total of 13 tubewell motors worth over Rs6 lakh were stolen from Fattanwala village. The police have started an investigation. A complaint in this regard was submitted to the police. TNSTwo arrested for assaultAbohar: Two residents of Bhangala village have been arrested for assaulting a banker. Ekta Colony resident Ashu Pratap alleged that some miscreants attacked him when he had gone to a village in connection with settlement of bank loan dues. The police said two persons were arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-dies-by-suicide-377621
14-03-2022||Amritsar||ASI loses firearm during AAP event in Amritsar||During an AAP roadshow, an ASI, who was part of party’s Punjab co-incharge Raghav Chadha’s detail, lost his service weapon today.The matter was brought to the notice of the Civil Lines police station, where a complaint was submitted. The police authorities said they were verifying the matter. The authorities said since the officer had travelled in different vehicles, the weapon could have fallen and gone unnoticed in one such vehicle. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asi-loses-firearm-during-aap-event-377619
14-03-2022||Barnala||3 mobile phones seized from jail||Barnala jail authorities have seized three mobile phones from a jail barrack. The police have registered a case and started investigation into the case."During a search operation, our team seized three mobile phones, without SIM cards, which were buried in a barrack. We are conducting further investigation into the matter and have also informed the police," said Puneet Garg, Barnala jail Deputy Superintendent.The police have registered a case under the Prisons Act. Efforts were made to contact Investigation Officer head constable Rajiv Kumar but in vain. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-mobile-phones-seized-from-jail-377618
14-03-2022||Anirudh Gupta||After change of guard, drive against drug peddlers picks up||Ferozepur, March 13With the change of guard at the helm in the state, winds of change on ground are already apparent. Ostensibly perturbed due to unabated abuse of drugs in the village, notwithstanding umpteen assurances by previous governments in the state, the AAP supporters belonging to Karmuwala village in the Ferozepur (Rural) Assembly segment on Saturday made an open announcement warning drug peddlers to refrain from their nefarious activities or else face the music.In an audio of the announcement which went viral, the “granthi” of the village gurdwara was heard addressing the villagers, claiming whosoever is found involved in drug peddling or consumption of drugs will be immediately handed over to the police. The warning was issued by the “granthi” reportedly on the behalf of AAP workers Jassa Singh, Lakhwinder Singh, Harjinder Singh, Sarabjit Singh and others, who bolstered by their party’s success in polls have started taking the cudgels in their hands.Earlier, several incidents of sale of drugs had been reported in rural areas in this border district drawing immense criticism from the local populace. Last year, ahead of the elections season, as things were warning up, a video had gone viral in which a person identified as Paster had alleged open sale of “chitta” (drugs) in the village. In his video, he had exhorted the then CM Charanjit Singh Channi, besides the DGP, to take stern action against the accused whom he said were roaming scot free in the village under political patronage.AAP winning candidate from Ferozepur Rural Rajnish Dahiya said within a month, AAP would eradicate the menace of drugs from the state. “With the help of the youth, we will make a new drug-free Punjab,” said Dahiya. #drug menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-change-of-guard-drive-against-drug-peddlers-picks-up-377617
14-03-2022||Amritsar||2 Pak smugglers nabbed along IB||The BSF has apprehended two Pakistan nationals as they tried to sneak into the Indian territory with 2.7 kg heroin from across the International Border (IB) in the Amritsar sector yesterday.As per information, the BSF troops observed some suspicious movement near the fencing early on March 12 and spotted two persons from the Pakistan side trying to sneak into the Indian side. They caught them on the spot.BSF officials said on search, a yellow package containing contraband, suspected to be 2.760 kg heroin, Rs 40 (in Pakistan currency) and a mobile phone with a Pakistan SIM card were recovered from them. Besides, the BSF seized four jackets, a cap, two shawls and four keys. The suspects were trying to take advantage of the adverse climatic conditions and mature wheat crop in fields to sneak in. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-pak-smugglers-nabbed-along-ib-377616
14-03-2022||Muktsar||Grand old man may call it quits||SAD leaders get act togetherMuktsar: After the SAD’s worst-ever defeat in the state, party leaders have restarted their work on the ground by touring their constituencies and holding meetings with public at their residences. For instance, SAD candidate from Muktsar Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi, who tasted poll debacle for a second time, has been holding public meetings at his residence. Similarly, SAD chief Sukhbir Badal, who also lost the election from Jalalabad, has started meeting public at his Badal village residence.Turncoats look for ‘ghar wapsi’Sangrur: Many turncoats, who left the AAP before the Assembly elections, are in a quandary after the formation of the AAP government in Punjab. Now, many have been trying to get in touch with their old friends in the party for “ghar wapsi”. Many have opened a direct dialogue with AAP leaders while others have been finding suitable leaders of their area to set the process rolling for rejoining the party. Malout’s love for outsidersMuktsar: Malout seems to be the lone constituency in the state to have voted in an outsider as an MLA. The constituency has so far sent 14 representatives to the Assembly, some of whom got elected twice or thrice, but all registered as voters in other constituencies. Before the reorganisation of the state, Parkash Singh Badal too had won from the seat in 1957. This was his first Assembly election, which he contested on the Congress ticket. This time, Dr Baljit Kaur of the AAP has won. No prizes for guessing, she is a voter from the Faridkot constituency.Congress man with a broomAbohar: Sandeep Jakhar, who was elected to the Vidhan Sabha on Thursday from Abohar, continues to follow his passion — keeping his town clean. He led hundreds of volunteers in cleaning the Nehru Park on Saturday. He is the lone Congress winner in the nine Assembly segments of Ferozepur, despite the AAP wave. Broom was AAP’s election symbol but PCC ex-president Sunil Jakhar’s nephew has been using it to clean roads, parks and schools of Abohar for the past two years. Minor girls prepared a cake to celebrate his win at a camp. The show must go on till each corner in the town is swept clean, said Sandeep. He also lauded CM-elect Bhagwant Mann’s advice to all MLAs to work in their respective areas instead of staying in Chandigarh. #parkash singh badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/grand-old-man-may-call-it-quits-377615
14-03-2022||Bathinda||Experts: Off-season management of pest-infested crop must||A high-level meeting of senior members of the Inter-state Consultative and Monitoring Committee for cotton was held in Bathinda recently.The meeting was chaired by DK Tiwari, Financial Commissioner, Department of Agriculture Farmer Welfare, and Dilraj Singh, Agricultural Secretary of Punjab Agriculture Department, wherein agri-scientists, experts and other senior officials of the department from Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan dwelt upon techniques and devised new strategies to prevent cotton from pest attacks. During the meeting, senior officials also took stock of the measures which were taken at ground level in January and February to prevent pink bollworm attack on cotton crop at various districts.Dilraj Singh said: “Ginning mill owners have been directed to ensure that their stocks must be exhausted before March 30.” He elaborated and emphasised on off-season management of damaged cotton bolls (infested with pink bollworm).The experts said in comparison to Rajasthan, pink bollworm infestation was more in Punjab and Haryana. — #pink bollworm||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/experts-off-season-mgmt-of-pest-infested-crop-must-377613
14-03-2022||Kiratpur Sahib||Hola Mohalla begins at Kiratpur Sahib today||The first phase of the six-day Hola Mohalla festival will start in Kiratpur Sahib from Monday. The announcement regarding the festival would be made with beats of drums at midnight from Kila Anandgarh at Anandpur Sahib.After three days, the venue will be shifted to Anandpur Sahib on March 17. The festival would conclude on March 19, with a procession and display of martial arts by Nihangs. As lakhs of devotees from across the country as well as abroad are set to attend the celebrations here, the district administration has made elaborate security arrangements in both the towns.While Kiratpur Sahib has been divided into two sectors to monitor security and other arrangements, seven sectors have been carved in and around Anandpur Sahib for the purpose where over 4,500 police personnel and other employees would remain stationed round the clock. Hundreds of CCTVs have been installed to keep a watch on miscreants and a ban has been put on drones in the area.In order to keep the region free of traffic congestion, the traffic moving from Ropar to Nangal would be diverted from Bunga Sahib towards Nurpur Bedi-Jhaj Chowk-Kalwan Mod-Nangal route.Similarly, vehicles going towards Bilaspur-Manali would be diverted from Ghanauli towards Nalagarh-Swarghat route.The liquor vends within 3-km area of both the towns will also remain closed during the mela in that area. #anandpur sahib #hola mohalla #kiratpur sahib #Sikhs #takht sri kesgarh sahib||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hola-mohalla-begins-at-kiratpur-sahib-today-377612
14-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Violating green norms, Sangrur council burns city waste in open||Sangrur, March 13In gross violation of norms, employees of the Sangrur Nagar Council have been burning the waste of city in the open. Despite having the required space to dispose of the waste on the outskirts of the city, the malpractice is going on unabated.“Council employees bring the waste here, unload it and put that on fire. This practice has been going on for quite some time. The smoke emanating from the burning waste is detrimental for the health of residents of the surrounding areas,” said Gurdarshan Singh, a resident area.Will look into matterThe waste can’t be burnt. Council authorities must follow the laid down procedure while disposing it. I will look into the matter. —Ramvir, Sangrur Deputy CommissionerThe council has taken a piece of land along Ubhawal road on an annual lease. At that time, NC authorities had claimed they would use it for proper disposal of the city’s waste. In Sangrur city, council authorities have set up many small dumps in Dhuri gate, Sunami gate and Patiala gate areas. From these small dumps, council employees take the waste to the main dump.“The burning of waste belies the council’s claims. Authorities should take a strict notice of the violation of norms as it might create health problems for residents,” said Dr AS Mann, a local social worker. Sangrur Deputy Commissioner said that he would look into the matter. #Environment #Pollution||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/violating-green-norms-sangrur-council-burns-city-waste-in-open-377611
14-03-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Halted due to Covid, Shatabdi yet to resume service from Bathinda||Bathinda, March 13Residents are upset as flights and Shatabdi Express from Bathinda to New Delhi have been lying defunct ever since the Covid outbreak, forcing them to travel in their own vehicles.Newly elected MLA Jagroop Singh Gill said: “I will write a letter to the authorities concerned and will ask them to restart these facilities for the people of the region. Both the facilities were getting a good response earlier.”As per information, there is no indication towards the resumption of flights from the Bathinda Airport in the summer schedule, which is starting from March 29.As per Airports Authority of India, the authorities wrote to two private players to consider running the Delhi-Bathinda flight operations, but there has been no response from any quarter. Flights from the Bathinda Airport were grounded after the lockdown was imposed due to the Covid outbreak in March 2020.Bathinda is the only district in southern Punjab with air connectivity. The sole service provider, Alliance Air, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Air India, chose not to extend operations after its contract ended two years back.Before the suspension of service, the airport was operating 70-seater ATR-72 flights to and from Jammu five days a week and to Delhi thrice a week. Services on the Delhi route were discontinued from November 28, 2020, and flights to Jammu on October 27, 2019.The airport, a pet project of the Badals, was constructed at Virk Kalan village, about 30 km from Bathinda city, in October 2012, but was made operational in December 2016.The state government had acquired 42 acres and handed it over to the AAI, which spent Rs 25 crore for constructing a civil enclave adjoining Bhisiana Air Force station. While the airport building is under the AAI control, the runway, air traffic and emergency services is the domain of the IAF.Meanwhile, Shikhar Goyal, a trader, said the Centre must restart the flights and Shatabdi Express to New Delhi from here as this would increase the pace of the development in the region and would benefit the residents as travel would be comfortable and less time consuming.Holi special train to Varanasi chugs offSriganganagar: A special Holi train to Varanasi (UP) was flagged off by former Union Minister Nihal Chand Meghwal from the Sriganganagar railway station on Sunday. Station Superintendent Dinesh Kumar Tyagi said on the first day, the train left with almost 100% passenger load. It is expected this train will be regularised soon. The train will make three trips between Sriganganagar-Varanasi in view of the Holi festival. It will have brief stoppages on the way. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/halted-due-to-covid-shatabdi-yet-to-resume-service-from-bathinda-377609
14-03-2022||Aman Sood||Poll code lifted in Punjab, owners rush to get weapons back||Patiala, March 13Within 24 hours of the lifting the model code of conduct by the Election Commission (EC), weapon owners are rushing to police stations and private gun houses to collect their firearms.The poll code had come into force on January 8 with the announcement of the Assembly election schedule and ever since, complying with the EC directions, as many as 3,76,542 of the total 3,90,275 licenced weapons in the state were deposited.“I’ve been spending sleepless nights without my weapon. As soon as the poll code was lifted, I rushed to the police station and managed to get my weapon after fulfilling official formalities,” said Bhalwinder Singh of Samana.Punjab is among top three in India when it comes to firearm owners competing with the likes of bigger states for the number of licenced weapons despite prohibitive licensing measures.With the storerooms of police stations full to capacity, weapon owners turned to private gun houses to deposit their firearms as per the EC guidelines. Another reason for choosing private gun shops is the cumbersome process of getting the weapons released after the poll and the upkeep in police storerooms.“Getting a weapon released from a police station is a task. So, it’s better to pay a private gun house to store the firearms,” said a weapon owner. Many have chosen to deposit their firearms at gun shops for Rs 2,500-Rs 4,000 fee.Another Patiala resident said he spent the entire day to get two firearms — one in his name and the other in his father’s name — released. “Spending over a month without a weapon is too tough. I was worried about its condition,” said Sukhwinder Singh, a property dealer.Considered a status symbol for Punjabis, many families owned double-barrelled guns earlier. However, now barring a few, a majority of people own small weapons, both imported and country-made.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poll-code-lifted-owners-rush-to-get-weapons-back-377607
14-03-2022||Bathinda||New Punjab govt at helm, NHM contract staff hope for regular jobs||Members of the NHM Volunteers’ Association have demanded that new AAP government must fulfil its poll promise of regularising services of contract and outsourced employees/workers rendering their services in the health and other departments for the past many years on priority basis.In a press statement, association members congratulated the AAP for the landslide victory in the Assembly polls. They said the successive governments of the SAD and Congress had promised to regularise 27,000 and 36,000 employees, respectively, but these remained unfulfilled. “We are hopeful that the AAP government will regularise our services.”Association leader Narendar Kumar: “The working class has played a crucial role in the AAP victory. Now, it’s time for the party to fulfil the promises made in its poll manifesto. There are over 12,000 NHM workers who have been rendering their services in the Health Department on meagre salaries for past over 10 to 15 years but the successive governments didn’t do anything for them.” “Salaries of contract workers are at par with regular staff in Haryana and Delhi and the state must also hike their pay accordingly.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-govt-at-helm-nhm-contract-staff-hope-for-regular-jobs-377605
14-03-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab: Top leaders’ segments see dip in economic activity: Study||Chandigarh, March 13A new study has shown how some constituencies, in spite of being represented by political bigwigs, have failed to register good economic activity.With the AAP talking of big reforms in governance, the study could serve as a ready reckoner for targeted policy intervention for economic uplift and promoting investment. At a time, when Punjab’s economy is in a shambles and the state’s outstanding public debt is over Rs 2.80 lakh crore, targeted economic intervention is the only way forward.Constituencies that lagged behindThe study by India Data Portal, a part of Indian School of Business, which has profiled economic activity in each of the 117 constituencies between 2015- 2020, has concluded that Lambi and Jalalabad, earlier represented by Parkash Singh Badal and Sukhbir Badal, respectively, have witnessed moderate decline in economic activity. Fatehgarh Churian represented by former minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Guruharsahai by former Minister Gurmit Singh Sodhi between 2002-2022; Majitha by Bikram Singh Majithia till 2022; Ludhiana Central by Surinder Dawar (till 2022) and Sri Hargobindpur represented by Balwinder Singh Laddi have seen small decline in economic activity.The economic activity in all 117 constituencies has been measured through the study of nightlights, considered the more accurate way in this regard. Night-time radiance, traced from outside space through satellites, has emerged as a pertinent measure for changes in activities, irrespective of their sources.In this study, the change in total radiance depicts that Mohali has shown the most increase of 3,000 pixels in these five years, followed by Kharar, with an almost 2,800-point increase, pointing towards a surge in economic and developmental activities. On this parameter, 88.88% of the constituencies have illustrated an increase in total radiance.In terms of change in per cent lit pixels, 34% of the constituencies have shown no change, highlighting the developed nature of the state. In total, 35% constituencies have shown rise in per cent lit pixels between 2015 and 2019. The study also looked at the impact of the pandemic-induced slowdown. It showed 75% of the constituencies remained immune to the pandemic effect.Method adoptedThe study adopted the nightlight method. An increasing number of lit pixels suggests economic activity is expanding to new areas, as previously dark pixels begin to show radiance in satellite images #bikram majithia #gurmit sodhi #parkash singh badal #sukhbir badal #tript rajinder bajwa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/top-leaders-segments-see-dip-in-economic-activity-study-377604
14-03-2022||---||Young Punjabis losing love for land, feel scholars, thinkers||Amritsar, March 13Historian Sumel Singh Sidhu, did not mince words when he pointed out in front of an audience comprising scholars, writers and students that the young generation of Punjabis are eager to move out of Punjab, as they have lost their love for the land.The Punjabi language which is being taught and written by Punjabi scholars in colleges and universities today is not Punjabi at all. Due to this, the language has disappeared from the minds of common people. Some people speak Punjabi out of compulsion because it is related to their employment. Today in Punjab, whether it was language or social, political and economic crisis, the responsibility lies not only with politicians, but with Punjabis, who are running away from their land. — Sumel Singh Sidhu, HistorianSpeaking at the literary festival being held at Khalsa College on the subject of ‘Agenda Punjab-A search for a better future’, Sidhu said the Punjabi language which was being taught and written by Punjabi scholars in colleges and universities today was not Punjabi at all.“Due to this, Punjabi language has disappeared from the minds of common people. Some people speak Punjabi out of compulsion because it is related to their employment. Today in Punjab, whether it was language or social, political and economic crisis, the responsibility lies not only with politicians, but with Punjabis, who are running away from their land,” he said.He emphasised that Punjabi scholars must introspect and know their audience or the dialogue will fail to connect people with Punjabi language.Speaking on the subject, eminent Punjabi scholar Paramjit Dhingra said there was a time, when 50,000 Punjabis wrote a letter with their blood and sent it to the British government. “They demanded that Punjabi should be the medium of instruction in Punjab’s schools. However, the British wanted the entire education system to be adapted to the English medium. Now, we are forgetting our own mother tongue, the rich vocabulary that it presents is not being preserved.”Earlier in the day, the writings of writers such as Nanak Singh and Jaswant Singh were discussed and how they shaped the ideology of a generation. While conducting this discussion, Jagroop Singh Sekhon said that the culture of eat, drink and enjoy will have to be done away with if we need to bring the change we desire.Later, Khalsa College students in collaboration with Punjab Sangeet Natak Akademi, presented musical rendition of Punjabi poetry. A Sufi performance was also held by folk artistes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/young-punjabis-losing-love-for-land-feel-scholars-thinkers-377601
14-03-2022||Aparna Banerji||Rs 2 crore for ceremony in Khatkar Kalan, but park's power bills unpaid||Jalandhar, March 13Even as over Rs 2 crore is being spent on the swearing-in ceremony of the Bhagwant Mann government at Khatkar Kalan, locals hope the AAP government will finally wake up and pay the pending power bills of the memorial park adjoining the martyr’s ancestral house at the village.Power bills amounting to Rs 1.7 lakh of the memorial park haven’t been paid for the past over two years. The bills are pending since November 2019.While the power bills of the Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh Memorial Museum and the ancestral house have been cleared, the park remains ignored even as Khatkar Kalan readies to host the CM-designate on March 16.Reminders unheededWe have been sending monthly reminders, but to no avail. The park has50-70 kW supply for four motors to run fountain. Atma Ram, SDO, Power department, BangaDues will be clearedWe have taken up the issue with the Tourism Department and the outstanding amount will be paid at the earliest. —Navneet Bal, Kapurthala SDMSources say unable to afford adequate staff, there have been layoffs in the past and staff salaries often get delayed. Villagers say they have pitched in to help the memorial and ancestral home staff during paucity of funds.Gurjit Singh, president, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Welfare Society, Khatkar Kalan, said: “We are happy the swearing-in ceremony is happening here and hope the memorial will get its due attention. If Rs 2 crore is being spent on the ceremony, some amount can easily be set aside for the memorial’s upkeep. We hope this special focus of the new government is not limited to special occasions only.”He added: “The lawnmower for the park worth Rs 30,000 was provided by villagers. We even arranged brooms. Recently, a request for provision of a pump to drain out excess water from the fountain also came to the villagers. The government must make these arrangements. A neighbouring Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh Library also remains closed. The villagers chip in when they can, but the government should make sure an annual budget covers all the needs of the memorial and park.”Congress leader Navjot Sidhu had donated Rs 2.5 lakh for the pending bills of the ancestral home two years ago. Some lights and motors have also stopped working over time. Atma Ram, SDO, Power Department, Banga, said: “Power bills worth Rs 1.70 lakh are pending since November 2019. We have been sending monthly reminders to the government. The park has a 50-70 kW medium supply connection for four motors to run the fountain.”SDM Navneet Bal said: “A little over Rs 1.5 lakh worth of bills remain pending. We have taken up the issue with the Tourism Department and the outstanding amount will be paid at the earliest.” #khatkar kalan #shaheed bhagat singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-crore-for-ceremony-but-parks-power-bills-unpaid-377600
14-03-2022||Jalandhar||PRTC buses misused for AAP's roadshow, alleges SAD||Addressing medipersons in Jalandhar, he wondered why CM-elect Bhagwant Mann had made his Golden Temple visit such an elaborate affair. “Mann must avoid extravagance,” said the SAD leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prtc-buses-misused-for-aaps-roadshow-alleges-sad-377597
14-03-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Despite loss, AAP nominees garner huge vote share in Pathankot, Gurdaspur||Gurdaspur, March 13The tsunami unleashed by the AAP in the Assembly elections was so intense that party candidates who lost have actually performed exceedingly well if the number of votes polled is any indicator.The twin districts of Pathankot and Gurdaspur have a combined strength of 10 seats, of which three are represented by AAP legislators. Of the remaining seven, each one secured more than 28,000 votes.The three winners —Amarpal Singh (Sri-Hargobindpur), Sherry Kalsi (Batala) and Lal Chand (Bhoa) — polled over 50,000 votes. “Sherry Kalsi polled more than double the number of votes secured by second placed Ashwani Sekhri (Congress). But what takes the cake is that each of the seven losing candidates came close to the 30,000 figure,” said Amarpal Singh.In Fatehgarh Churian, AAP’s Balbir Singh, who was placed third, polled an impressive 35,819 votes. “He showed how badly the voters wanted a change from the two-party system,” said a Delhi-based leader.In Gurdaspur, AAP’s Raman Bahl dug a hole in the vote bank of eventual winner BS Pahra of the Congress and second-placed SAD’s Gurbachan Babbehali by polling nearly 29,000 votes. “The youth, disillusioned that no jobs were created in the past few decades, voted en masse for Bahl.For all practical purposes, he will be the de facto MLA because of the fact that his party is in power in Chandigarh,” said a senior officer.Likewise, Jagrup Sekhwan of the AAP contested against Congress bigwig Partap Bajwa from Qadian and had a tally of 34,916 votes to his name. Dinanagar saw Shamsher Singh up against ex-Cabinet minister Aruna Chaudhury, losing despite bagging 50,002 votes. Both Amit Mantu (Sujanpur) and Vibhuti Sharma (Pathankot) touched the 30,000-mark despite being at the losing end. Dera Baba Nanak, from where Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa snatched a win from the jaws of defeat, AAP’s Gurdeep Singh gave his rivals a run for their money by notching up 31,336 votes.Three days after the counting, the rival parties of the AAP are unable to fathom what hit them. Two Congress ministers claimed that they would engage in a booth-by-booth introspection exercise once the dust settles. “As for now, we are still assessing the overall damage done to us by the tornado that the AAP turned out to be,” quipped one of them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-loss-aap-nominees-garner-huge-vote-share-in-pathankot-gurdaspur-377595
14-03-2022||---||Acid attack in Amritsar: Woman lawyer escapes unhurt||Amritsar, March 13A woman lawyer had a narrow escape when two bike-borne persons threw acid on her face here on Saturday evening. Her alertness saved her as she covered the face with her jacket.The victim, identified as Priya, a resident of Fatehgarh Churian (Gurdaspur), recognised one of the accused as Karan, who also lived in Fategarh Churian. The police have registered a case against him and his unidentified accomplice and raids were on to nab them. The Amritsar Bar Association has condemned the incident and said the Punjab Police should ensure her security.Priya told the police that on Saturday she along with her brother Amit was returning home after meeting a relative. She said when they reached near Mehdipura village, two youths came from behind on a bike. As they came near her, one of them called her name. She recognized the pillion rider as Karan, but she could not identify the youth driving the motorcycle. She said Karan was holding an acid bottle and as he came near her, he sprinkled acid on her face.She said she immediately covered her face with her arm due to which her jacket burnt and saved herself. However, the accused fled from the spot.The police said a case under Sections 326-B, 511, 506 and 34 of the IPC was registered against Karan and his unidentified companion. Raids were on to nab them.Priya said Karan recently came out of the jail where he was lodged for his involvement in murder and drug peddling cases. She had recently completed her law and was currently practicing in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.She alleged that the accused had been harassing her for some time for not responding to his calls. She said she had already informed her family about this. She alleged during the incident, the accused threatened to kill her.While condemning the incident, Amritsar Bar Association president Vipin Dhand said they would look into the case and also talked to the police authorities for providing security to the victim and her family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/acid-attack-woman-lawyer-escapes-unhurt-377594
14-03-2022||Vishav Bharti||Left polled fewer votes than NOTA in Punjab election||Chandigarh, March 13Several parties could not even match the number of NOTA votes polled in the recent Punjab Assembly elections.As per the results declared on Thursday, of the 1.54 crore votes polled in the state, 1.10 lakh went to the None of the Above (NOTA) option, making up for 0.71 per cent of the total votes.Among the political parties that polled fewer votes than NOTA was the CPI (ML-Liberation), which had fielded 11 candidates but got just 4,640 votes. Another Left party, the CPI, had fielded seven candidates and got 7,734 votes, while CPM’s 11 candidates polled 9,281 votes. Besides, the JD-U and RSP polled fewer votes than NOTA.The Sanyukt Samaj Morcha, which had fielded 108 candidates got 1,85,523 votes, with a vote share of 1.2%, while BSP’s 23 candidates, contesting in alliance with the SAD, polled 1.77% votes.In the last Assembly elections, 1.08 lakh voters had opted for NOTA, making up for 0.7% of the total polled votes. In fact, the vote share of NOTA was then higher than that of five political parties — CPM, CPI, SAD (A), Revolutionary Marxist Party of India and Apna Punjab Party — put together.Vote share of SAD(A) surgesSimranjit Singh Mann’s SAD (Amritsar) has significantly increased its vote share as compared to the last polls. The party, which had fielded 91 candidates, polled 4.31 lakh votes this time. In 2017, the party had fielded 54 candidates, but none, including Mann, could save their security deposit. They had together polled 49,000 votes. #nota||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/left-polled-fewer-votes-than-nota-377593
14-03-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Punjab election: Double whammy for big names||Jalandhar, March 13All those who were members of some commissions or committees and had to put in papers for contesting the polls have had to face a double loss. While they lost the posts they were holding, they ended up cutting a sorry figure in the polls.At least four such leaders have faced a dual setback. SGPC former chief Jagir Kaur was made to resign to contest as SAD candidate from her traditional seat Bholath. Jagir Kaur lost to Congress’ Sukhpal Khaira by a margin of 9,225 votes. In November 2020, it had only been a year since she was elected SGPC chief for the fourth time when she was made to step down. SAD insiders close to her said she was insisting that she be allowed to carry on with the SGPC presidentship while remaining a candidate, but party president Sukhbir Badal persuaded her to quit it so that she could concentrate on her campaign full time and bring in a good result, but the plan somehow failed.Likewise, Dr Navjot Dahiya, who was made the chairman of the newly constituted Punjab State Commission for General Category in December 2021, had to quit from the post just weeks after he had taken over. He was picked by the Congress as the Nakodar candidate but lost to AAP nominee Inderjit Kaur Mann by 6,800 votes. Since Dr Dahiya is a renowned orthopaedician and National Vice President of IMA, he is now back with his practice.BJP leader Iqbal Singh Lalpura, who was appointed as the Chairman of the National Commission for Minorities in September last year, too, had to resign from the constitutional post so as to be able to contest as the party candidate from the Ropar Assembly seat. Lalpura, a retired IPS officer, lost his security deposit.Similarly, state BJP ex-president Vijay Sampla, who was the Chairperson of National Commission for Schedule Castes, contested the Phagwara poll quitting from the post. But he too ultimately lost his security deposit in the four-cornered contest.Jagir Kaur stepped down as SGPC president to contest as SAD nominee from BholathNavjot Dahiya quit as a state commission head to fight on the Congress ticket from NakodarIqbal Singh Lalpura was minorities’ panel head, who contested from Ropar on BJP ticketVijay Sampla of the BJP resigned as national SC commission chief to contest from Phagwara #bibi jagir kaur #iqbal singh lalpura #vijay sampla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/double-whammy-for-big-names-377590
14-03-2022||---||Will prop up health services: Dr Amandeep Kaur Arora||Moga, March 13Newly elected Aam Aadmi Party legislator Dr Amandeep Kaur Arora, who defeated actor Sonu Sood’s sister Malvika by 20,915 votes, says she will focus on raising the standard of education and health services in the area.Working as a doctor in the clinic of Employees’ State Insurance Corporation, here, Dr Arora quit the post to contest her maiden election. When she got the party ticket, she wasn’t seen as a serious challenger, but she drew support with her self-effacing and polite demeanour. Dr Arora got a shot in the arm when CM face Bhagwant Mann joined her campaign days before the polling.AAP insiders said Dr Arora may be inducted into the Cabinet and get the Health portfolio. Her husband, Dr Rakesh Arora, said: “My wife can be an asset and help improve the health services of the state.” #dr amandeep kaur arora||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doc-will-prop-up-health-services-377580
14-03-2022||Ferozepur||Ditching AAP at 11th hour cost Ashu Banger dear||Leaving the AAP in the lurch at the eleventh hour proved costly for turncoat Ashu Banger, who despite being allocated the ticket by the party from the Ferozepur Rural seat jumped ship overnight to join the Congress, only to lose by a huge margin of 27,746 votes.In an apparent setback to the AAP, the party nominee from Ferozepur Rural was presented before the media by the Congress, just days ahead of the filing of nomination papers. Sitting next to then CM Charanjit Singh Channi, Banger had minced no words in ridiculing the AAP leadership for allegedly accepting money in lieu of allotting the party ticket. Banger had also accused the AAP of nepotism and corruption.No regretsI have no regrets. I had worked hard for the party. I still stand by my charges levelled against the party. — Ashu Banger, CongressNotwithstanding criticism from within the party, Banger was later given the ticket by the Congress from the segment, denying nomination to sitting MLA Satkar Kaur Gehri, who had won the previous polls by over 20,000 votes.The AAP subsequently replaced Banger with Rajnish Dahiya, an advocate. Dahiya was asleep when he got a surprise call from AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal, asking him to get ready to contest the elections in place of Banger and the rest is history. Sources said had Banger contested on the AAP ticket, he would have won comfortably, but he committed a “political suicide” by ditching the party at the last moment.Banger lost trust of his AAP supporters and could not win over Congress workers, too, who had opposed his entry into the party tooth and nail. Even Satkat Kaur reportedly supported the AAP, due to which she was eventually suspended by the Congress.On his part, Banger said he had no regrets about leaving the AAP ahead of the elections. and he still stood by his charges levelled against the party. — #ashu banger||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ditching-aap-at-11th-hour-cost-banger-dear-377576
14-03-2022||Chandigarh||Charanjit Channi, Navjot Sidhu behind defeat: Ex-minister Balbir Sidhu||As pressure mounts on former Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu over the poll debacle, senior Congress leader and former minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday termed the two as “turncoats and opportunist” who scripted party’s humiliating defeat. Terming them parachute leaders, Balbir said the two were alien to the Congress, its history and culture.“The decline of the party’s prospects started the day when Sunil Jakhar, a dyed in the wool Congress man, was replaced by an outsider, Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had joined party just four years ago. The party committed one blunder after another. Removing Capt Amarinder Singh as the Chief Minister proved to be the last straw, which eventually led to complete collapse of the party and the government,” he said.The former minister said the third mistake was refusing to appoint Jakhar as the Chief Minister, despite the support of an overwhelming majority of the party MLAs just because he was a Hindu, despite Congress having a pure secular character and culture. “If the Congress had believed in politics of religion, then Giani Zail Singh wouldn’t be the President, Dr Manmohan Singh wouldn’t be the Prime Minister and Buta Singh wouldn’t be the Home Minister,” he pointed out.Balbir said the party arbitrarily denying ticket to senior and veteran leaders such as Amrik Singh Dhillon, Jahmohan Singh Kang, Ajaib Singh Bhatti and Kewal Singh Dhillon was yet another fatal mistake. “It was strange and surprising that the party looked like it was in a race with itself in repeating one blunder after another to cause its own doom,” he said. The three-time former MLA from Mohali pointed out just before the appointment of Sidhu as the PCC president, everyone was of the unanimous view that the Congress would repeat itself in 2022.“But the countdown for doom started the day Sidhu took over as PCC chief,” he said, adding the party made no efforts to rein him in. Besides, the language used by Sidhu and Channi antagonised a large section of the electorate, he said. — #balbir sidhu #capt amarinder singh #charanjit channi #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-sidhu-behind-defeat-says-ex-minister-377572
14-03-2022||Chandigarh||Only Bhagwant Mann may take oath on Mar 16||Chief Minister-elect Bhagwant Mann will submit his resignation as the Member of Parliament from Sangrur on Monday. Sources in the Aam Aadmi Party have told The Tribune before Mann takes the oath of office and secrecy as the Chief Minister on March 16, he will submit his resignation. The deliberations on the new Cabinet and Speaker of the Vidhan Sabha, too, are to be held tomorrow.Also read: Rs 2 crore for ceremony in Khatkar Kalan, but park's power bills unpaidThe first session of the Vidhan Sabha is likely to be convened on March 17, a day after the oath-taking ceremony. Interestingly, indications coming from the party are that only Mann will take the soath at Khatkar Kalan on March 16. The other members of the Cabinet will be sworn in later in Chandigarh.Funds earmarked for ceremonySources in the party confirm the party top brass in Delhi has already been looking at the likely inductions into the Cabinet. Initially, only six to seven ministers are to be inducted. The Punjab Cabinet can have 18 members, including the Chief Minister. The names of those who likely to be inducted include Harpal Cheema, Aman Arora, Harjot Bains, Baljinder Kaur, Neena Mittal and Budh Ram. Meanwhile, the Punjab Government will spend Rs 2.42 crore on the oath-taking ceremony of the Chief Minister-elect on Wednesday.While Rs 2 crore have been earmarked for the function to be held near the memorial to Bhagat Singh, Rs 42 lakh have been set aside for ferrying people from across the state for the ceremony on March 16 (Rs 2 lakh per district). Further, Rs 15 lakh have been set aside for making arrangements for the visit of all-party MLAs to Amritsar, where they are expected to pay obeisance at the Darbar Sahib. #bhagwant mann #khatkar kalan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/only-mann-may-take-oath-on-mar-16-377558
14-03-2022||Aditi Tandon||Ignored plaints against Capt Amarinder Singh for long: Sonia Gandhi||New Delhi, March 13Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday admitted before the party’s working committee she kept protecting former CM Capt Amarinder Singh despite a series of complaints against him.Sources said Sonia made these remarks after AICC screening committee chairman for Punjab Ajay Maken said Capt Amarinder should have been removed much earlier than September 2021, by when it was too late to offset anti-incumbency that had set in. He was commenting on the reasons behind party’s loss in the state."If it was a mistake to continue Capt Amarinder Singh as Punjab CM, I am responsible for it. I only kept protecting Amarinder Singh despite complaints against him.”Speaking on Punjab losses, party leaders also said party’s own top brass in the state “pulled down CM Charanjit Channi, the asset Rahul Gandhi created for Punjab and India”.Maken is learnt to have told the CWC when Channi reduced power tariff, “PCC chief Navjot Sidhu questioned the move asking where the money will come from and when Channi acted on the drug issue, Congress’ own leaders said the case against Bikram Majithia would not stand in court.”“After Rahul Gandhi said the party was backing Channi, a leader from a humble background, as its CM face for Punjab, PCC chief’s family brought up Channi’s riches, damaging the party’s committed stand,” Maken is learnt to have said, while explaining why the Congress failed to retain Punjab. The leaders further noted the Congress had done nothing until September 2021 on its 2017 poll promises related to the sacrilege and drug issues. It was also stated at the CWC that people’s angst against Captain was evident from the fact that he lost Patiala by a substantial margin.“Capt was widely seen to be soft on Akalis and both suffered hugely in the election. People were perhaps angry with the Congress not because it replaced Capt as CM but because it did so very late,” the CWC was briefed. Congress veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad is learnt to have questioned the “sudden replacement of Capt Amarinder as Punjab CM”. #ajay maken #capt amarinder singh #charanjit channi #sonia gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ignored-plaints-against-capt-for-long-sonia-377560
14-03-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Post rout, focus shifts to picking CLP leader||Chandigarh, March 13Faced with its worst poll debacle, churning has begun within the party over the choice of the Congress legislature party (CLP) leader in the new Vidhan Sabha. With all leaders gunning for PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, the possibility of replacing him is not being ruled out. Though there is officially no word from the party high command, the leadership learning from its past mistakes may opt for a dyed in the wool Congress man as it aims to pull itself up ahead of the 2024 parliamentary elections.Clamour for replacing PCC chiefSources in the Congress said after being reduced to 18 seats from 77 in 2017, the party is left with little choice while choosing the CLP leader. Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa, who has been elected from Qadian, outgoing Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa (Dera Baba Nanak), Tript Rajinder Bajwa (Fatehgarh Churian) and Raja Warring (Gidderbaha) are among main contenders for the post.PCC former chief Sunil Jakhar today met former minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and other leaders in Ludhiana, as MP Ravneet Bittu gave a clarion call to party workers to brace for the 2024 General Election. Without naming anyone, Jakhar said fight among the leaders for the post of the CM ruined the party. “These leaders had turned suicide bombers for the party,” he said. #navjot singh sidhu #partap singh bajwa #raja warring #ravneet bittu #sunil jakhar #tript rajinder bajwa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-rout-focus-shifts-to-picking-clp-leader-377563
14-03-2022||---||Finally, Punjab to get honest CM: Arvind Kejriwal||Amritsar, March 13Showing gratitude towards the people of Punjab for AAP’s landslide victory, party convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal said, “It is now our turn to pay back and fulfil all promises made prior to the elections.”Kejriwal, along with Punjab CM designate Bhagwant Mann, party MLAs and leaders, held a roadshow in the holy city on Sunday. He said after many years, Punjab was going to get an honest CM. “My younger brother Bhagwant is fiercely honest. If a minister or a party MLA is found indulging in any wrongdoing, he will be put behind bars. There will be an honest government,” Kejriwal said. Mann said, “You voted for yourself, kids and your elders. You voted for good farming and a good standard of living. We will start working from day one.”On the withdrawal of security of ex-ministers and MLAs, Mann said 403 police personnel and 27 police vehicles were now back at police stations. Earlier, the leaders offered “ardas” at the Golden Temple and paid tributes to martyrs at the Jallaianwala Bagh. #arvind kejriwal #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/finally-punjab-to-get-honest-cm-arvind-kejriwal-377548
14-03-2022||Chandigarh||Congress scripted its own defeat in Punjab, says party leader Balbir Sidhu||Former Punjab minister and senior Congress leader Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday said that the Congress leadership scripted its own defeat by giving power to turncoats and opportunists who were alien to the Congress, its history and culture.Reacting to the party’s drubbing in the Punjab assembly polls, Sidhu said, “The decline of the party’s prospects started the day Sunil Jakhar, a dyed-in-wool Congressman, was replaced by an outsider Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had joined the Congress just four years ago.”Asserting that the Congress “committed one blunder after another”, Balbir Sidhu said removing Amarinder Singh as the chief minister proved to be the last straw that broke the camel’s back which eventually led to the “complete collapse” of the party and the government.Amarinder Singh was unseated from the chief minister’s post last year following a bitter feud between him and Navjot Singh Sidhu.In a statement here, the former health minister said the party’s third mistake was refusing to appoint Sunil Jakhar as the chief minister just because he was a Hindu, despite the support of an overwhelming majority of the party MLAs and the secular character and culture of the Congress.“If the Congress had believed in politics of religion, Giani Zail Singh wouldn’t be the president, Dr Manmohan Singh wouldn’t be the prime minister and Buta Singh wouldn’t be the home minister,” he said.“All this was followed by the appointment of Charanjit Singh Channi, who again was not a real Congressman, as he had tried his luck with the Shiromani Akali Dal and the People’s Party of Punjab before joining the Congress. The Congress party and the government was handed over to rank outsiders,” Balbir Sidhu asserted.He said the way the party arbitrarily denied tickets to senior and veteran leaders like Amrik Singh Dhillon, Jagmohan Singh Kang, Ajaib Singh Bhatti and Kewal Singh Dhillon was yet another fatal mistake by the Congress leadership.“It was strange and surprising that the party looked like it was in a race with itself in repeating one blunder after another to cause its own doom,” he said.The three-time former MLA from Mohali pointed out that just before the appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president, everyone was of the unanimous view that the Congress will repeat itself in 2022.“But the countdown for doom started the day Navjot Sidhu took over as the PCC president”, he said, adding that the party made no efforts to reign him in.Balbir Sidhu said the way the Punjab Congress chief and the chief minister indulged in open war of words, putting the party in a state of “civil war”, left the field wide open for the opposition.“People got fed up with this civil war and they decided to teach us a lesson,” he said.Besides, Balbir Sidhu said, “The language used by Navjot Sidhu and Channi during the campaign antagonised a large section of the electorate.” While Navjot Sidhu allegedly addressed former minister Anil Joshi as a “kaala Brahmin”, Channi allegedly used derogatory language against the migrant population.This antagonised certain communities and they voted against the Congress not only in Punjab, but also in Uttar Pradesh, he said.The former minister said instead of owning up responsibility, those responsible were “shamelessly” glorifying themselves as if they had won “Param Vir Chakra”.He said those responsible for the debacle must be made accountable, lest the Congress got “destroyed beyond redemption”.The Aam Aadmi Party romped home with 92 of the 117 assembly seats by decimating the Congress and the SAD-BSP combine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-scripted-its-own-defeat-in-punjab-says-party-leader-balbir-sidhu-377513
14-03-2022||Ruchika M. Khanna||Punjab CM-elect Bhagwant Mann to resign as MP on Monday||Chandigarh, March 13Punjab Chief Minister-elect Bhagwant Mann will be submitting his resignation as Member of Parliament, Sangrur, on Monday.Sources in the Aam Aadmi Party have told The Tribune that before he takes the oath of office and secrecy as Chief Minister on March 16, Mann will submit his resignation.The deliberations on the new Punjab Cabinet and the Speaker of Punjab Vidhan Sabha, too, are to be held tomorrow. The first session of the Vidhan Sabha is likely to be convened on March 17, a day after the oath-taking ceremony at Khatkar Kalan.Interestingly, the indications coming from the party are that only Bhagwant Mann will take oath as CM on March 16. The other members of the cabinet will be sworn in later at Chandigarh.Sources in the party confirm that the party top brass in Delhi has already been looking at the likely inductions in the Cabinet. Initially, only six to seven ministers are to be inducted in the Cabinet.Punjab Cabinet can have 18 members, including a chief minister. The names of those who are likely to be inducted are Harpal Cheema, Aman Arora, Harjot Bains, Baljinder Kaur, Neena Mittal and Budh Ram.Punjab Government will be spending Rs 2.42 crore on the oath-taking ceremony of the Chief Minister elect Bhagwant Mann at Khatkar Kalan on Wednesday.While Rs 2 crore have been earmarked for the function to be held near the memorial of Bhagat Singh, Rs 42 lakh have been set aside for ferrying people from across the state for the ceremony on March 16 (Rs 2 lakh per district).Another sum of Rs 15 lakh has been set aside for making arrangements for the visit of all party MLAs to Amritsar, where they are expected to pay obeisance at the Darbar Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-elect-bhagwant-mann-to-resign-as-mp-on-monday-377497
14-03-2022||Punjab going to get honest CM after years||Punjab Election 2022: 'Tussi kamaal kar dita', Arvind Kejriwal to supporters on Punjab landslide win; takes out mega Amritsar roadshow with Bhagwant Mann||Amritsar, March 13AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said after many years, Punjab is going to get an honest chief minister and asserted that his party will give an honest government to the state.“Tussi kamaal kar dita.... I love you Punjab,” he said, thanking the voters of the state for the huge mandate they have given to his party.“The whole world is discussing you. The world is yet to believe that such a big inquilab (revolution) has come to Punjab,” Kejriwal said during a roadshow organised by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to celebrate its landslide poll victory.AAP’s chief minister-designate Bhagwant Mann also took part in the roadshow.The AAP won 92 of the 117 Assembly seats in Punjab, decimating the Congress and the SAD-BSP combine.Kejriwal noted that the voters of Punjab made leaders like Parkash Singh Badal, Sukhbir Singh Badal, Navjot Singh Sidhu, Charanjit Singh Channi, Bikram Singh Majithia, Adesh Partap Singh Kairon, Manpreet Singh Badal and Rajinder Kaur Bhattal bite the dust in the just-concluded election.“It is a very big inquilab and only Punjabis could do this,” he said.“I am happy that after many years, Punjab is going to get an honest chief minister. My younger brother Bhagwant is fiercely honest. An honest government will be formed,” the Delhi chief minister said.He said if a minister or an MLA of the party is found to be indulging in any kind of wrongdoing, he will be put behind bars.“There will be a fiercely honest government,” Kejriwal said while targeting other political parties for allegedly looting the state.“This loot will now be stopped. Every single penny from the government coffers will be spent on you, on the poor and on Punjab,” he added.The AAP supremo said his party will honour all the poll promises made to the people of Punjab. “Some may take time, some can be done instantly, but we will honour all promises,” he said.On March 16, Mann will be sworn in as the new chief minister at the oath-taking ceremony at Khatkar Kalan in Nawanshahr, Kejriwal said, adding, “Not only Bhagwant Mann, but every single person of Punjab will be the chief minister.”“Now, there will be development in Punjab. We will make it ‘rangla’ Punjab and prosperous Punjab,” he said.Mann said the names of the people of Punjab will be written in golden letters in history for “breaking the record” on March 10, when the poll results were declared.“You voted for yourself, for your children, your elders, you voted for good farming and for a good standard of living,” he said.Mann said the voters ensured that those who “looted” the state alternatively for 70 years were defeated in the polls with big margins.“The kind of record you have made with 92 seats, it has never happened in the history of Punjab,” he said as he recalled that the AAP was born out of a movement at the Ram Lila ground in Delhi.“We will start working from day one,” Mann said.On the withdrawal of security of 122 former ministers and MLAs, Mann said 403 police personnel and 27 police vehicles are now back at police stations.He reiterated that there will be no photograph of the chief minister at government offices and “only the pictures of legendary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh and B R Ambedkar will be put up”.Referring to seasoned politicians getting a taste of electoral defeat, he said, “They have not lost, but it is the people of Punjab who have won.”The swearing-in ceremony, which was traditionally held at the Raj Bhawan, will now be held at Khatkar Kalan, the native place of Bhagat Singh, Mann said.The roadshow started from Kachheri Chowk. AAP supporters showered flower petals on both Kejriwal and Mann who stood atop an open vehicle. Newly-elected MLAs of the party were also part of the roadshow.Waving the tricolour and party flags, the supporters, including several elderly people and women, came to Amritsar from various parts of the state to witness the roadshow.“We are very happy that the AAP has come to power. Now, Punjab will become prosperous once again,” said a young man who came all the way from Jaitu in Faridkot.Another AAP supporter from Amritsar’s Ajnala said, “People were disenchanted with the traditional political parties and they saw the AAP as a ray of hope for giving a new direction to Punjab.”Cut-outs of Kejriwal and Mann as well as “Dhanyavad Punjab” posters were put up at many places in the holy city.The AAP supporters danced to dhol beats and patriotic songs were also played.Tight security arrangements were made during the roadshow.Earlier, Kejriwal, along with Mann, paid obeisance at the Golden Temple. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) officials at the information centre presented them with a “siropa” (robe of honour).The two leaders also paid floral tributes at the Jallianwala Bagh memorial and offered prayers at the Durgiana Mandir and the Sri Ram Tirath Mandir here.Kejriwal, who was accompanied by Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, was received by Mann at the airport. AAP leader Raghav Chadha was also present. #Punjabpolls2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-election-2022-live-updates-arvind-kejriwal-arrives-in-amritsar-for-a-roadshow-with-bhagwant-mann-377461
