15-03-2022||---||NIA files charge sheet against 6 in Jalalabad bomb blast case||New Delhi, March 15The anti-terror federal probe agency NIA on Tuesday said it filed a charge against six accused persons in Jalalabad bomb blast (September 15, 2021) case in a special court in Mohali, as charges have been levelled under various sections of the Explosive Substances Act, the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the IPC.Those who have been named in the charge sheet include Sukhwinder Singh, Gurpreet Singh alias Gora and Ranjit Singh alias Gora (all from Ferozepur), Parveen Singh of Fazilka, Habib Khan from Pakistan and Lakhbir Singh Rode, who is a Pakistan-based designated terrorist.The NIA in an official statement said, its investigation has revealed the conspiracy of Pakistan based designated terrorist Lakhbir Singh Rode, self-styled chief of International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF) and his associates to cause multiple explosions at crowded places in Punjab and to effect large scale causalities and strike terror in the minds of people.“On the directions of Lakhbir Singh Rode, another Pakistan based narco-terror operative Habib Khan alias Doctor had radicalised and recruited Balwinder Singh and Sukhwinder Singh and motivated them to plant bombs using pre-assembled Improvised Explosive Devices (tiffin bombs) smuggled along with Heroin from across the border,” it said.In furtherance of their plan, eight pre-assembled tiffin bombs (along with training material) were received by the Binder Singh and Sukhwinder Singh along with large quantities of heroin and money sent to fund their terror activities, the NIA alleged, while adding that prior to the bomb explosion that occurred in Jalalabad, this terrorist gang had also set ablaze a car as well as a few shops in Ferozpur.The NIA further said on September 15, 2021 Binder Singh and Sukhwinder Singh had conducted reconnaissance of a crowded market in Jalalabad town for carrying out an explosion. “While Binder Singh was trying to retrieve the motorcycle along with the planted tiffin bomb, as it has not exploded at the designated time, he was killed on the spot due to explosion,” it added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-6-in-jalalabad-bomb-blast-case-378079
15-03-2022||SBS Nagar||All in place for Bhagwant Mann's oath taking at Khatkar Kalan||Bhagwant Mann will be sworn-in as Punjab Chief Minister on Wednesday as elaborate arrangements were made for his oath-taking ceremony at Khatkar Kalan—ancestral village of legendary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh in Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar district.Mann will take oath alone on Wednesday, said AAP party sources.The Punjab cabinet can have 18 ministers including the chief minister.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and other senior party leaders will take part in the swearing-in ceremony.The Aam Aadmi Party romped home winning 92 seats in the 117-member Punjab Assembly, decimating the Congress and the SAD-BSP combine.Officials are expecting over 3 lakh people to attend the event.Mann, the Chief Minister-designate, had invited the people of the state to attend his oath-taking ceremony, saying it’s not he alone, but 3 crore people of Punjab will also take oath with him.He had also urged men to wear ‘basanti’ (yellow) colour turbans and women to wear basanti ‘dupatta’.Officials said full-proof security arrangements have been made for the ceremony and several senior officials, including Inspector General and Senior Superintendent Police rank officers, have been deputed for the event.Around 8,000 to 10,000 security personnel have been deployed for the event, said the officials.The venue is spread over 50 acres of land with another 50 acres earmarked for parking of vehicles, said the officials.Apart from the smooth movement of the traffic, major thrust shall be laid on ensuring that people coming to the function do not face any problem, said the officials.The district administration has announced a school holiday on March 16 in view of huge gathering expected for the swearing-in ceremony.Civil Surgeon Davinder Dhanda said services of health staff of adjoining 10 districts and nearly 30 ambulances would be deployed to meet any health emergencies.Twelve first-aid teams would also be there to provide emergency first-aid, he said.Punjab Chief Secretary Anirudh Tiwari, director general of police VK Bhawra, and additional chief secretary to the CM A Venu Prasad had reviewed the arrangements on Monday.The district police have released a route-plan for people who would be arriving from different parts of the state.Devotees who earlier used to reach Sri Anandpur Sahib for Holla Mohalla celebrations via Banga-Garhshankar route have now been asked to follow Phagwara-Mehitana-Garshankar route by the police in view of the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/all-in-place-for-bhagwant-manns-oath-taking-at-khatkar-kalan-378077
15-03-2022||New Delhi||HC dismisses plea for probe into Kejriwal’s ‘Khalistani links’; Delhi CM says reply to those who called him terrorist||Soon after the Delhi High Court dismissed a petition seeking a high-level inquiry against Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal alleging that he has links with Khalistani separatists, the AAP supremo said the court decision is a reply to those who called him “terrorist”.Earlier in the day, the Delhi High Court termed as “completely frivolous” and dismissed the petition filed by Congress leader Jagdish Sharma seeking an investigation into the allegations that AAP and its convener Kejriwal have links with banned organisation Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) and other Khalistani forces and have received funds from them to contest the elections in Punjab.Reacting to the court order, Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi, “First the public gave reply (in elections) to those who called me a terrorist, and today the court has given them the reply,” Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi.The AAP has made a clean sweep in Punjab after winning 92 of the 117 assembly seats.A bench of Acting Chief Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Navin Chawla also asked the counsel for the petitioner not to file such frivolous petitions.“In your petition, you say that the authorities are cognisant of the letter of erstwhile Chief Minister of Punjab to the Union Home Minister. Where is the question of we directing for any inquiry? Please don’t file such frivolous petitions. It is completely frivolous. Is there any reason to think that authorities will not take action or are not taking action?” the bench said while dismissing the petition.The petition referred to a letter written by former Punjab chief minister Charanjeet Singh Channi levelling the same allegations and the statement of former AAP leader Kumar Vishwas on the same lines.The petition also sought temporary suspension of AAP’s recognition and also bar the party from contesting any elections till the inquiry is completed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/hc-dismisses-plea-for-probe-into-kejriwals-khalistani-links-delhi-cm-says-reply-to-those-who-called-him-terrorist-378069
15-03-2022||---||Punjab lifts all Covid restrictions||Chandigarh, March 15Punjab on Tuesday lifted all Covid 19-related restrictions with immediate effect.The state Home Affairs directed the police and civil administration to lift all restrictions. There is no bar now on assembly of people in weddings, cinema halls or restaurants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-lifts-all-covid-restrictions-378037
15-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab poll debacle: Congress candidates blame Channi, senior party leaders||Several Congress candidates on Tuesday blamed indiscipline in the party and its senior leaders, including Charanjit Singh Channi, for the crushing defeat in the Punjab Assembly polls.The Congress leaders said this interacting with the media as AICC in-charge for Punjab affairs Harish Chaudhary called a meeting to introspect on the party’s defeat.Chaudhary met party candidates and said the meeting was called to find the reasons behind the party’s defeat.Outgoing Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and party’s state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu were also present at the Punjab Congress office. However, both refused to talk to the media.Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, who won from Gidderbaha seat, blamed indiscipline for the party’s rout in the elections.“There was indiscipline in the party. People of Punjab felt that we are somewhere non-serious. There were several reasons but it was one of them,” said Warring.Replying to a question, Warring said anybody who created indiscipline should be “thrown out of the party”.Darshan Brar, who lost from Baghapurana, blamed statements of Charanjit Singh Channi and Sunil Jakhar for hurting prospects of the Congress.He expressed his displeasure over Jakhar’s last month’s statement, in which he had claimed that 42 MLAs wanted him to be the CM.Brar said Channi’s “UP de Bhaiye” remark went against the party in the elections.Gurpreet Singh, who lost from the Bassi Pathana assembly seat, squarely blamed Channi for the party’s crushing defeat in the polls.He said the Congress announced Sidhu as the party’s chief ministerial face, it would have won at least 50 seats.“CM Channi is the only reason for the party’s defeat. People did not like Channi as the CM face at all. Had (Navjot) Sidhu been announced as the CM, we would have won at least 50 seats,” said Gurpreet Singh.When pointed out that Sidhu himself lost from his Amritsar East seat, Gurpreet Singh blamed Channi again.“If Charanjit Channi was the CM face then what could Sidhu do,” he said.The Punjab leader said how could people of Punjab listen to Channi when his brother does not.Channi’s brother Manohar Singh contested as an Independent from Bassi Pathana against Gurpreet Singh.“Is it the job of the CM to dance or milk a goat,” he said, taking a dig at Channi.Instead, Channi should have focused on improving health and education sectors and job creation, said Gurpreet Singh.Replying to a question, he said as a huge sum of money was seized from Channi’s nephew following the Enforcement Directorate raid, he should not have been declared as the chief ministerial face by the party high command.The former Congress MLA also alleged that Channi was richer than former chief minister Amarinder Singh.Congress candidate and outgoing minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who lost from Ludhiana West, said, “The reasons because of which we lost the elections will be out in the open soon. I do not think that the party was weak or we lost because of the leadership.”A blame game has commenced within the Punjab Congress over the drubbing in the polls.AAP romped home by winning 92 seats in the 117-member Punjab Assembly. The Congress was routed in the elections and could win only 18 seats.On Monday, former state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar had hit out at Channi and called him a liability whose “greed pulled the party down”.Without taking her name, Jakhar had also targeted senior party leader Ambika Soni for trying to project Channi as an asset.On Sunday, former Punjab minister and senior Congress leader Balbir Singh Sidhu, who lost from Mohali, had said that the Congress leadership scripted its own defeat by giving power to turncoats and opportunists who were alien to the Congress, its history and its culture. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/blame-game-in-punjab-congress-as-harish-chaudhary-meets-party-candidates-to-review-poll-debacle-378036
15-03-2022||Chandigarh||2 Punjab officers promoted to IAS cadre||With the Union Ministry of Personnel issuing the notification in this regard, two Punjab state service officers: Gulpreet Singh Aulakh and Dr Sona Thind - have been promoted to the prestigious union Indian Administrative Service (IAS) cadre.In total, 10 officers who had been recommended by Punjab government ranging across a wide spectrum of state services were interviewed by the Board for two posts on February 5 at the UPSC headquarters in the national capital.The state qualification criteria for recommendation of candidates for the UPSC interview entailed rigorous matching up of exemplary service record, length of service and above all the nuanced understanding and appreciation of their departmental domain areas.The official communique released by the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Department of Personnel and Training Government of India, reads, "... In exercise of the powers conferred by Rule 8 (2) of the Indian Administrative Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1954 read with Regulation 8 of the Indian Administrative Service (Appointment by selection) Regulations, 1997 and Rule 3 of the Indian Administrative Service (Probation) Rules, 1954, the President is pleased to appoint the following members of the Non-State Civil Service of Punjab to the Indian Administrative Service ....".1973-born Gulpreet Singh Aulakh is serving as Divisional Soil Conservation Officer and is posted at the Chandigarh Office presently. Currently, Dr. Thind holds charge as Joint Director Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-punjab-officers-promoted-to-ias-cadre-378015
15-03-2022||---||Bhagwant Mann, Arvind Kejriwal should clear stand on SYL, says Haryana Cong leader Captain Ajay Singh Yadav||Panipat, March 14Captain Ajay Singh Yadav, former minister and national chairman of the OBC cell of the Congress, said that Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is going to form a government in Punjab for which he wishes it the best. But Bhagwant Mann, who is going to become the CM of Punjab, and Arvind Kejriwal, the national convener of AAP, should first clear their stand on the Sutlej-Yamuna link canal, he said.Yadav said that in southern Haryana, water has run out at the depth of 1,000 ft. So people get drinking water with great difficulty. Entire Haryana, including southern Haryana, would benefit from the water that the SYL brings. Captain Yadav said that for bringing SYL water to Haryana, the Congress fought, went to court and Haryana won there. #arvind kejriwal #bhagwant mann #captain ajay singh yadav #syl||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhagwant-mann-arvind-kejriwal-should-clear-stand-on-syl-says-yadav-377960
15-03-2022||Muktsar||Install meters at earliest: Malout legislator to PSPCL||AAP MLA from Malout Dr Baljit Kaur has started touring the constituency, listening to the problems of area residents and directing the officials concerned to take adequate steps.She visited a slum area in the town today and listened to the problems being faced by people living there. A number of people complained of having to wait for long periods for a new electricity connection. The MLA asked the executive engineer of the PSPCL to install power meters at the earliest. Besides, she assured the residents of solving their long-pending demands of potable water supply and better sewerage system. She had inspected Malout Civil Hospital on Saturday. — #pspcl||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/install-meters-at-earliest-malout-legislator-to-pspcl-377902
15-03-2022||Abohar||Minor molested, one nabbed||The police have arrested Vikramjit Singh for allegedly molesting a minor girl in Alamgarh. A case has been registered under Sections 354, 354A, 354B, 451 and 328 of the IPC and the POCSO Act against Vikramjit . —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minor-molested-one-nabbed-377899
15-03-2022||Fazilka||AAP worker attacked in Jalalabad||The AAP’s worker reportedly got injured in a post-poll clash in Jalalabad. The victim, Ranjit Kumar, a resident of Roranwali Mandi, had come back after attending the AAP’s victory march in Amritsar on late Sunday evening.According to eyewitness, Congress supporters, including a former block chairman of Intellectual Cell, assaulted Ranjit with sharp- edged weapon at a dhaba.Deputy Superintendent of Police Vaibhav Sehgal said Ranjit was referred to the Faridkot Medical College. The DSP said Ranjit refused to record his statement. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-worker-attacked-in-jalalabad-377898
15-03-2022||Bathinda||Hair donation camp for cancer patients||All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bathinda, organised a first-of-its-kind hair donation camp where volunteers and staff donated their hair. Dr Sapna Bhatty, head, Department of Oncology, said, “Medical faculty, nursing officers and MBBS students came forward to donate their hair for the noble cause. Together Trust and Veronica Wig Partners joined hands for the cause. Wigs for cancer patients can help the latter to overcome the psychological impact of hair loss.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hair-donation-camp-for-cancer-patients-377897
15-03-2022||---||Youth held for raping 9-yr-old||Abohar, March 14A 22-year-old youth allegedly raped 9-year-old girl on Sunday. The victim was admitted to the government hospital in Kesarisinghpur, in Sriganganagar.The accused has been identified as Imilal (22). Police station incharge Davinder Singh a rape case has been registered against the Imilal. The vicitm’s mother said they had gone to attend a marriage ceremony and her daughter was alone in the house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-held-for-raping-9-yr-old-377896
15-03-2022||Hoshiarpur||7 held for Tanda bovine killings||The district police and GRP have arrested seven suspects in connection with the recovery of 17 carcasses of slaughtered bovines in Tanda.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said on the night of March 11 and 12, 17 head of cattle were slaughtered and skeletons dumped near Dhadiala village.The suspects would be taken on remand for interrogation, said the police. An FIR had been registered at the GRP Jalandhar police station. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-held-for-tanda-bovine-killings-377895
15-03-2022||Faridkot||NEET-PG cut-off reduced, eligible candidates invited||After reducing the qualifying percentile under the NEET PG-2021 for admissions to MD/MS courses, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) on Monday invited all candidates for admission, who have now become eligible for registration. The Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) has also invited all such candidates who want to get their nationality converted from Indian to NRI for mop-up round of counselling.The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has reduced the minimum qualifying criteria for all categories of candidates for admission to MD/MS courses. Following this, the cut-off has come down to 247 marks from 302 out of total 800 marks in the NEET PG-2021 for general category candidates. The same has fallen to 210 from previous 265 for SC/BC and 229 from 283 for the PWD category candidates.The BFUHS has extended the date for online registration/application for fresh application from March 14 to March 24 in view of many candidates becoming eligible after reducing the eligibility criteria. The date of display of provisional allotment or admission result has also been postponed from March 23 to April 4. The date for walk-in counselling for vacancy round for left over seats (if any) which was scheduled to be held on March 28 has also been extended to April 12.The candidates who are holding/joined the allotted seat of Round I or II of the counselling are not eligible for the mop-up round of counselling.To get nationality converted from Indian to NRI for the mop-up round of PG counselling, the MCC has demanded the aspirant candidates to submit the proof that the sponsor of the candidate is an NRI and for the purpose, the candidate has been asked to submit the passport and visa of the sponsor. There should be an affidavit from the sponsor that he/she will sponsor entire course fee of the candidate. — #NEET||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/neet-pg-cut-off-reduced-eligible-candidates-invited-377894
15-03-2022||---||Hola Mohalla kicks off in Anandpur Sahib||Kiratpur Sahib, March 14First phase of six-day “Hola Mohalla” commenced with beating of nagaras at Kila Anandgarh Sahib in Anandpur Sahib today.The festival will conclude with a mohalla (procession) by Nihang Sikhs on March 19 in Anandpur Sahib.Today, “akhand path” started at Gurdwara Patalpuri Sahib, bhog of which would be performed on March 16.Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib Jathedar Raghubir Singh said around 25 lakh devotees from all over India and abroad would visit Anandpur Sahib on the occasion. #anandpur sahib #hola mohalla #Sikhs #takht sri kesgarh sahib||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hola-mohalla-kicks-off-377892
15-03-2022||Kulwinder Sandhu||Falling watertable cause for worry||Moga, March 14Excessive exploitation of groundwater in Moga district, the heartland of Malwa belt, is a cause for concern as all the five blocks have been categorised as over-exploited and fall under the “dark zone”.As per the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB), the rate of decline of groundwater varies from 50 cm per year to 80 cm annually in the district.The recharge of groundwater through rain or other sources in Moga also known as ‘Rice bowl’ of Punjab has been quite less than the overall extraction.The district has around 64,232 tubewells, which irrigate fields through unlined kutcha (99.84 per cent) open channel systems. In this process, a huge quantity of groundwater gets wasted.The CGWB said 50 per cent of the over draft could be brought down by switching over to underground/surface pipeline-based distribution.Ajay Sood, a progressive farmer from Saleena village, said, “The state government must launch a scheme along with farmers to install underground pipelines instead of having kutcha channels. It will help to improve groundwater table.”Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar, who is an agro scientist, said groundwater table can be improved by adopting crop diversification, including paddy to maize, soyabean and pulses. “It can save one million cubic metre of water in one square kilometer. In case of pulses, higher amount of groundwater can be saved,” he said.So far, the Department of Soil Conservation, has constructed 22 recharge structures in Patiala, Sangrur, Moga and Mohali districts. The results of these were yet to be ascertained.The government had also made rooftop rainwater harvesting mandatory in buildings above 200 sq yd by amending the building bylaws, but nothing concrete has happened on the ground in this regard.Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat during his visit to the district, said, “We have asked the state government to bring in a policy to monitor excessive exploitation of groundwater to ensure long-term sustainability of agriculture. Water metres can also be installed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/falling-watertable-cause-for-worry-377891
15-03-2022||Kulwinder Sandhu||Falling watertable cause for worry||Moga, March 14Excessive exploitation of groundwater in Moga district, the heartland of Malwa belt, is a cause for concern as all the five blocks have been categorised as over-exploited and fall under the “dark zone”.As per the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB), the rate of decline of groundwater varies from 50 cm per year to 80 cm annually in the district.The recharge of groundwater through rain or other sources in Moga also known as ‘Rice bowl’ of Punjab has been quite less than the overall extraction.The district has around 64,232 tubewells, which irrigate fields through unlined kutcha (99.84 per cent) open channel systems. In this process, a huge quantity of groundwater gets wasted.The CGWB said 50 per cent of the over draft could be brought down by switching over to underground/surface pipeline-based distribution.Ajay Sood, a progressive farmer from Saleena village, said, “The state government must launch a scheme along with farmers to install underground pipelines instead of having kutcha channels. It will help to improve groundwater table.”Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar, who is an agro scientist, said groundwater table can be improved by adopting crop diversification, including paddy to maize, soyabean and pulses. “It can save one million cubic metre of water in one square kilometer. In case of pulses, higher amount of groundwater can be saved,” he said.So far, the Department of Soil Conservation, has constructed 22 recharge structures in Patiala, Sangrur, Moga and Mohali districts. The results of these were yet to be ascertained.The government had also made rooftop rainwater harvesting mandatory in buildings above 200 sq yd by amending the building bylaws, but nothing concrete has happened on the ground in this regard.Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat during his visit to the district, said, “We have asked the state government to bring in a policy to monitor excessive exploitation of groundwater to ensure long-term sustainability of agriculture. Water metres can also be installed.” #watertable||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/falling-watertable-cause-for-worry-377890
15-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Failure to find motive doesn't signify its non-existence, rules High Court||Chandigarh, March 14In a significant judgment, liable to change the way verdicts are delivered in criminal trials where intention behind the crime is not explicit, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that failure to ascertain the motive does not signify its non-existence. The Bench also made it clear that the failure to prove motive was not “fatal” to prosecution case as a matter of law.Motive never indispensable for convictionThe proof of motive is never indispensable for conviction. Absence of proof of motive does not break the link in the chain of circumstances connecting the accused with the crime, nor militates against the prosecution case. HC BenchThe ruling by the Bench of Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma came in a murder case where the appellant-husband mentally and physically harassed his wife “under the greed of dowry” before ultimately murdering her.The accused had moved the HC after he was convicted and sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for life by the trial court. Challenging the order, his counsel among other things had contended that the appellant had no motive to commit the crime. The evidence led before the trial court, too, was insufficient to establish the motive.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Verma asserted the court could not come to the conclusion that the appellant was not guilty merely because there was no eyewitness in the case. The fact remained that murder took place in the appellant’s house. The question, as such, was who authored the murder?Justice Verma added it was well established that dowry demand was the motive behind the murder at the hands of the appellant. Even if it was assumed for the sake of arguments that motive was not made out, the fact remained that the case was based on circumstantial evidence.“People do not act wholly without a motive. The failure to discover the motive of an offence does not signify its non-existence…. The proof of motive is never indispensable for conviction. Absence of proof of motive does not break the link in the chain of circumstances connecting the accused with the crime, nor militates against the prosecution case. In the present case, facts and even the motive is clear that there was persistent demand of dowry,” Justice Verma addedUpholding the conviction on the behalf of the Bench, Justice Verma further added presumption contemplated under Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act went against the accused. “This provision of law stipulates that when any fact is especially within the knowledge of any person, the burden of proving that fact is upon him…. It was the bounden duty of the appellant/accused to explain how the death of his wife occurred, as she was residing with him in her matrimonial home,” Justice Verma asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/failure-to-find-motive-doesnt-signify-its-non-existence-rules-high-court-377888
15-03-2022||Aparna Banerji||International kabaddi player Sandeep Singh Nangal Ambian shot in Nakodar village||Jalandhar, March 14Sandeep Singh Nangal Ambian, a prolific 40-year-old international kabaddi player from Shahkot, was shot by four armed assailants at Mallian Khurd village in Nakodar this evening.Targeted at meetSandeep, 40, was targeted during a kabaddi tournament at Mallian Khurd village. He suffered multiple gunshot wounds in the head and was taken to a hospital, where he was declared deadThe cold-blooded killing of one of the biggest organisers of kabaddi tournaments in the region has shocked the sporting community.Sandeep was targeted during a kabaddi tournament at the village. Some friends shifted Sandeep to a hospital, where he was declared dead by doctors. He was shot in the head several times.Sandeep Singh, hailing from Nangal Ambian village, was living in England and is survived by his wife and two sons, both 5.In a video of the incident that has gone viral, assailants are seen standing amidst trees shooting someone. At least seven to eight shots are fired near an open arena where a match was on. As the assailants opened fire, the tournament was halted midway and people ran for cover. The suspects fled the scene thereafter.Sandeep, who was president of several tournaments, was visiting India to host kabaddi events and attend some weddings.The former captain of the Indian team in circle-style kabaddi was the president of the Major League Kabaddi Federation and Shahkot Lions Kabaddi Cup. He was also a player of the Shahkot Lions team. Friends said he was working to eradicate drugs through sports.Sandeep was also one of the key organisers of the langar hosted by state’s sportspersons for farmers at Singhu on the Delhi border. He had especially flown from England to participate in the farmers’ agitation.Nakodar police station Station House Officer said Sandeep was shot during a tournament by four unidentified persons. The police were trying to arrest the suspects, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/international-kabaddi-player-shot-377887
15-03-2022||Amritsar||Stop endorsing Badals: Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to Akal Takht||Former Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has written to Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh urging him to stop endorsing the Badal-led SAD and be a representative of the entire Sikh community.The letter was in response to concern shown by Jathedar over SAD’s dismal performance in the recent polls. In his two-page letter, Randhawa reminded the Jathedar that he represented the entire Sikh community and should stop worrying about the Badals.In the recent elections, people had given a befitting reply to the SAD, which had never refrained from taking the support of controversial Sirsa dera in the past and recently held elections too, thereby “disrespecting” the Panthic “rehat maryada” and principles. — #akal takht #Sikhs #sukhjinder singh randhawa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stop-endorsing-badals-randhawa-to-takht-377885
15-03-2022||GS Paul||After objection, SGPC orders glass partition removal at Golden Temple||Amritsar, March 14Following objections raised by devotees, the glass partition, put up at windows on the first floor of the Golden Temple, has been removed by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC).These were installed as a part of several security measures, taken following the “sacrilege bid” inside the sanctum sanctorum in December last year. However, certain objections were received that it had not only obstructed the ventilation but also the sound of the prayers’ recitation. Moreover, it also led to tinkering with the originality of the structure.The objections were brought to the notice of the SGPC. SGPC executive member Baba Gurpreet Singh had also raised the issue prominently before SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami during the executive committee meeting. He said due to obstruction in cross ventilation, there were chances of seepage in the walls of the structure too. “Technically, this can increase the moisture level and damage the walls,” he said.Golden Temple manager Gurinder Singh Mathrewal said the issue was reviewed and the SGPC president ordered to remove the glasses. Other measures that were taken by the SGPC included a separate fence which was setup behind the ‘raagis’ who perform the kirtan. Similarly, vigilance was stepped up at the ‘darshani deodi’ by deputing extra ‘sewadars’ to keep an eye on suspected persons. #golden temple #sacrilege #SGPC #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-objection-sgpc-orders-glass-partition-removal-at-golden-temple-377884
15-03-2022||Amritsar||Sikh staff allowed to carry 'kirpan' at airports||The baptised Sikh staffers can carry ‘siri saheb’ (kirpan, a Sikh religious symbol) while working at the airports, as the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation has amended its earlier notification that had put restrictions on them on the airport premises.The SGPC, which had raised the issue, has now welcomed the move of the civil aviation ministry. On March 9, SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami had written to Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, stating that the March 4 order was an attack on the Sikhs’ rights.As per the circular, the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) had recently amended an aviation security circular that allows Sikh passengers travelling on domestic flights within India to carry a kirpan — up to 9 inch-long (22.86 cm) with the blade being not more than 6-inch-long (15.24 cm).The SGPC had raised the issue with the aviation ministry. The BCAS stated that due to an inadvertent error, it had omitted “employees” from the purview of the order. The corrigendum removed the paragraph that prohibited Sikh employees to carry a kirpan at any airport in the country. — #jyotiraditya scindia #SGPC #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-staff-allowed-to-carry-kirpan-at-airports-377880
15-03-2022||Aparna Banerji||Crop on 150 acres cleared for Bhagwant Mann’s oath-taking at Khatkar Kalan||Jalandhar, March 14Standing crop across 150 acres has been razed and parts of the boundary walls of the Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh Martyrs’ Memorial and Museum broken to accommodate a huge gathering at Khatkar Kalan village for the swearing-in ceremony of CM-designate Bhagwant Mann on March 16.Arena draped in yellow, blueA huge pandal in ‘basanti’ (yellow) and blue drapes is coming up at Khatkar Kalan. Yellow is the traditional colour of AAP’s adopted turban, styled after martyr Bhagat Singh. Blue is the colour of Dr BR Ambedkar — revered by Dalits.From the initial plan of accommodating 1 lakh people, the expected number had swelled to around 2 lakh till yesterday. However, with CM-designate Bhagwant Mann’s open invitation to people last evening, the turnout is likely to go up significantly, and officials are not taking any chances. Officials and bureaucrats in large numbers have been making a beeline for Khatkar Kalan to review the arrangements on a daily basis.The area of the pandal and parking space have been extended gradually. From 13 acres earlier, it was stretched to 40 to 50 acres and now 150 acres have been cleared of standing wheat crop to prepare for the mega event.A compensation of Rs 45,000 per acre has been promised to at least 20 farmers whose 150 acres have been cleared of crop for parking at Khatkar Kalan. Residents said: “We are happy with the change of guard. And farmers have been promised compensation in return for their crop. So they don’t have any qualms about the land being used.”Chief Secretary Anirudh Tiwari, DGP VK Bhawra and Additional Chief Secretary to CM A Venu Prasad today reviewed arrangements for the swearing-in ceremony, slated to take place on March 16 at the rear end of the Shaheed-e-Aazam Bhagat Singh Memorial and Museum.Officials said since it was a mega event with historic significance, the entire nation would be looking towards the state, so every officer was duty-bound to make it a success. They said minute details were being looked into and arrangements for parking, food and water for public, stage, power supply, sanitation, health, law and order, security were being reviewed. #bhagwant mann #khatkar kalan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crop-on150-acres-cleared-for-oath-taking-377878
15-03-2022||Moga||Moga MLAs jointly call on officials||The newly-elected four MLAs of the AAP in Moga district — Manjit Singh Bilaspur (Nihalsinghwala), Davinderjit Singh Dhos (Dharamkot), Amritpal Singh Sukhanand (Baghapurana) and Dr Amandeep Kaur Arora (Moga) — today jointly called on District Magistrate Harish Nayyar, SSP Charanjit Singh Sohal and other senior officials.They told the officials that the common man shoudn’t be harassed and concerted efforts be made to make governance reach at the grassroots level. “Officials and employees coming late for work and indulging in corrupt practices will not be spared,” they warned.“All officers and employees should be punctual,” they stressed. Though the MLAs assured of not interfering in administrative affairs, the way they jointly held meetings and issued instructions to officials indicated otherwise.Soon after, they also visited the District Hospital and government schools. Meanwhile, the DM requested the MLAs to cooperate with the administration in making the people aware of the importance of not burning wheat stubble during the upcoming harvest season. He promised the MLAs that the district administration would provide government services to the people within the stipulated time frame without any harassment and “will not tolerate corruption,” the DM assured them. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-mlas-jointly-call-on-officials-377875
15-03-2022||Patiala||Be punctual, redress grievances, DCs told||Deputy Commissioners in the Patiala division have been ordered to reach their offices by 9 am and redress the grievances of general public on a priority basis.MLA finds SMO drunkAAP MLA from Shutrana, Kulwant Singh, on Monday allegedly caught a Patran Senior Medical Officer (SMO) in a drunken state and found liquor bottles during a surprise of the Civil Hospital. Dr GB Singh, Director, Health and Family Welfare, said he would take appropriate action. TNSPatiala Divisional Commissioner Chander Gaind directed the DCs to further order their subordinate staff at the district, tehsil and block levels to also reach office on time. He further asked the DCs to ensure adequate seating, drinking water and comfortable ambiance in their offices for the convenience of public.The orders come just before the oath-taking ceremony of the AAP government. Gaind directed the DCs to further ask subordinate staff to remain available for public services till the office hours. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/be-punctual-redress-grievances-dcs-told-377873
15-03-2022||Chandigarh||1st woman Speaker likely in Punjab Assembly||The AAP is likely to create history by appointing a woman as the Speaker of Vidhan Sabha. The names of Saravjit Kaur Manuke and Baljinder Kaur are doing the rounds for this appointment. The party is unlikely to fill all vacancies in the Cabinet immediately. The issue was reportedly discussed at a meeting between CM-elect Bhagwant Mann and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal in Delhi today.There was also deliberation on inclusion of one of the “giant slayers” in the Cabinet. The names of Gurmeet Singh Khudian, Jagdeep Kamboj Goldy, Jeevanjot Kaur and Ajitpal Singh Kohli were discussed. Sources say a training programme for the first-time MLAs is also being planned. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1st-woman-speaker-likely-in-assembly-377871
15-03-2022||Fatehgarh Sahib||Legal cell to counter AAP's high-handedness: Kuljit Singh Nagra||The Pradesh Congress Committee is going to set up a legal cell to fight against the high-handedness of the AAP government at its head office in Chandigarh.Former MLA and working president of PCC, Kuljit Singh Nagra, disclosed this after addressing sarpanches, councillors, zila parishad members and Congress workers today. The meet was held to review the reason behind the debacle in the Assembly poll. Nagra said they accept the verdict of the voters and the defeat was not the end of the world.He warned the AAP not to be vindictive towards the Congress workers and elected representatives. Nagra said during his tenure, he initiated unprecedented development, but the mandate for the AAP upset the apple cart of all other parties.He criticised the AAP for wasting public money on the visit of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/legal-cell-to-counter-aaps-high-handedness-nagra-377869
15-03-2022||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh: Gandhis solely to blame for fiasco||Holding the Gandhis solely responsible for the rout of the Congress in the recent Assembly elections, PLC chief Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday hit out at the Congress Working Committee (CWC) for trying to put the blame of their party’s dismal defeat on him, “instead of gracefully admitting to their own blunders”.Ended up discrediting partyIn their effort to discredit me, the high command joined hands with Sidhu and others, and in the process ended up discrediting the party completely. — Capt Amarinder Singh, Punjab Lok Congress President“The Congress has not only lost in Punjab but also in UP, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur and the Gandhis are entirely to blame for the party’s shameful defeat,” he said, adding the fact was people across the country had lost faith in the their leadership.Pointing out that many senior leaders within the party were openly blaming the infighting in the Punjab Congress and the “anti-party” statements of PCC chief Navjot Sidhu for the abysmal performance, the former Chief Minister said the Congress was comfortably placed in the state till he was sacked to “favour certain sycophants”.The party had dug its own grave in the border state the day they decided to back an “unstable” and “pompous” person like Sidhu, and naming a “corrupt man” like Charanjit Singh Channi as the CM just months before the polls, he said.The CWC leaders who were claiming there was a strong “anti-incumbency” against his (Capt Amarinder’s) government had conveniently forgotten he had won every election for the party since 2017, the last being the civic bodies election in February 2021, just seven months before his unceremonious removal, he pointed out.“These leaders are just sycophants who are trying to shield the family by shifting blame and closing their eyes to the writing on the wall,” he said, adding the Congress had no future under the present setup.Capt Amarinder said the real reason for the Congress’ defeat in Punjab was the failure of the high command to rein in people like Sidhu, who indulged in tarnishing the image of the party for their own personal gains. He said: “In their efforts to discredit me, the party high command joined hands with Sidhu and others, and in the process ended up discrediting the party completely.”Capt Amarinder said though he did not owe an explanation to the CWC or the Congress, he had chosen to react to the comments of these leaders just to clarify his position to the people of Punjab, to whom he still felt accountable.The former CM said he had been sending fortnightly reports on his government’s achievements to AICC acting president Sonia Gandhi and not once had she complained on them. “Even three weeks before my sacking, I had offered to quit but Sonia had insisted I stay and lead the party in the 2022 elections,” he added. — #capt amarinder singh #charanjit channi #navjot sidhu #rahul gandhi #sonia gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-gandhis-solely-to-blame-for-fiasco-377867
15-03-2022||---||SAD reposes faith in Sukhbir Badal's leadership||Chandigarh, March 14Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) core committee today reposed faith in the leadership of president Sukhbir Singh Badal at its first meeting after the party’s poor show in the Assembly polls.The committee passed a resolution that the party could not have run a better campaign than the one planned and executed by Sukhbir. Party patriarch Parkash Singh Badal chaired the meeting after a long gap today.He along with his son had lost the elections from their traditional seats of Lambi and Jalalabad, respectively. Only three of the 94 candidates fielded by the party could win their seats.Sources said a resolution was moved soon after the meeting started. Sukhbir did not offer to resign as was being speculated. Various members opined such a heavy loss in the election was unexpected. They agreed the party seemed to have lost in the face of a wave for change in favour of the Aam Aadmi Party. The members said the results had come as a surprise as ground reports by the party indicated otherwise.Addressing mediapersons after the three-hour meeting, party spokesperson Dr Daljeet Singh Cheema said the SAD core committee unanimously expressed “full faith and pride in the firm and far-sighted leadership of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal”.“The core committee is especially proud of the brave, selfless and tireless manner in which the president led the party from the front in true Panthic traditions during the six-month-long campaign,” said a resolution passed at the meeting. #daljeet singh cheema #parkash singh badal #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-reposes-faith-in-sukhbirs-leadership-377865
15-03-2022||---||Clamour in Punjab Congress for isolating Charanjit Channi, Navjot Sidhu backers||Chandigarh, March 14Pressure is building in the Punjab Congress to isolate the pressure group in central leadership that played a key role in giving lead roles to Charanjit Singh Channi as the CM face and Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief.Poll loss wakeup callIt is a wakeup call. Learning from past mistakes, person with credible face should be made the Congress legislature party (CLP) leader. Sunil Jakhar, Former PCC PresidentHarish Chaudhary calls meet of Malwa leadersChandigarh: A day after a CWC meeting was held in New Delhi to review the party debacle in the elections, Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary on Monday convened a meeting of party leaders, including unsuccessful candidates, from the Malwa region here on Tuesday. The meeting for Doaba and Majha leaders will be held in the coming days. The party leaders would be asked to comment on the reasons for party’s poor show. TNSDays after the humiliating defeat of the party in the elections, traditional Congress men are realigning to keep the turncoats out of the scene. The ‘G-23’ leaders have also demanded that traditional partymen should be made state party unit chiefs.On Monday, former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar hit out at Rajya Sabha MP Ambika Soni over her reported remark during the CWC meeting describing Channi as an “asset”. Taking to Twitter, he said: “An asset — are you joking? Thank God he wasn’t declared a ‘national treasure’ at CWC by the ‘Punjabi’ lady who proposed him as the CM in first place. Maybe an asset for her but for the party he has been only a liability. Not the top brass, but his own greed pulled him and the party down.”Jakhar further said the narrative building around the “humble” background of Channi had been demolished after the corruption taint on his nephew, costing the party dear.“It is a wakeup call. Learning from past mistakes, person with credible face should be made the Congress legislature party (CLP) leader,” said Jakhar as he advised central leadership not to give wrong advice to Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi.Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Gill said the Congress had to be revived and Taksali party leaders had to be heard. Party leaders are asking for boosting the morale of the party cadre.Sources in the party said churning had started within the party to expose the leaders who had been giving wrong advice to the party high command in the run-up to the Assembly elections. Questions are being asked about the role of previous Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat in running the affairs of Punjab Congress. MP Ravneet Bittu has already questioned the role of Channi and Sidhu. #charanjit channi #harish chaudhary #navjot sidhu #sunil jakhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/clamour-for-isolating-channi-sidhu-backers-377863
15-03-2022||New Delhi||Bhagwant Mann resigns as MP, says will miss House||Chief Minister-designate and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann on Monday attended the Lok Sabha for the last time and tendered his resignation to Speaker Om Birla.Responsibility bigger nowThe people of Punjab have now given me a huge responsibility to serve the entire state. I promise the people of Sangrur that another AAP voice will soon resonate in Lok Sabha. Bhagwant Mann, CM-ElectOn his final day as MP, Mann said he would miss the Lower House. The 48-year-old was greeted on AAP’s stupendous victory by a cross section of MPs, including Congress’ Shashi Tharoor and BJD’s Bhartruhari Mahtab.Mann was seen sharing happy vibes with party colleague and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh. Tharoor, who shared a bench with Mann in the LS, tweeted a selfie with the CM-elect and wrote, “Parliamentary camaraderie: Many Congress MPs came up to Bhagwant Mann to congratulate him on his election victory and appointment as CM of Punjab. I had the pleasure of sharing his joy after five years of being seated in the same bench in the Lok Sabha in the previous term.”The Congress finished a distant second after AAP in the Assembly polls. Asked how he proposed to govern a sensitive, border state, Mann said, “I have been an MP for seven years. We have the administrative experience. AAP is in its third term in Delhi. We are not new. We know how to govern,” said Mann, scheduled to take oath as CM on March 16. He said several youth had been elected in Punjab and titans defeated.On the query about whether he would take directions from Delhi where AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal is the CM, Mann said, “We will take guidelines from Delhi. It will also take guidelines from Punjab. We will learn good things from Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Bhagat Singh was from Punjab, Chandraskehkar Azad, Ashfaqullah were from UP, Subhash Chandra Bose was from Bengal. Their aim was to strengthen the country. That is our aim too.” — #bhagwant mann #om birla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mann-resigns-as-mp-says-will-miss-house-377858
15-03-2022||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||CM-designate's ACS A Venu Prasad adept at handling power, excise affairs||Chandigarh, March 14Varied experience in handling the affairs of the power sector, particularly during the past seven years, played a key role in the selection of A Venu Prasad as Additional Chief Secretary to CM-designate Bhagwant Mann. The AAP is looking to start working on its promise of 24 hours of uninterrupted supply and 300 units of free power.Held key postsA soft-spoken 1991-cadre IAS officer, Venu Prasad has vast experience in the Excise and Taxation Department, where he served as the Commissioner from 2007-2013, which the government will like to use to end the ‘mafia in transport, sand and gravel, liquor and cable sectors’.Besides being Principal Secretary (Power) in 2015-17, he held the portfolio of Principal Secretary, Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd, from 2016-2019. He was also Secretary, Power, in 2017-18.From his role as the Financial Commissioner (Taxation) in 2021, he was transferred as the CMD, PSPCL, with additional charge of the CMD, Power State Transmission Corporation Ltd. He is also expected to look into the issue of “faulty” power pacts, which the previous Congress government had claimed to have worked on for scrapping, but did not achieve any results. He will continue in his role as the Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Parliamentary Affairs, Chairman-cum-MD, PSTC, besides Financial Commissioner, Taxation.Born in Andhra Pradesh, Venu Prasad did his MBA (Finance) and MA in Public Policy. He also has degrees in MSc (Agriculture) and PG in Soil Science. He joined the state services as an SDO in 1993 and went on to occupy the chair of the Deputy Commissioner, Faridkot, (1999-2003) and of Jalandhar (2006-2007). He rose to the rank of the Chief Administrator (Under Secretary), Housing and Urban Development, in 2003 and later as the MD, Punjab State Federation of Cooperative Sugar Mills. #a venu prasad #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-designates-acs-adept-at-handling-power-excise-affairs-377854
15-03-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||AAP readies plan for health, education overhaul in Punjab||Chandigarh, March 14The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is gearing up for a quick implementation of their guarantees in Punjab. Knowing that the expectations are high from the party after a massive mandate received from people, the party top brass has reportedly got into action to prepare a framework for overhaul of health and education infrastructure and ensuring 300 units of free power to all.Free units likely to be offered firstSources in the party have told The Tribune though the primary focus of the government now is on ensuring a smooth oath-taking ceremony, the party top brass is already in action to “frame guidelines” for education and healthcare policies, while deciding on immediate implementation of 300 units of free power in the power tariff order to be effective from April 1.This is the first of the guarantees given by AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal that is likely to be implemented.Data is already being collected on the total number of consumers in each category, the total power subsidy billof the government and unpaid subsidy. The state has 1 crore power consumers, including 73 lakh domestic consumers, 14 lakh agriculture consumers (who get free power supply), 11.50 lakh commercial consumers and 1.50 lakh industrial consumers. The annual power subsidy bill of the government is Rs 10,000 crore, including Rs 7,180 crore as power subsidy to just farmers.It is learnt the top functionaries of the party are also looking at the state of finances. Though luckily for the AAP, the treasury has not been left with pending bills worth thousands of crores, as was done by the Akali-BJP government at the time of leaving charge in 2017.Additional Chief Secretary Finance KAP Sinha told The Tribune they were comfortably placed to navigate through the finances. “There are no unpaid pending bills,” he said.Sources say the new government is looking at increasing the revenue through excise and sand mining. The excise policy, which is to be implemented from April 1, is expected to see drastic overhaul in plugging evasion, especially by distilleries. The government wants to double the excise revenue this year, and it is learnt various schemes are being worked out. #arvind kejriwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-readies-plan-for-health-education-overhaul-377849
15-03-2022||New Delhi/Bathinda||5 Indian students killed in Canada road mishap||Five Indian students were killed and two sustained critical injuries in a road mishap in Canada’s Ontario province. The accident between a passenger van and a tractor-trailer occurred around 3.45 am on Saturday on Highway 401 in Quinte West city of Ontario.Van-tractor collision on Ontario highwayThe deceased were identified as Harpreet Singh (24), Jaspinder Singh (21), Karanpal Singh (21), Mohit Chouhan (23) and Pawan Kumar (23). The police said they were all students in the Greater Toronto and Montreal areas. In a tweet, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar mourned the death of Indian students.He offered condolences to the families and said the Consulate General of India in Canada would provide all necessary support and assistance.India’s High Commissioner to Canada Ajay Bisaria tweeted, “...IndiainToronto team in touch with friends of the victims for assistance.”The police said the Highway 401 was closed for about 10 hours during the investigation at the collision site. — #Canada||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/5-indian-students-killed-in-canada-road-mishap-377844
15-03-2022||---||Rift in SKM, leaders spar over Balbir Singh Rajewal's poll plunge||New Delhi, March 14A meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to review the next phase of farmers’ movement to demand MSP guarantee witnessed some stormy scenes.Two groups held separate meetings at the same venue — Gandhi Peace Foundation. The group, which did not contest the recent Punjab poll, comprising union leaders Darshan Pal, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Yudhveer Singh and Yogendra Yadav, sat outside in protest against those who contested the poll. They said since the leaders inside the hall formed a political party, they were no longer part of the SKM.Back in action“Even during the agitation, we did not share the stage with any political party. We are farmers and are happy to sit on the ground. They (who contested the poll) can take the ‘kursi’,” Yadav said in reference to leaders like Balbir Rajewal who contested the poll. Rajewal said there were “differences only on some issues”. He said many (like Yadav and Rakesh Tikait) had also “contested and lost” elections in the past. “I was offered the post of Chief Minister by AAP,” he claimed. Rajewal’s Sanyukt Samaj Morcha drew a blank in the poll.Meanwhile, the SKM announced a nationwide campaign “MSP legal guarantee week” between April 11 and 17 and a protest on March 21 on the “role of the government “in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and its “failure” to keep promises made to the farmers. It also announced support to the Bharat Bandh call given by trade unions on March 28 and 29. #balbir singh rajewal #MSP #rakesh tikait #SKM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rift-in-skm-leaders-spar-over-rajewals-poll-plunge-377841
15-03-2022||Jalandhar/Patiala||Punjab lawmakers: Charting new course their common goal||One having given up his US citizenship to contest the Assembly poll and the other riding a bicycle even after emerging victorious, the new Punjab House is a mix of affluent and ‘aam aadmi’ debutants.Living up to his party’s “common man’s image”, AAP legislator from Nabha Gurdev Singh Mann was seen riding his ordinary bicycle in his constituency a day after he won. “My bicycle is my identity. I don’t need fancy cars,” says Mann, one of AAP’s giant slayers in Malwa belt whose father still fixes punctures.He beat Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, a five-time MLA and former Congress minister, by a massive margin of 52,371 votes. Mann claims Dharamsot would make fun of his bicycle during electioneering. “Here’s the ‘cycle man’ now — ready to serve Nabha,” he remarks, calling his win part of the “revolution” that had swept Punjab. Dharamsot finished third with 18,251 votes and even lost his deposit.Mann, who has studied till Class XII, says he would keep his promises of drawing a token Re 1 salary and not keeping any guards. Hailing from Fatehpur Rajputan village in Sanaur (Patiala), he is a ‘bard’ (singer) by profession, as per his poll affidavit.Rana Inder Partap Singh, Independent MLA from Sultanpur Lodhi, too stands out among the new legislators as he gave up his US citizenship to be eligible for the contest.The son of former influential Congress minister Rana Gurjeet Singh, he remained a US citizen for 20 years and gave it up as he wanted to “serve his people”. “I went to the US in 1999. After completing my studies in 2004, I returned to India,” says Rana Junior, victorious in his maiden election.Forgoing US citizenship was a small decision, says Inder Partap, MD of Rana Sugars, who has businesses in UP and Uttarakhand. He owns assets worth Rs 69 crore. Having defeated AAP’s Sajjan Singh Cheema by 11,434 votes, he is the fourth member from his family to become a legislator.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charting-new-course-their-common-goal-377837
15-03-2022||---||Anmol Rattan Singh Sidhu may be named Punjab's AG||Chandigarh, March 14Four days after the landslide victory of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Punjab poll, senior advocate Anmol Rattan Singh Sidhu’s name is believed to have been cleared for appointment as the Advocate-General (AG) of the state. Information suggests formal orders on the appointment would be issued only after Bhagwant Mann takes over as the Chief Minister. Sidhu, when contacted, said he had so far not received any official confirmation in that regard.Popular among advocates, Sidhu has been the president of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association for no less than eight times. He has also been the chairman of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana, besides being Additional Solicitor-General of India, and Additional Advocate-General for both Punjab and Haryana.Earlier, senior advocate Deepinder Singh Patwalia resigned as Advocate-General, a day after the Congress was routed out of power. Patwalia had replaced senior advocate APS Deol, who had to resign due to opposition from within the Congress, in November. #anmol rattan singh sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anmol-rattan-may-be-named-punjabs-ag-377835
15-03-2022||Aparna Banerji||International kabaddi player Sandeep Singh Nangal Ambian shot dead in Jalandhar's Nakodar||Jalandhar, March 14A 40-year-old international kabaddi player, Sandeep Singh Nangal Ambian, was shot dead by armed assailants at Mallian Khurd village in Nakodar on Monday. Sandeep was immediately rushed to a hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. He was shot in the head by four armed assailants.Sandeep was one of the biggest organisers of kabaddi tournaments in the region. His killing has sent shock waves across the sporting community.The police said Sandeep was shot dead during an ongoing kabaddi tournament at Mallian Kalan village. A video of the murder has also gone viral. In the video, some people are seen standing amidst trees shooting at someone who is not visible. The assailants shot at least seven to eight shots at the person near an open stadium, where a match was on.Settled in England, Sandeep had come to India to attend some weddings and host kabaddi tournaments.The former captain of the Indian kabaddi team hailed from Nangal Ambian village in Shahkot. He is survived by his wife and two sons, who are currently in England.The police have launched a hunt for the killers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/international-kabaddi-player-sandeep-singh-nangal-ambian-shot-dead-in-jalandhars-nakodar-377789
15-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Senior advocate Amol Rattan Singh Sidhu tipped to be new Punjab Advocate-General||Chandigarh, March 14Just about four days after the Aam Aadmi Party came to power in Punjab, the state government is believed to have cleared the name of senior advocate Amol Rattan Singh Sidhu for appointment as the Advocate-General for the State. Sidhu, when contacted, said he had so far not received official confirmation/communication in this regardImmensely popular among the advocates, Sidhu has been the president of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association no less than eight times. He has also been the chairman of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana, besides being Additional Solicitor-General of India, and Additional Advocate-General for both the States of Punjab and Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/senior-advocate-amol-rattan-singh-sidhu-tipped-to-be-new-punjab-advocate-general-377771
15-03-2022||New Delhi||Income Tax dept searches Omaxe group premises in Punjab, Delhi-NCR||The Income Tax department on Monday conducted searches at multiple premises linked to real estate group Omaxe in the national capital region and few other cities on charges of tax evasion, officials said.At least 30 locations in Delhi-NCR and a few others in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab are being covered where the tax department officers are looking at company documents and financial transactions primarily related to their real estate business, they said.The group could not be reached for comment immediately.Omaxe is one of the leading real estate developers of Delhi-NCR. It also has significant presence in similar projects of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/income-tax-dept-searches-omaxe-group-premises-in-punjab-delhi-ncr-377744
15-03-2022||New Delhi||Civil aviation body allows Sikh passengers to carry 'kirpan' of specific measurement on domestic flights||The Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) today issued an order allowing Sikh travelers to carry 'kirpan' of a specific length and specified measure of blade on flights and airports. The concession to Sikh passengers and Sikh employees of the aviation industry has been provided only in case of Indian aircrafts operating from domestic terminals.“Sikh passengers are permitted to carry a religious Kirpan on their person on domestic flights only. The size of the Kirpan should not exceed 9” in length (6” blade + 3” handle)”, the order read. The announcement comes after a Sikh employee wearing a ‘kirpan’ was stopped from performing duty at the Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport, Amritsar on Thursday last week.The ban had stirred a row, and upset the Sikh community that termed it as an infringement of their rights. Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Harjinder Singh Dhami in a letter had urged the Union Minister of Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia to look into the incident and immediately withdraw the rule.The BCAS had on March 4 issued a fresh guideline in which Sikh employees wearing ‘kirpan’ were debarred from performing duty at the airports of the country. Travelers too, were not allowed to board flights if they were wearing a ‘kirpan’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bcas-allows-sikh-passengers-to-carry-kirpan-of-specific-measurement-in-domestic-flights-377736
15-03-2022||Chandigarh||Sunil Jakhar hits out at party leader for calling Charanjit Channi an asset, calls him a liability||Congress leader Sunil Jakhar has hit out at the leader(s) who described Punjab’s former chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi as an asset while reviewing party debacle at CWC meeting in New Delhi on Sunday.An asset - r u joking ?Thank God he wasn’t declared a ‘National Treasure' at CWC by the 'Pbi' lady who proposed him as CM in first placeMay be an asset for her but for the party he has been only a liability. Not the top brass,but his own greed pulled him and the party down pic.twitter.com/Lnf6vJgRzF  Jhakkar described Channi as a liability who pulled down the party. He also targeted senior party leader Ambika Soni without taking her name.The Congress leader was referring to news reports that during a discussion on the Congress’ defeat in Punjab polls in Sunday’s CWC meeting in New Delhi, it was discussed how the state leadership of the party failed to support outgoing chief minister Channi—an “asset” created by the party’s central leadership.“An asset - r (are) u (you) joking ? Thank God he wasn’t declared a ‘National Treasure’ at CWC by the ‘Pbi’ lady who proposed him as CM in first place. May be an asset for her but for the party he has been only a liability,” said Jakhar in a tweet.“Not the top brass, but his own greed pulled him and the party down,” said Jakhar.Jakhar also highlighted the Enforcement Directorate raid on Channi’s nephew in a money laundering case related to illegal mining in the state as he tweeted a picture of Channi with the headline—“ED seizes Rs 10 crore from Channi’s nephew; CM cries foul”.The Aam Aadmi Party romped home by winning 92 seats in the 117-member Punjab assembly.The Congress was routed in the elections and could win only 18 seats. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunil-jakhar-hits-out-at-leaders-for-calling-charanjit-channi-an-asset-377723
15-03-2022||Chandigarh||A Venu Prasad assumes charge as ACS to Punjab CM||A Venu Prasad on Monday assumed charge as ACS to CM Bhagwant Mann.Prasad is a 1991 batch IAS officer.He has remained the CMD of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited for long, and was currently posted as ACS, Excise and Taxation.This has set in motion the administrative changes to be effected by the new AAP government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/a-venu-prasad-today-assumed-charge-as-acs-to-cm-bhagwant-mann-377713
15-03-2022||Chandigarh||Akali candidate from Sangrur lost Punjab election to AAP, but remains a 'Winner', Here is why?||Punjab’s Shiromani Akali Dal’s candidate Winnerjit from Sangrur lost elections, but he remained a 'winner'.Many social media users pointed out to the irony in the name of SAD candidate 'Winnerjit'. Winnerjit Singh Goldy lost the election to Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) candidate Narinder Kaur Bharaj with a huge margin.He stood fourth and became a topic of discussion on Twitter.A Twitter user wrote, “Punjabis love English names! Who keeps a name Winnerjit??”Punjabis love English names! Who keeps a name Winnerjit?? 🤣🤣 https://t.co/VpoGOZz93oOne user called it the “dichotomy of human existence,” while another user wrote “Winner and Jeet, still Lost.”A Twitter user wrote, “So basically Winnerjit lost to Winner-Jeet. Hmmmm."Dichotomy of human existence. pic.twitter.com/K9UCwMMTxxWinner and Jeet, still Lost 😭😭🤣🤣 pic.twitter.com/KNTBb26vkeSo basically Winnerjit lost to Winner-Jeet. Hmmmm😶 pic.twitter.com/v0lKlADhFtWinnerjit got 10,488 votes from Sangrur and stood at third place. Narinder Kaur Bharaj, who won from the seat, got 74,851 votes and secured 51.67 per cent of the votes.Aam Aadmi party made a landslide victory in the Punjab assembly polls, winning 92 out of 117 seats, Congress won 18 seats. Winnerjit's party won just three seats in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-candidate-from-sangrur-lost-punjab-election-but-remains-a-winner-here-is-why-377712
15-03-2022||Toronto||5 Indian students killed, 2 hurt in Canada road mishap||Five Indian students have been killed here in a horrific road accident in Canada’s Ontario province, the second major tragedy involving Indians in this country since January.The accident between a passenger van and a tractor-trailer took place on Saturday on Highway 401 in the Quinte West city in Southern Ontario, The Canadian Press reported.Harpreet Singh, 24, Jaspinder Singh, 21, Karanpal Singh, 21, Mohit Chouhan, 23 and Pawan Kumar, 23 were pronounced dead at the scene, Ontario Provincial Police (OPP) in Quinte West said in a statement.The police said that they were all students in the Greater Toronto and Montreal areas.High Commissioner of India to Canada Ajay Bisaria termed the incident a “heart-breaking tragedy” and said the Indian mission in Toronto is in touch with friends of the victims for required assistance.“Heart-breaking tragedy in Canada: 5 Indians students passed away in an auto accident near Toronto on Saturday. Two others in hospital. Deepest condolences to the families of the victims. @IndiainToronto team in touch with friends of the victims for assistance,” he said on Twitter.Heart-breaking tragedy in Canada: 5 Indians students passed away in an auto accident near Toronto on Saturday. Two others in hospital. Deepest condolences to the families of the victims. @IndiainToronto team in touch with friends of the victims for assistance. @MEAIndia  According to the report, the students were travelling west in the passenger van on Highway 401 on Saturday morning when they collided with a tractor trailer at around 3:45 am (local time).Two other passengers were taken to a nearby hospital with serious injuries following the crash, the police said, adding that an investigation into the accident was under way even though no charges have been laid.The driver of the tractor-trailer was not hurt, CTV News reported.“It’s a tragedy. Nobody wants to respond to that call for service, but we’re there, we’re working,” said OPP Constable Maggie Pickett on Saturday.Following the accident, westbound lanes of the highway were closed between Wallbridge Loyalist Road and Glen Miller Road for the investigation for about 10 hours, the report said.Meanwhile, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday mourned the death of the five Indian students.“Deeply mourn the passing away of 5 Indian students in Canada. Condolences to their families. Pray for the recovery of those injured. @IndiainToronto will provide all necessary support and assistance,” Jaishankar tweeted.Deeply mourn the passing away of 5 Indian students in Canada. Condolences to their families. Pray for the recovery of those injured. @IndiainToronto will provide all necessary support and assistance. https://t.co/MAkMz0uwJ7  Every year, thousands of Indian students visit Canada for higher education.The number of Indian students attending Canadian universities rose from 76,075 in 2016 to 1,72,625 in 2018, an increase of 127 per cent, according to a report published last year quoting the Canadian Bureau for International Education.The road accident is the second tragic incident involving Indian nationals in Canada in three months.In January, four Indians, including an infant, were found dead near the Canada-US border in Manitoba. According to Canadian authorities, the family from Gujarat died due to exposure to extreme cold. PTI #Canada||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/world/5-indian-students-killed-2-hurt-in-canada-road-mishap-377698
