16-03-2022||New Delhi||AAP could nominate Harbhajan Singh as its Rajya Sabha candidate||Former India off-spinner Harbhajan Singh could follow the footsteps of his illustrious teammate Sachin Tendulkar as a Member of Parliament in the Rajya Sabha as he is likely to be Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP) candidate for a seat in the Upper House.AAP, after sweeping the polls in Punjab, formed the new government with Bhagwant Mann being sworn in as the Chief Minister on Wednesday.AAP would like to send an icon from the state to the Upper House of Parliament and one of the foremost names to have emerged is that of 41-year-old off-spinner."The top leadership of AAP, including the new CM has approached Harbhajan with an offer to become their nominated candidate for next Rajya Sabha term. The new CM wants Harbhajan to work towards lifting the standard of sports in the state, which has gone down considerably in past few years," a source close to the cricketer told PTI on Wednesday on conditions of anonymity.Harbhajan, who has taken over 700 wickets in an international career spanning over 18 years, recently retired from active sport."Harbhajan always had interested in working for people and especially for the benefit and betterment of sportspersons. If an opportunity arises, he would love to take up the responsibility as he has always shared cordial relationship with Bhagwant Mann," the source added.Just before announcing his retirement, Harbhajan had gone to meet his former teammate and recently resigned Punjab state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and the picture of the two on twitter had led to speculations of him joining Congress.However, back then in a conversation with PTI, he had categorically denied any inclination of joining the Congress party.Harbhajan has been associated with many philanthropic projects and social work in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-could-nominate-harbhajan-singh-as-its-rajya-sabha-candidate-378393
16-03-2022||Karam Prakash||222 PRTC buses arranged for AAP supporters to attend Bhagwant Mann’s swearing-in||Patiala, March 16Disregarding the perceived image of the ‘government with a difference’, 222 Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) buses had been used to ferry Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supporters for the swearing-in ceremony of Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann—at Khatkar Kalan, on Wednesday.Consequently, passengers – on some routes – had to suffer, owing to a cut in frequency of buses. However, senior PRTC officials claimed that they did all they could to minimise the impact of the situation.On Sunday, 443 PRTC buses had been roped in from all the PRTC depots to transport AAP supporters in a road show in Amritsar, wherein AAP Delhi Chief Minister and Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann participated. Taking a dig, senior SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra had then termed the AAP’s decision to rope in PRTC buses as “sheer misuse” of the official machinery.Parneet Shergill, Managing Director, on being asked about roping in PRTC buses to ferry AAP supporters, said, “We had already planned to minimise the impact, and not much inconvenience was caused to the passengers because of the CM’s function.”When asked about the payment to the PRTC for providing bus service for both the events — road show on Sunday and today’s swearing in, Shergill said, “So far, no payment has been made by the government. We will ask for the payment.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/222-prtc-buses-arranged-for-aap-supporters-to-attend-bhagwant-manns-swearing-in-378380
16-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann assumes office||Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann on Wednesday assumed the charge of his office at the Punjab Civil Secretariat here.Mann was sworn in as the Punjab chief minister earlier in the day.Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered the oath of office and secrecy to Mann in a swearing-in ceremony at Khatkar Kalan, the ancestral village of legendary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh.Mann received rousing welcome by employees standing around and in balconies. He also waived at them.The CM took guard of honour from the 82nd Battalion of the Punjab Police at the Civil Secretariat, according to an official release here.Chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari and Director General of Police V K Bhawra, along with senior IAS officers, welcomed Mann by presenting him bouquets.After taking the charge of his office, Mann in a short but clear message to the officers and employees said people of the state have given a historic mandate and his government will work for pro-people policies.Mann also assured that the officers and employees will work in tandem for the betterment of the lives of people, the release said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-bhagwant-mann-assumes-office-378356
16-03-2022||---||Inderbir Singh Nijjer appointed Protem Speaker of Punjab Assembly||Chandigarh, March 16Inderbir Singh Nijjer appointed Protem Speaker of Punjab Vidhan Sabha, ahead of the session scheduled from March 17 to 22.He was administered oath as Protem Speaker by Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit in the presence of Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann. Nijjer has been elected AAP MLA from Amritsar South.He is the president of Chief Khalsa Diwan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/inderbir-singh-nijjer-appointed-protem-speaker-of-punjab-assembly-378352
16-03-2022||Bathinda||Former CPS Sarup Singla quits SAD||SAD leader Sarup Singla has resigned from all party posts and membership on Wednesday. Singla announced his decision at a press conference in Bathinda.He alleged that party high command supported Congress candidate Manpreet Badal from the Bathinda Urban constituency. He said that people who were working for Dimpy Dhillon in Gidderbaha and Prakash Singh Badal in Lambi were working in support of Manpreet Badal in Bathinda.Singla is the first member of SAD who tendered his resignation after party's poor performance in the Assembly elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/former-cps-sarup-singla-quits-sad-378339
16-03-2022||New Delhi||Congratulatory messages pour as Bhagwant Mann sworn in as Punjab CM||Congratulatory messages began pouring in on Wednesday ahead of the swearing-in of Bhagwant Mann as Chief Minister of Punjab following the resounding victory of the Aam Aadmi Party in the recently-concluded Assembly polls.Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and DMK president M K Stalin greeted Mann and said his state and Punjab share "a long history" of being vocal about linguistic rights and rights of the states.My hearty wishes to Thiru. @BhagwantMann, who is swearing in as Chief Minister of Punjab today. Tamil Nadu & Punjab share a long history of being vocal about linguistic rights & rights of the state in the Indian Union. Wishing the new government in Punjab, a successful tenure."My hearty wishes to Thiru. Bhagwant Mann, who is swearing-in as Chief Minister of Punjab today. Tamil Nadu and Punjab share a long history of being vocal about linguistic rights and rights of the state in the Indian Union. Wishing the new government in Punjab a successful tenure," Stalin tweeted.Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik also congratulated Mann and hoped that Punjab, under his leadership, develops further with the support of the people of the state.Congratulate Shri @BhagwantMann Ji on being sworn in as the Chief Minister of #Punjab. I wish under your leadership, the State develops further with the support of people of the state. Best wishes."Congratulate Shri Bhagwant Mann Ji on being sworn in as the Chief Minister of Punjab. I wish under your leadership, the state develops further with the support of the people of the state. Best wishes," Patnaik wrote on Twitter.Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav congratulated the Chief Minister-designate of Punjab ahead of his oath-taking ceremony and hoped the state will flourish under his leadership.पंजाब के नव निर्वाचित मुख्यमंत्री श्री भगवंत मान जी को शपथ समारोह के लिए अनंत बधाई एवं शुभकामनाएँ! आशा है उनके कुशल नेतृत्व में पंजाब में तरक़्क़ी, भाईचारे और नये नज़रिये की फसल ख़ूब लहलहाएगी। pic.twitter.com/fVgUGrbCX1"Many congratulations and best wishes to the newly elected Chief Minister of Punjab Shri Bhagwant Mann Ji for the oath ceremony! Hope that under his able leadership, the crops of progress, brotherhood and new perspective will flourish in Punjab,” Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi.Aam Aadmi Party supporters from across Punjab reached Khatkar Kalan in large numbers to attend the oath-taking ceremony.Mann had invited the people of the state to attend the ceremony, saying three crore people of Punjab will also take the oath along with him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congratulatory-messages-pour-as-bhagwant-mann-sworn-in-as-punjab-cm-378329
16-03-2022||Patiala||Patiala MC partially razes 4 under-construction buildings in violation of laws||A day after the local government department of Punjab issued instructions to municipal corporations and councils on taking action against illegal constructions and others, Municipal Corporation, Patiala on Wednesday partially razed four under-construction buildings that were in violation of Municipal laws.The early morning action was followed by protest by some residents over demolition of a temple.The partially razed buildings included: two near the Mohindra College, one on the lower Mall Road and one near Mata Kaushalya hospital. All the four buildings were under-construction and were in violation of the Building Construction laws.An official of the MC pointed out that public land adjacent to the Mata Kaushalya hospital had been encroached upon and photographs of various deities were installed there to give it a look of a temple.Construction had recently been restarted on two buildings near the Mohindra College."Our officials had sealed these buildings in the past but the owners had restarted construction on them without requisite permissions. Also, both the buildings had been constructed adjacent to a nullah where construction is barred as per high court orders and the MC does not issue construction plans", the MC official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-mc-partially-razes-4-under-construction-buildings-in-violation-of-laws-378323
16-03-2022||New Delhi||AAP invited me to Mann's swearing-in, my own party hadn't invited me to Channi's oath-taking: Manish Tewari||Highlighting that the AAP had invited him for Bhagwant Mann's swearing-in as Punjab's chief minister, Congress leader Manish Tewari on Wednesday took a swipe at his own party saying he was not an invitee to former chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi's oath-taking ceremony. Tewari shared the invite for the swearing-in of Mann on Twitter, but said he would not be able to make it as Parliament was in session.Mann was sworn in as chief minister of Punjab at a simple ceremony at Khatkar Kalan, the native village of freedom fighter Shaheed Bhagat Singh.“I congratulate Bhagwant Mann on being sworn in as Chief Minister I thank him for inviting me to his swearing in. Due to Parliament being in session I will not be able to make it," he said on Twitter."It is ironic I was not invited to Charanjit Singh Channi's swearing in though he was one of my MLA's (sic)," his tweet further read.Channi was sworn in last year after the Congress leadership sacked Amarinder Singh as chief minister.Tewari, a Lok Sabha MP from Anandpur Sahib in Punjab and leader of the G-23, which has been critical of the party leadership, is considered close to Amarinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-invited-me-for-manns-swearing-in-cong-didnt-call-for-channis-oath-taking-manish-tewari-378322
16-03-2022||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann becomes the reason behind father-son reunion||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Bhagwant Mann who will take oath as Punjab Chief Minister on Wednesday has become the reason for the reunion of a father and son who have been separated for seven years.Interestingly, the run up to this emotional moment has been the security arrangements put in place ahead of the swearing-in ceremony of Mann in Khatkar Kalan village of Bhagat Singh.Jaswinder Singh, son of Devinder Singh, a resident of Faridkot district ran away from his house seven years ago. Despite his family members’ strenuous efforts to find him, he was hard to locate.After this, a case was registered in the police station.The ceremony being an important event involved police collecting information on every individual for verification.Jaswinder was identified while setting up chairs at the swearing-in venue.When ASI Balwinder Singh of Nawanshahr inquired about him at his house, it was revealed that their son had left the house seven years ago.When the family reached Khatkar Kalan, they met their son. Eventually, Devinder himself came to pick up his son at the venue and thanked the policemen.Jaswinder Singh said he was working at the ceremony venue for the last five days. "Before that, I used to do crockery work. I was angry for some reason... and that's why I had left home", he said. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-becomes-reason-behind-father-son-reunion-378298
16-03-2022||New Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal leaves for Punjab to attend Bhagwant Mann's oath-taking ceremony||Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday left for Punjab to attend the swearing-in ceremony of chief minister-designate Bhagwant Mann.Elaborate arrangements have been made for Mann's oath-taking ceremony at Khatkar Kalan - ancestral village of legendary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district."It's a big day for Punjab today. In this golden morning of new hope, the entire Punjab will today come together and take a pledge to make it a prosperous Punjab. To witness that historic moment, I have also left for Khatkar Kalan, the native village of Shaheed Bhagat Singh," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.Over three lakh people are expected to attend Mann's oath-taking ceremony.The chief minister-designate of Punjab had invited people to attend the ceremony, saying three crore people of the state would also take oath with him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arvind-kejriwal-leaves-for-punjab-to-attend-bhagwant-manns-oath-taking-ceremony-378297
16-03-2022||Abohar||Abohar: Missing vendor's body found||Pistols, cartridges seizedAbohar: The police have arrested a person with two automatic pistols and three live cartridges. The accused has been identified as Varinder Kumar Sihag (24), a resident of Sukhchain village, on Abohar-Seetogunno Road. The accused claimed that the weapons were delivered to him by Parveen Bishnoi, Ankit Kankad and Akshay Delu, a few days ago. The accused has been booked under the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-missing-vendors-body-found-378171
16-03-2022||Ferozepur||Ferozepur: Two killed in road accident||Two brothers from Jatala village in Mamdot died in a road accident near Alfu Ke village on Monday night. The deceased have been identified as Gajjan Ram and Manna Ram. The duo was heading back home after taking medicine from Fazilka on their motorcycle. Their bike hit a tractor-trailer parked on the road from the rear. While Gajjan died on the spot, Manna succumbed to his injuries in the hospital. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-two-killed-in-road-accident-378170
16-03-2022||Abohar||Abohar: Theft of Gang canal water  detected||Farmers along with Gang canal project chairman Harvinder Singh Gill unearthed water theft, which was going on for the past 20 years.Gill said farmers complained that some influential people had installed motors in the canal near Chak 31 RB. He said those involved in water theft also had electricity connections for the motors. Gill said one can see irrigated land on one side of the canal and rainfed fields on the other side.Anil Meena, Assistant Engineer, Water Resources Department, said pipes and motors were uprooted using the JCB machine. He said similar water thefts were being committed in Fazilka and other areas of Punjab as Gang canal originates from Ferozepur headworks.Loss of water at Khakha headworks was 400 cusecs to 500 cusecs. “We hope the new government in Punjab will cooperate in checking this malpractice,” he said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-theft-of-gang-canal-water-detected-378169
16-03-2022||Ropar||Ropar: 50 quintals of Khair wood seized||Officials of the Forest Department seized 50 quintals of khair wood worth Rs 3 lakh on Monday night. The accused have been identified as Krishan Dev, a resident of Nikkuwal village, and Harmesh Singh, a resident of Naina Devi, in Himachal Pradesh.District Forest Officer Naresh Mahajan said a case under the Indian Forest Act has been registered against the accused. Mahajan said he had a tip-off and set up a naka at Bunga Sahib. He said they signalled a canter to spot, but its driver sped away. He said they managed to intercept the vehicle after a chase and recovered 50 qunitals of khair wood.The canter driver, Harmesh, told the officials that he loaded the wood from a depot of Krishan. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-khair-wood-seized-378166
16-03-2022||Batala||Road mishap in Canada: Batala family awaits son's body||The family of Karanpal Singh, who died in a road accident in Toronto on Sunday, said they had no idea when the deceased’s body would arrive at Ammo Nangal village.Karanpal’s father Harjit Singh, a farmer, said he had spent a lot of money on sending his son to Canada for further studies after he completed his graduation from Baring Union Christian College.“After his graduation, he undertook a year-long online course in business administration from a Canadian university. On January 26 last year, he went to Canada to complete the course,” he said.Harjit Singh said, “Karanpal tried to get a job after completing graduation. Had the government given a job, he would have never gone to Canada.” — #Canada||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/batala-family-awaits-sons-body-378163
16-03-2022||---||Punjab counsel seeks time to argue Sumedh Singh Saini's case||Chandigarh, March 15Citing “current scenario”, a law officer representing the state of Punjab today sought “short accommodation” to address the Punjab and Haryana High Court in former Director General of Police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini’s matter.Appearing before Justice Avneesh Jhingan’s Bench, the state counsel submitted that he did not get instructions in view of the current scenario and was unable to argue the matter. Taking a note of the submission, Justice Jhingan fixed the case for further hearing on March 24.The High Court, in September last year, had ordered a clear stay on the investigation in all cases against Saini and his arrest in all registered or likely to be registered cases. The Bench, on March 3, had extended the operation of the order till April 20 — the next date of hearing in the case.Taking up the special leave petition filed by the state the next day, the Supreme Court had asked the Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to take up the matter either himself or assign it to any other Bench. Directions were also issued to dispose of the matter in accordance with the law, preferably within two weeks.In view of the Supreme Court order, the matter was listed before Justice Jhingan this afternoon. Saini was represented in the matter by counsel SPS Sidhu.The earlier Bench in its last year’s order had asserted that Saini’s involvement in multiple cases could be a “political ploy in wake of the coming Legislative Assembly elections”.The order, passed on September 10, last year, was directed to remain in force at least till the general election in the state in February. #sumedh saini||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-counsel-seeks-time-to-argue-sumedh-singh-sainis-case-378159
16-03-2022||Fatehgarh Sahib||Scam in allotment of plots to poor: Fatehgarh Sahib AAP MLA||AAP MLA from Fatehgarh Sahib Lakhbir Singh Rai today alleged a scam involving distribution of bogus certificates of ownership rights of 2 marla plots to the poor at villages ahead of the polls.He claimed Sirhind’s Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO) had denied issuance of any such papers by his office under his signatures. While the Sirhind Block Samiti chairperson claimed all plots were distributed as per law, the BDPO said his office had not issued any certificate of right of ownership. Congress’ former MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra, too, denied the allegations and dared the AAP MLA to get an FIR registered against him.The MLA said he had sought the entire record of Sirhind and Khera blocks in Fatehgarh Sahib. Meanwhile, Nagra accused the AAP MLA of having grabbed the shamlat land of a panchayat, which was vacated on the Supreme Court orders.Gurjeet Kaur, chairperson, Block Samiti, Sirhind, denied the allegations, saying the certificate issued were genuine and plots were distributed as per law without any discrimination. — OCProcess followedResolutions to allot plots were passed by panchayat and block samiti. Certificates were issued thereafter. The BDPO himself distributed these. — Kuljit Singh Nagra, Fatehgarh Sahib ex-MLASignatures fakeMy office has not issued any such certificate of ownership right. I have not signed any such certificate and the signatures, if any, are fake. — Mohinderjit Singh, Sirhind BDPO||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/scam-in-allotment-of-plots-to-poor-fatehgarh-sahib-mla-378158
16-03-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||AAP sticks to halqa incharge system in Punjab||Gurdaspur, March 15The AAP is persisting with the halqa incharge (area chief) system, in which the party’s losing candidate, or a senior leader, calls the shots in the civil and police administration notwithstanding the party’s repeated claims made before the polls that it was “an extra-constitutional arrangement.”The mechanism was first put in place in 2007 when the SAD romped to power. The party, at that time, had claimed that it was replicating West Bengal’s example which had this arrangement in place. The structure was left unaltered when Akalis retained power in 2012. Even the Congress continued to practice it when it came to power in 2017.In this way, losing candidates are allowed to influence the affairs of the administration.In several seats, Deputy Commissioners and SSPs have clandestinely visited the houses of these leaders ostensibly to inform them “that they were at their beck and call.”In Gurdaspur which has seven seats, two — Sri Hargobindpur and Batala — have been won by the AAP. In the remaining seats, leaders have been asked by the powers-that-be to take charge.“The DC or SSP orders transfers of lower and middle-rung officials only after the halqa incharge gives the green signal. Once the oath-taking ceremony is done with, we will give a list of officials to the SSP whom we want to transfer. We will also hand over a list of revenue officials to the DC. So what if I lost, I am still the de facto MLA,” said an area chief.In 2012, out of seven seats, Gurdaspur district had five Congress MLAs. However, the entire administration was controlled by SAD leaders, including Sucha Singh Langah, Sewa Singh Sekhwan and Nirmal Singh Kalhon, all three of whom had lost the polls. In 2017, six of the seven seats were won by the Congress while the Batala seat was won by SAD’s Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal. Here, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, MLA of the neighbouring seat of Fatehgarh Churian, took over the mantle of halqa incharge. Later, during the fag end of Capt Amarinder Singh’s tenure, he was replaced by senior leader Ashwani Sekhri. “Lodhinangal was reduced to being a lame duck legislator. With the area chief wielding all the power, so toothless and ineffective had Lodhinangal become that he even stopped attending meetings of the Municipal Corporation of which he was an ex-officio member,” said an ex-minister.Losing candidate to call the shots||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-sticks-to-halqa-incharge-system-in-punjab-378155
16-03-2022||Moga||Moga: Retired PSPCL official 'usurps' pension fund, booked||A case of fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 51 lakh pension funds from the accounts of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has come to light in Moga district, police officials have confirmed here.A case under Sections 409 and 420 of the IPC has been registered against a retired accounts officer of the power corporation, Sukhjinder Singh. The accused deposited Rs 51,34,418 of pension funds in bank accounts belonging to him, his wife and a relative. The amount was meant to be deposited to the bank accounts of 19 employees who had retired between September 2015 and November 2020. — #pspcl||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-retired-official-usurps-pension-fund-booked-378153
16-03-2022||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Probe kabaddi player Sandeep Singh Nangal Ambian's killing, Punjab CM-elect urged||A day after international kabaddi player Sandeep Singh Nangal Ambian was shot by armed assailants at Mallian Khurd in Nakodar, promoters of the sport in the region have urged the government to ensure safety of sportspersons and organisers.They have also called upon the sports fraternity to stay away from the gangster culture, which had been eclipsing the rise of traditional sports both at the state and international levels.Punjab Kabaddi Association president Toni Kalakh lamented that the murder had disrupted the tempo of organisation of rural sports fairs in general and kabaddi tournaments in particular.“Whatever may be the reason behind the rivalry, Sandeep’s murder has shocked sports promoters, including organisers of kabaddi academies and tournaments. It is high time the government takes steps to ensure the safety of players, sports promoters and tournament organisers,” said Kalakh. Sarpanch Pindri Saharanmajra, an office-bearer of the Major League Kabaddi Federation (of which Ambian was the president), alleged lack of concern of sports authorities and security towards incidents of violence during sporting events. — OCProvide securityCM-designate must order a high-level probe into sequence of events leading to murder, which could have been prevented had security been provided. — Pindri Saharanmajra, major league kabaddi federation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shooting-at-tourney-probe-players-killing-punjab-cm-elect-urged-378151
16-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Verify pendency of bail pleas, Punjab and Haryana High Court tells subordinate judiciary||Chandigarh, March 15In a significant judgment liable to change the way regular and anticipatory bail applications are adjudicated by subordinate judiciary, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it mandatory for the courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, to verify whether the pleas before them were decided or pending before the High Court as well.In all, Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri issued five commandments to the Sessions Judges of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh after taking cognisance of the practice among the litigants to file parallel bail applications before both the High Court and the lower courts without disclosing the fact.The commandments are significant as the trial court can pass one order and the High Court another on the bail application by an accused in the same case. In any case, the subordinate court cannot entertain a plea when the same is pending before a superior court.Justice Puri asserted all the Sessions Judges would ensure that the “Ahlmads” verified from the High Court’s official website whether a bail application submitted in their sessions division by an applicant was decided or pending before the High Court. The “Ahlmads” would also verify the status of the bail applications.Justice Puri added a report would be placed on the case file for the perusal of the court concerned after carrying out the verification. “It must be mandatorily mentioned in every application for bail, both regular and anticipatory, as to whether such or similar application for bail has or has not been made before any other court. In case the same was made, then its status be also mentioned”.Justice Puri also asked the Directors-Prosecution of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, to inform the public prosecutors that they would be duty bound to supply necessary information to the court concerned regarding the pendency or decision of any earlier bail application of an accused in the same offence after taking information from the investigating officer/police official concerned. “The instructions issued by this court from time to time be complied with meticulously,” Justice Puri added.The Bench also “highly disapproved” and “deprecated” the conduct of three different petitioners in filing bail application before the Additional Sessions Judges without disclosing the pendency of pleas before the High Court.Justice Puri added it was the solemn duty of the petitioners or their counsels to disclose the fact to the Additional Sessions Judge with “truthfulness and honesty as these two elements are sacrosanct for imbibing purity in the administration of justice”.Justice Puri also directed the forwarding of the copy to all the District and Sessions Judges and the Directors-Prosecution. The court also recorded appreciation for amicus curiae-senior advocates Kanwaljit Singh and RS Rai and Legal Researcher Shiny Chopra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/verify-pendency-of-bail-pleas-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-tells-subordinate-judiciary-378143
16-03-2022||---||Jalalabad blast: NIA files chargesheet against 6 ultras||New Delhi, March 15Anti-terror federal probe agency NIA today said it had filed a chargesheet against six accused persons in the September 2021 Jalalabad bomb blast case in a special court in Mohali. They have been charged under various sections of the Explosive Substances Act, Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the IPC.Those named in the chargesheet included Sukhwinder Singh, Gurpreet Singh, and Ranjit Singh (all from Ferozepur), Parveen Singh of Fazilka, Habib Khan from Pakistan and Lakhbir Singh Rode, a Pakistan-based designated terrorist.The National Investigation Agency, in an official statement, said its investigation had revealed the conspiracy of Pakistan-based designated terrorist Lakhbir Singh Rode, self-styled chief of International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF), and his associates to cause multiple explosions at crowded places in Punjab and to effect large-scale causalities and strike terror in the minds of people.“On the directions of Rode, another Pakistan based narco-terror operative Habib Khan, alias doctor, had radicalised and recruited Balwinder Singh and Sukhwinder Singh and motivated them to plant bombs using pre-assembled improvised explosive devices (tiffin bombs) smuggled along with heroin from across the border,” it said.In furtherance of their plan, eight pre-assembled tiffin bombs (along with training material) were received by Binder Singh and Sukhwinder Singh along with large quantities of heroin and money sent to fund their terror activities, the NIA alleged, while adding prior to the explosion that occurred in Jalalabad, the terrorists had set ablaze a car as well as a few shops in Ferozepur.The NIA further said on September 15, 2021, Binder and Sukhwinder had conducted reconnaissance of a crowded market in Jalalabad town to carry out an explosion. “While Binder was trying to retrieve the motorcycle along with the planted tiffin bomb, as it had not exploded at the designated time, he was killed on the spot due to explosion,” it added.Got 8 tiffin bombs from across border||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalalabad-blast-nia-files-chargesheet-against-6-ultras-378141
16-03-2022||GS PaulAmritsar||Work on repair of gold sheets begins in Golden Temple's sanctum sanctorum||In a first, the original gold sheets installed during Maharaja Ranjit Singh era on the inner walls of the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple, are being repaired and cleaned by the UK-based Sikh organisation.With the passage of time, some portions of the gold sheets not only lost their sheen, but also developed cracks.For the 22nd consecutive year, volunteers of the Birmingham-based Guru Nanak Nishkam Sewak Jatha who had been annually cleaning the outer gold plating, travelled from the UK to Amritsar to perform the “kar sewa”.Maharaja Ranjit Singh-era gold sheets lasted for over 150 years before they were replaced in 1999. As per information, the Maharaja had got the gold plating done between 1803 and 1830.It’s for the first time that the inner gold plating would be repaired, whereas the outer gold plates were replaced between 1995 and 1999.SGPC chief Harjinder Singh Dhami said mohrakashi (frescoes) enamel and glass cut work on the plates would be replicated as per the original pattern. “The repair work will be done with utmost care so that the originality does not gets tinkered,” he said.Nonetheless, a team of experts, including Dr Bhupinder Singh, professor IIT (Roorke), Dr Kaizad, engineer from Vadodara, Dr Swati, material data analyst of IIT (Mumbai) and Pankaj Dutta, was roped in.Bhai Inderjit Singh of the Nishkam Sewak Jatha said gold plates were being dismantled to monitor the health of the wall. “After removing the gold plates, ‘Nanakshahi’ bricks were found intact. As the plaster has worn out, we will redo it to strengthen the base of the wall. Similarly, the gold sheets, which developed small cracks will be repaired and freshly coated. The ones, beyond repair, will be replaced with identical fresh sheets,” he said.Maharaja Ranjit Singh had donated Rs 16.39 lakh #golden temple #harjinder singh dhami #maharaja ranjit singh #SGPC #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/work-on-repair-of-gold-sheets-begins-in-golden-temples-sanctum-sanctorum-378138
16-03-2022||---||2 years on, Punjab Government lifts Covid restrictions||Chandigarh, March 15With Covid-19 cases on the decline, the Punjab Government on Tuesday lifted all restrictions related to the protocol with immediate effect.The Department of Home Affairs and Justice issued the orders today directing all civil and police officials to remove the restrictions on the assembly of people in public places.“Previous instructions on all Covid-related restrictions are removed with immediate effect,” the notice issued by the department said.The orders, however, advised public to follow safety measures, including wearing of face masks, maintaining social distance besides sanitising hands and surfaces.The curbs have been lifted nearly two years after stringent measures were brought in to curb assembly of people. The restrictions remained in place during the election campaigning as well. The state recorded 48 cases on Monday, with no deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-years-on-punjab-government-lifts-covid-restrictions-378135
16-03-2022||Rajmeet Singh||PCC chief: Finding replacement for Navjot Singh Sidhu a challenge||Chandigarh, March 15With Navjot Singh Sidhu having been asked to resign as the PCC chief, the Congress high command, learning from the controversy surrounding the incumbent, is faced with a daunting task of selecting the new state unit chief.The exercise becomes more daunting with ‘G23’ leaders demanding a traditional Congress men at the helm of the state, instead of turncoats.It is yet to be seen whether the party high command strikes a balance by choosing among Jat, Hindu or OBC faces for the posts of PCC chief and CLP leader, which has also to be elected among the winning candidates. Among the experienced leaders available with the party are Partap Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Randhawa, Raja Warring, Ravneet Bittu, Vijay Inder Singla, Bharat Bhushan Ashu.“The leader who takes along with everyone and has a credible face and acceptability among the masses should be made the PCC chief. The party has to rise from the ashes if it wants to put up a strong challenge ahead of the 2024 General Elections,” said a senior leader.Ever since Sidhu took over as the PCC chief in July last year, the organisational structure had been missing. The party high command had to appoint Harish Chaudhary as the Punjab affairs incharge in place of Harish Rawat to take over control of the state unit ahead of the elections.PCC chief probablesPartap Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Randhawa, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Ravneet Singh Bittu, Vijay Inder Singla and Bharat Bhushan Ashu #bharat bhushan ashu. #g23 #navjot sidhu #partap singh bajwa #raja warring #ravnet bittu #sukhjinder randhawa #vijay inder singla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pcc-chief-finding-replacement-for-navjot-singh-sidhu-a-challenge-378133
16-03-2022||Chandigarh||Infighting blamed for Congress' Punjab poll debacle||Hours before Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu to resign as part of reorganisation of the state unit, party candidates from the Malwa region met here today in which leaders blamed demoralisation of the party cadre due to infighting among top state leaders and absence of a ground strategy as the primary reasons for the poll debacle.As the Punjab Congress leadership began an exercise on Tuesday to resurrect itself from the worst-ever poll debacle, party leaders demanded action against the leaders who had indulgedin indiscipline.Gidderbaha MLA Raja Warring said everyone is to be blamed for the party’s debacle. “Be it anyone. Irrespective of the position, whosoever has pulled the party down should be held accountable,” he said.Darshan Brar, who lost the election from Baghapurana, said be it former CM Charanjit Singh Channi, Sidhu or former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar, all contributed to the downfall of the party.Gurpeet Singh GP, who lost from Bassi Pathana, demanded expulsion of Channi as he couldn’t prevent his brother Dr Manohar Singh from contesting against the party candidate.Learning little from the infighting that led to the party’s rout, differences among Channi and Sidhu were visible today as both did not meet one another.Asked about the reasons for the poll debacle, both leaders, who had one-on-one meetings with Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary, refused to talk to mediapersons.The meeting had been called to go into the details of the poll debacle. Tomorrow, candidates of Doaba and Majha have been called.During the day-long exercise, leaders pointed out that workers at the grassroots were demoralised and confused, and didn’t give true feedback to the leadership as top leaders kept giving contradictory statements. The ‘Dalit CM’ factor of Channi also did not make much impact, it was pointed out.No one should be sparedEveryone is to be blamed for the debacle. Irrespective of the position, whosoever has pulled the party down should be held accountable. Raja Warring, Gidderbaha MLA #charanjit channi #harish chaudhary #navjot sidhu #raja warring #sunil jakhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/infighting-blamed-for-congress-punjab-poll-debacle-378129
16-03-2022||Fazilka||AAP MLA Narinderpal Singh Sawna raids illegal sand quarry in Fazilka; 1 held||AAP MLA Narinderpal Singh Sawna conducted a raid at an illegal sand quarry in Pakka Chisti village of the district on Monday late evening. The illegal mining was allegedly going on unabated in connivance with officials.Sources said after getting a tip-off, Sawna, along with the police and officials of the mining department, reached the site and found some persons excavating sand and loading it on a tractor-trailer. While a suspect fled the spot, the police arrested one Veer Singh, a resident of Muthianwali village, from the site. They also impounded a tractor-trailer with nearly 200 cubic feet sand. Sawna said the promise to wipe out sand mafia from the state would be fulfilled and the illegal mining would not be tolerated at any cost. Rajiv Behl, Junior Engineer, Mining Department, too, reiterated the MLA’s sentiments.In the past 10 days, eight persons have been arrested, two booked and eight sand-laden tractor-trailers have been impounded in the past 10 days since March 5. Four persons were arrested on March 7 and one each on March 5, 6, 13 and 14. — #illegal mining #narinderpal singh sawna||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/legislator-raids-illegal-quarry-in-fazilka-1-held-378125
16-03-2022||Ropar||Ropar MLAs visit hospitals, meet mining officials||MLAs Dr Charanjit Singh (Chamkaur Sahib) and Harjot Singh Bains (Anandpur Sahib) held a meeting with mining officials and asked them to keep a strict check on illegal quarrying.Dr Charanjit Singh also visited a government hospital at Morinda. He said the staff there raised the issues of cleanliness, sewage disposal and shortage of instruments. Efforts would be made to address these problems immediately, he said, adding he the work on the proposed trauma centre would be step up.Bains visited the Nangal Civil Hospital. He was informed by the staff members that they were not paid for the past 10 months. The new MLA also held a meeting with mining officials to keep a check on the malpractice.Ropar MLA Dinesh Chadha interacted with locals as well as district officials to assess the ground realities. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-mlas-visit-hospitals-meet-mining-officials-378121
16-03-2022||Faridkot||AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan tells party leaders not to instil fear in Punjab Govt staff||After incidents of AAP leaders and workers ‘snubbing’ government employees during raids in different offices in the area, Kultar Singh Sandhwan, two-time AAP MLA from Kotkapura, today requested them to exercise restraint, saying “we have to take the employees along for improving the system ... and need not instil fear in them”.In a meeting with party workers and leaders, he stressed 70 years of rot couldn’t be cleared in a day. “We pledge to give governance to all section of the society in the state with humility. The poll results have revealed that the government employees in all departments were also feeling suffocated so they voted for AAP,” said the MLA.In a meeting with district officials, Faridkot MLA Gurdit Singh Sekhon appealed to the them to cooperate with the AAP government to provide the public a transparent and efficient administration.“We want all officials to ensure that the public grievances are heard properly and people are not left disappointed due to the apathetic attitude of the government, unlike during the regime of previous governments,” he said. — TNSExercise restraintWe should not act in haste. All employees are our brethren. They also supported us in freeing the state from the clutches of plunderers. — Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Kotkapura MLA #kultar singh sandhwan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-instil-fear-in-punjab-government-staff-aap-leaders-told-378120
16-03-2022||Vishav BhartiChandigarh||Young blood: 11 newly elected MLAs to Punjab Vidhan Sabha below 35||With the AAP sweeping the elections, a lot of young blood will be infused in the 16th Punjab Vidhan Sabha as 11 MLAs are below the age of 35.Also read: Narinder Kaur Bharaj: Youngest legislator of Punjab looks to raise voice for downtroddenAll these MLAs belong of the AAP and Narinder Kaur Bharaj who defeated Minister Vijay Inder Singla and BJP’s Arvind Khanna from Sangrur is the youngest MLA at the age of 27. Bharaj rose to fame in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls when she had put up a polling booth for AAP candidate Bhagwant Mann in her village.Apart from Bharaj, among MLAs who are below the age of 35 include Narinder Pal Singh Sawna, 30, from Fazilka; Anmol Gagan Mann, 31, from Kharar; Sukhvir Singh Maiser Khana, 34, from Maur; Gurinder Singh Garry Warring, 35, from Amloh; and Harjot Bains, 31, who defeated Speaker Rana KP Singh from Anandpur Sahib. Bains had last time also contested from Sahnewal, but lost the elections. Amritpal Singh Sukhanand from Baghapurana (Moga) is 32. Meet Hayer, who has been elected second time from Barnala, is also 32. Amansher Singh (Shery Kalsi) from Batala is 34 and Labh Singh Ugoke who defeated Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is just 35.Besides, 29 MLAs between the age of 36 and 45 have also made it to the Assembly. Also, the average age of the current Assembly comes to around 50 years. At 48, Bhagwant Singh Mann is going to be the second youngest CM in Punjab’s history. Parkash Singh Badal was 43 in 1970 when he was sworn in for the post.Eight above 65There are just eight MLAs who are above the age of 65. Former Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, 78, who has been elected from Fatehgarh Churian is the oldest MLA. BJP legislator from Mukerian Jangi Lal Mahajan is 74 years old.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/young-blood-11-newly-elected-mlas-to-punjab-vidhan-sabha-below-35-378117
16-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Narinder Kaur Bharaj: Youngest legislator of Punjab looks to raise voice for downtrodden||Sangrur, March 14AAP MLA from Sangrur Narinder Kaur Bharaj (27) used a two-wheeler to campaign. In future also, she plans to use it for visiting various areas without any security.Also read: Young blood: 11 newly elected MLAs to Punjab Vidhan Sabha below 35“I will prefer to use my Scooty to stay connected with my voters. Even after the announcement of result, I went to the local market on my scooter with my mother for shopping. I used cars also of my supporters in the election, but I prefer my Scooty,” says Bharaj, one of AAP’s gaint killers as she defeated Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla with a margin of 36,430 votes.A law graduate, Bharaj hails from a farming family of Bharaj village. She was the first one to set up a booth of her party in the 2014 elections in her village, when others had stopped supporting the party after facing threats from political opponents.“I come from a middle-class family and I know what our problems are. I have travelled in buses and autos and rode a bicycle. My opponents called me ‘chhoti jahi kudi’ and now I want to show to them that the age does not matter, but its intention that matters. Since their intentions were bad, people have rejected them,” says Bharaj.“My aim is to raise the voice of the downtrodden. After becoming the MLA, I am confident that I will be able to work more effectively. In Sangrur, I have only seen only ‘politics of commission’ as leaders of various parties have only pocketed commission from government projects. In coming days, residents will see a major improvement in the overall working,” she said. #narinder kaur bharaj||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youngest-legislator-of-punjab-looks-to-raise-voice-for-downtrodden-378113
16-03-2022||Chandigarh||Swearing-in of Punjab CM-elect Bhagwant Mann: It's AAP affair  all the way||The grand swearing-in ceremony of Chief Minister-elect Bhagwant Mann at Khatkar Kalan is expected to be an AAP affair. At least 10 top leaders of the party from Delhi are expected to attend the ceremony. However, no other state chief minister or leader from the Centre is expected to be present at the function.None of the former CMs of Punjab is expected to be in attendance either. Even the 25 newly elected MLAs from the Opposition are unlikely to attend the event, though sources say invites have been sent out to all newly-elected MLAs. Sources say the top brass met Mann today and discussed names of possible Cabinet inductees. — #bhagwant mann #khatkar kalan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/swearing-in-of-punjab-cm-elect-bhagwant-mann-its-aap-affair-all-the-way-378111
16-03-2022||Aditi Tandon||Sonia cracks whip, asks PCC chiefs of Punjab, UP, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Goa to resign||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, March 15Congress presidents in Punjab, UP, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa, where the party suffered setbacks are all set to put in their papers with Sonia Gandhi cracking the whip on Tuesday and asking for their resignations to enable reorganisation of the party.State unit chiefs Navjot Singh Sidhu (Punjab), Ganesh Godiyal (Uttarakhand), Girish Chodankar (Goa), Ajay Kumar Lallu (UP) and Nameirakpam Loken Singh (Manipur) will be resigning any time now.Uttarakhand Congress chief Ganesh Godiyal was first to put in his papers. "I had decided to resign on the day of poll results, but was waiting for high command's directive," he tweeted.प्रदेश में हुये विधानसभा चुनावों में पार्टी की हार की नैतिक जिम्मेदारी लेते हुए आज मैंने अपना इस्तीफा सौंप दिया है। मैं परिणाम के दिन ही इस्तीफा देना चाहता था पर हाईकमान के आदेश की प्रतिक्षा पर रुका था। pic.twitter.com/X5cOucrWB7  The move comes ahead of a crucial meeting of G-23 leaders called at the residence of former minister and sitting Rajya Sabha MP Kapil Sibal tomorrow.Congress President, Smt. Sonia Gandhi has asked the PCC Presidents of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa & Manipur to put in their resignations in order to facilitate reorganisation of PCC’s.  Sources said G-23 leader Ghulam Nabi Azad is sending out invites to a larger group of leaders beyond the G-23 and also to some leaders from other parties to discuss the future of the Congress and its viability in the opposition space.Sibal had last year also hosted a similar meeting and said the engagement would continue.Sibal today demanded that Gandhis—Sonia, Rahul and Priyanka Vadra—step aside from their roles and let a new person get a chance to lead the Congress.G-23 members in the Congress Working Committee—Azad, Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik—however did not make any such demand in the Sunday meeting Sonia called to talk about Congress debacle in five states.The CWC asked Sonia to continue as interim president until the election of the next chief and authorised her to make any change needed to strengthen the Congress.Sonia today asked state chiefs of all election states where the Congress lost to resign and pave the way for reorganisation in those units, AICC general secretary RS Surjewala said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-president-sonia-gandhi-asks-pcc-chiefs-of-up-punjab-uttarakhand-goa-manipur-to-resign-378067
16-03-2022||New Delhi||50 pc winners in Punjab declared criminal cases against themselves, says ADR||About 45 per cent candidates who won the recent assembly polls in five states have declared criminal cases against themselves, poll-rights group Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) said on Tuesday.The National Election Watch and Association of Democratic Reforms (ADR) have analysed the self-sworn affidavits of all 690 winning candidates in the assembly elections of Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.In Punjab, 50 per cent of the winning candidates declared criminal cases while 23 per cent declared serious criminal cases against themselves, it said.Of the 690 candidates in five states, 219 (32 per cent) winning candidates have declared serious criminal cases against themselves, it said.Of the 312 winning candidates who declared criminal cases against themselves, 134 are from BJP, 71 from the Samajwadi Party, 52 from the Aam Aadmi Party, 24 from the Congress and seven from RLD, it said.It said around 87 per cent or 598 winning candidates are crorepatis and the average asset of a winning candidate is Rs 8.7 crore.In Goa, 40 per cent of winning candidates declared criminal cases against themselves, while 33 per cent declared serious criminal cases.In UP, 51 per cent of the winners declared criminal cases, while 39 per cent declared serious criminal cases against themselves, it said.As many as 27 per cent of the winners in the Uttarakhand polls declared criminal cases against themselves and 14 per cent declared serious criminal cases.Likewise in Manipur, 23 per cent candidates who won declared criminal cases while 18 per cent declared serious criminal cases against themselves, it added.As many as 33 winning candidates, including 29 from Uttar Pradesh, declared cases related to attempt to murder and 12, including six from UP, declared cases related to crime against women.Six winning candidates declared cases related to murder in their affidavits, it said.The BJP swept UP, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa in the assembly polls while AAP recorded a landslide victory in Punjab. #criminals in politics||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/assembly-polls-50-pc-winners-in-punjab-declared-criminal-cases-against-themselves-says-adr-378065
16-03-2022||Toronto||Canada road accident: 2 Indian students out of danger, 1 escaped unhurt||Two Indian students injured in an accident in Canada are out of danger and another had a lucky escape, India's envoy here has said in an update on the horrific road crash.Five Indian students were killed in a road accident in Canada's Ontario province on March 12. The accident between a passenger van and a tractor-trailer took place on Saturday on Highway 401 in the Quinte West city in Southern Ontario.India's High Commissioner in Canada Ajay Bisaria, in an update on the accident, said that two of the injured persons are still in hospital while another student escaped unhurt.Update on tragic accident in which 5 Indians were killed near Toronto on Sat: two injured still in hospital, mercifully out of danger. One other student in the van carrying 8 persons escaped unhurt. @IndiainToronto team is in touch with friends/family for all help. @MEAIndia"Update on a tragic accident in which 5 Indians were killed near Toronto on Sat: two injured still in hospital, mercifully out of danger. One other student in the van carrying 8 persons escaped unhurt. @IndiainToronto team is in touch with friends/family for all help. @MEAIndia", Bisaria tweeted on Monday.Harpreet Singh, 24; Jaspinder Singh, 21; Karanpal Singh, 21; Mohit Chouhan, 23 and Pawan Kumar, 23 were pronounced dead at the scene.They all studied in the Montreal or Greater Toronto areas, GlobalNews reported.External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday mourned the death of the five Indian students and said the Indian mission in Toronto will provide all necessary support and assistance.Deeply mourn the passing away of 5 Indian students in Canada. Condolences to their families. Pray for the recovery of those injured. @IndiainToronto will provide all necessary support and assistance. https://t.co/MAkMz0uwJ7A spokesman from Canada College, a Montreal school that caters to international students, said at least three of those who died and one of two injured survivors studied at the school.John David Couturier said the school administration is devastated by the loss and is scrambling to support students and arrange to send the victims' bodies back to India, the report said.“We're all in a state of shock”, the spokesman said.“I can only imagine the families in India, they're so far away, and now there are two students in the hospital that don't have their families here.” Couturier said most of the victims associated with the school had been studying business administration.Dr. Shivendra Dwivedi, who heads an organization called Canada India Global Forum, said the community is shaken by the loss.“We're very sad with this tragedy, and we feel very, very bad for the families and the students that lost their lives”, he said. “It's a horrible tragedy, and I think the community is grieving.” Dwivedi said his group was mobilizing resources to provide grief counselling for the victims' friends in Canada.OPP spokeswoman Maggie Pickett said on Monday that police believe the van was stopped by the side of the highway when the crash occurred. The investigation into the crash is continuing, and no charges have been laid.One passenger, who had exited the van, as well as the tractor-trailer driver, were uninjured, Pickett said, while two of the van's occupants were taken to hospital in serious condition.Couturier said Canada College has offered to repatriate the bodies to India and pay the cost of its students' funerals, the report added.Every year, thousands of Indian students visit Canada for higher education. #Canada #Ontario||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/diaspora/canada-road-accident-2-indian-students-out-of-danger-1-escaped-unhurt-378020
