17-03-2022||Amritsar||SGPC against cultural event near Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara in Pakistan||SGPC chief Harjinder Singh Dhami on Thursday sought from the Pakistan government not to hold a cultural festival near the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara, saying it is against the code of conduct of the shrine.Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara is the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev.The SGPC objected to the holding of the event, “Jashan-e-Bahar”, in a letter to Muhammad Latif, CEO, Project Management Unit of Sri Kartarpur Sahib Corridor; Ameer Singh, president, Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbadhak Committee (PSGPC), and Pakistan’s High Commissioner to India, a statement said.Dhami said, “The event planned by the Pakistan government at Kartarpur Sahib is against the ‘maryada’ (code of conduct) of Gurdwara Sahib. Therefore, this should not take place.” He said the event is against teachings of Sikh Gurus.Dhami said PSGPC president Ameer Singh should talk to the Pakistan government about the issue so that this could be stopped.He said the gurdwaras are the centres of the Sikh faith from where the message of the Gurus is given to all mankind.“It is very important to maintain the entire environment around the Gurdwara Sahib as per the Sikh maryada but the scheduled event of the Pakistan government is not as per the ‘gurmat’,” said the SGPC President.He said as per the programme, dance, qawalis, bhangra and singing are scheduled to take place.“Promoting Gurdwara Sri Kartarpur Sahib from a commercial point of view is not appropriate and only religious congregations should be held there and its close proximity. If this programme takes place, it will hurt sentiments of the Sikh Sangat (devotees),” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-against-cultural-event-near-kartarpur-sahib-gurdwara-in-pakistan-378662
17-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab now has more responsibility to provide water for SYL canal: Haryana CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday raised the issue of Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal after the formation of new government in Punjab, saying the neighbouring state is now doubly responsible as “we have to take water from Punjab and give it to Delhi”.In such a situation, Punjab's responsibility to provide water for the SYL canal is more as now both the states are ruled by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).The SYL canal, the major portions of which were completed in the 1990s at a cost of over Rs 750 crore, is entangled in a political and legal quagmire with Punjab and Haryana unwilling to give up their respective stands on the controversial canal issue and sharing of river water.Officials told IANS that Delhi is demanding more water from Haryana due to increasing pressure of population from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana. Haryana is ready to give its share of water to Delhi, but the other states should also contribute to meet the water requirement of Delhi from the Sutlej, Beas and Ganga rivers.Responding to another question, Khattar said the Punjab government would now have to think when the budget of the state would be presented. The debit to GSDP ratio of the state is 48 per cent, which is just 24.98 per cent in Haryana.Khattar said that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal boasts of different things."Delhi cannot be compared to Haryana. There will be about 1,100 government schools in Delhi, but there are 15,000 government schools in Haryana. At the same time, the cultivated land there is very less as compared to Haryana, as we have 80 lakh acres of agricultural land."Similarly, different regions have different conditions, so Delhi cannot be compared to Haryana. But Haryana can definitely be compared to Punjab," Khattar said.Responding to a question, Khattar said the Chief Minister's Good Governance Associates (CMGGA) programme in Haryana has nothing to do with any political organisation and the government does not pay them any salary.Meanwhile, as a goodwill gesture, Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann participated in the 'Holi Milan Samaroh' at the Haryana Raj Bhavan here on Thursday.Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya welcomed Mann, who presented a bouquet to the former. Khattar and Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala also felicitated Mann with bouquets on the occasion. Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit also graced the occasion. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-now-has-more-responsibility-to-provide-water-for-syl-canal-haryana-cm-378661
17-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann takes part in ‘Holi Milan Samaroh’ at Haryana Raj Bhawan||Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann participated in a “Holi Milan Samaroh” at the Haryana Raj Bhawan here on Thursday.Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya welcomed Mann, who presented a bouquet of flowers to him.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, who were present on the occasion, also presented a bouquet of flowers to Mann.Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit also graced the occasion.In the pictures released by the Information and Public Relations Departments of the two states, Mann and other dignitaries are seen in a joyous mood, showering rose petals and splashing “gulal” on each other to mark the Holi celebrations.Holi, the festival of colours, will be celebrated on Friday.At a press conference here in the evening, Khattar said he had congratulated Mann after he was sworn-in as the Punjab chief minister on Wednesday.The Aam Aadmi Party stormed to power in Punjab after winning 92 of the 117 seats in the recently held Assembly polls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-bhagwant-mann-takes-part-in-holi-milan-samaroh-at-haryana-raj-bhawan-378654
17-03-2022||YELLOW was the colour of the day at Khatkar Kalan||United colours of 'Basant' at Bhagwant Mann's swearing-in||While men came supporting yellow turbans, women, too, came wearing yellow dupattas to add to that happiness quotient. After all, their leader, whom they had elected, hoping to bring about a change in the state dynamics, was about to take the oath.Yellow signifies optimism, spring and happiness and ‘happiness’ was no doubt writ large all over. A serene, yet revolutionary spirit prevailed at the main pandal. A 100-feet-long stage was erected for the event.Besides, AAP flags and banners were lined up everywhere on the road, from the highway to the venue, as youth came in large numbers sitting atop buses and tractor-trailers.Youngsters fond of clicking selfies made a beeline near a semi-constructed Bhagat Singh Centenary Foundation office just next to the main memorial site that had statues of freedom fighters — Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev — on the rooftop, to get that perfect shot.Such was the spirit, that boys, charged with enthusiasm and patriotic fervour, were seen helping each other in tying yellow turbans in Bhagat Singh style at the venue and raising slogans of Inquilab Zindabad and Jo Bole So Nihaal, Sat Sri Akal.Clad in a white kurta pyjama, sky blue jacket and a yellow turban, Bhagwant Mann, after taking the oath, addressed the huge gathering saying that this is for the first time that any Chief Minister was taking oath from the land of martyrs as earlier swearing-in ceremonies were held from stadiums and palaces.A strong presence of AAP’s Delhi team, including CM Arvind Kejriwal, Deputy CM Manish Sisodia and others, was visible as a separate stage was set up for them.“Traditional parties are losing their ideology in the country and its support base is eroding. The new government will be an endorsement of Kejriwal’s vision, who believes that politics is much above caste, creed or religion,” said an AAP supporter, who came all the way from Pathankot to attend the ceremony.“This is a big day for us, as it marks a political transition for the state. The victory has been made possible because of majority of the people of Punjab who voted for change,” an AAP activist said.Happiness writ largeYellow signifies optimism, spring and happiness and ‘happiness’ was no doubt writ large all over the faces of those who came to witness the ceremony at Bhagat Sing’s ancestral village. Such was the enthusiasm among boys that they were seen helping each other in tying yellow turbans in Bhagat Singh style #bhagwant mann #khatkar kalan #shaheed bhagat singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/united-colours-of-basant-378462
17-03-2022||---||Fazilka: AAP MLAs' raids irk teachers' union||Fazilka, March 16Members of the Government Teachers’ Union, Punjab, condemned the raids conducted by newly-elected Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs on government teachers and warned them to stop the practice immediately.Union’s state unit president Sukhwinder Singh Chahal, general secretary Kuldeep Singh Daurka and Fazilka district unit general secretary Nishan Aggarwal issued a statement today. The union leaders said instead of focusing on filling large number of vacant posts and resolving other problems being faced by teachers, some AAP MLAs have been interfering in their functioning, which was highly uncalled for.Members of the teachers’ body said people of Punjab had given unprecedented mandate to the AAP in a hope that they would streamline the derailed system but the party MLAs have started prevailing upon employees by conducting raids at government schools.They said Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann should fill thousands of vacant posts of teachers and prevent his legislators from undue interference in the functioning of schools.Aggarwal said teachers suffered from mental stress during the previous government’s tenure as they had to do other works during the pandemic along with teaching. The leaders appealed to the government to conduct meetings with the union for streamling the education system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-mlas-raids-irk-teachers-union-378442
17-03-2022||Vishav BhartiChandigarh||Job scam in Punjab: Punitive action taken against two ADCs||In the recruitment scam in the Department of Rural Development and Panchayats, disciplinary action has been initiated against 11 officials, including two ADCs.Last week The Tribune had highlighted that how a recruitment scam had rocked Punjab’s Department of Rural Development and Panchayats as it gave employment to around 100 persons on the basis of fake degrees and fake experience certificates under the Punjab State Rural Livelihood Mission (PSRLM). The fact came to fore in a departmental inquiry.Job scamSources revealed that the department had initiated action against officials in Ropar district where the tainted officials even failed to conduct a proper recruitment examination as per the guidelines and recruited employees on fake degrees and certificates.Amardeep Singh Gujral; Dinesh Vashisht, Baljinder Singh Grewal, Jasveer Singh, Avtar Singh and Baljinder Singh and Stalinjeet Singh have been served the notice for termination of services.Apart from that action under Section 10 of the Punjab Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal) Rules, 1970 against Kamaldeep Kaur, District Programme Manager, and Viki, Tehsil Welfare Officer, has been recommended.Besides, the officials who have been “using” fake degrees and experience certificates include MIS Assistants Sukhdeep Kaur, Mana Singh, District Programme Manger Kamaldeep Kaur, Block Programme Mangers Mohit Kumar, Hardeep Kaur, Jagdeep Kumar and Rupinder Kaur,In the past three years, the state had hired 311 employees for various positions, including District Programme Managers, Block Programme Managers and Cluster Coordinators under the PSRLM.Significantly, the PSRLM is a poverty alleviation project implemented by the Union Ministry of Rural Development. This scheme is focused on promoting self-employment among rural poor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punitive-action-taken-against-two-adcs-378439
17-03-2022||Fatehgarh Sahib||Students protest against Desh Bhagat varsity||Hundreds of GNM and BSC Nursing students of Desh Bhagat University in Mandi Gobindgarh today blocked the main road outside the university. The protesters said they were given GNM and BSC degrees on behalf of Sardar Lal Singh College instead of Desh Bhagat University.Shari, a student, said she took admission at the university after paying hefty fee, but the university admitted 187 students in BSC Nursing and 300 in GNM against the sanctioned 60 seats each and was now giving them degrees on the behalf of Sardar Lal Singh College. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/students-protest-against-desh-bhagat-varsity-378436
17-03-2022||Tarn Taran||7 Cong, AAP workers hurt in Tarn Taran post-poll clash||In a post-poll clash, five supporters of the Congress, including an expectant mother and a 7-year-old boy belonging to the Scheduled Caste, suffered injuries due to acid attack at Mehmoodpur village on late Monday night. Two supporters of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also got hurt in the melee.Those under treatment include Darshan Singh (60) and his son Shinda Singh (30). Karaj Singh (28), Ajeeb Singh (7) and expectant mother Manjot Kaur (26), have been discharged after the first aid.Darshan said his grandson, Ajeeb, had gone to a dairy run by AAP activists Tarlochan Singh and his son, Gurjinder Singh Domal. He said Ajeeb and Joobi, who is a grandson of Tarlochan, quarrelled over some minor issue and added that Gurjinder, who is a father of Joobi, came on the spot and threatened to kill Ajeeb.Jagdeep Singh, SHO, Kacha Pakka, said Darshan and his family attacked Tarlochan and Gurjinder. The duo have been admitted to the Patti Civil Hospital. He said acid, too, was sprinkled in the clash. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-cong-aap-workers-hurt-in-tarn-taran-post-poll-clash-378434
17-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||High Court: Must disclose financial status, earnings in maintenance matters||Chandigarh, March 16A seemingly harmless contention of being unemployed by a wife to grab maintenance from her husband can lead to her conviction for furnishing false evidence. The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that an estranged spouse, who did not disclose information about her earnings and submitted wrong information of being unemployed, was liable to be proceeded against for furnishing false evidence.Justice Jasjit Singh Bedi also ruled it was foremost duty of the party claiming maintenance to disclose the actual financial status to enable the court to decide upon the quantum of maintenance. The practice of making false assertions in the court ought to be discouraged as dignity and sanctity of the court was undermined by such conduct of a party.The ruling by Justice Bedi came after a wife filed a revision petition against order dated October 13, 2021, whereby an Additional Principal Judge (Family Court) held it to be expedient in the interest of justice that an inquiry should be made against her for false evidence under Section 191 of the IPC.Justice Bedi added a petition under Section 125 of the CrPC for maintenance is filed by a person unable to maintain herself or her children following lack of sufficient means. Referring to the facts of the case in hand, Justice Bedi asserted the petitioner joined a private university on July 3, 2017, as an Assistant Professor on a monthly salary of Rs 28,000. Her petition under Section 125 was filed on July 26, 2017.She did not disclose the information about her job and earnings during the entire litigation, including the time her application for interim maintenance was decided.“In my opinion, this explanation is completely fallacious. The petitioner is an Assistant Professor and a highly educated person. At no stage of proceedings up till her cross examination did she disclose that she was employed…. Assuming that the fact was missing in her petition under Section 125, the court could have been informed during the course of proceedings that there had been change of circumstances regarding her obtaining employment,” Justice Bedi asserted. Dismissing the plea, Justice Bedi added it could safely be said the possibility of her conviction was high and her actions were certainly deliberate and conscious to obtain maintenance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-must-disclose-financial-status-earnings-in-maintenance-matters-378433
17-03-2022||Sameer Singh||997 nominees lose deposit,  poll panel collects Rs 85.90 lakh||Bathinda, March 16The Election Commission (EC) has collected Rs 85.90 lakh after forfeiting security deposits (Rs 10,000 per candidate) of 997 candidates out of 1,304 nominees who contested the 2022 Assembly poll on 117 segments.Prominent among those whose security desposit has been forfeited include a former Chief Minister and five former ministers. As many as 33 candidates of the Congress got their security deposits forfeited.EC's guidelineAs per the EC guidelines, a candidate contesting the Assembly poll has to deposit Rs 10,000 as a security at the time of filing his nomination paper. The SC candidate needs to deposit Rs 5,000.Out of 997 candidates, as many as 276 nominees lost their security deposits (Rs 13.80 lakh) from 34 reserved constituencies, while the EC pocketed Rs 72,21,000 from the remaining 721 candidates.Among all the segments, security deposits of 18 candidates (highest) have been forfeited in Patiala Rural. A total of 16 candidates (out of 19 and 18 nominees) lost their security deposits in Sahnewal and Payal, respectively.In Bassi Pathana and Sunam, only winning candidates saved their security deposits. In Ludhiana South, 15 candidates out of 17, lost their security deposits. In Malout, as many as 13 nominees out of 15, lost their deposits.In Bathinda Urban, former finance minister and Congress candidate Manpreet Singh Badal managed to save his security deposit from being forfeited by a thin margin of 2,360 votes.Talking to The Tribune, Dr S Karuna Raju, Chief Electoral Officer, said, “As election expenditures are borne by the state assembly, the collections from security deposits directly get deposited in the respective district units of the Treasury Department.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/997-nominees-lose-deposit-poll-panel-collects-85-90l-378431
17-03-2022||Chandigarh||8.65  lakh to get vaccinated in  12-14 age group||Raj Kamal Chaudhary, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, today inaugurated the Covid vaccination drive for 12-14 year age group at the Mohali Civil Hospital. Punjab has set a target to vaccinate 8.65 lakh beneficiaries in this age group.Chaudhary said on the recommendation of an expert group, the vaccination programme has been expanded to 12-14 age group. He said only Corbevax vaccine would be administered to the beneficiaries to this age group. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/8-65-lakh-to-get-vaccinated-in-12-14-age-group-378429
17-03-2022||Archit Watts||No feat bigger than defeating  5-time CM Parkash Singh Badal: Lambi MLA Gurmeet Singh Khudian||Lambi (Muktsar), March 16AAP’s Gurmeet Singh Khudian, who defeated five-time CM and SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal on the latter’s home turf Lambi, is a contented man. Even after being in politics for three decades, there are no airs about him. When someone asks him whether he will get a Cabinet berth, he simply says: “I am more than satisfied after defeating Parkash Badal. There can’t be a bigger achievement than defeating a five-time CM.”He adds: “I come from a simple family. When my father retired as Chairman, Punjab Mandi Board, he had a debt of Rs 90,000 on him. People are well aware of our credentials.” As per his election affidavit, Khudian, 59, is a matriculate, has 8 acres and 5-marla land in his name. Besides, he owns an old car. Although he was not a big name in state politics, yet he commanded a significant support base right on the Badal’s home turf due to his family’s legacy. His father, late MP Jathedar Jagdev Singh Khudian, was originally an associate of the Badal who later joined the SAD (Mann). He is still known as a ‘darvesh siyastdan’ (saintly politician).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-feat-bigger-than-defeating-5-time-cm-says-lambi-legislator-378427
17-03-2022||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu resigns as PCC president||Almost eight months after taking over as PCC chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday tendered his resignation after Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked the PCC presidents to resign for reorganisation of the state bodies.In a tweet, Sidhu said “as desired” by the party president he had put in his papers. This is the second time that Sidhu has resigned after taking over the state unit chief. In September last year, he had resigned over the appointment of the DGP and Advocate General (AG) in the Charanjit Channi-led government. He then had announced to withdraw his resignation after the AG was changed and the process to replace the DGP was started.— #navjot sidhu #sonia gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-resigns-as-pcc-president-378425
17-03-2022||---||Will form separate Akali Dal: DSGMC chief Harmeet Singh Kalka||Chandigarh, March 16Days after suffering a humiliating defeat in the Punjab Assembly polls, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today faced major rebellion when party leader and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Harmeet Singh Kalka announced forming a separate Akali Dal.He said the decision was taken unanimously with 26 other members of the DSGMC belonging to the Akali Dal. The party had won the DSGMC elections with 27 members out of 47.In response, the SAD convened an emergency meeting in the afternoon and expelled Kalka from the party membership while dissolving the Delhi unit of the party. SAD senior vice-president Prem Singh Chandumajra said an ad hoc committee under ex-president Avtar Singh Hit will run the unit until a new organisation is announced.In Punjab, Bathinda Urban candidate and ex-MLA Sarup Chand Singla resigned from the party. He alleged the Badal family helped their cousin and Congress leader Manpreet Singh Badal in the elections. Both Singla and Manpreet lost the seat to the Aam Aadmi Party.Two Akali leaders and members of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) Baldev Singh Chunga and Kiranjot Kaur have also revolted against the party leadership calling for an end of rule of the Badal family. They alleged the Akali Dal had suffered due to the wrong policies of the Badal family, including ignoring the demands of the Sikh Panth and joining hands with deras. They demanded change of leadership of the party.Kalka in a press conference in Delhi earlier today said he would soon announce a separate Akali Dal for New Delhi which would only focus on religious affairs. “We are distancing ourselves from the SAD as it failed to take up the issues of the Sikhs and the farmers.” He said though the new unit would be religious, the members would be free to contest elections of their choice. #avtar singh hit #DSGMC #harmeet singh kalka #prem singh chandumajra #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kalka-will-form-separate-akali-dal-378423
17-03-2022||Muktsar||Board heads appointed arbitrarily must quit: AAP leader Pritpal Sharma||AAP leader Pritpal Sharma, who lost the Assembly election from Gidderbaha, has publicly warned some arbitrarily appointed presidents of boards, social organisations and unions in Gidderbaha to step down on their own.Pritpal recently had said: “Several organisations, boards and unions were created for social welfare. However, those appointed arbitrarily have been using these to further their vested interests for a long time. In coming days, we will rid all organisations of such elements.”City Club, Gidderbaha, president, Narinder Monga said: “I have been getting phone calls to withdraw from my post. If someone wants to elect a new president, the elections should be held.” AAP Muktsar district president Jagdev Baam said: “Pritpal may have said something in his personal capacity.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-leader-board-heads-appointed-arbitrarily-must-quit-378419
17-03-2022||Chandigarh||Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar is Pro tem Speaker of Punjab Vidhan Sabha||“I will uphold the dignity of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha and ensure that the democratic values of the Constitution are always upheld,” said the newly elected Pro tem Speaker of Punjab Vidhan Sabha Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar.A doctor-turned-politician, Dr Nijjar is the newly elected MLA from Amritsar South. He was administered the oath of office by Governor Banwari Lal Purohit this evening. Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann was present at the oath-taking ceremony held at Punjab Raj Bhavan.The appointment comes just before the first session of the Vidhan Sabha is to commence from Thursday. — #banwari lal purohit #bhagwant mann #dr inderbir singh nijjar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dr-nijjar-is-pro-tem-speaker-378418
17-03-2022||Chandigarh||Avoid controversies, new Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann tells MLAs||On the day Chief minister Bhagwant Mann assumed charge, he is reported to have given a clear message to his party MLAs to avoid getting into any controversy with government employees.Sources said the CM made his “displeasure” known to his party colleagues, who had been going around government offices and playing “monitor”. The message was reportedly given to two MLAs who had recently started inspecting government offices. The two MLAs were reportedly told that they should act “maturely” as is deemed of a public representative.The corridors of power were also abuzz with talk of cricketer Harbhajan Singh being a likely choice for a Rajya Sabha nomination from Punjab during the elections on March 31. As many as five Rajya Sabha seats are falling vacant, and the AAP is likely to get four of these seats based on their strength in the House. #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/avoid-controversies-new-cm-tells-mlas-378416
17-03-2022||---||Punjab: Congress brass begins exercise to pick new PCC chief||Chandigarh, March 16With Navjot Singh Sidhu stepping down as the PCC chief, the Congress high command has begun the exercise to appoint the new incumbent.Ahead of appointing the PCC president, the party will decide on the CLP leader. Outgoing Rajya Sabha MP and Qadian MLA Partap Singh Bajwa is the front-runner for the post of CLP leader, though the official announcement is awaited.Punjab affairs incharge Harish Choudhary said the state body chief would be announced soon. Party president Sonia Gandhi held meeting with Punjab MPs.An internal exercise has already started taking feedback from senior leaders on shortlisting the names of the PCC president. Contenders for the PCC post include Sukhjinder Randhawa, Raja Warring, Ravneet Bittu and Bharat Bhushan Ashu. Meanwhile, Chaudary today held one-on-one meetings with party candidates from Majha and Doaba. #bharat bhushan ashu #navjot sidhu #partap singh bajwa #raja warring #ravneet bittu #sonia gandhi #sukhjinder randhawa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-brass-begins-exercise-to-pick-new-pcc-chief-378415
17-03-2022||Aditi Tandon||‘Mistakes were made in Punjab’: Sonia Gandhi at state Congress MPs’ meet||New Delhi, March 16Congress president Sonia Gandhi was in for some hard talk at an internal meeting she held with party’s Punjab MPs on Wednesday to assess their thoughts on the recent election debacle.MPs from both Houses, except Ambika Soni and Mohammad Sadiq, attended the meeting at the Parliament House Complex. Sources said the 45-minute meeting was stormy with MPs conveying to Sonia that leaders perceived to be assets turned out to be liabilities in Punjab.Ambika Soni, Mohammad Sadiq give stormy meet a missThe MPs questioned the party’s decision to play the caste card by projecting a Scheduled Caste leader Charanjit Singh Channi as the CM replacing Capt Amarinder Singh and said it proved counter-productive. They blamed “infighting and indiscipline” for the party’s loss flagging Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s frequent public attacks on Channi.The MPs said party affairs in the state should be handed over to genuine Congress men and indiscipline discouraged strongly.“Mistakes were made in Punjab,” Sonia is learnt to have said at the meeting.In the presence of Patiala MP Preneet Kaur, the wife of Capt Amarinder Singh, Sonia reiterated that Singh should have been replaced earlier and also made light of suggestions by some MPs to “take Amarinder back.”The MPs questioned the role of AICC general secretary Harish Rawat; AICC incharge of the state Harish Chaudhary who replaced Rawat; Sidhu, Channi and Punjab Congress campaign incharge Sunil Jakhar in the state.Many said Jakhar’s claim of receiving the highest, 42 MLA votes, in the race for replacement of Amarinder as CM, alienated Hindu votes and harmed the party.Importantly, Sonia, who listened patiently for most part, is said to have snubbed allegations by some MPs that Chaudhary resorted to corruption in ticket distribution and defended the process of candidate nomination.Speaking to The Tribune after the meeting, Punjab Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dullo said, “We told the Congress president that the leaders perceived to be assets actually proved to be liabilities. We told Sonia that the tsunami in Punjab was not for Arvind Kejriwal. It was against our government and against the mafia the government patronised. People vented their anger at us.”Maken to assess Cong poll debacleNew Delhi: Congress chief Sonia Gandhi appointed five senior leaders to assess the causes behind electoral losses in Punjab and suggest post-poll remedial measures, including organisational changes. Rajasthan AICC general secretary in-charge Ajay Maken has been tasked with the job in Punjab, Jairam Ramesh in Manipur, AICC general secretary, Jharkhand, Avinash Pande in Uttarakhand, AICC in-charge, J&K, Rajni Patil in Goa and Jitendra Singh in UP. tns #ambika soni #capt amarinder singh #charanjit channi #mohammad sadiq #navjot sidhu #sonia gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mistakes-were-made-in-punjab-sonia-at-state-cong-mps-meet-378414
17-03-2022||Khatkar Kalan||'Will stall flight of youth abroad': Bhagwant Mann takes oath as Punjab CM||AAP leader Bhagwant Mann was on Wednesday sworn in as the 28th Chief Minister of Punjab at a ceremony thronged by tens of thousands of people at martyr Bhagat Singh’s village here.Promising to fight unemployment and corruption in the state, Mann said, “We will stall the flight of students to foreign lands for quality education and job security. We will reform our education system to suit innovations in the job sector.Editorial: Audacity of hope: Expectations run high as AAP begins innings in Punjab“Ours is a long journey to usher in agriculture reforms, improve hospitals, transform the education system and end unemployment. The work will start from today itself. We will not waste even a single day. We are already late by 70 years.”He was the only one to take the oath at the event where many people in the crowd and on the dais sported turbans and dupattas in yellow — the “Basanti” colour often associated with Bhagat Singh. Mann paid floral tributes at the Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh’s museum and memorial. The 48-year-old former comedian was administered the oath of secrecy and allegiance by Governor Banwarilal Purohit. Mann ended the oath that he took in Hindi with the slogan “Inquilab Zindabad”.“We are beginning from here as we are now free in real sense. All previous governments in the past 70 years have blatantly ignored the vision and dreams of our martyrs,” he said.All newly elected MLAs were present. Arvind Kejriwal and ministers from his Delhi cabinet, including Manish Sisodia and Satyendar Jain, attended the event in yellow turbans. Chief secretary Anirudh Tewari conducted the proceedings of the event.Mann asked his party workers to do their work honestly and be polite with people. “Even our opponents are our own people. We will show them all respect. Don’t use harsh words against anybody, including on the social media,” he said. He appreciated Kejriwal for bringing the party to the national level after a long struggle.Family flies in from USMLAs to take oath todayRousing welcome at SecttWave of ‘Basanti’ #arvind kejriwal #banwarilal purohit #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-stall-flight-of-youth-abroad-mann-takes-oath-as-punjab-cm-378413
17-03-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Rs 3 cr spent on Bhagwant Mann's 17-minute swearing-in ceremony at Khatkar Kalan||Khatkar Kalan, March 16The swearing-in ceremony at Khatkar Kalan village that cost the exchequer over Rs 3 crore concluded in just 17 minutes. While the formal oath ceremony got over in just five minutes, the remaining time included signing of official papers and a 10-minute speech delivered by Bhagwant Mann.The event which was to start at 12:10 pm took off around 1:21 pm as AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal got late. Governor Banwarilal Purohit had reached the venue at 11:50 am and was to return to Raj Bhawan at 1:10 pm.222 PRTC buses put on jobPatiala: As many 222 PRTC buses were used to ferry AAP supporters for the swearing-in event. On Sunday, 443 buses had been roped in for AAP’s roadshow in Amritsar. PRTC MD Parneet Shergill said: “So far, no payment has been made by the government.” TNSThe national anthem started at 1:23 pm and the oath ceremony got over by 1:28 pm. Soon after, Mann started his speech and everything was over by 1:38 pm. Almost the entire bureaucracy and senior police officials had been visiting the venue daily to take stock of the arrangements.It was for the fourth time that oath-taking was held outside Raj Bhawan. The trend was started by the SAD in 2007 when the oath-taking event was held at a cricket stadium in Mohali. In 2009, Sukhbir Badal’s oath-taking ceremony as a deputy CM was held at Ranjit Avenue in Amritsar wherein the state government spent Rs 60 lakh. On 2012, the SAD had organised the oath-taking ceremony under Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal at Chappar Chiri in Mohali. #banwarilal purohit #bhagwant mann #khatkar kalan #prtc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-cr-spent-on-17-minute-event-378411
17-03-2022||Khatkar Kalan||Congress MP Mohammad Sadiq all praise for Bhagwant Mann||“I pray to the God that he may succeed. His success is Punjab’s success,” said Congress MP Mohammad Sadiq as CM Bhagwant Mann took oath of office today.The Faridkot MP was a special guest at the swearing-in ceremony today. In a great show of inter-party solidarity and love for his junior, Sadiq had also brought along the invitation card that he had received for the ceremony.Speaking to The Tribune, he said, “He has reached great heights, if such a person calls me, why shouldn’t I come. The biggest thing is he is an artiste and he started with me. We have an old relationship. It was my duty to come.”Gurdas Mann, Manmohan Waris, Kamal Heer, Amar Noori and Binnu Dhillon were among those who were in attendance. — #mohammad sadiq||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mp-sadiq-all-praise-for-mann-378409
17-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann gets down to business amid high hopes||From a comedian to Chief Minister, Bhagwant Mann has seen a phenomenal rise in a political career of just over a decade. With the swearing-in as Chief Minister, Mann accepted a huge burden of expectations and high hopes.Born in Sangrur’s Satoj village in October 1973, Mann enrolled for a B Com degree from Shaheed Udham Singh Government College at Sunam. He didn’t complete the course. He later brought out comedy videos and music albums, including the very popular ‘Jugnu Mast Mast’ and ‘Kulfi Garma Garam’. Appearing in ‘The Great Indian Laughter Challenge’ was a high point in his career as an entertainer. Mann’s political career began in 2011 with the Manpreet Singh Badal-led PPP, which later merged with the Congress. Next year, Mann fought from the Lehra constituency but lost to Congress leader Rajinder Kaur Bhattal. In 2014, Mann joined the AAP and succesfully contested against Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa for the Sangrur Lok Sabha seat. Mann won the the seat again in 201. — PTINon-SAD, non-Cong CM since 1966AAP’s Bhagwant Mann now becomes the first non-Congress and non-Akali leader to become the CM after the reorganisation of Punjab in 1966. Inviting people to his oath-taking ceremony, Mann told them it will be their government. #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-gets-down-to-business-amid-high-hopes-378408
17-03-2022||Ruchika M KhannaChandigarh||Bhagwant Mann gets resounding welcome at Secretariat||If the sea of humanity greeted Punjab’s new Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann at Khatkar Kalan, the state government employees, extended him a warm welcome in Chandigarh.Hundreds of employees gathered on the balconies of Punjab Civil Secretariat, waiting to welcome him. Never ever has any CM received such a resounding welcome from employees as was seen today. They greeted Mann with claps and cries of joy, as soon as he reached the Secretariat.“People have voted for him, with nothing but hope. Like the rest of the electorate, the employees, too, want a change in the political establishment. Their joy is thus understandable,” says Monu Ram, who is working in PWD (B&R). Though Mann was to arrive here to take charge as the CM at 3.45 pm, employees started standing in the balconies at least an hour earlier.In the just-concluded Assembly polls, government employees overwhelmingly supported AAP. “There was a lot of political interference in the functioning that resulted in poor governance. We are hopeful that this will change, and especially the police will be allowed to work independently,” said an official posted in the Chief Minister’s Office.Another employee from the police department, who asked not to be named, said: “Expensive education and healthcare concerned employees too. AAP promised to build good public health and education infrastructure. It has already shown us the Delhi model. Most people felt that they were investing in their own future as they voted for change. Since there is hope for better days, there is a lot of excitement among employees,” he said.Mann, too, responded by waving at the employees and acknowledging their love with a bow. Mann was given a guard of honour by the 82nd Battalion of the Punjab Police upon his arrival. He was received by Chief Secretary Anirudh Tiwari, DGP VK Bhawra and ACS to CM, A Venu Prasad. Almost all senior officers and senior cops were present as Mann assumed charge. In a brief message to officers, he made it clear that his government would work for the welfare of the people, who had given him a historic mandate. He assured the officers that together they would work for improving the lives of people and taking Punjab on the path of growth. #a venu prasad #bhagwant mann #khatkar kalan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mann-gets-resounding-welcome-at-secretariat-378407
17-03-2022||Aparna BanerjiJalandhar||Khatkar Kalan drenched in basanti||Lakhs of people sporting yellow turbans and ‘dupattas’ gathered in the sprawling, never-ending pandals behind the Shaheed-E-Azam Bhagat Singh Martyr’s Memorial at Khatkar Kalan village to attend the swearing-in ceremony of Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann. The public responded to Mann’s ‘Basanti attire’ exhortation with near-absolute abidance.Unlike the previous rallies and events witnessed in the state, there was a very distinct ‘Malwai’ vibe to the event, even though it was held in Doaba. Due to majority of AAP supporters (even those from other states) donning the yellow turban, a majority of the men in the crowd appeared to be turbaned Sikhs. Even those from Rajasthan, Himachal, Kerala, etc., came in turbans.Even on the roads leading to the event and at many Hola Mohalla langars, people with yellow turbans abounded.Big day for punjabIt’s a big day for Punjab today. The entire state will today come together and take a pledge to make it prosperous. —Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi CMIn consonance with the electoral mandate, the event saw a resounding support from Malwa. Buses from Mansa, Sangrur, Bhadaur, Rupnagar, Moga, Bathinda, etc., converged on Khatkar Kalan. Thousands of people, holding Bhagat Singh’s posters, came sitting atop buses to show their support for Mann and love for the martyr. Some attendees said “every single village brought its own bus”.A Kotra Kotrianwala village resident said: “This is an auspicious start to the new government from the land of martyr Bhagat Singh.”Anil Sharma, AAP’s candidate from Sangaria, Rajasthan, in the 2018 polls: said: “We have come to witness the historic event.” Rajeev Mali and Naresh Mittal, AAP members from Hanuman Garhi, Rajathan, said, “The AAP government in Punjab has had a direct bearing on Rajasthan.”Ceremony Short, simple, but high on SymbolismThe swearing-in ceremony was simple and without frills. The event was wrapped up in no more than 17 minutes. Yellow turbans, repeated sloganeering of ‘Inquilab Zindabaad’ and Bhagwant Mann’s invocation of Shaheed Bhagat Singh were the greatest takeaways.Oppn leaders congratulate CM I hope Bhagwant Mann will work hard for the holistic development of Punjab and repay the faith shown in his party by the people of Punjab. —Preneet Kaur, Patiala MPI congratulate Bhagwant Mann on taking oath as Chief Minister. I hope he will fulfil the promises made to Punjab and Punjabis that got AAP this mandate. —Manjinder  Sirsa, BJP #arvind kejriwal #bhagwant mann #Doaba #khatkar kalan #Malwa #manish sisodia #shaheed bhagat singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/khatkar-kalan-drenched-in-basanti-378405
17-03-2022||---||Ajay Maken to suggest Congress post-poll remedies in Punjab||New Delhi, March 16Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday appointed five senior leaders to assess the causes behind electoral losses in Punjab and suggest post poll remedial measures including organisational changes.AICC general secretary in charge of Rajasthan, Ajay Maken, has been tasked with the job in Punjab, former minister Jairam Ramesh in Manipur, AICC general secretary Jharkhand Avinash Pande in Uttarakhand, AICC in charge J&K Rajni Patil in Goa and former minister Jitendra Singh in UP.Maken was AICC screening committee chairman for Punjab, where AAP trounced Congress.“Congress President has appointed the following leaders to assess the post poll situation and suggest organisational changes in the states after engaging MLA candidates and important leaders,” a statement from AICC general secretary organisation KC Venugopal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/ajay-maken-to-suggest-congress-post-poll-remedies-in-punjab-378382
17-03-2022||Chandigarh||SAD expels Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee chief Harmeet Singh Kalka||The SAD has expelled Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) chief Harmeet Singh Kalka for raising a banner of revolt against party president Sukhbir Singh Badal.Earlier in the day, Kalka had announced formation of a religious party and said that he along with other leaders and members represented the Delhi unit of the SAD.Later, addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, party spokesperson Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra said the party president Sukhbir Badal had dissolved the Delhi unit of the party and formed an ad hoc committee under Avtar Singh Hit to run the party affairs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-expels-delhi-sikh-gurdwara-management-committee-chief-harmeet-singh-kalka-378353
17-03-2022||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann: Now Punjab CM, former comedian gets down to serious business||From a comedian to Punjab chief minister, Bhagwant Mann has seen a phenomenal rise in a political career of just over a decade.Mann on Wednesday was sworn in as chief minister at Khatkar Kalan, the ancestral village of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh in Punjab’s Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar district.At the mega public event, Mann accepted a huge burden of expectations—his Aam Aadmi Party had swept the assembly polls, winning 92 of the 117 assembly seats. How he runs the show in Punjab will also have a bearing on AAP’s fortunes in the coming years as the party seeks to expand its footprint further across the nation.Mann, 48, was elected twice as a Member of Parliament from Sangrur parliamentary constituency before his legislative assembly debut this time. He resigned as MP on Monday.He now becomes the first non-Congress and non-Akali leader to become the CM after the reorganisation of Punjab in 1966. Inviting people of Punjab to his oath-taking ceremony, Mann told them it will be their government.Weeks before election day, Arvind Kejriwal’s AAP declared him its CM face after a phone-in poll, called ‘Janta Chunegi Apna CM’ (people will pick their own CM).The AAP state unit president was the first choice of over 90 per cent of the 21 lakh callers.He fought the polls from Dhuri, an assembly segment in his Sangrur parliamentary constituency, winning by a margin of over 58,000.Born in Sangrur’s Satoj village in October 1973, Mann enrolled for a B Com degree from Shaheed Udham Singh Government College in Sunam in the same district. He didn’t complete the course, but college gave him a chance to take part in several youth festivals.He later brought out comedy videos and music albums, including the very popular ‘Jugnu Mast Mast’ and ‘Kulfi Garma Garam’. Appearing in ‘The Great Indian Laughter Challenge’ was a high point in his career as an entertainer. Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has now resigned as the Punjab Congress chief, also happened to have made several appearances on the TV show.Mann’s political career began in 2011 with the Manpreet Singh Badal-led People’s Party of Punjab, an offshoot of the Shiromani Akali Dal. The PPP was to merge later with the Congress.Next year, Mann fought from the Lehra assembly constituency in Sangrur as a PPP candidate but lost to senior Congress leader Rajinder Kaur Bhattal.In 2014, Mann joined the AAP and contested against Akali heavyweight Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa for the Sangrur Lok Sabha seat. He won by over two lakh votes and the AAP itself went on to win four Lok Sabha seats in Punjab.Mann unsuccessfully contested the 2017 assembly polls against Shiromani Akali Dal’s Sukhbir Singh Badal for the Jalalabad seat. But the AAP won 20 seats in the Punjab Assembly, ending up as the state’s main opposition party. Mann was made its state unit president.He resigned from the post in 2018 after Kejriwal apologised to Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia in a defamation case but was back in the AAP-fold soon.Mann won the Sangrur seat again in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls with a margin of over one lakh votes.During his career, Mann has been hounded by accusations that he has a drinking problem.In 2016, the then AAP MP Harinder Singh Khalsa complained against him to the Lok Sabha Speaker, seeking a change in his seat. He alleged that Mann, who sat next to him, reeked of liquor.At a 2019 rally in Barnala, in the presence of Kejriwal and his mother, Mann vowed to give up liquor. Mann had then accused his political rivals of defaming him by portraying him as a born drunkard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-now-cm-former-comedian-gets-down-to-serious-business-378349
17-03-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Navjot Sidhu resigns as Punjab Congress chief||Chandigarh, March 16Almost eight months after taking over as PPCC chief, Navjot Singh sidhu has tendered his resignation after party president Sonia Gandhi asked the PCC presidents to resign for reorganisation of the state bodies.In a tweet, Sidhu said that as desired by the party president he had put in his papers.This is the second time that Sidhu has resigned after taking over the state unit chief. In September last year, he had resigned over the appointment of the DGP and advocate general in the Charanjit Channi government. In his letter sent to Gandhi, he had then said, “The collapse of a man's character stems from the compromise corner, I can never compromise on Punjab's future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab. Therefore, I hereby resign as the president of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee.”As desired by the Congress President I have sent my resignation … pic.twitter.com/Xq2Ne1SyjJHe then had announced to withdraw his resignation after the AG was changed and the process to replace the DGP was started.But the issue did not end there. Ahead of the elections he questioned his own government over “inability” to control the sand mafia and joined issue with Channi, wanting that the high command name the CM face.After Channi was made the CM face, Sidhu maintained that he could not campaign in the state as Channi was the CM face. Lack of cohesion between Channi, Sidhu and Sunil Jakhar contributed to the party’s downfall in the polls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-resigns-from-punjab-congress-chiefs-post-378294
