18-03-2022||Phagwara||2 die as car ploughs into them in Punjab's Phagwara||A truck driver and a mechanic, engaged in repairing the vehicle on the roadside, died after being hit by a car on Phagwara-Jalandhar national highway on the outskirts of Phagwara, police said on Friday.The cleaner of the truck was seriously injured in the incident on Thursday evening.Sadar Police Station SHO Jatinder Kumar said the deceased were identified as driver Ayub (40) of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh and mechanic Prem Kumar (32) of Lehal Kalan village in Jalandhar district.The injured cleaner Shaukin (22), also from Saharanpur, was rushed to a Jalandhar hospital, he said, adding the car driver fled leaving his vehicle which had been impounded.The truck, coming from Saharanpur, developed a technical glitch near Chak Hakeem village. The driver parked on the roadside and got a mechanic to fix the glitch when the car ploughed into them, the SHO said.Bodies of deceased have been kept in the Civil Hospital mortuary, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-die-as-car-ploughs-into-them-in-punjabs-phagwara-378853
18-03-2022||---||AAP in saddle, Punjab must ensure water to SYL: Khattar||Chandigarh, March 17Putting the onus of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal on the newly formed Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Punjab, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said it was now doubly responsible since Haryana had to take water from Punjab and give it to Delhi.Addressing a press conference here today, Khattar said in such a situation, the responsibility of the Punjab Government to provide water for the SYL was more, because now both states were ruled by the AAP.Party also at helm in DelhiThe new Punjab Government is now doubly responsible since Haryana has to take water from Punjab and give it to Delhi... Punjab’s responsibility to provide water for the SYL is more, as now both the states are ruled by the AAP. —Manohar Lal Khattar, CMResponding to a question, he said the Punjab Government would now have to think when the Budget of the state would be presented in a few days. The debit to the GSDP ratio of the state is 48%, which is just 24.98% in Haryana.“I’m not worried about the AAP coming to Haryana. Delhi is small compared to Haryana. There are about 1,100 government schools in Delhi, but there are 15,000 government schools in Haryana. At the same time, the cultivated land there is very less compared to Haryana, as Haryana has 80 lakh acres of agricultural land. Similarly, different regions have different conditions, so Delhi cannot be compared with Haryana, but Haryana can definitely be compared with Punjab. At this moment, I’m more concerned about how they manage Punjab,” he said.Responding to a question, the CM said the Chief Minister Good Governance Associate in Haryana had nothing to do with any political organisation and the government does not pay them any salary.Khattar further said the kind of reforms the present state government had introduced to ensure “Maximum Governance-Minimum Government” was considered impossible. “We may make mistakes, but our intent is never wrong. There is a need to distinguish between bona fide and mala fide intentions,” the CM added.While launching a frontal attack on the Opposition claim over the discontinuation of the old-age pension of about 2.70 lakh beneficiaries in the state, the CM said, “The Opposition will never share the details about the number of new pension beneficiaries, they only talk about pension deductions. As many as 2.61 lakh new beneficiaries have been added in two years till March 2022,” Khattar said, adding that around 2.41 lakh people had died in these two years, their pension had been discontinued.“For the first time, our government has also started giving the pension benefit of Rs 2,500 to the people suffering from serious diseases like cancer and HIV,” the CM shared.He further said the 35th International Surajkund Handicrafts Mela would be held from March 19 and continue till April 4.This time, Jammu and Kashmir would be the partner state, while Uzbekistan was the participating country.“An e-ticketing system has been started for the convenience of the people visiting the mela. This time we have decided that two such melas would be organised in September and October month.”Meanwhile, the CM said a state-level function would be held in Panipat on April 24 to mark the 400th Parkash Purab of “Hind di Chadar” Guru Tegh Bahadur. #Khattar #syl||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-in-saddle-punjab-must-ensure-water-to-syl-khattar-378774
18-03-2022||Bathinda||Ensure free tests, medicine, Civil Surgeons told||A letter has been issued by the Department of Health and Family welfare directing Civil Surgeons and heads of district units of health department to ensure proper functioning of government hospitals and health centres across the state.The letter issued by the Director, Health and Family Welfare Department, has directed the staff members to be punctual and reach and leave hospitals on time. It also directed Civil Surgeons to ensure proper treatment, free medical tests and medicine for patients visiting government-run hospitals. They have also been told to lay emphasis on ensuring cleanliness and wearing of uniform, which is mandatory for the employees. Employees must also wear their ID cards during work hours, the letter states.With the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in power in the state, the focus is on improving health and education infrastructure across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-free-tests-medicine-civil-surgeons-told-378736
18-03-2022||Chandigarh||Sunil Jakhar: Sham 'witch-hunt' will not help, censure real culprits||Former PCC president Sunil Jakhar continued to hit out at his detractors in All-India Congress Committee (AICC) on Thursday. Without naming senior party leaders, who he alleges alienated him in the race for replacement of Capt Amarinder Singh as Chief Minister, Jakhar tweeted: “Those who raised the caste and religion identity issue should be censured and removed from high positions. Otherwise, the issue would haunt the party in 2024 parliamentary elections.While referring a previous statement that it did not matter whether CM was a Sikh or a Hindu, Jakhar in a tweet on Thursday said: “Who let the genie out? A sham ‘witch-hunt’ will not help. Show courage. Censure and remove the real culprits. Otherwise, this ghost of religion/caste/identity politics will haunt the Cong party in Punjab even in ’24 and beyond”. Earlier, Jakhar had criticised the leaders in party who were occupying high positions and were trying to divide Punjab on basis of race, caste and identity politics. — #sunil jakhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jakhar-sham-witch-hunt-will-not-help-censure-real-culprits-378735
18-03-2022||Abohar||Four killed in mishaps||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-killed-in-mishaps-378734
18-03-2022||---||24-year-old gangraped, five arrested||Anandpur Sahib, March 17A 24-year-old woman was allegedly gangraped by five persons here on Tuesday.The accused identified as Vishal Singh, Rajan Masih, Obaid Masih and Ajay Pal were nabbed while one of their accomplice Nishan Singh managed to flee initially. However, he was later arrested at a police naka near Nawanshahr.A revolver was recovered from the accused.According to Nawanshahr SSP Kanwardeep Kaur, the victim was staying at Mohali. She told the police that she had gone to Anandpur Sahib to attend Hola Mohalla where she met the accused. On March 15, she took lift in the car of the accused who raped her on the outskirts of Anandpur Sahib.The SSP said after registering a case against the accused, the Anandpur Sahib police had been informed. Anandpur Sahib SHO Gurpreet Singh said they had started investigation into the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/24-year-old-gangraped-five-arrested-378729
18-03-2022||Jalandhar||3 days on, no arrest in kabaddi player's murder||Three days after the murder of international kabaddi player Sandeep Singh Nangal Ambian, no arrest has been made so far in the case.Sandeep Singh was shot dead as he watched a kabaddi tournament at Mallian Kalan village in Nakodar. The assailants escaped in a car after committing the crime.Sandeep was a UK resident and president of the Major League Kabaddi Federation. Thousands of people protested against the crime at the Civil Hospital here on Wednesday.Various politicians have also visited Sandeep’s house to express solidarity with his family. Of those who visited his house so far, include newly elected AAP MLA from Nakodar Inderjit Kaur Mann, Congress Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira, SAD leader Gurpartap Singh Wadala and Ghanaur MLA Gurlal Ghanaur.The family is yet to conduct his last rites as they said they were waiting for all relatives to come. Sandeep and his wife lived in England. Sandeep is also survived by two sons.Angrez Singh, the brother of Sandeep Singh, said, “He dedicated his life to kabaddi and played the sport for 23 years. He was born a farmer, but kabaddi was his life-long passion. We trust the police and we know we will get justice. We just want the guilty to be brought to the book.”Hakam Singh, chairman, Major League Kabaddi Federation, said, “He made unparalleled contribution to the sport. He was instrumental in getting kabaddi cup first prize cash reward being increased from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh. Among others, he started getting referees and support staff paid. He also advocated dope tests on the pattern of World Anti Doping Agency. He was out to clean the game.”He said, “We are only concerned with justice. It must be looked into that who might benefit from his murder.”Jalandhar SSP Satinder Singh said, “Investigations are on in the case and we are hoping for a breakthrough soon.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-days-on-no-arrest-in-kabaddi-players-murder-378727
18-03-2022||Anandpur Sahib||Second phase of Hola Mohalla commences at Anandpur Sahib||After three-day festivities at Kiratpur Sahib, the second phase of Hola Mohalla started with a nagar kirtan here today. The SGPC too initiated an ‘akhand path’ at Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib this morning. None of the main political parties, including the Congress and the SAD, will be holding political conferences on the occasion this time also. In the past two years, the conferences have not been held due to Covid.The nagar kirtan started from Gudwara Tibba Sahib at Chak Holgarh and passed through Agampur Chowk, main road, bus stand, railway station, Panj Piara Park, Gurdwara Kila Anandgarh Sahib and culminated at Takht Kesgarh Sahib.As lakhs of devotees visited various gurdwaras in town, hundreds of langars have been organised all over the area and on roads leading towards Anandpur Sahib by social and religious orgainsations. Sant Baba Kashmir Singh Bhuriwale took up kar seva for cleanliness in the mela area. #anandpur sahib #hola mohalla #kiratpur sahib #SGPC #Sikhs #takht sri kesgarh sahib||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/second-phase-of-hola-mohalla-commences-378726
18-03-2022||Abohar||Miss World pageant: Punjab-born Shree Saini 1st runner-up||Indian-American Shree Saini was crowned the first runner-up at the Miss World 2021 beauty pageant held in San Juan, Puerto Rico on Thursday. The coveted Miss World title was won by Karolina Bielawska of Poland.Shree Saini, hailing from Punjab, represented the US. She was last year crowned Miss World America 2021. Ludhiana-born Shree’s maternal grandparents TR Sachdeva, a progressive farmer, and Vijay Laxmi, retired teacher, were greeted by hundreds of locals in Abohar. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-born-shree-saini-1st-runner-up-378724
18-03-2022||Chandigarh||‘Bribery’ case: CBI court directs IGP Gurinder Singh Dhillon to give voice sample||Jagjit Singh, Special Judge, CBI court, has directed Gurinder Singh Dhillon, IGP, Punjab, to appear before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) to give his voice sample in an alleged bribery case at the agency’s office on Saturday.Dhillon had earlier filed an application before the court through counsel Sartej Singh Narula for directing the CBI to fix the date for giving a voice sample.In a reply, PK Dogra, senior public prosecutor for the CBI, said the agency was ready to take his voice sample on March 19. After hearing the arguments, the CBI court directed Dhillon to appear in person before SIT members.The CBI had sought the voice sample in an alleged bribery case registered on August 14, 2018, on the basis of a complaint of one Shiv Kumar Sharma. After the registration of the case, a trap was laid and accused Ashok Goyal was caught by the CBI while allegedly demanding and accepting an amount of Rs 10 lakh allegedly on behalf of Dhillon, from the complainant.The CBI had alleged that after the acceptance of the bribe from the complainant, Goyal had allegedly called up Dhillon. The conversation between the two was recorded in the presence of independent witnesses and sealed on the spot. The CBI said for the purpose of investigation of the case, the recorded voice sample was required to be compared with the voice sample of Dhillon. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cbi-court-directs-igp-to-give-voice-sample-378722
18-03-2022||Patiala||Farmers' stir broke caste barriers: Roy||Booker prize winner and essayist Arundhati Roy today lauded the farmers’ protest for bringing together people from all caste backgrounds on one platform.Participating in a discussion at Punjabi University, Patiala, in view of celebration of International Women’s Day, she said the Constitution was being ignored as the notion of “one nation, one language and one culture” was gaining dominance.Roy said the only solution for peace and prosperity in India was ensuring federalism for everyone. “It should be for everyone. But if you centralise everything, everything will break.” She said people in the country — both the middle class and the poor — were being hammered by privatisation. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-stir-broke-caste-barriers-roy-378721
18-03-2022||---||SGPC opposes Pak's Jashn-e-Baharan fest on premises of Kartarpur shrine||Amritsar, March 17The Pakistan Government’s proposed move to organise ‘Jashn-e-Baharan’ festival on the premises of Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib has irked the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC).To give impetus to the pilgrimage at Kartapur Sahib, the Pakistan Government has taken various measures to motivate devotees from India to visit the shrine. In this direction, a family culture festival ‘Jashn-e-Baharan’, dedicated to arrival of spring was chalked out.The programme was conceptualised by the Project Management Unit (PMU), an exclusive department created under the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) for the management of Kartarpur Sahib Corridor.However, taking it as a violation of the ‘Sikh Rehat Maryada’ (code of conduct), the SGPC has expressed its objection in writing to Muhammad Latif, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the PMU, Aftab Hasan Khan, Pakistan’s High Commissioner to India at New Delhi, besides approaching Ameer Singh, president of the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) to not organise a cultural programme in the shrine complex.SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami said the event planned by the Pakistan Government at Sri Kartarpur Sahib was against ‘gurmat’ (teachings of Sikh Gurus). “This isn’t a way of promoting religious tourism and does not comply with Sikh norms. If this programme takes place, it will hit the concerns of ‘maryada’ and sentiments of Sikh community,” he said.He said the events of dance, qawwalis, bhangra and singing have been scheduled to take place on the shrine premises. “We have asked the PSGPC president to apprise the Pakistan authorities about the serious lapse and immediately scrap the events,” he said.The five-day ‘Jashn-e-Baharan’ festival is scheduled between March 23 and 27 at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur Corridor, located in Narowal district in Pakistan. The festival would witness various cultural programmes in which Pakistan artistes would perform. A special food street and joy rides too have been arranged for the festival.As per information, on March 23, Pakistan Day celebrations have been scheduled in which Pakistan national songs would be played. On March 24, Pakistan sufi singers will perform, followed by qawwali night the next day. Similarly, various festivities and dance performances have been scheduled for March 26 and 27. #kartarpur sahib #Pakistan #psgpc #SGPC #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-opposes-paks-jashn-e-baharan-fest-on-premises-of-kartarpur-shrine-378719
18-03-2022||Patiala||PSPCL gears up to meet power demand during paddy season||The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) today claimed to have geared up to provide eight-hour supply to agriculture power consumers and regular supply to various sectors, including industry, in the forthcoming summer and paddy season.All Arrangements in placeIt is anticipated that the peak demand during the forthcoming paddy season will be 15,000/15,500 MW, for which the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited has made various arrangements. PSPCL spokesmanIn a press note today, a PSPCL spokesman said the load profile of Punjab was such that demand of the state during peak summer/paddy season comes to an all-time high due to the increase in demand by all category consumers, including agriculture sector.The spokesman said with the onset of sultry weather due to a sudden increase in temperature had resulted in a peak demand of power around 8,650 MW whereas the same was 7,000 MW around this time last year. “In the last summer, the corporation had catered to the maximum demand of 13,148 MW. It is anticipated that the peak demand during the forthcoming paddy season would be 15,000/15,500 MW for which the PSPCL has made various arrangements,” he said.“The PSPCL has been exporting 900/1,000 MW power during this winter to other states for banking of power with Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Meghalaya, etc. such that in return it shall import 2,000-2,500 MW during peak paddy season from June to September,” read the press release.It further claimed that the PSPCL had also made power purchase arrangements of around 500 MW on short term basis from June to September 2022 through the Ministry of Power. “Arrangements for short term power of around 1,000 MW more are being made. As per recent developments, the PSLDC/PSTCL has informed the available transfer capability (ATC) limit is being raised to 8,500/9,000 MW in comparison to 7,400 MW last year.”The spokesman further added that sufficient arrangements of coal for planned generation are being made to ensure smooth working of thermal plants. The PSPCL owned coal mine at Pachhwara is being operationalised and coal from the same would be received in May.With around 6,500 MW generation within the state (1,000 MW from hydro plant, 1,580 MW from thermals, 3,200 MW from IPPs and 720 MW from solar and biomass plants) and 4,000 MW share of state in Centre and BBMB plants, 2,500 MW banking arrangements, 1,500 MW of short term power arrangements and 1,000 MW from power exchange, the PSPCL is in a position to meet the demand of 15,500 MW. #pspcl||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pspcl-gears-up-to-meet-power-demand-during-paddy-season-378717
18-03-2022||Shubhadeep Choudhury||Shaheed Bhagat Singh's nephews: Were ignored at Khatkar Kalan||New Delhi, March 17Public display of admiration for Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh may endear the new AAP government in Punjab to local people, but the government has been accused of being indifferent to two of the Bhagat Singh’s nephews who went to attend the oath-taking ceremony of CM Bhagwant Mann at Khatkar Kalan.Goal not achievedI went to attend Bhagwant Mann’s oath-taking ceremony. If the goal was to honour Shaheed Bhagat Singh for his sacrifices, it was not achieved. — Major General Sheonan Singh (retd), nephew of Bhagat Singh“I went to attend Bhagwant Mann’s oath-taking ceremony. If the aim was to honour Shaheed Bhagat Singh for his sacrifices, it was not achieved. It was a big ‘tamasha’, lacking in seriousness. The family members of the martyr came there as a duty. They were ignored by political bosses and the administration. I feel compelled to write this but I wish I did not have to,” tweeted Major General Sheonan Singh (retd), nephew of Bhagat Singh.Talking to this reporter, Sheonan Singh, a war hero who was awarded with Vir Chakra for his role in the 1987 IPKF operations in Sri Lanka, said he and his cousin Zorawar Singh went to attend the ceremony thinking that family members of Bhagat Singh should be present at the event.“We had contacted Dr Balbir Singh (AAP MLA from Patiala Rural) who was supposed to be the incharge of coordination. We also talked to the Nawanshahr DC. The DC told us that the protocol department would be alerted about our arrival,” said Sheonan Singh, who now lives in Noida.Sheonan Singh said they were given a seat at the “Blue Enclosure”, which is far from the podium, and forgotten. “The function was poorly organised and was also delayed,” said Sheonan Singh.Chaman Lal, retired JNU professor, said Sheonan Singh and Zorawart Singh, respectively, are sons of Bhagat Singh’s younger brothers Ranbir Singh and Kultar Singh. #bhagwant mann #khatkar kalan #shaheed bhagat singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/martyrs-nephews-were-ignored-at-khatkar-kalan-378716
18-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Officials failed to take lawful action against illegal dental clinics: HC||Chandigarh, March 17Acting on a petition against “unauthorised and illegal activities of dental quacks”, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that the situation was “very pathetic” as on date. The Bench also asserted it appeared that the state and the Punjab Dental Council were involved in blame game, rather than addressing the real issue.IDA’s petitionThe assertion came on a petition filed by the Indian Dental Association, Fazilka Circle, for directing the state and other respondents to stop unauthorised and illegal activities of dental quacks in Fazilka districtThe Bench added it was of the view that the official respondents had failed in their legal obligations to act for the welfare of public at large by not taking immediate lawful action against the dental clinics operating illegally.The assertions by Justice Raj Mohan Singh came on a petition filed by the Indian Dental Association, Fazilka Circle, through counsel Davinder Singh Khurana for directing the state and other respondents to stop unauthorised and illegal activities of dental quacks in Fazilka district. Khurana contended the “dental quacks” were working illegally, without requisite qualification and registration of their clinics as per the Dentist Act 1948.Taking up the matter, Justice Raj Mohan Singh asserted the petitioner, a dental association, has demonstrated “incriminating facts with reference to legal requirements”. A team, comprising the District Dental Health Officer and others, conducted an inspection before submitting its inquiry report dated October 4, 2018, following a representation by the petitioner. It was suggestive of the fact that the dental quacks did not have valid degree/diploma.Justice Raj Mohan Singh added the report was forwarded to Punjab Dental Council for necessary action. The Council, in its reply, submitted that Fazilka Civil Surgeon was asked to take necessary action. The Council also submitted that the Civil Surgeon, in turn, wrote back saying they were unable to take action due to the pendency of the present writ petition.“Let the needful be done within a period of one month from today,” the Bench concluded. The case will now come up in April third week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/officials-failed-to-take-lawful-action-against-illegal-dental-clinics-hc-378714
18-03-2022||Vishav BhartiChandigarh||Punjab: 325 ex-MLAs to draw pension from House||Had former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal not refused the Punjab Vidhan Sabha pension today, he would have been the highest paid pensioner in the state by getting Rs 5,76,150.Badal has served as an MLA for 11 terms in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha.MLA for 11 terms, Badal not to take pensionAs per Section 3 (1) of the Punjab Legislature Members (Pension and Medical Facilities Regulation) Rules-1977 and the Punjab Legislature Members (Pension and Medical Facilities Regulation) Rules-1984, the amount of basic monthly pension as per the notification issued on October 26, 2016 is Rs 15,000 for the first term and Rs 10,000 for each subsequent term. The beneficiaries also get 50 per cent merged dearness allowance (DA) and presently-applicable DA over and above the monthly pension. Thus, the total of the first term pension comes to Rs 75,150. It keeps on increasing by Rs 50,100 with every term.An ex-MLA is eligible for pension only when he ceases to be a member of the Assembly. Once he is re-elected, he is only given the salary and the pension is stopped.Apart from Badal, there are several ex-MLAs who are eligible for pension for six terms (Rs 3,25,650), including former Local Bodies Minister Braham Mohindra, former Finance Minister Lal Singh and former Chief Minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal. Those who will get pension for five terms(Rs 2,75,550) include former Jail Minister Sarwan Singh Phillaur, former minister Balwinder Singh Bhunder, former Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, ministers Parminder Singh Dhindsa and Manpreet Badal. Interestingly, around 225 former MLAs will be eligible for more than one pension. As per records of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, around 325 ex-MLAs will be eligible for pension this time, the highest number, as around 80 serving members of 15th Vidhan Sabha lost the recently held Assembly elections.When in the Opposition, the AAP had called more than one term pension to MLAs as morally and theoretically wrong. #parkash singh badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/325-ex-mlas-to-draw-pension-from-house-378713
18-03-2022||GS PaulAmritsar||SGPC members call for Badals' ouster||Members of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) have questioned the administration of Badal-led Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) following its decimation in Punjab.Lost credibilityThe present SAD leadership has lost its credibility among the Sikh masses. Efforts should be made to overcome this. — Karnail Singh Panjoli, SGPC general secretarySGPC member Bibi Kiranjot Kaur, who is granddaughter of Sikh visionary Master Tara Singh, said straightway till the Badal family was evicted out of the SAD, the party could never regain its lost prestige. “It hurts that sacrifices by Sikhs and their glorious history has been forgotten by the present ‘Akalis’ in pursuit of power and money. Sikhs’ institutions like the Akal Takht and SGPC are being manipulated, ‘Panthic maryada’ is compromised for political gains”, she said, adding: “Not only Sukhbir but the whole coterie around him needs to be replaced”.SGPC general secretary Karnail Singh Panjoli said it was the need of the hour to revive the ‘Panthic and ‘democratic’ topography of the SAD. “The present SAD leadership has lost its credibility and faith among the Sikh masses. Efforts should be made to overcome this,” he said.Another SGPC member Baldev Singh Chunghan said: “It was Badals who went to ICU, not the SAD. So Sukhbir should himself calls it quit in the interest of Panth.” #bibi kiranjot kaur #karnail singh panjoli #SGPC #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-members-call-for-badals-ouster-378712
18-03-2022||---||DSGMC Harmeet Singh Kalka president floats party||New Delhi, March 17Delhi Sikh GurdwaraManagement Committee (DSGMC) president Harmeet Singh Kalka on Thursday announced a new party, Shiromani Akali Dal (Delhi State), and said it would work as per panthic traditions of the Sikh community.Addressing mediapersons, DSGMC general secretary Jagdeep Singh Kahlon said Kalka has been elected chief patron of the new party.MPS Chadha has been elected as president, Bhajan Singh Walia and Harvinder Singh KP have been elected as patrons. Kalka said a five-member committee has been formed, which would submit its report within 10 days.Kalka said the party would work under the aegis of Sri Akal Takht Sahib and would work as per panthic traditions. He said the present leadership of Akali Dal has lost faith of Panth, which has been depicted through result of the 2022 Assembly poll. He said the SAD leadership failed to address the allegations of sacrilege against them. #DSGMC #harmeet singh kalka #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dsgmc-president-floats-party-378701
18-03-2022||Chandigarh||Manpreet Singh Aiyali appointed  leader of SAD Legislature Party||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal has appointed Manpreet Singh Aiyali as leader of the Akali Dal Legislature Party and Sukhwinder Kumar as chief whip. While Ayali represent the Dakha Assembly constituency and is a three time legislator, Kumar is a two-time legislator from Banga segment. — #manpreet singh aiyali||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ayali-appointed-leader-of-sad-legislature-party-378699
18-03-2022||---||Amit Shah praises LPA for constructing Kartarpur corridor in record time||New Delhi, March 17India needs to have enhanced trade, cultural ties and people-to-people contact with neighbouring countries, Union Home Minister Amit Shah today said while addressing an event to mark the 10th anniversary of the Land Port Authority (LPA).Noting that there has been a historical bonding among the people of these areas, as they were part of India before 1947, Shah expressed satisfaction over the opening of the Kartarpur corridor, connecting one of the holiest shrines of the Sikhs located in Pakistan with Dera Baba Nanak in Punjab, in 2019. He, however, claimed that there was an “error” and the place was left out of India during Partition.Thanking LPA for constructing the Kartarpur corridor at the shortest possible time, Shah said the India-Pakistan pilgrimage passage had created lots of goodwill for the LPA among the Sikh and Hindu pilgrims. Founder of Sikhism Guru Nanak Dev had spent last 18 years of his life at Kartarpur which is in Narowal district of Pakistan.Highlighting that India has 15,000 km-long land boundary and “before 1947, we were together”, the Home Minister said, “We have similar culture, we have similar language, we have bonding. There are opportunities to enhance trade relations, cultural ties and people-to-people contact. The authority (LPA) can enhance trade with the neighbouring countries without compromising the security concerns.”Shah further noted: “The authority can ensure strengthening cultural relations with the neighbouring countries as people living along the border have the same culture, language and lifestyle. It can also help in enhancing people-to-people contacts in addition to the diplomatic relations of with these countries.”Noting that India’s 15,000 km-long land borders with Afghanistan, China, Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Pakistan offer different challenges every 50 km, the minister said, “There is hardly any country in the world which has so many challenges along their land borders. Also, there is hardly any country which has so many opportunities that India has along its land border.” #amit shah #kartarpur sahib||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/shah-praises-lpa-for-constructing-kartarpur-corridor-in-record-time-378698
18-03-2022||Chandigarh||Sukhbir Badal says ready to quit  as chief, party rejects offer||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today owned moral responsibility for the party’s defeat in the recently concluded Assembly elections and offered his resignation, which was firmly rejected by all district presidents.Also read: SGPC members call for Badals' ousterThe SAD president, who interacted with district presidents yesterday and today, besides the senior leadership, said: “The party and its well being are supreme for me. I have always acted in the best interest of the party. I own moral responsibility for the party’s defeat in the Assembly elections and am ready to step down as party president”.The SAD leadership however shot down his offer in unison with many district presidents bringing the hard work and intensive election campaign led by Sukhbir on record. A formal resolution was also passed unanimously to express complete confidence in his leadership. Speaking on the issue, party leaders said not only did Sukhbir led from thefront but also inspired the party leadership as well as the cadre to give their best. The leaders said though the results were not as per expectations, the party president could not be faulted in any manner whatsoever.“People voted overwhelmingly for change and the entire Opposition was swept aside in the resultant tsunami”. Asserting that all was not lost, party leaders said “the SAD has the ability to rise like a phoenix from the ashes and Sukhbir will play a lead role in this”.In its worst-ever defeat in the 2022 Assembly elections since its inception, the SAD won only three seats out of 117. In the 2017 Assembly elections, the Akali Dal had to be content with 15 seats and the Bharatiya Janata Party with three. #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-says-ready-to-quit-as-chief-party-rejects-offer-378697
18-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma||No resources, yet PhD holder Dr Mohammad Jamil Ur Rahman defeated minister Razia Sultana||Malerkotla, March 17When Dr Mohammad Jamil Ur Rahman, 62, got AAP ticket from Malerkotla against minister Razia Sultana, wife of former DGP Mohammad Mustafa, many had expressed doubts about his victory. But Rahman, who only had Rs 35,000 cash in hand and Rs 46.50 as bank balance when he started his election campaign, defeated Razia with even lesser resources than his opponent. Rahman got 65,948 votes while Razia got 44,262 votes.“It was a direct fight between an ‘aam aadmi’ and minister supported by her former DGP husband. We faced problems as cops also created problems for us, but the voters proved they were supreme,” says Rahman.He does not have any investment in bonds, shares, savings, nor he owns any vehicle, nor he has any agriculture land, but owns a house.“When I campaigned on foot and two-wheelers, my opponents in their big SUVs with security guards used to pass by me. I used four-wheelers when I had to travel long distance. They tried to pressure voters, who ushered in a change for better,” said Rahman. Rahman has been with AAP since 2013. He has been running a public school for the past 40 years in Malerkotla. Some of his family members are vegetable suppliers. “I respect all religions. I completed my PhD on the descendents of Guru Nanak Dev in 2015,” he said. Rahman is currently visiting shops, localities and meeting people on the way to thank them for electing him as their representative. #dr mohammad jamil ur rahman #mohammad mustafa #razia sultana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-resources-yet-phd-holder-defeated-minister-378694
18-03-2022||---||Sukhjinder Randhawa, Partap Singh Bajwa in race for LoP post||Chandigarh, March 17Ahead of announcement of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, senior party MLAs were seen preparing themselves for the crucial role of the Leader of Opposition (LoP) on the day when all elected legislators were administered oath by the pro tem speaker on Thursday.Barring Rana Gurjeet Singh, who has been re-elected from Kapurthala, all other party MLAs were administered the oath.The meeting to elect the CLP leader is expected to be held on Saturday or Sunday after AICC general secretary Ajay Maken reaches Chandigarh to suggest organisational changes. Sources said Majha leaders were rallying behind Sukhjinder Randhawa for the post. On the other hand, Partap Bajwa, owing to his seniority, is also the front-runner for the post.After the oath-taking ceremony, Bajwa, who has been elected from Qadian, reminded AAP leader Avind Kejriwal to “run the Vidhan Sabha for at least 100 days in a year” so that serious legislative business could be discussed for betterment of Punjab. “Kejriwal had stated that the Vidhan Sabha sessions in Punjab are run for seven or eight days. Now, he can change the practice,” said Bajwa. He said the Congress would play a constructive role as Opposition while reminding the government of its promises.“The first job of CM Bhagwant Mann should be to address concerns of the employees and pensioners. Then fulfil its promises of giving Rs 1,000 per month to women above 18 years of age,” he said. “The total burden of sops would touch Rs 43,000 crore. Let’s see how the AAP brings back the state’s economy on track,” said Bajwa. #partap singh bajwa #rana gurjeet singh #sukhjinder randhawa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/randhawa-bajwa-in-race-for-lop-post-378691
18-03-2022||Chandigarh||Must end 'mafia raj', Navjot Sidhu reminds Bhagwant Mann||A day after resigning from the post of Punjab Congress chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday reminded CM Bhagwant Mann to eradicate ‘mafia raj’ in Punjab.Though the former PCC president drew flak from his detractors for congratulating the newly elected Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann, Sidhu in a tweet on Thursday wrote: “The happiest man is the one from whom no one expects… Bhagwant Mann unfurls a new anti-mafia era in Punjab with a mountain of expectations… hope he rises to the occasion, brings back Punjab on the revival path with pro-people policies… best always”.Sidhu has been speaking against the cable, sand, transport and liquor mafia. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/must-end-mafia-raj-sidhu-reminds-mann-378689
18-03-2022||---||PM Modi betrayed farmers, says BKU||Ludhiana, March 17Charging PM Narendra Modi-led NDA government of betraying farmers and not fulfilling most of their demands, the Bharti Kisan Union (Lakhowal) has chalked out a strategy to hold a nationwide agitation.Ajmer Singh Lakhowal, chief, Bharti Kisan Union (Lakhowal), said farmers would hold the nationwide protests on March 21 and a tractor march would be held in Chandigarh on March 25.Lakhowal said the Modi government at the time of scrapping three agri laws had made a commitment to set up a committee to give legal shape to the minimum support price, withdrawl of all criminal cases registered against farmers, release of tractors and other vehicles impounded during the agitation and action against the guilty involved in massacre of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri.“Unfortunately, none of these promises have been fulfilled. The government has refused to grant status of martyrs to more than 700 farmers killed during the year-long agitation,” he said.The BKU chief farmers would hold block and district-level protests all over the country on March 21, followed by a tractor march in Chandigarh on March 25.In the next phase of agitation, farmers would observe “MSP awareness week” from April 11 to 17 under the banner of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha.The BKU (Lakhowal) general secretary, Harinder Singh Lakhowal, criticised the unilateral decision of the Centre on the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB). He said the Modi government should not test the patience of Punjabis and revoke the decision. #bbmb #BKU #farmers #lakhimpur kheri #narendra modi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-modi-betrayed-farmers-says-bku-378687
18-03-2022||Mansa||Farmers protest delay in crop loss relief||Citing delay in providing compensation for cotton crop, which got damaged due to the pink bollworm attack last year, scores of farmers under the banner of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) gheraoed Mansa district administrative complex on Thursday.Centre dilly-dallying on demands: SSMChandigarh: The Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) held a meeting in Chandigarh today. Balbir Singh Rajewal gave a call to farmers to prepare for struggle over pending issues. Rajewal accused the Centre of dilly-dallying on the demands it accept on December 9 last year. The kisan leaders decided to extend full support to the two-day strike (March 28-29) called by various trade unions. Meanwhile, BKU (Qadian) issued a statement saying that they were not a part of this meeting. Veerpal Singh of the union said no one from their body was present in this meeting. TNSThe protesting farmers raised slogans against the district administration and blocked the road, thus disrupting the movement of people going in and out of the DC office.Farm leaders said as the administration has failed to provide compensation to the affected farmers despite repeated requests, they would now launch an indefinite stir. Farm labourers in large numbers also participated in the protest.Ram Singh Bhaini Bagha, district chief, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said, “Due to spurious seeds and pesticides our cotton crop came under the pink bollworm attack. It points towards gross failure on the part of the previous state government. We have been holding agitations for a long time to seek compensation, but the officials concerned have been ignoring our demand.”“We sat on a dharna outside house of former finance minister Manpreet Badal for 15 days. The Channi government had assured us a compensation of Rs 17,000 per acre. Farm labourers were also promised to be adequately compensated for losing out on work, but the promise never materliased. Where compensation was provided, many affected farmers were left out,” said Bagha.Farmers said until the administration provides them compensation, they would continue with their stir. #BKU #farmers protest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-delay-in-crop-loss-relief-378685
18-03-2022||---||Will focus on creating jobs to prevent exodus of youth: Bhagwant Mann||Chandigarh, March 17Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann on Thursday exhorted the top brass of the state civil and police administration to discharge their duties as public servant in letter and spirit.Addressing the maiden meeting after assuming charge here at the CMO this afternoon, the Chief Minister said: “People who gave us an opportunity to serve the state are the real rulers.”Action plan soonOur government will soon come up with a comprehensive action plan to generate jobs for unemployed youth on priority. Bhagwant Mann, CMWork sans fear, officials toldThe CM said his government would not indulge in political vendetta and asked the administration to discharge their duties without any political pressure.Reiterating his commitment to make Punjab a model state, Mann said the foremost concern of his government would be to create abundant job opportunities for the state youth to check the unfortunate trend of brain drain from our state to foreign shores. He said: “This scenario has even forced poor and hapless parents to sell their properties for sending their wards abroad for better prospects to earn livelihood.” He promised his government would soon come up with a comprehensive action plan to generate tremendous job potential for unemployed youth on priority.Taking a cue from the Indian cricket team’s performance, Mann said: “Matches are won or lost but it is the team spirit that matters.” He urged the officers to display team spirit immaculately for the progress of the state.The CM said his government would not indulge in political vendetta and asked the entire administration to discharge their duties fearlessly without any political pressure, unlike earlier regimes.Appreciating the enormous capabilities and capacities of both the civil and police officers, Mann said: “I expect you to respect the common man and in turn we too would give you respect and due recognition in exhibiting the real spirit of being a public servant.” He said: “Corrupt officers have no place in my government.”Earlier, in his introductory address, Chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari welcomed the CM and assured that both the civil and police administration would work in tandem with complete synergy to implement the pro-people policies and programmes at the ground level in the right earnest as per the government’s directive. #bandaru dattatreya #banwarilal purohit #bhagwant mann #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-focus-on-creating-jobs-to-prevent-exodus-of-youth-cm-378683
18-03-2022||Ruchika M KhannaChandigarh||86 first-time legislators take oath in Punjab Vidhan Sabha||The first session of the 16th Vidhan Sabha convened today was different than that of previous Assemblies, as 86 first-time MLAs took oath. Both the Leader of the House, Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann and Pro tem Speaker Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar are also first-time MLAs.By far, this is the first time that such a large number of “newbies” have made it to the House. As a result, even the CISF personnel posted at the roundabout just outside the Vidhan Sabha, too, had trouble recognising the newly-elected MLAs. The MLAs had not been allotted the government vehicles and came on their own private vehicles, many with their excited family members.Gone was the hustle bustle created by the police escort vehicles of politicians seen in each session. In place of these police vehicles were cars full of ordinary party workers gathered near the Vidhan Sabha, giving the feel of a fair.Gurdev Singh Dev Mann, the MLA from Nabha, came riding a bicycle, saying his entire life he had no other means of transportation. He was stopped by the CISF cops and only after they found his name on the list provided by the Vidhan Sabha, did they let him go.Inside the premises of the decked-up building, the first-time MLAs and families of some of them seemed lost, even as they revelled being in the media glare. Malout MLA Dr Baljit Kaur’s husband Daljit Singh and daughters Navneet and Rheadeep stood on one side. “We are really proud of her and enjoy seeing her basking in glory. But we don’t want to get carried away like families of traditional politicians. Her political foray is her way of giving back to society,” they said.Inside the House, the newly-elected MLAs were administered oath of office by Nijjar. Just before the session started formally, Aman Arora of AAP walked across the floor and greeted all Opposition MLAs. First, 12 women MLAs were administered oath. This was followed by their male colleagues being called out one by one and being administered oath. Even during the nearly one-and-a half-hour ceremony, some MLAs had to be politely told by the Vidhan Sabha staff that they should switch off their mobile phones.As against full treasury benches, bursting with enthusiasm, Opposition benches were deserted as only 25 MLAs were seated here. Prominent among those who were absent were BJP state chief and Pathankot MLA Ashwani Sharma, Akali MLA Ganieve Kaur Majithia, Congress MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh and his son, Inderbir Singh Rana, who won as an Independent.Sidelights‘Inquilab Zindabad’ reverberates in HouseThe Vidhan Sabha reverberated with the slogans of ‘Inquilab Zindabad’. This is a slogan that is synonymous with freedom fighter Bhagat Singh and his party, Hindustan Socialist Republican Association. In April 1929, Bhagat Singh and BK Dutt raised this slogan after hurling a bomb in the central Legislative assembly in Delhi. A number of legislators, who represent the reserved constituencies, raised slogans of ‘Jai Bhim’ and ‘Jai Baba Saheb’.Barring three, all administered oath in PunjabiBarring three legislators, all other newly-elected representatives took oath as Member of the legislative Assembly (MLA) in Punjabi. Jalandhar Central MLA Raman Arora and Abohar legislator Sandeep Jakhar took oath in Hindi, while Mohammad Jamil Ur Rehman in Urdu. It took barely a minute for each MLA to be administered oath.Warring greets bathinda urban MLAA rather noticeable event in the House was the sheer joy visible on the faces of three Congress MLAs — Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa — when the name of Jagroop Singh Gill, the newly elected Bathinda Urban MLA, was announced for taking oath. Warring, who had accused former Bathinda Urban MLA Manpreet Singh Badal, of working against him, also got up and shook hands with Gill.First-timers: Will build new PunjabMost AAP legislators, especially the first-timers like Labh Singh Ugoke, Dr Amandeep Kaur and Jagdeep Kamboj, talked of how they aimed to be the harbingers of change. “We have to start from the scratch and build a new Punjab for which people voted us,” they said.First row reserved for would-be ministers?Those seated on the front row of the treasury benches invluded Harpal Cheema, Aman Arora, Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Narinder Kaur Bharaj, Baljinder Kaur, Saravjit Kaur Manuke, Principal Budh Ram, Manjit Singh Bilaspur and Dr Baljit Kaur, giving rise to the speculation to how the possible Cabinet may look like.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/86-first-time-legislators-take-oath-378681
18-03-2022||---||Anti-graft helpline on Bhagat Singh's martyrdom day: Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann||Chandigarh, March 17A day after taking oath, Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann today announced the launch of an anti-corruption helpline to enable the people to expose corrupt officials.In a video message, he said the helpline, to be launched on March 23, the martyrdom day of legendary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh, would be his “personal WhatsApp number”.MLAs take oathThe CM said, “This initiative will enable the people of Punjab to lodge complaints about corruption on WhatsApp. This is a major decision to root out the (graft) menace from Punjab. People can upload audio or video clips of corrupt officials asking for a bribe or indulging in other malpractices.”AAP eradicated corruption in Delhi, CM Mann and ministers will end it in Punjab. —Arvind KejriwalEndorsing Mann’s initiative, Delhi CM and AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal, who addressed a virtual press conference, said, “If anyone asks for a bribe, do not refuse. Record a video or audio and send it to this number. I guarantee you, it will be examined and no corrupt person will be spared. Earlier, we did this in Delhi and had arrested 30-32 officers to end corruption.”Mann said he was not threatening any officer or an employee. “Though 99 per cent of people are honest, the system crumbles because of the 1 per cent who are dishonest. I will always stand with honest officers,” he said. #bhagwant mann #shaheed bhagat singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-mann-anti-graft-helpline-on-bhagat-singhs-martyrdom-day-378674
18-03-2022||New Delhi||Harmeet Singh Kalka announces separate party||Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Harmeet Singh Kalka on Thursday announced forming a separate party Shiromani Akali Dal, Delhi State.He announced this at a press conference at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harmeet-singh-kalka-announces-separate-party-378607
18-03-2022||Chandigarh||SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal forgoes pension as ex-MLA||SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal has surrendered his pension as an ex-MLA to the Punjab government.In a tweet addressed to the Punjab government and Assembly Speaker, the SAD patriarch says whatever pension accrues to him as an ex-MLA should be spent on public welfare and in no case should be sent to him. A formal request in this regard is being sent separately, he added.He has remained the Punjab CM for five terms. #parkash singh badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-patriarch-parkash-singh-badal-foregoes-his-pension-as-mla-378586
18-03-2022||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu breaks silence, reminds Bhagwant Mann to eradicate mafia raj in Punjab||A day after resigning from the post of Punjab Congress chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday drew flak for congratulating the newly elected Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann.In a tweet on Thursday, he wrote:The happiest man is the one from whom no one expects … Bhagwant Mann unfurls a new anti - Mafia era in Punjab with a mountain of expectations …hope he rises to the occasion , brings back Punjab on the revival path with pro - people policies … best always  Also read: Punjab Assembly Session LIVE Updates: Big pro-people announcement to be made today, says CM Bhagwant Mann as new MLAs take oathA big pro-people decision in Punjab to be taken today, tweets Bhagwant Mann“The happiest man is the one from whom no one expects … Bhagwant Mann unfurls a new anti - Mafia era in Punjab with a mountain of expectations …hope he rises to the occasion, brings back Punjab on the revival path with pro - people policies … best always”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-breaks-silence-reminds-bhagwant-mann-to-eradicate-mafia-raj-in-punjab-378576
18-03-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||CM Mann chooses March 23 Matrydom Day for anti-corruption helpline launch||Chandiharh, March 17Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Singh Mann on Thursday announced an anti-corruption helpline number. Mann chose the March 23 Matrydom Day for the launch of the helpline. This is the first major announcement made by Mann after he took over as Punjab Chief Minister yesterday.ਭਗਤ ਸਿੰਘ ਜੀ ਦੇ ਸ਼ਹੀਦੀ ਦਿਨ 'ਤੇ ਅਸੀਂ anti-corruption ਹੈਲਪਲਾਈਨ ਨੰਬਰ ਜਾਰੀ ਕਰਾਂਗੇ। ਉਹ ਮੇਰਾ ਨਿੱਜੀ ਵਟਸਐਪ ਨੰਬਰ ਹੋਵੇਗਾ। ਜੇ ਤੁਹਾਡੇ ਤੋਂ ਕੋਈ ਵੀ ਰਿਸ਼ਵਤ ਮੰਗੇ, ਉਸਦੀ ਵੀਡੀਓ/ਆਡੀਓ ਰਿਕਾਰਡਿੰਗ ਕਰਕੇ ਮੈਨੂੰ ਭੇਜ ਦੇਣਾ। ਭ੍ਰਿਸ਼ਟਾਚਾਰੀਆਂ ਦੇ ਖ਼ਿਲਾਫ ਸਖ਼ਤ ਐਕਸ਼ਨ ਲਿਆ ਜਾਵੇਗਾ।ਪੰਜਾਬ ਵਿੱਚ ਹੁਣ ਭ੍ਰਿਸ਼ਟਾਚਾਰ ਨਹੀਂ ਚੱਲੇਗਾ।  Claiming that this would be his personal WhatsApp number, he asked people to record on video or audio, any instance where graft was being sought and send it on that WhatsApp number. He assured strict action would be taken against those who seek graft. “There will be no corruption in Punjab now,” he tweeted.Interestingly, since the AAP Government took over, reports were coming in from different tehsils yesterday, where land registries were being done free of cost--something that is unheard of in the state.Earlier in the day, Mann tweeted that a big pro-people decision would be taken on Thursday.Also read: Punjab Assembly Session LIVE Updates: Big pro-people announcement to be made today, says CM Bhagwant Mann as new MLAs take oathNavjot Sidhu breaks silence, reminds Bhagwant Mann to eradicate mafia raj in Punjabपंजाब की जनता के हित में आज एक बहुत बड़ा फ़ैसला लिया जाएगा। पंजाब के इतिहास में आज तक किसी ने ऐसा फैसला नहीं लिया होगा।कुछ ही देर में एलान करूँगा...।  Meanwhile, Chief Minister Mann today exhorted the top brass of state civil and police administration to discharge their duty as public servant in letter and spirit, thus respecting the massive mandate got by AAP in the recently concluded Assembly polls.Addressing a maiden meeting after assuming charge as Chief Minister here at CMO this afternoon, the Chief Minister said that the people who have given us an opportunity to serve the state are the real rulers in the democracy, having the power to make the leaders to rule or show them the door.Taking a cue from the performance of the Indian cricket team, Mann said, ''Matches are won or lost but it is the team spirit which matters.'' Therefore, he urged the officers to display team spirit immaculately to make Punjab as the frontrunner state. He further said, "Our prime concern should be to make our state as real Punjab, not London, California or Paris."The Chief Minister said that his government would not indulge in political vendetta and asked the entire state administration to discharge their duties fearlessly without any political pressure, unlike earlier regimes, with utmost dedication, sincerity and honesty to cherish the aspirations of the Punjabis who have voted the AAP to power with unprecedented verdict."I don't keep red diary like the earlier political parties and have only green one, so you need not worry about any vendetta," Mann said. Appreciating the enormous capabilities and capacities of both civil and police officers, CM Mann said, "I expect you to respect the common man, and in turn we would too give you respect and due recognition in exhibiting the real spirit of being a public servant." Without mincing any word, he said, "Corrupt officers have no place in my government and if any such complaint comes to my notice, then don't expect any sort of sympathy from me."Ensuring a corruption-free government, Mann announced that his government would launch a WhatsApp number on coming March 23 on the martyrdom day of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh exclusively for public to upload videos of corrupt officials demanding bribe for their day-to-day works or indulging in other malpractices so that such erring officials could be given an exemplary punishment. Breaking the tradition, the Chief Minister also announced to reward both civil and police officers with 'Best Performance Award' quarterly for making the difference in the lives of common man at the grass-roots level besides ensuring free and fair justice to one and all to boost their morale. He hoped this initiative would surely motivate the other officers to perform far better and efficaciously. The Chief Minister also directed the DGP to send a congratulatory message addressing to the family members of all police employees on their birthdays with a sense of belongingness.Reiterating his commitment to make Punjab as a model state, Mann said the foremost concern of his government would be to create abundant job opportunities for our youth to check the unfortunate trend of brain drain from our state to foreign shores. He said, "This scenario has even forced the poor and hapless parents to sell off their properties for sending their wards abroad for better prospects to earn livelihood." He promised his government would soon come up with a comprehensive action plan to generate tremendous job potential for our unemployed youth on top priority.Earlier, in his introductory address, the State chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari welcomed the Chief Minister and assured that both the civil and police administration would work in tandem with complete synergy to implement the pro-people policies and programs at the ground level in the right earnest as per the government's directive.Prominent amongst others who attended the meeting included Additional Chief Secretary to CM A. Venu Prasad and DGP VK Bhawra besides senior civil and police officers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/a-big-pro-people-decision-in-punjab-to-be-taken-today-tweets-bhagwant-mann-378574
18-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab Assembly Session: CM Bhagwant Mann announces anti-corruption helpline||Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Singh Mann on Thursday announced an anti-corruption helpline.Mann chose the March 23 Matrydom Day for the launch of the helpline. This is the first major announcement made by Mann after he took over as Punjab Chief Minister yesterday.Earlier in the day, the first session of the 16th Vidhan Sabha started with Pro-tem Speaker Inderbir Singh Nijjar administering the oath as Member of the House to Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann.Also read: A big pro-people decision in Punjab to be taken today, tweets Bhagwant MannNavjot Sidhu breaks silence, reminds Bhagwant Mann to eradicate mafia raj in PunjabAfter Mann took oath, the Speaker first administered the oath to all women members of the House. #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-mlas-take-oath-as-first-session-of-16th-punjab-vidhan-sabha-begins-378571
