20-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann coming of age much to chagrin of AAP bosses in Delhi: Sunil Jhakar||Senior Congress leader Sunil Jakhar on Sunday said Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann is coming out of the shadow of the AAP’s top leadership in Delhi and it is good for the state.This is good as Punjab deserves a chief minister who is independent, rather than being “remote controlled”, said Jakhar, whose party lost the recent Punjab assembly polls to the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).The Congress, which was in power in the state, got 18 seats in the 117-member assembly, while the AAP won 92 seats.“Seems @BhagwantMann has come of age already much to the chagrin of AAP bosses in Delhi. That explains the absence of even the two regents, what to talk of supremo himself, at oath ceremony (of the Punjab ministers),” the former Punjab Congress chief tweeted.“It’s good, as Punjab deserves a CM who’s a Khud Mukhtiar (independent) than a remote controlled one,” Jakhar said.Ten Punjab ministers took oath on Saturday, three days after Mann was sworn-in as the chief minister on Wednesday.The AAP stormed to power, decimating the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal-Bahujan Samaj Party combine and the BJP-Punjab Lok Congress-SAD (Sanyukt) alliance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-bhagwant-mann-coming-of-age-much-to-chagrin-of-aap-bosses-in-delhi-sunil-jhakar-379210
20-03-2022||Dear MP Mr Ajay Singh Deol||An open letter to Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol||Sir,We, the voters of Gurdaspur parliamentary constituency, sincerely hope you remember us. We are the ones who, not long ago, sent you to the Lok Sabha by a resounding margin of 70,000 votes. The day you won was the day when an actor in you got the better of the statesman in Mr Sunil Jakhar. The BJP needed the numbers. You provided your party with the fodder it needed. Some of us are now seriously thinking of hanging 'Sunny Deol missing' banners in the streets of your constituency. It has been ages ever since anyone saw you in your own backyard. It is with regret that we say this. Regret, because your absence has put paid to several projects that directly need the intervention of the Central government. Recently, a local newspaper ran a headline-Is MP Deol coming to Gurdaspur? That made us recall Betteridge's law (of headlines). This dictum states that any headline that ends in a question mark can be answered by the word 'No'. This fits appropriately in your case. Rather, it fits to near perfection. One reason for your inaccessibility perhaps is that you keep yourself busy with your film shoots. The rumour doing the rounds in the run up to the recent Assembly elections was that none of the nine candidates fielded by the BJP, your parent party, had invited you to campaign. When confirmed, the rumour no longer remained a rumour. It turned out to be a fact, a fact as hard as the rock of Gibraltar. Incredible as it may sound, but that is the truth, the whole truth. Why have things come to such a pass? It is time for introspection, Sunny paji!Whenever we ask your PA about your future programme, we are given the staple reply: "Sir will come in the next few days." It is a classic case of "Tareek par tareek, tareek par tareek". It is high time you visited and oversaw the planning and execution of some vital projects. The most prominent one is the elevation of the 3.6km narrow gauge railway track criss-crossing through the municipal limits of Pathankot city. It is a known fact that whenever the toy train - a euphemism for the Jogindernagar-Pathankot train - passes, and it does so a dozen times a day, all seven railway crossings simultaneously close down. Traffic snarls become common. To add to the confusion, the city gets divided into two parts for long periods of time every day. The economy of this once scenic town has been disrupted just because of these 'fataks'. Experts claim that large parts of the city will die a natural death in the coming decades, if this problem is not dealt with immediately and effectively. It is time you take up the issue with the railways. Earlier, you had taken some interest following which the railways had sent a team that had proposed that the 3.6-km stretch of the track be elevated. The then MLA Amit Vij was also taken into the loop. That was a nice development as normally politicians of different parties are seldom on the same page. The railways had proposed that the elevation be financed jointly by both - state and Union governments. Vij managed to get Rs180 crore sanctioned for the project, but as he was doing so, there came the railways' diktat that it would not go ahead with the venture. Things are now back on the drawing board. The latest we heard was that five under-passes and two flyovers have replaced the elevated track. In the run up to the 2019 General Elections, you had promised that a Film City will be established in Pathankot. However, the promise faded as fast as a C-grade film fades away from the memories of viewers. The fate of the much vaunted 800-m long Rs100-crore Makkoran Pattan bridge on river Ravi also hangs in the balance. The job of an MP is indeed a hard one. Actually, everybody knows you had initially thought that being a parliamentarian was as easy as yanking out a hand pump in a fantasy world from 30-feet deep. The other day we asked a BJP worker what stops our MP from visiting his constituency. Pat came the reply, "You reap what you sow." And, by the way, do you know what is the political arithmetic of all nine seats of your parliamentary constituency post the Punjab elections? The Congress has won 6 seats, AAP 2 and the BJP one. We are telling you this because it is a known fact that you seldom take interest in politics. The only triumph for your party came in Pathankot, where the Punjab unit chief Ashwani Sharma contested. Here, too, the party did nothing for him to win. His win was carefully etched out by his spin doctors-ex-PPSC member Dr Samrendra Sharma and ex-Mayor Anil Vasudeva. They spun a narrative based not on what Sharma had achieved in the last five years. After all, he had done nothing of consequence because his party was not in power. The duo actually took to the people Sharma's work done during his tenure as MLA from 2012-2017. That turned out to be a masterstroke. The duo had indeed delivered.Mr Deol, Please do visit your constituency soon. The same voters whom you addressed as your "betas and betis" (sons and daughters) are keen on having a glimpse of the actor they sent to the Parliament.RegardsVox-Populi (Gurdaspur) #Gurdaspur #sunil jakhar #sunny deol||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/an-open-letter-379082
20-03-2022||Muktsar||Minor found pregnant, 5 booked||Special kid ‘assaulted’Amritsar: A student of government-run Pehal resource centre, a school for children with special needs, has allegedly been assaulted by a teacher. Family members of the class 7 student reporte dthe matter to the police. The school management denied the charge and transferred the teacher in question.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minor-found-pregnant-5-booked-379029
20-03-2022||Bathinda||Bathinda: 12 kids mistake chemical for Holi colour, taken ill||As many as 12 children were taken ill after they used a poisonous substance during Holi celebrations and had to be hospitalised. As per information, the children mistook a chemical substance, which was dumped at an industrial growth centre, for colour and applied it to each other.Four children, in critical condition, had to be referred to a private hospital in the city. A few of them, who were admitted to Bathinda Civil Hospital, were discharged on Friday.Most of the children who were taken ill are in the age group of 15 to 20 years and hail from Jassi Pauwali village.Although citing confidentiality, Health Department officials did not reveal the name of the poisonous substance, it is learnt it was an insecticide.Dr Harshit from the Civil Hospital said: “Children were admitted to the government hospital and some of them were unconscious. After being administered required treatment, they were discharged. There are a few other children who have been admitted to a private hospital by their parents.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/12-kids-mistake-chemical-for-holi-colour-taken-ill-379027
20-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court Collegium gives names of 13 advocates for elevation as Judges||Chandigarh, March 19The crisis in the Punjab and Haryana High Court is far from over. Its Collegium, comprising the Chief Justice and two senior-most Judges, has recommended the names of 13 advocates for elevation as Judges after more than one-and-a-half years. But 15 of its Judges are retiring in the next two years, including four this year.Available information suggests the names of advocates Nidhi Gupta, Namit Kumar, Tribhuvan Dahiya, Sanjay Vasisth, Harkesh Manuja, Harsh Bunger, Aman Chaudhary, NS Shekhawat, Kuldeep Tiwari, Jagmohan Bansal, Alok Jain, Deepak Manchanda and Harpreet Singh Brar have been cleared by the Collegium.One of the Collegium members, who resigned from the High Court days before his scheduled retirement on April 5, relinquished charge soon after the names were recommended. It is believed that the file containing the names has been forwarded to the Governors of the two states. But the process of appointing Judges is lengthy and time-consuming.Once cleared by the states and the Governors after recommendation by the Collegium, the file containing the names with IB reports is placed before the Supreme Court Collegium when it meets. The names cleared for elevation are then sent to the Union Law Ministry before the warrants of appointment are signed by the President. The entire exercise may take months.The High Court is currently functioning with just 48 Judges against the sanctioned strength of 85. As of now, it has a total pendency of 4,50,739 against 4,47,890 cases in January first week. The cases include 1,65,163 criminal matters involving life and liberty. As many as 64,112 or 14.22 per cent are pending up to one year; 92,318 or 20.48 per cent between one and three years and 1,04,332 or 23.15 per cent between five and 10 year.The names of Sessions Judges to be recommended for elevation is believed to be in the pipeline. The previous list for elevation was cleared by the High Court Collegium three years ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/high-court-collegium-gives-names-of-13-advocates-for-elevation-as-judges-379026
20-03-2022||---||OP Dhankar: Must remember revolutionaries’ sacrifices||Ferozepur, March 19Under the Mera Rang De Basanti Chola campaign dedicated to the “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav” being observed nationally by the Union Government to mark 75 years of the Independence, Haryana BJP president OP Dhankar today launched a Shaheedi Naman Yatra from Ferozepur. The two-day yatra started from Hussainiwala National Martyrs’ Memorial.While addressing party workers, Dhankar said people must always remember the contribution of revolutionaries in the freedom struggle. He said the youth must take inspiration from these martyrs who made supreme sacrifice at a young age. He said: “We all must share their stories with today’s youth so that their sacrifices are remembered.”Dhankar said the yatra would not only educate youth about the sacrifices of three great freedom fighters — Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev — but also instil the spirit of patriotism among youths. The yatra will reach Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/op-dhankar-must-remember-revolutionaries-sacrifices-379025
20-03-2022||Anandpur Sahib||Akal Takht Jathedar appeals Sikhs to unite as Hola Mohalla ends in Anandpur Sahib||Lakhs of devotees paid obeisance during the six-day Hola Mohalla festival which concluded today with religious processions by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and Nihang Sikhs from various deras.Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, in his message, asked the Sikh community to unite and resolve all issues through dialogue.Attired in traditional battle gear, Nihangs from various sects, including Budha Dal, took out a procession from Shaheedi Bagh. Nihang Sikhs riding on horses sprinkled ‘gulal’ and displayed ‘gatka’ (Sikh martial art). Later, they displayed horse riding skills and other martial arts at Charan Ganga stadium. Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, Patna Sahib Jathedar Giani Ranjit Singh and Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib Jathedar Giani Raghubir Singh also participated in the nagar kirtan. — #akal takht #anandpur sahib #hola mohalla #nihangs #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/need-to-unite-says-akal-takht-chief-379023
20-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Bringing down pendency top priority, says new AG Anmol Rattan Singh Sidhu||Chandigarh, March 19The newly appointed Advocate General for Punjab, Anmol Rattan Singh Sidhu, today said the top priority of his office would be to render effective assistance to the Bench for bringing down pendency of cases before the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The emphasis would be on the cases involving life and liberty, widows, retired employees and other senior citizens, with the state as a party to the litigation.The AG also announced his decision to donate his salary for the treatment and rehabilitation of drug addicts in the state. Sidhu tweeted: “On drug menace — will reach out to such villages and donate my salary as AG for treatment of drug addicts and their rehabilitation. I will start from Maqbool Pura village with the able guidance of Smt Jeevan Jyot Kaur, MLA, Amritsar East.”Sidhu is the first AG, in recallable past, to announce the donation of his salary for the purpose. His decision to choose Maqbool Pura village is not hard to comprehend. The village has been in the news and discussions, for years now, following the painful and premature deaths of youngsters reportedly due to alcohol and drug abuse.Talking to The Tribune, Sidhu — who assumed the charge today — said he would soon issue instructions against seeking adjournments in matters involving the state, unless necessitated by compelling circumstances. Clear and to-the-point replies would be placed before the Bench in response to notices issued to the state of petitions. Coordination between government functionaries and state law officers would be ensured for the purpose.Directions would also be issued to identify cases, such as pension matters, which were squarely covered by a plethora of Supreme Court and High Court judgments. All such matters would be grouped and the Bench would be effectively assisted by the law officers for their early disposal.Sidhu was designated as a senior advocate in 2007. He was appointed as the Assistant Solicitor General of India in 2008 — a post he held till 2014. He also remained the Special Public Prosecutor for the CBI in the Punjab and Haryana High Court during the period.He was also elected a member of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana for consecutive five terms, 1997 onwards. He became the chairman of the apex regulating body of lawyers in 2001-02. Sidhu also remained the president of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association eight times.Anmol Rattan Singh Sidhu remained bar association president eight timesAG Anmol Rattan Singh Sidhu was elected as a member of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana for five consecutive terms, 1997 onwards. He became the chairman of the apex regulating body of lawyers in 2001-02. Sidhu also remained the president of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association eight times. #anmol rattan singh sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bringing-down-pendency-top-priority-says-new-ag-anmol-rattan-singh-sidhu-379022
20-03-2022||Jalandhar||4 held for kabaddi player's murder; police suspect professional rivalry||In less than a week after an international kabaddi player was killed, the police have claimed to have solved the case with the arrest of four men, including two gangsters, who allegedly hatched the murder conspiracy.Also read: Betting, match-fixing: Gangsters trying to control kabaddi tournaments in PunjabFarmers drape Sandeep Nangal Ambian's body in union's flagKabaddi player Sandeep Singh, alias Sandeep Nangal Ambian, was shot dead by five unidentified assailants during a kabaddi match at Mallian village in Jalandhar district on March 14. He was shot more than seven times, and received fatal shots in his head and chest.The murder conspiracy was allegedly hatched by a Canada-based owner of a rival kabaddi group amid professional rivalry over Sandeep’s kabaddi federation bagging players, the police have said.Those arrested have been identified as Fateh Singh, alias Yuvraj, a resident of Sangrur; Kaushal Chaudhary of Gurugram (Haryana); Amit Dagar of Maheshpur Palvan village in Haryana; and Simranjeet Singh of Pilibhit (Uttar Pradesh).Fateh and Chaudhary are gangsters.The four accused, who are history-sheeters and face more than 20 criminal cases mostly of murder and attempt to murder, were brought here on production warrant from different jails.They are currently lodged in Kapurthala jail, say sources. The police have also booked three persons as the main accused in Sandeep’s murder. One of them is Snover Dhillon, a native of Amritsar and currently residing in Brampton, Canada. He is a producer and director at Canadian Sath TV and Radio Show.The other two are Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukha Duneke, a native of Duneke village in Moga district and residing in Canada for a few years; and Jagjit Singh, alias Gandhi, a native of Ludhiana. At present, he is in Malaysia.Director General of Police (DGP) VK Bhawra told the media, “During interrogation, Fateh disclosed that Snover Dhillon had formed the ‘National Kabaddi Federation of Ontario’ and tried to convince players to join it. However, most of the renowned players were associated with the ‘Major League Kabaddi’ that was managed by deceased Sandeep, rendering Snover’s federation unsuccessful.”Fateh reportedly admitted to have mounted pressure on some kabaddi players to join Snover’s federation.Jalandhar Rural SSP Satinder Singh said Fateh also confessed that on Snover’s instructions, he along with other accused had arranged shooters for killing Sandeep.The SSP further said Simranjeet had provided the shooters with a hideout at the house of his relative identified as Swaran Singh in Amritsar.The police have seized 18 cartridges and 12-bore rifle from Swaran’s house. Subsequently, Swaran Singh, who is absconding, has been nominated in the case.The SSP added the shooters had been identified and would be arrested soon.Accused are history-sheeters15K attend funeral #kabaddi #sandeep nangal ambian||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-held-for-kabaddi-players-murder-police-suspect-professional-rivalry-379020
20-03-2022||Chandigarh||Induct Muslim face in Punjab Cabinet: National Minorities Reservation Morcha||The National Minorities Reservation Morcha has demanded the inclusion of a Muslim face in the newly formed Punjab Cabinet. Its president Parvez Siddiqui, in a press release, said Muslims had always got representation in the Cabinet, but this was for the first time that no Muslim was included in the 10-member Cabinet.Meanwhile in Mandi Ahmedgarh, AAP’s Muslim leadership has urged the party to nominate a Muslim leader to the Rajya Sabha, the elections for which will be held on March 31.Since the constitution of the Rajya Sabha, none of the ruling parties in the state has given representation to Muslims from erstwhile Malerkotla state, which is now a district. — #muslims||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/induct-muslim-face-morcha-379019
20-03-2022||Vishav Bharti||Three Punjab Cabinet ministers started political innings with Left politics||Chandigarh, March 19Three of the 10 Cabinet ministers — Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal, Lal Chand Kataruchak and Harpal Cheema — started their political career with Left movement.Dhaliwal, was a firebrand radical Left student leader in Punjab. He started his political career with the Punjab Students Union, which had a sway in the educational institutions in 1970s and early 1980s. Dhaliwal remained state general secretary from 1985 to 1990.Kataruchak is a familiar name among those following the Left movement. He started working in the youth organisation of the CPM in late 1980s. After a split in the CPM's state unit in 2001, Kataruchak had gone with Pasla-led faction. The Pasla faction later formed the Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) and Kataruchak contested several elections on the RMPI ticket.Cheema, while studying law in Punjabi University, Patiala, had served as president of the campus unit of CPM-affiliated SFI. #harpal cheema||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-started-political-innings-with-left-politics-379017
20-03-2022||---||Redress grievances promptly, Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann asks police, civil officers in Sangrur||Sangrur, March 19Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann met with police and civil officials of the district at his local residence on Friday, directing them to “change their working style so that people’s grievances could be addressed promptly”.He received a guard of honour from the Sangrur administration.Mann did not talk to the media and left for Chandigarh with his mother.A senior officer said, “The Chief Minister has in-depth knowledge about the state affairs. He discussed several issues related to the area. He wants quick action over various issues, which have been pending for years.”Before leaving his residence, the Chief Minister met with AAP leaders and workers, and listened to their concerns.“I have come from Dhuri. I raised my concern before the CM. He heard me out patiently. I am hopeful that quick action will be taken on my request,” said Jasmail Singh, an elderly person.Local AAP MLA Narinder Kaur Bharaj, who also met with the CM, said: “The newly formed government started working for the state’s welfare from Day one.”“During my campaign, I had flagged financial scams of Congress leaders in Sangrur. The AAP government will get the scams investigated to ensure strict legal action against swindlers,” she added. #bhagwant mann #narinder kaur bharaj||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/redress-grievances-promptly-punjab-cm-asks-police-civil-officers-in-sangrur-379015
20-03-2022||Jalandhar||Smacks of bias against Doaba: Opposition parties||With only one Doaba MLA finding place in the newly formed Cabinet of the AAP government, the development hasn’t gone down well with the Opposition parties. While some have termed it bias against Doaba, others have called the decision “against the spirit of Punjabiyat”.While there were three Doaba ministers in the Channi government (Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh, Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh and Urmar legislator Sangat Singh Gilzian), the Capt Amarinder Cabinet had two — then Hoshiarpur MLA Sham Sunder Arora and Rana Gurjit Singh.SAD’s Gurpartap Wadala said: “There is a clear bias against Doaba. The party has found only one face from Doaba fit to represent Punjab.”BJP leader KD Bhandari said: “Jalandhar is an important city. Out of four MLAs, not even one has been included.” — #Doaba||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/smacks-of-bias-against-doaba-opposition-parties-379014
20-03-2022||---||Majha giant slayers left out of Bhagwant Mann Cabinet, many surprised||Amritsar, March 19The non-inclusion of giant slayers from the holy city in the first Cabinet of the Aam Aadmi Party government has surprised many.Although AAP candidates Dr Ajay Gupta and Jasbir Singh Sandhu, a BAMS doctor, defeated heavyweights, their names were not among the front-runners for the Cabinet. Even Jeevan Jyot Kaur, Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh and Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar, who were considered as strong claimants, could not make the cut.Gupta defeated OP Soni, a five-time MLA and Deputy CM, while Sandhu outclassed heavyweight Raj Kumar Verka, a three-time Congress MLA. Considered a giant slayer after trouncing two bigwigs — Navjot Singh Sidhu of the Congress and Bikram Singh Majithia of the SAD — Jeevan Jyot had emerged as a strong claimant.The AAP had fielded three bureaucrats — Harbhajan Singh ETO, Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh and Jaswinder Singh Ramdas — all of whom won the election. Among them, former IPS officer-turned-politician Kunwar was a strong contender, but his non-inclusion has come as a surprise.Elected Pro-tem Speaker Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar, who ended the three-time winning streak of his namesake Inderbir Singh Bolaria, was also a strong claimant for a Cabinet berth. Nijjar said he would abide by the party’s decision.Aides question Aman  Arora’s exclusionSangrur, March 19The euphoria among AAP supporters over the victory of Sunam MLA Aman Arora by 75,277 votes has been short-lived with the firebrand leader failing to find space in the Cabinet. “We were expecting Arora not only to get space in the Cabinet, but also to get a key portfolio,” said an AAP leader. — TNS #aman arora #bhagwant mann #dr ajay gupta #harbhajan singh eto #jasbir singh sandhu #jeevan jyot kaur #kunwar vijay pratap singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/majha-giant-slayers-left-out-of-bhagwant-mann-cabinet-many-surprised-379013
20-03-2022||Harpal Cheema||Average age of ministers 47, Punjab cabinet youngest ever||The Dirba MLA was re-elected for a second term this time. A graduate from Government Ranbir College, Sangrur, Cheema studied law from Punjabi University, Patiala, where he became active in student politics. An advocate by profession, Cheema is considered close to CM Bhagwant Mann. He was the Leader of Opposition in the previous Vidhan Sabha, and was known to raise public issues. “We will not let the hopes of the people of Punjab down,” he said.Dr Baljit Kaur, 46She is a first-time MLA, representing Malout. A doctor by profession, Dr Baljit Kaur is the daughter of former AAP MP Prof Sadhu Singh. The ophthalmologist left government service in 2021 to take the political plunge by joining the AAP. She had completed her MS in ophthalmology in 2010. “People of Punjab have great hopes from us. We need to start from scratch. Our first priority will be to fulfil those hopes and aspirations,” she said.Dr Vijay Singla, 52A dentist by profession, Dr Singla is a first-time MLA from Mansa. He comes from a humble background and has been associated with the party for the past five years. After completing his bachelor’s degree in dentistry and surgery (BDS), he started his private practice. Dr Singla trounced Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala in this election. Interestingly, the singer had once been the dentist’s patient. “We will work hard to put derailed Punjab back on track,” he said.Harbhajan Singh ETO, 53He is the MLA from Jandiala in Majha. Harbhajan Singh served as an Excise and Taxation Officer in the Punjab Government before taking voluntary retirement in 2017. He had unsuccessfully contested the 2017 elections on the AAP ticket, but this time around, he defeated Congress’ working president and MLA Sukhwinder Singh Danny by over 25,000 votes. “Whatever promises we made and guarantees we gave to people before polls will be fulfilled,” he said.Harjot Singh Bains, 31A founder member of the AAP in Punjab, Bains hails from Ropar’s Gambhirpur village. After graduating in law from Panjab University, Chandigarh, the Anandpur Sahib MLA did a course from the London School of Economics and Political Science. He started his political career by joining the anti-corruption movement of Anna Hazare in 2011. “We will work to bring back the lost glory of Punjab. We will take decisions keeping in mind those at the bottom of the ladder,” he said.Gurmeet S Meet Hayer, 32Son of a PSPCL employee, Hayer studied in Barnala’s BGS Public School. A mechanical engineer by profession, Hayer was among the first few people to join the India Against Corruption movement. In 2017, he became one of the youngest MLAs at the age of 27. The Barnala legislator is also president of the youth wing of the AAP. “We will work to end corruption and mafia rule. It will help us create employment and facilities for people,” he said.Lal Chand Kataruchak, 52A seasoned communist, he remained actively involved with the CPM. When Mangat Ram Pasla split from the CPM and formed his Punjab-based party two decades ago, Kataruchak joined him. In the 2017 polls, he contested from Bhoa on RMPI ticket, but lost. This time, he fought on AAP ticket. He has been raising voice against illegal mining in the past. “People have elected a commoner. They have great expectations from us. We will fulfil the promises made,” he said.Laljit Singh Bhullar, 41An agriculturist and commission agent by profession, Bhullar became a legislator from Patti by defeating former minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon. Bhullar was active in the SAD for several years, but left the party after incidents of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib. He returned to the Akali fold in 2018, but left again to join the Aam Aadmi Party in 2019. “Drugs are the biggest challenge before Punjab. We will deal with the menace with an iron fist,” he said.Brahm Shankar Jimpa, 57The Hoshiarpur legislator started his political innings with the Congress and remained a councillor in the municipal committee. Denied a ticket by the Congress in the local body elections, Jimpa contested independently and registered victory. Having studied till Class XII, Jimpa served as the vice-chairman of the Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation. “The biggest challenge before Punjab is its huge debt and leak in revenue. We will plug both,” he said.Kuldeep Dhaliwal, 60A farmer by profession, he has been elected as legislator from Ajnala. A matriculate, Dhaliwal was a US resident before returning to India in 2014. He has been into farming ever since and has dabbled in social work. Dhaliwal unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha elections in 2019 on the Aam Aadmi Party ticket from Khadoor Sahib. He later became the district president of the party. “Education and health will be our top priorities,” he said.Compiled by Ruchika M Khanna and Vishav Bharti||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/average-age-47-punjab-cabinet-youngest-ever-379011
20-03-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Balancing act: 5 ministers from Malwa, 4 from Majha||Chandigarh, March 19While choosing the ministers, the AAP government has tried to strike a regional balance. Five ministers — Harpal Cheema, Dr Baljit Kaur, Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer, Dr Vijay Singla and Harjot Singh Bains — have been picked from Malwa (69 Assembly seats), while four — Harbhajan Singh ETO, Laljit Singh Bhullar, Lal Chand Kataruchak and Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal — are from Majha (25 seats). Brahm Shankar Jimpa is the lone minister from Doaba (23 seats).The AAP had won 66 seats in Malwa, 10 in Doaba and 16 in Majha region.Only one woman legislator, Dr Baljit Kaur, has found place in the Bhagwant Mann Cabinet. In an 11-member Cabinet (including the Chief Minister), this accounts for just nine per cent representation. A total of 13 women won the recently held Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections, with 11 of them being from the AAP alone.Ever since the government has been formed, it was believed the AAP would give more representation to women, and names of two women MLAs — Saravjit Kaur Manuke and Baljinder Kaur — were doing the rounds for inclusion in the Cabinet.But what gives hope of change is the fact that this is the youngest Cabinet formed in the state, with the average age of all ministers, including Bhagwant Mann, being 47 years. The youngest minister, Harjot Singh Bains, is just 31 years old.The non-inclusion of some other prominent MLAs such as Sunam MLA Aman Arora and Budhlada MLA Budh Ram, too, has created a flutter in political circles. All of them were present at today's ceremony and said they would abide by the party high command's decision.Arora may have been left out as two MLAs from Sangrur — Chief Minister Mann and Harpal Cheema — are already in the Cabinet. The MLA from Kotkapura, Kultar Singh Sandhwan, who was also a front-runner for a Cabinet berth, will be the Speaker of Punjab Vidhan Sabha. The election for the Speaker are scheduled for Monday.Those left outExcise policy extended for 3 monthsThe Punjab Government has decided to extend the 2021-22 excise policy, which ends later this month, for three more months. The policy has been extended from April 1 to June 30. A notice in this regard has been issued to all officers of excise and taxation. The new excise policy, which the AAP government wants to use to rake in additional money, will be brought before June 30, and will be implemented till March 31, 2023. The government has been saying it wants to increase the revenue substantially, from existing Rs. 5,600 crore per annum. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/balancing-act-5-from-malwa-4-from-majha-379009
20-03-2022||Jupinderjit Singh||Betting, match-fixing: Gangsters trying  to control kabaddi tournaments in Punjab||Chandigarh, March 19With the police today naming Punjab and UP gangsters in the murder of international kabaddi player Sandeep Nangal Ambian who was shot dead at Mallian village of Jalandhar on March 14, attempts of gangsters to dominate the world kabaddi tournaments have come to the fore. From forcing players to take part under their federations to betting and match-fixing, the gangsters are involved in it all. They attack players or organisers who do not toe their line.Also read: 4 held for kabaddi player's murder; police suspect professional rivalryFarmers drape Sandeep Nangal Ambian's body in union's flagApart from five major attacks in the past six months, there have been isolated incidents earlier too. In November 2019, North India Circle Style Kabaddi Federation president Surjan Singh Chatha had filed a complaint against alleged interference and threats by jailed gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria. SSP (Jalandhar Rural) Satinder Singh said four persons — Fateh Singh, Kaushal Chaudhary, Amit Dagar and Jujhar Singh — have been arrested in the Sandeep case.He claimed, “Sandeep’s Major League Kabaddi was the top-ranked tournament. Our investigation revealed that Punjab gangsters, including Fateh Nagri and Jagjit Gandhi (both are yet to be arrested), hired shooters to kill Sandeep. This was done at the behest of Canada-based Snover Dhillon, who wanted Sandeep and other players to play for his National Kabaddi Federation.”Some players and officials told The Tribune that gangsters force international players to take part in their leagues so that they could win bets and fix matches. “We were shocked when a support team employee was gifted a new car at a recent tournament,” alleged a player. An official said another player Faryad and his brothers, also from Jalandhar district, were attacked twice last year for refusing to bow before gangsters.Jyoti Dhami, a player took to YouTube after the attack and gave a detailed description of the involvement of gangsters. “Gangsters and several influential persons are calling the shots and bringing disrepute to the game,” he alleged, adding, “Now, players fix their matches. They promise to lose a match in lieu of winning another.”“A village-level tournament costs Rs 15 lakh on an average. Think of the international tournaments and the betting money would be anybody’s guess,” an official said.Big money involvedAn official said apart from cash awards, 29 motorcycles, two Jeeps and two combine harvesters were given as prizes at a tournament in Ludhiana district recently. #kabaddi #sandeep nangal ambian||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/betting-match-fixing-gangsters-trying-to-control-kabaddi-tournaments-in-region-379000
20-03-2022||Chandigarh||10 in Punjab Cabinet, 8 first-time MLAs||Ten MLAs, including a woman, were inducted in the Bhagwant Mann-led Punjab Cabinet here on Saturday. Seven berths have been left vacant for expansion later.Also read: Average age 47, Punjab cabinet youngest everBalancing act: 5 from Malwa, 4 from MajhaMajha giant slayers left out of Bhagwant Mann Cabinet, many surprisedThose sworn in were Harpal Cheema, Dr Baljit Kaur, Harbhajan Singh ETO, Dr Vijay Singla, Lal Chand Kataruchak, Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer, Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal, Laljit Singh Bhullar, Brahm Shankar and Harjot Singh Bains, the youngest in the Cabinet.Other than Cheema and Gurmeet Hayer, who have been re-elected for the second term, all other ministers are first-time MLAs. Sources said it was after several rounds of meetings between the party top brass in Delhi and Mann that the list of ministers was cleared.The oath was administered by Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit at the recently built Guru Nanak Dev Bhawan on the Punjab Raj Bhavan premises. All ministers took oath in Punjabi. They first shook hands or wished Chief Minister Mann and then sought the blessings of the Governor. The Governor of Haryana, Bandaru Dattatreya, too graced the occasion.The ceremony was sombre and had the “aam aadmi” effect. Unlike in the past, there were no sycophants hovering around the ministers and their families. The newly formed Cabinet held a meeting soon after the swearing-in. It decided to immediately fill 25,000 vacancies in the government sector, including in various boards and corporations. Of the 25,000 vacancies, 10,000 would be filled in the Punjab Police and the remaining 15,000 in other government departments. The Cabinet also cleared the presentation of Supplementary Demands for Grants for the year 2021-22 to be presented in the ensuing Vidhan Sabha session. The decision would provide budget for additional or excess expenditure incurred by various departments during the financial year to liquidate the pending liabilities. Further, the Cabinet gave approval to present supplementary demands for grants for 2021-22. It also gave approval for presentation of vote-on-account from April 1 to June 30 for the financial year 2022-23, which is likely to be presented in the House on March 22.All ministers take oath in PunjabiExcept Harpal Cheema and GSM Hayer, ministers Dr Baljit Kaur, Harbhajan Singh ETO, Dr Vijay Singla, LC Kataruchak, KS Dhaliwal, LS Bhullar, Brahm Shankar and HS Bains are first-time MLAsAnmol Rattan Sidhu appointed Punjab AGSenior Advocate Anmol Rattan Sidhu was appointed Advocate General of Punjab on SaturdaySidhu has been president of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association eight timesWill donate his salary for treatment of drug addicts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-in-pb-cabinet-8-first-time-mlas-378995
20-03-2022||---||Anmol Rattan Sidhu assumes charge as Punjab AG||Chandigarh, March 19Senior advocate Anmol Rattan Sidhu on Saturday assumed charge as the new advocate general (AG) of Punjab.Earlier in the day, Sidhu, who remained the president of the Punjab and Haryana High Court bar association for eight times, said he will donate his salary as AG for the treatment of drug addicts and their rehabilitation.Advocate General Anmol Rattan Singh Sidhu assumes charge. Pledges to donate salary towards treatment of drug addicts and their rehabilitation. To commence the noble cause from Maqboolpura in Amritsar. pic.twitter.com/5wjEvOt080"The Governor of Punjab, in exercise of the powers conferred under Article 165 of the Constitution of India is pleased to appoint Dr Anmol Rattan Sidhu, senior advocate, Punjab and Haryana High court as advocate general for the state of Punjab with effect from the date he assumed charge of his officer," the Home Affairs and Justice Department order read.In a tweet, Sidhu said, "On drug menace - Will reach out to such villages and donate my salary as AG for treatment of drug addicts and their rehabilitation. I will start from Vill. Maqbool Pura with the able guidance of Smt Jeevan Jyot Kaur MLA Amritsar East".The post of Punjab AG fell vacant after Deepinder Singh Patwalia resigned following the Punjab assembly poll results.The AAP romped home by winning 92 seats in the 117-member Punjab assembly. The Congress was routed in the elections and could win only 18 seats. With agency inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anmol-rattan-sidhu-appointed-punjab-ag-378966
20-03-2022||Chandigarh/Jalandhar||Gangster from UP among 4 arrested in international kabaddi player Sandeep Nangal's murder||In less than a week after an international kabaddi player was killed, Punjab Police have solved the high-profile murder case with the arrest of four accused persons involved in conspiring the crime.A prominent kabaddi player identified as Sandeep Singh alias Sandeep Nangal Ambia was shot dead by five unidentified assailants during an ongoing Kabaddi match in village Mallian in Jalandhar at around 6 pm on March 14, 2022.Those arrested have been identified as Fateh Singh alias Yuvraj, a resident of Sangrur; Kaushal Chaudhary of Naharpur Roopa in Gurugram; Amit Dagar of village Maheshpur Palvan in Haryana; Simranjeet Singh alias Jujhar Singh alias gangster of village Madhopur Pilibhit, UP.All the four accused persons, who are history-sheeters and facing over 20 criminal cases mostly of murder and attempt to murder, were brought on production warrant from different jails.The police have also nominated three main conspirators identified as Snover Dhillon, a native of Amritsar and currently residing in Brampton, Ontario, Canada, and is a producer and director at Canadian Sath TV and Radio Show; Sukhwinder Singh alias Sukha Duneke alias Sukh Singh, a native of village Duneke, Moga and residing in Canada for last few years; Jagjit Singh alias Gandhi, a native of Dehlon, Ludhiana, and residing in Malaysia at present, who conspired to get the victim killed.Divulging details, Director General of Police (DGP), Punjab, VK Bhawra on Saturday said that after a thorough investigation and based on information, the Jalandhar Rural Police had brought Fateh Singh on production warrant.The DGP said that, during interrogation Fateh disclosed that Snover Dhillon had formed “National Kabaddi Federation of Ontario” and tried to convince different players to join his federation.However, most of the renowned players were associated with “Major League Kabaddi” being managed by deceased Sandeep, rendering Snover’s federation unsuccessful, revealed Fateh, while admitting that he had also pressurised some players to join Snover's federation.SSP Jalandhar Rural Satinder Singh said that Fateh confessed that following the instructions from Snover, he along with Amit Dagar, Kaushal Chaudhary, Jagjit Singh, Lucky Patiyal and Sukha Duneke had arranged shooters for execution of Sandeep.He said that Simranjeet alias Jujhar on the directions of Sukh Duneke had provided hideout to the shooters at the house of his relative identified as Swaran Singh at Pritam Enclave in Amritsar. The police have recovered 18 live cartridges and 12 bore rifle from Swaran's house. Consequently, Swaran Singh, who is absconding has also been nominated in the case.The SSP said that the shooters have also been identified and will be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangster-from-up-among-4-arrested-in-kabaddi-players-murder-378937
20-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab to recruit 25,000 people against vacant posts, decides new Cabinet at its first meeting||In its first decision, the Punjab Cabinet led by Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann on Saturday approved filling up 25,000 vacant posts in various state departments, including 10,000 in the police force.The first meeting of the Punjab Cabinet also decided to present a Vote on Account for three months in the ongoing session of the Vidhan Sabha.The supplementary grants required by various departments in the ongoing fiscal, too, will be cleared in the ongoing session that ends on March 22.The meeting lasted for 30 minutes.A major decision to recruit 25,000 people against vacant posts in various departments, boards and corporations has also been taken.Mann announced the decision in a video message after he chaired the first meeting of his Cabinet.The process of advertisement and notification for these jobs would be initiated within a month, he said.“In the coming days, we will also fulfil our rest of the guarantees (poll promises),” he added.The chief minister said 10,000 jobs will be given in the Punjab Police and the rest in various other departments, boards and corporations.He said the jobs will be given on merit.There will be no discrimination, no “sifarish” (recommendation) and no bribe, he added.This “historic” decision would open new vistas of employment for the youth by providing jobs to them in the government sector through a transparent and merit-based mechanism, said Mann.Unemployment has been one of the major issues that his Aam Aadmi Party had raised during the just-concluded state assembly polls.The party had promised to take the first cabinet decision of offering jobs after it came to power.Earlier on Saturday, 10 AAP MLAs, including a woman member, were inducted into the Bhagwant Mann-led Punjab’s Cabinet.The Cabinet also cleared the presentation of supplementary demands for grants for the year 2021-22 to be presented in the ensuing assembly session.This decision would provide a budget for additional or excess expenditure incurred by various departments during the financial year 2021-22 to liquidate the pending liabilities, according to an official release.Further, in accordance with the provisions contained in Clause (3) of Article 203 of the Constitution of India, the Cabinet also gave approval to present the Supplementary Demands for Grants of the Government of Punjab for the year 2021-22.“Similarly, the Cabinet also gave approval for presentation of the Statement of Estimated Expenditure (Vote on Account) from April 1, 2022 to June 30, 2022 of the State of Punjab for the year 2022-23 mandated to be presented in the State Assembly in the ensuing Punjab Vidhan Sabha as per the provisions under Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Punjab Legislative Assembly,” it said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-recruit-25-000-people-against-vacant-posts-decides-new-cabinet-at-its-first-meeting-378934
20-03-2022||Chandigarh||Profiles of AAP MLAs who have been sworn in as Punjab ministers||These are the profiles of the 10 AAP MLAs who were sworn in as Punjab ministers here on Saturday.Harpal Cheema He is the MLA from Dirba, re-elected for the second term. An advocate by profession, he is considered close to Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann. He was the Leader of Opposition in the previous term of Vidhan Sabha, and was known to raise public issues. Dr Baljit Kaur She is a first-time MLA, representing Malout. A doctor by profession, she is the daughter of former AAP MP Prof Sadhu Singh. She had left the government service to take a political plunge.Dr Vijay Singla A dentist by profession, he is also a first-time MLA, representing Mansa. He comes from a humble background and had been associated with the party for the past five years. He trounced Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala in this election. Interestingly, the singer had once been the dentist’s patient. Harbhajan Singh ETO He is the MLA from Jandiala in Majha region. As is apparent, he was an Excise and Taxation Officer in the Punjab government before he took voluntary retirement. He had unsuccessfully contested the 2017 polls on an AAP ticket, but this time round he won with a good margin. Harjot Singh BainsHe has been a founder member of Aam Aadmi Party in Punjab. Representing Anandpur Sahib, he is highly educated, having completed his education from London School of Economics. He was involved in the anti-corruption movement of Anna Hazare. Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer, 32Son of a PSPCL employee, Meet Hayer studied in Barnala's BGS Public School. He is a mechanical engineer by profession and was one of the first few people who became active with beginning of India against Corruption movement. In 2017, by defeating Congress leader Kewal Dhillon, he became one of the youngest MLAs in Punjab assembly at the age of 27. He is also president of the youth wing of the party.Lal Chand Kataruchak, 52Lal Chand Kataruchak was earlier active with the CPM. Two decades back, when Mangat Ram Pasla split from the CPM and formed his own Punjab-based party, Lal Chand joiner Pasla. In the 2017 election, Lal Chand contested from Bhoa as a Revolutionary Marxist Party of India candidate and lost. In 2022, he won from the seat as an AAP candidate. For years, he has been fighting against illegal mining.Laljit Singh Bhullar, 41Laljit Singh Bhullar is an agriculturist and a commission agent by profession. He became an MLA from Patti by defeating former minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon. He was active in SAD for several years but left the party after sacrilege incidents. He joined back SAD in 2018 but left the party to join AAP in 2019.Braham Shankar Jimpa, 57Braham Shankar Jimpa became an MLA from Hoshiarpur by defeating former industry minister Sunder Sham Arora. He is 12th pass. He was vice chairman of Punjab Industry Development Board. He started his political career with the Congress and remained councillor in municipal committee, Hoshiarpur. He was denied the Congress ticket in local bodies election but contested independently and won.Kuldeep Singh DhaliwalKuldeep Singh Dhaliwal, who became MLA from Ajnala, is a farmer by profession. He is a matriculate. He spent some time in the US before coming back to India in 2014. He has been practising farming since. He contested the Lok Sabha in 2019 as AAP candidate from Khadoor Sahib. He later became district president of AAP. He contested assembly election for the first time from Ajnala and won.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/profiles-of-those-who-will-be-sworn-in-as-punjab-ministers-378906
20-03-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab Cabinet swearing-in: Harpal Cheema, Dr Baljit Kaur, 8 others take oath as ministers||Chandigarh, March 19Ten AAP MLAs were sworn in as Punjab ministers here on Saturday.Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered the oath to them at Punjab Bhawan here.Of these, eight are first-time MLAs. They took the oath in Punjabi.They are Harpal Singh Cheema, Harbhajan Singh, Dr Vijay Singla, Lal Chand, Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer, Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal, Laljit Singh Bhullar, Bram Shanker Jimpa, Harjot Singh Bains and Dr Baljit Kaur.     Also read: Profiles of AAP MLAs who have been sworn in as Punjab ministersComment: As big as it gets in Punjab: If AAP delivers, as promised, Kejriwal may emerge as an alternative to Modi #bhagwant mann #punjab cabinet||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ministers-to-take-oath-on-saturday-378869
