21-03-2022||---||Punjabiyat ignored: Congress on AAP Rajya Sabha nominations||Chandigarh, March 21The Congress on Monday targeted the AAP for falsely talking about Punjab and Punjabiyat, going by the non-Punjabis among those who have been nominated to the Rajya Sabha.The party leaders said it was betrayal of Punjab mandate.As AAP nominees Raghav Chadha, Sandeep Pathak, Harbhajan Singh, Sanjeev Arora and Ashok Mittal filed their nominations to the Rajya Sabha at Punjab Vidhan Sabha, Congress MLA Sukhjinder Randhawa alleged the AAP had set a new trend of sending “outsiders” from Punjab to the Upper House.Targeting Chadha and Pathak, Randhawa said party affairs in charge and strategist were never sent to Rajya Sabha.“People voted for the AAP seeking change. See the change they have brought by sending non-Punjabis to the RS. By bringing in outsiders, the government has questioned the ability of Punjab and Punjabis. Only Punjabi can understand the pain of Punjab, not outsiders,” he said.Questioning the nomination of Arora, an industrialist, and Ashok Mittal, an educationist, Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Raja Warring said there were many who were doing genuine social work and running NGOs. People like Balbir Singh Seechewal and those running the Pingalwara should have been nominated. He also questioned the rationale behind sending celebrities to the Rajya Sabha as they were seldom involved in debates.Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira said instead of sending non-Punjabis to the RS, CM Bhagwant Mann should have honoured his commitment to nominate Bibi Paramjit Kaur Khalra, a victim of police brutality and champion of human rights in Punjab. “It is the first step of discrimination against Punjab,” he said.Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh said the RS was the forum where the interest of the states were raised. “AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal has shown his true face by nominating those who have no history of standing up for Punjab. A couple of them even do not belong to Punjab. This is a betrayal of Punjab’s mandate.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabiyat-ignored-congress-on-aap-rajya-sabha-nominations-379514
21-03-2022||---||Ram Charan, Jr NTR and SS Rajamouli of team 'RRR' visit Golden Temple in Amritsar to seek blessings||Chandigarh, March 21Director SS Rajamouli's magnum opus ‘RRR’ is all set to hit the big screen on March 25. Ahead of its grand release, Rajamouli, Jr NTR and Ram Charan made way to the Golden Temple in Amritsar on Monday.Pictures from their visit are going viral on social media and here is a glimpse for you.Sharing a picture from the Golden Temple visit, PenMovies wrote, “The tRRRio visited the divine Golden Temple in Amritsar to seek blessings for our #RRRMovie #RRRTakeOver #RRROnMarch25th #RRR."Take a look at the trio at Golden Temple:A post shared by Pen Movies (@penmovies)Busy promoting the film, the team had earlier visited Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Dubai. The trio had also visited Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Statue of Unity in Baroda as part of their pan-India promotion.In North India, they first halted at Delhi for a major event that was also attended by Aamir Khan. After a good time interacting with fans and media in Delhi, team RRR is expected to attend an event in Amritsar this evening.Their multi-city tour will take the RRR team to Kolkata and Varanasi before they return to Hyderabad, where they will conclude the promotions on March 23.Written by Vijayendra Prasad, the SS Rajamouli directorial is a fictional period drama which, apart from Ram Charan and NTR Jr, also stars Ajay Devgn, Alia Bhatt, Samuthirakani, Olivia Morris, Ray Stevenson and Alison Doody in important roles.The film has been produced on a massive budget of Rs 450 crore by DVV Danayya and apart from Telugu, it will release in Tamil, Malayalam, Kannada and Hindi on March 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/ram-charan-jr-ntr-and-ss-rajamouli%C2%A0of-team-rrr-visit-golden-temple-in-amritsar-to-seek-blessings-379486
21-03-2022||Shimla||2 Punjab pilgrims killed, 25 injured as truck overturns in Himachal's Una||Two pilgrims were killed and over 25 injured after a truck carrying them overturned in Himachal Pradesh's Una district on Monday, a state disaster management official said.The truck carrying the pilgrims from Mairi Mela area overturned at Panjoa in Amb, he added.Two pilgrims were killed and around 25-30 were injured, he added.All pilgrims are from Punjab. The injured are under treatment at the Civil Hospital in Amb.More details are awaited, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-punjab-pilgrims-killed-25-injured-as-truck-overturns-in-himachals-una-379471
21-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit addresses first session of Punjab Vidhan Sabha||Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Monday said the past five years in the state had seen a serious disconnect between people and the government.Addressing the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, he said the rulers became inaccessible not only to the common man but also to their representatives. “This ran against the very concept of democracy. Accessibility is the cornerstone of the new government,” he said.“My government will adopt a policy of zero tolerance towards corruption. My government is committed to end all sorts of illegal syndicates in liquor, sand mining and transport in the state“Existing hospitals will be made world class and new hospitals will be developed on a large scale. My government will ensure that every person has access to world-class and affordable health service. Every citizen of the state will get treatment completely free in government hospitals.“Every citizen of the state will be issued a health card on which all information will be digitised. As many as 16,000 village and ward clinics will be established all over the state on the lines of mohalla clinics in Delhi.“My government will ensure that anybody who suffers from road accident can be saved. A scheme on the lines of ‘Farishtey’ in Delhi will be launched. Anybody can take any injured to any hospital where he will be provided free treatment. It does not matter how expensive the treatment is, each citizen will be given free treatment.“Most of the teachers in Punjab have been working for only Rs 10,000 per month for the past 18 years. My government will make permanent recruitment on the existing vacant posts and will formulate a policy for regularising the jobs of existing outsourced and contractual teachers.“To have an impact on quality of teaching, teachers will be sent abroad to Finland, Canada, the US and England. Teachers will not be assigned non-teaching work. My government will formulate a transparent transfer policy.“My government is committed to giving 309 units of free electricity to each household in Punjab which means that about 80 per cent households will get zero power bill.“My government is committed to 24-hour uninterrupted power supply. However, since infrastructure upgrade is required, it will take two to three years to provide 24-hour power supply.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-governor-banwarilal-purohit-addresses-first-session-of-punjab-vidhan-sabha-379470
21-03-2022||Ruchika M. Khanna||Harbhajan Singh says will promote sports as Aam Aadmi Party candidates file nominations for Rajya Sabha from Punjab||Chandigarh, March 21Five candidates of the Aam Aadmi Party on Monday filed nominations for the Rajya Sabha from Punjab. They are Dr Sandeep Pathak, who is the party poll strategist and designed the campaign for Punjab, Raghav Chadha, co-in-charge of Punjab affairs, cricketer Harbhajan Singh and two businessmen- Sanjeev Arora from Ludhiana and Ashok Mittal of Lovely Professional University.While speaking with The Tribune, cricketer Harbhajan Singh said: “He has been entrusted a responsibility and he will fulfill it, most of all he will promote sports.”Also read: Lovely university founder Ashok Mittal, Ludhiana businessman Sanjeev Arora are AAP's latest 2 picks for Rajya Sabha from PunjabAAP's Rajya Sabha nomination list has Raghav Chadha's name, Sukhpal Khaira says will oppose 'non-Punjabi' candidatesThe Opposition parties have created clamour over the nominations, saying that they should nominate only Punjabis from Punjab.However, it may be mentioned that in the past, too, many people, who were Punjabis by birth, but never stated in the state, have been nominated by these opposition parties.The five candidates arrived just after the session today and went to the office of Secretary Vidhan Sabha to file their nomination papers.No other candidate has so far filed the nomination papers. The time for filing the nomination papers is till 3 pm, and it is unlikely that any party will file its nomination papers.It may be noted that the elections of two seats and three seats of Rajya Sabha are to be filed separately as these seats are from different biennial election cycles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aam-aadmi-party-candidates-file-nominations-for-rajya-sabha-from-punjab-379459
21-03-2022||Aditi Tandon||Sandeep Pathak replaces Raghav Chadha as Punjab co-incharge as AAP appoints new office-bearers in 9 states||New Delhi, March 21Buoyed by its Punjab victory, the Aam Aadmi Party on Monday organised its units in major states, including those going into elections later this year, giving IIT Delhi professor Sandeep Pathak a major responsibility as the AAP in-charge of poll bound Gujarat. Pathak also replaces Raghav Chadha as the co-in-charge of Punjab.The new list of office-bearers released on Monday shows that AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal has retained Jarnail Singh, Delhi Tilak Nagar MLA as the Punjab in charge, appointing Pathak as co-in-charge. Both Pathak and Raghav Chadha are set to enter Rajya Sabha from Punjab and are being rewarded for their work in the state.Election in charges have been named in all poll bound states.In Gujarat, AAP's MLA from Delhi's Matiala constituency Gulab Singh has been appointed election in charge with Pathak named state in charge of the party.Delhi Greater Kailash legislator Saurabh Bhardwaj will be the AAP election in charge in Haryana which goes to elections in 2024. Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta has been formally appointed state in charge with AAP leader Mahendra Choudhary co-in-charge.AAP today announced an elaborate organisational set up in Himachal Pradesh with Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain staying poll in-charge; senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak named in charge with three co-in-charges, including Amritsar mayor Karamjit Rintu and Delhi MCD councillor Gurjit Bath's husband Kulwant Bath.In Chhattisgarh, AAP has named Delhi Transport Minister Gopal Rai as poll in-charge with the party's Burari MLA (Delhi) Sanjeev Jha named in charge and party leader Santosh Srivastava named co-in-charge.AAP's Dwarka MLA (Delhi) Vinay Mishra will be the party's poll in-charge in Rajasthan and state minister Somnath Bharti will handle elections in Telangana.Importantly, AAP has trusted many of party Delhi MLAs with key roles in poll bound states -- Saurabh Bhardwaj in Haryana; Gulab Singh in Gujarat, Gopal Rai in Chhattisgarh, Vinay Mishra in Rajasthan, Somnath Bharti in Telangana and Satyendra Jain in Himachal.The latest round of reorganisation indicates the party's seriousness in respect of upcoming elections.Gujarat and Himachal will witness elections later this year. In both the states, the ruling BJP has traditionally seen a direct contest with the Congress.The equations look set to change this year with AAP's senior leadership openly proclaiming to dislodge Congress as the natural voter choice to the BJP.Below is the list: #jarnail singh aap #raghav chadha #sandeep pathak #satyendra jain||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/aap-appoints-new-office-bearers-in-9-states-sandeep-pathak-is-gujarat-in-charge-379458
21-03-2022||Aditi TandonNew Delhi||Lovely university founder Ashok Mittal, Ludhiana businessman Sanjeev Arora are AAP's latest 2 picks for Rajya Sabha from Punjab||IIT Delhi assistant professor Sandeep Pathak, Aam Aadmi Party’s Punjab co-in-charge Raghav Chadha and ex-spinner Harbhajan Singh are all set to file nominations for three of the five Rajya Sabha seats falling vacant from Punjab and set for elections on March 31.Also read: AAP's Rajya Sabha nomination list has Raghav Chadha's name, Sukhpal Khaira says will oppose 'non-Punjabi' candidatesFounder of Lovely Professional University Ashok Mittal is also expected to get AAP RS nomination from Punjab, while Ludhiana-based textile businessman Sanjeev Arora set to be fifth AAP pick for RS nomination from PunjabTop official AAP sources confirmed the development as reported by The Tribune on Sunday.Pathak, IIT Delhi faculty in the department of energy science and engineering and has a PhD from Cambridge University.Pathak received his PhD in 2011 working in the group of the famous professor David Cardwell. His research is focused on the fabrication of Perovskite based photovoltaic devices.Pathak has also been keen on developing novel material for low cost high performing photovoltaic devices.The academician has been engaged with AAP’s electoral strategy for some time now and was widely hailed as the force behind Arvind Kejriwal’s last Delhi poll win.Pathak is also the principal strategist and campaign designer for AAP in Punjab where the party won a landslide recently drowning most of the opposition.Raghav Chadha, the sitting Rajinder Nagar MLA from Delhi and co in charge of Punjab, will also file his nomination for RS seat from Punjab today.Former spinner Harbhajan Singh would the third pick.The remaining two nominations will be announced soon, said AAP sources.Pathak, Chadha and Harbhajan are already in Chandigarh to file their RS nominations.Today is the last day for nomination filing for the five RS seat election in Punjab to be held on March 31.The five vacancies in Punjab are arising due to the term of the following Rajya Sabha MPs ending on April 9. These MPs are Partap Bajwa and SS Dullo (Congress); Shwait Malik (BJP), Naresh Gujral (SAD) and SS Dhindsa. Punjab has seven RS seats. The term of the other two MPs -- Balwinder Singh Bhunder (SAD), Ambika Soni (Congress) will end on July 4 this year and elections to these two seats would be held later this year.The last date for filing of nomination for five RS seats from Punjab is tomorrow; scrutiny will happen on March 22 and the last date for withdrawal of nominations is March 24.AAP is set to win all five seats falling vacant. #ashok mittal #harbhajan singh bhajji #jagmohan singh kang #justice jora singh #lpu #raghav chadha #sandeep pathak #sanjeev arora||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lovely-varsity-founder-fourth-pick-of-aap-for-rajya-sabha-from-punjab-as-sandeep-pathak-raghav-chadha-harbhajan-singh-arrive-in-chandigarh-to-file-nominations-379449
21-03-2022||Chandigarh||AAP's Rajya Sabha nomination list has Raghav Chadha's name, Sukhpal Khaira says will oppose 'non-Punjabi' candidates||As five Punjab vacancies have arisen due to the term of the Rajya Sabha MPs ending on April 9, the Aam Aadmi Party has shortlisted five of the seven candidates, which includes academician Sandeep Pathak, AAP’s Delhi MLA and national spokesperson Raghav Chadha and former spinner Harbhajan Singh Bhajji.Also read: Lovely university founder Ashok Mittal, Ludhiana businessman Sanjeev Arora are AAP's latest 2 picks for Rajya Sabha from PunjabAAP may pick Prof Sandeep Pathak, Raghav Chadha, cricketer Harbhajan SinghAs the list was out, Congress MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira on Monday tweeted: "If this list of probable Rajya Sabha candidates by @AamAadmiPartyis true its most saddening news for Punjab n will be the first discrimination for our state.We’ll oppose tooth n nail any non punjabi being nominated.This is also a joke with Aap workers who have worked fr d party”.Friends,i request @BhagwantMann to implement his idea as how to honour valuable people like Bibi Khalra who have been victims of police brutality and have made great sacrifices for Punjab by making them Rajya Sabha member-khaira https://t.co/eCzhZQTU22 https://t.co/hSJfyM0ZoqMonday (March 21) is the last day for filing the nominations.All five vacancies are set to go to AAP, which swept the recent state elections winning 92 of the 117 seats in the Assembly. #harbhajan singh bhajji #jagmohan singh kang #justice jora singh #raghav chadha #sandeep pathak #sukhpal khaira||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mla-sukhpal-khaira-hits-out-at-aaps-rajya-sabha-mps-choice-says-will-oppose-non-punjabi-candidates-379444
21-03-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||Missing chirps of house sparrows a cause for concern||Amritsar, March 20The melodious chirpings of house sparrows is slowly fading away. Not only in urban areas, villages, too, are deprived of their visits.On World Sparrow Day, residents spoke about the social and generous bird, with whose chirps they used to rise every day.World Sparrow Day is an initiative of the Nature Forever Society, which is a non-government organisation (NGO) run by Mohammed Dilawar, who’s an internationally acclaimed conservationist.Although, it is widely speculated that increasing radiation because of mobile towers is responsible for the disappearance of house sparrows, experts say that the destruction of their habitats has led to their decline. Mobile phone radiation does affect, but the major cause of sparrows disappearing is a change in human lifestyle and architecture of our homes.“I have seen hundreds of sparrows on vacant land near New Amritsar locality. There are beri trees, which provide shelter to sparrows for nesting and from large birds and animals. Earlier, the house sparrow used to stay in mud houses. There were several options of nesting. Due to urbanisation and development in rural areas, now the architecture of our houses has changed, which has affected their survival as it is not favourable for them. Now, the roofs and sheds have been cemented at villages and little space is left for them for nesting for sparrows. Moreover, the use of insecticide in fields led to a reduction in a number of insects and makes the survival of sparrows tough,” said Dr Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, an agriculture expert.According to the survey conducted by the Punjab Agricultural University, experts in 250 villages of the state, on the basis of the percentage of the abundance of sparrows as compared to other species in five agro-climatic zones, a drastic fall was recorded. In the ’70s sparrows used to be considered as “pest” as their percentage was more than 60 per cent and considered harmful for crops in some areas. This percentage has drastically dropped in the last one-and-a-half decade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-chirps-of-house-sparrows-a-cause-for-concern-379393
21-03-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Infamous for addicts, spotlight back on  Maqboolpura locality in Amritsar||Amritsar, March 20After newly appointed Advocate General Anmol Rattan Singh Randhawa announced to improve the condition of Maqboolpura locality, the spotlight is once again back on the area that earned the ignominious moniker of housing a large number of drug addicts.He may have taken a leaf out of the Aam Aadmi Party convener Arvind Kejriwal’s visit to the locality during the Punjab election campaign in 2017 to the area, when he promised to eradicate drug trafficking.Four days ago, the police arrested one Bunty, alias Lifafa, and seized 50-gm heroin from him. The cops nabbed him during a checking held at a naka. The crime report mentions that he was a resident of Maqboolpura. The reporting of his residential address did not startle anybody, as his was not a case in isolation. The area is infamous for having lost several bread winners to the drug menace.Once a village, Maqboolpura was incorporated into the Municipal Corporation decades ago. Addicts of the locality take all kinds of drugs, but it is the adulterated synthetic alcohol substitute developed from chemicals that has emerged the most common addiction.Ajit Singh, a retired government teacher, whose family runs a charitable school Citizen Forum Vidyamandir offering education to kids from impoverished background and vocational training to girl students so that they can earn a livelihood. He along with late Brij Bedi, husband of former IPS officer Kiran Bedi, had set up the school in the locality to wean youngsters away from drugs. #anmol rattan singh randhawa #drug menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/infamous-for-addicts-spotlight-back-on-maqboolpura-locality-in-amritsar-379391
21-03-2022||---||Muchchal villagers in Amritsar district take it upon themselves to curb drug menace||Amritsar, March 20Perturbed over rampant drug abuse in the village, Muchchal village residents has now taken upon themselves to take measures to curb the menace.The villagers on Sunday passed a resolution to boycott those who were involved in drug peddling and even those who participate in their social programmes. They even thrashed a man, a video of which went viral on Sunday (in pic), who had come to the village to procure drugs. They asked him to never come to the village again. Balbir Singh Muchchal, president of Satkar Committee, said the government and police administration miserably failed to stem the problem of drug menace in the village. The village hit headlines when around 14 persons died due to consumption of spurious liquor in the hooch tragedy that claimed around 125 lives in three districts – Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala in 2020.Muchchal said even though after taking drastic measures of suspending a DSP and an SHO at that time, the situation remained the same. He alleged not only spurious liquor, heroin and banned drugs were also easily available in the village. He pointed out that it was not possible eradicate the menace without the help of people.He said drug peddles were being sheltered by their political bosses. He said they have decided to boycott drug peddlers socially. If they were held with drugs and anybody came in their support, they would be boycotted, too. He said regular marches and nakas would be organised to check the movement of drug traffickers coming from outside. He said nobody involved in the illegal trade would be spared. #drug menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/muchchal-villagers-in-amritsar-district-take-it-upon-themselves-to-curb-drug-menace-379390
21-03-2022||Chandigarh||Congress criticises Punjab Governor for 'The Kashmir Files' film screening at Raj Bhawan||Chandigarh Congress has expressed concern over the decision of the Punjab Governor to screen “The Kashmir Files” at Raj Bhawan today.Describing the act of screening the film as being below the dignity of the Governor’s office, Subhash Chawla, president, Chandigarh Congress, stated the Governor was a constitutional authority and he must not promote an ordinary film.The Congress stands for the freedom of expression and believes audience will see through the sinister game of the producers to allegedly promote fissiparous tendencies in the country by releasing a film based on “false and biased narrative,” he said — #the kashmir files||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-criticises-punjab-governor-for-film-screening-379363
21-03-2022||---||Robbery at Jaswinder Bhalla's house: 3 days on, cops fail to make arrests||Mohali, March 20Three days after a domestic help and his three accomplices took away cash, valuables and a licensed pistol from the house of Punjabi actor Jaswinder Bhalla after tying his 80-year-old mother to a chair, the police are yet to make any arrest in the case.On Thursday afternoon, the domestic help, Aryan, and his three accomplices barged into Bhalla’s house around 2:30 pm. They tied the elderly woman, who was alone in the house, to a chair and took away her gold bangles, earrings, jewellery, cash and a licensed pistol after ransacking cupboards on the ground floor and the first floor.Mataur SHO Naveenpal Lehal said, “We have formed teams to arrest the suspects. The police are pursuing the case and soon we will be able to solve it. Bhalla is yet to submit a list of stolen valuables.”Sources said the police are tracing the family of the Nepalese national and the previous domestic help who introduced Aryan to the employer. #jaswinder bhalla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/robbery-at-jaswinder-bhallas-house-3-days-on-cops-fail-to-make-arrests-379336
21-03-2022||Fatehgarh Sahib||Student dies in freak accident||Man killed in road accidentAbohar: A motorcyclist was killed while two pillion riders were injured after a mini-truck hit them near Kundal village on Abohar-Muktsar Road on Saturday night. The deceased has been identified as Swaran Singh (42), who was heading back to Rattatibba village, along with Chhinder Singh and Kala Singh. The injured have been admitted to the Civil Hospital. OCWoman dies by suicideAbohar: A woman allegedly ended her life in Bazidpur Bhoma village in Abohar. The deceased has been identified as Sukhpal Kaur (37). She was reportedly found hanging from a ceiling fan inside her in-law’s house today. Cops informed her parents and would initiate further action. The deceased is survived by three children and husband. OCYouth consumes poisonAbohar: A resident of Seed Farm village who had reportedly consumed poison last week died last night. The deceased has been identified as Vijay Pal (25). Relatives of the deceased said he had consumed poison on March 14 and was rushed to the Civil Hospital in a semi-conscious condition from where doctors referred him to Bikaner where he died last night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/student-dies-in-freak-accident-379308
21-03-2022||Abohar||Man held for ‘threatening’ businessman||A native of Chak Manphool Wala village in Sadulshehar tehsil of Sriganganagar was last night arrested from Chandigarh for threatening trader and extorting money from him.The police said accused Sudhir Saharan, who was working as a property dealer, had extorted money by threatening to eliminate Rakesh Narang, a resident of Ambika City Colony.Sub-Inspector Rohtash Poonia, who is probing the case filed on March 13, said Saharan had threatened Narang, his family and employees of their marriage palace if he did not pay the money. The investigating officer said Saharan had been remanded to three-day in custody. Narang alleged that since last October, he was being repeatedly threatened. On October 28, he transferred Rs 20,000 online to an unknown person. The caller again threatened him to deposit money. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-held-for-threatening-businessman-379306
21-03-2022||Moga||Youth dies of ‘drug overdose’||A 19-year old youth allegedly died of drug overdose in Moga on Saturday night. The deceased has been identified as Abhi Masih, a resident of Mission Compound colony.Abhi went to a peddler at Sadhanwali Basti, where the latter injected a synthetic drug with a syringe, the video of which has also reportedly gone viral on social media.Soon after being injected with synthetic drug, Masih fell unconscious. His elder brother and other family members brought him home in an unconscious state.As we were planning to take him to the hospital, Abhi breathed his last, said Shinda Masih, grandfather of the deceased. He said they came to know about the incident through a video, which went viral on social media.AAP MLA Dr Amandeep Kaur Arora visited the house of the deceased and expressed her condolences. She assured the kin that all those involved in the death of their kin would be booked by the police. — #drug menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-dies-of-overdose-379304
21-03-2022||Ludhiana||PAU suggests 8 new varieties of rice, other crops||The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has developed and recommended eight new varieties of rice, cotton, maize, mash and fodder for general cultivation in Punjab. These include PR 131 and PR 130 of rice, PAU Bt 2 and PAU Bt 3 of cotton, Punjab Baby Corn 1 of maize, Mash 883 of mash, SL 45 of fodder (sorghum) and PCB 166 of fodder (bajra).The varieties were approved after thorough discussion during a meeting of the State Variety Approval Committee for Field Crops, held under the chairmanship of Dr Gurvinder Singh, Director of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Punjab. Director of Research Dr AS Dhatt and Director of Extension Education Dr Ashok Kumar also attended the meeting.The PR 131 variety of rice is a high yielding and lodging tolerant variety. The PAU Bt 2 is a Bt cotton variety has inbuilt resistance against spotted and American bollworms. — #Agriculture||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pau-suggests-8-new-varieties-of-rice-other-crops-379302
21-03-2022||---||Repair of Indira Gandhi canal to affect sowing, rue farmers||Abohar, March 20The repair works of Indira Gandhi Canal will be carried from March 19 to May 19 by Punjab and Rajasthan. The schedule may affect sowing of crops, said irate farmers.The canal emanates from Harike barrage and terminates in Thar Desert.The Water Resources Department said the canal would be closed for two months and drinking water would be made available till April 19.Subhash Sehgal of Kisan Sangharsh Samiti said, “From March 19 to April 19, farmers will be busy in harvesting, after that they need water for sowing of crops.”Rajasthan Chief Secretary Usha Sharma has instructed to ensure adequate potable water supply during the closure period. #farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/repair-of-indira-gandhi-canal-to-affect-sowing-rue-farmers-379300
21-03-2022||Bathinda||Bathinda: Jail inmate booked for ‘extortion’||The police have registered two FIRs against a jail inmate for demanding ransom from jewellers here. Tarsem, lodged in Faridkot Jail, called up jewellers and businessmen and sought money from them.The police have registered the FIRs on the complaints of businessmen.In the first case, Sanjeev Kumar, owner of Prince Jewellers located on Court Road here, lodged a complaint with the Kotwali police that he got a call on his mobile phone on March 19. The caller introduced himself as gangster Tarsem and demanded Rs 50,000 ransom. He also threatened that he should arrange the money without any delay, otherwise he would be killed.After receiving the threat, the businessman gave information about the matter to his associates and relatives. Later, in a complaint to the police, he demanded legal action against the accused. Investigation officer Charanjit Singh said the accused would be arrested soon.Similarly, Sukhwinder Singh, owner of Lakkhi Jewellers located on Mall Road in Goniana Mandi, has also filed a complaint with the Nehiawala Police that Tarsem Singh along with his associates, demanded ransom from him.In the complaint, he said Tarsem Singh’s relative and partner threatened him over phone and asked him to pay Rs 80,000 as ransom. The gangster also called him from inside the jail and threatened him.SHO Kaur Singh said a case had been registered. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jail-inmate-booked-for-extortion-379299
21-03-2022||---||Bathinda: Member ‘harassed’, farm union protests police ‘inaction’||Bathinda, March 20Members of the Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union and BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), Bathinda block, today staged a protest in front of the Killi Nihal Singhwala police station alleging police inaction in a case where a village unit president of the Khet Mazdoor Union was allegedly tortured by some persons. The protesters raised slogans against the police and demanded immediate action against culprits.Will call both sidesWe will call both sides on Tuesday and try to strike a compromise between them. —Parkash Singh, Officiating police inchargeJora Singh Nasrali, state president, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, said, “Madha Singh is president of our union at Killi Nihal Singhwala village, there are people living in his neighbourhood who have been harassing him constantly. He has given many complaints at the local police station, but to no avail. Despite repeated complaints, the police did not take required punitive action against such hooliganism; they have even been abusing Madha Singh. Now we have started this dharna outside the police chowki to seek justice for him.” “Madha Singh’s neighbours have even threatened to kill him but there is no action against these hooligans till now,” he saidNasrali added, “The police have given us time till 4 pm on Tuesday to take action in the matter. If police do not take action in the matter then we will start a district-level protest.”Parkash Singh, officiating incharge at the Killi Nihal Singhwala police post, said, “There is a personal dispute between two families of the village. We will call both sides on Tuesday and try to strike a compromise between them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/member-harassed-farm-union-protests-police-inaction-379295
21-03-2022||Pathankot||Punjab Diary: Little-known leader Lal Chand Kataruchak in limelight now||Making up to ruling partySangrur: Many government officers are making efforts to be in good books of AAP leaders. The party leadership has been making repeated announcements to get investigated the financial scams that took place during the Congress-led government. The new AAP government has not reshuffled officers and the government officers are posted on the same positions as they were during the Congress government. “Majority of the officers have been trying to wash their hands off all controversies, which they were involved in during the Congress-led government, saying that they were under pressure of the ruling party’s leaders,” said an AAP leader on condition of anonymity. Many of them are even reportedly sharing details of scams with AAP leaders to gain their trust. Showcasing strengthFaridkot: Post-Assembly elections, to showcase their strength, many local leaders of the AAP have installed flex boards on the roadsides. They are showcasing the breakup of total polled votes and the voting margin with which the party leaders have won from their wards. They say the aim of installing these boards is to thank voters for their overwhelming support to the APP. 20 years on, Malout MLA makes it to CabinetMalout: The Malout Assembly constituency in Muktsar district has got a minister after 20 years. Earlier, SAD MLA Sujan Singh had served as a Minister of State (MoS) for the Rural Development and Panchayats Department. At the time of his death in 2002, he was a MoS. Now, AAP MLA Dr Baljit Kaur has become a Cabinet minister. During the last Capt Amarinder Singh-led government and Charanjit Channi government, Congress MLA from here Ajaib Singh Bhatti had served as the Deputy Speaker.  #dr baljit kaur #lal chand kataruchak||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/little-known-leader-in-limelight-now-379292
21-03-2022||Manav ManderLudhiana||Ludhiana: Villagers seek better health facilities as AAP comes to power||After the landslide victory of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), residents have pinned their hopes on Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann, especially those in the rural areas. Better healthcare facilities are what villagers are expecting from the new government.Villagers had the worst time during the pandemic as medical officers and other staff posted in rural dispensaries were reportedly deputed at urban hospitals.Lakhwinder Singh, who resides near Samrala, said, “During the Covid wave, there was no doctor in the dispensary. We had to go all the way to the district hospital in case of emergency. Despite witnessing fall in Covid cases, things have not changed as many dispensaries are without doctors and medicines.”In 2021, around 600 rural dispensaries out of 1,183, were transferred back to the Department of Health from the Rural Development Department. As a result, some doctors posted at these dispensaries, were moved to primary health centres.In addition to this, villagers also faced problem related to shortage of medicine. Rural dispensaries did not receive medicine during the pandemic as the staff was on deputation.Last year, during the outbreak of dengue, rural dispensaries did not have a stock of basic medicines, including paracetamol. Tirat Singh from Machhiwara said, “I had dengue last year. When I went to the village dispensary, I was told that they did not have medicine. I hope the new government will address this issue.”Dr JP Narula, state chief, Rural Medical Services Association, said: “Rural population has the right to quality healthcare and it can only be achieved through infrastructure upgradation, recruitment of staff, medicine supply and adoption of confidence building measures among all the stakeholders.”“In 2011, services of rural medical officers were regularised. Rural pharmacist and other staff is still on contract,” said Dr Narula. Recently, around 129 rural medical officers optionally merged with the Department of Health due to lack of PG quota despite exclusive rural service.It is pertinent to mention that the last recruitment of rural medical officers was done in 2012 and 560 rural dispensaries serve residents of around 12,600 villages in the state.Some doctors shifted to PHCSIn 2021, 600 rural dispensaries out of 1,183, were transferred back to the Department of Health from the Rural Development Department. As a result, some doctors posted at these dispensaries, were shifted to primary health centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/villagers-seek-better-health-facilities-379288
21-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur civic body issues notice to Red Cross over violation of building bylaws||Sangrur, March 20The Sangrur Nagar Council and the Red Cross have locked horns over construction of a building on Telephone Exchange Road in the city.In a notice issued to the Red Cross secretary (Sangrur), under Section 195 A of the Punjab Municipal Act 1911, the nagar council alleged that the Red Cross was constructing a building on its premises without approval of the building plan. The officials in the nagar council said if the constuction work continues, they would demolish the building.Sources in the Red Cross said as their current building was old, they started constructing the new structure, which would house short-hand English and Punjabi training centre, computer centre, arts and craft training centre.Moreover, the centre for giving first aid training would also be shifted to the new building.Krishan Mittal, secretary, Red Cross, “The Government Buildings Act mandates that we should only inform the nagar council about the construction of new building and we are not bound to take any approval from them. New construction is within our premises and is being done to provide better facilities to students and residents. We do not need any approval of the nagar council. They have issued a baseless notice. ”Sangrur Sub-Divisional Magistrate Charanjot Singh Walia, who is also the nagar council administrator, confirmed that the notice has been issued.“I have sought reports from both the nagar council and the Red Cross. After getting the reports, I will take an appropriate action,” said Walia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-civic-body-issues-notice-to-red-cross-over-violation-of-building-bylaws-379287
21-03-2022||Sameer Singh||Oil price high, area under mustard cultivation up in Bathinda||Bathinda, March 20Area under cultivation for mustard has increased significantly in Bathinda in the past three years. Owing to health benefits of oil extracted from mustard and its remunerative price (mustard oil is being sold for Rs 200 and more in recent months) in the market has drawn many farmers from the region to adopt its cultivation.As per records of the Agriculture Department, area under mustard cultivation has increased from around 2,000 hectares in 2020-21 to 3,000 hectares in 2021-22 in Bathinda.Massive price riseThe rate of mustard oil has picked up in the past one year. Due to this, hoping to get better prices, more farmers have taken to cultivation of mustard in the region in past one yeart. —Agri expertThe rate of mustard oil has picked-up in the past one year. Due to this, hoping to get better prices, more farmers have taken to cultivation of mustard in the region in past one year, said an agricultural expert.The government has fixed MSP (minimum support price) of Rs 5,050 on per quintal basis for mustard but it has been fetching a price as high as Rs 7,000 and even more in neighbouring Rajasthan and local farmers are hopeful that they would also reap rich dividends this harvest season. Mustard has been fetching remunerative prices in mandis at Haryana too.Sukhbir Sodhi, field officer of the department, said: “Mustard cultivation in villages of Sangat, Maur, Talwandi Sabo blocks and Raman area of the district has sizable area under the cultivation as compared to other blocks where it is scattered in smaller tracts of land across different villages. With an increase of approximately 1,000 hectares (more than 2,400 acres) in just a year, the area is expected to increase at a rapid rate in the coming years too.”Talking to The Tribune, Binder Singh, a farmer from Bandi village in Sangat block of the district, who has cultivated mustard on a whopping 22 acres of land, said: “I have cultivated mustard by following all procedures and guidelines of the Agriculture Department. I am hopeful that there will be good yield. The rate of mustard oil has increased manifold in the market and farmers have even fetched over Rs 7,000 per quintal of mustard in neighbouring Rajasthan. I’m hopeful that the price will pick up in local mandis too.”Another farmer Gursewak Singh from Mehta village in Bathinda said: “Last year, I had cultivated mustard in 1 acre of land but this year mustard was sown in around 2.5 acres of land. The practice is quite useful for me as I get oil for domestic use as well and also use the leftover (after extracting oil) as cattle feed. Moreover, it is a healthy choice especially at a time when there are adulterated products being sold in the market.”Dr Sanjeev Pathak, an ayurvedic doctor, said: “Mustard oil is beneficial for health. Using it for cooking purposes prevents obesity and liver and heart-related problems.” #Agriculture||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oil-price-high-area-under-mustard-cultivation-up-379285
21-03-2022||Balwant GargFaridkot||Medical aspirants explore Nepal, Bangladesh options||As a fallout of the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict, many medical aspirants in the state have started exploring other options now. In place of Ukraine, many students are hoping to take admission in Bangladesh or Nepal this time.Before taking admission, students are comparing the pass percentage in the Foreign Medical Graduates Exam (FMGE), a screening test which is mandatory for the students studying medicine in other countries. It is conducted by the National Board of Examination (NBE) in June and December.High pass percentage As per the latest NBE report about the country/institute-wise performance, 4,302 Indian students who had studied MBBS in 32 medical colleges in Ukraine had appeared in the FMGE-2020 and only 692 (16.08 per cent) could crack the test.Even the performance of medical graduates from China’s college was not so promising in the FMGE, revealed the report. As many as 12,693 medical graduates from 79 colleges of China had appeared in the FMGE-2020 and only 1,555 (12.25 per cent) could clear the test.Bangladesh is the desired destination of many medical aspirants this time due to high pass percentage of the students from this country in the FMGE. Among the 851 medical graduates who studied MBBS from 38 medical colleges in Bangladesh, only 34.54 per cent were able to pass the FMGE.“In view of security situation in Ukraine, I want to go to China to pursue MBBS, but there is a looming threat of lockdown due to Covid-19 there. Though medical colleges in China are opting for online classes, the National Medical Commission in India does not accept this mode of education. Hence, I have decided to go to Nepal,” said Ankit, son of a pharmacist in the area.As per the NBE report, 71 Indian students who studied MBBS in 18 medical colleges of Pakistan had also appeared in the FMGE-2020, but their pass percentage (21.12) was also low. Only 15 of the 71 students cracked the FMGE.Even the performance of Indian students from 18 medical colleges in Nepal was higher than the students from Ukraine colleges in the FMGE. As per the report, 1,415 students from 18 medical colleges of Nepal appeared in the FMGE-2020 and 307 of them were successful.While MBBS fee in Ukraine is around Rs 30-35 lakh, it’s is between Rs 50-60 lakh in Nepal and Bangladesh. With Ukraine no more an option now, colleges in Nepal and Bangladesh have already started quoting high fee, said an owner of a coaching centre. #MBBS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/medical-aspirants-explore-nepal-bangladesh-options-379283
21-03-2022||Ropar||Ropar: 3-yr-old kid pulls down teacher’s mask, ‘thrashed’||A three-year-old child was allegedly thrashed at a kindergarten by teachers for pulling down a mask of one of them.Raghuraman, father of the child, said he had admitted his son to the kindergarten situated at Bela Chowk in Ropar. He said his child resisted from going to the school and said the teachers used to constantly thrash and shout at him.He said he didn’t believe his child and kept sending him to the kindergarten. He said on March 16, he received a call from the school authorities to reach the institute, where he found his child crying.Will take actionIt is an unfortunate incident and a disciplinary action will be taken against the erring teachers. —School authoritiesInitially, the school authorities refused to show the CCTV footage, but after a lot of dilly-dallying, they shared the recording on March 19, he said. In the CCTV footage (a copy of which is with The Tribune), three teachers can be seen standing around the child and two of them slapping him repeatedly and pulling his cheeks in presence of other kids. The three teachers can be seen discussing something after the incident.The parents said the child suffered a shock and they were finding it difficult to send him to other school. “I want the school authorities to provide the CCTV recordings of the last one week, so that I can know how much physical and psychological trauma my child has gone through,” said Raghuraman.The chairman of the school, termed the child naughty and said he pulled a mask of his teacher. When pointed out that the teachers can be seen thrashing the child in the CCTV footage, the school chairman said it was an unfortunate incident and he would take disciplinary action against the erring teachers.Ropar SHO Gaganpreet Singh said after analysing the CCTV footage submitted by the parents, prima facie, the child was thrashed badly by the teachers. We have initiated the probe and appropriate action would be taken against the accused, said the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-yr-old-kid-pulls-down-teachers-mask-thrashed-379281
21-03-2022||Muktsar||Rise in temperature may hit wheat yield in Punjab: Agriculture experts||Farmers across the state are a worried lot as the day and night temperature is rising for the past few days, which may hit wheat yield this season.Further, some farmers claimed that they were getting irregular and inadequate power supply. Notably, the wheat needs to be irrigated at this stage.The harvesting of wheat crop generally starts in mid April around Baisakhi, however, the hike in temperature would lead to early maturing of granules, which would result in lesser yield.Irregular powerDue to a sudden rise in temperature, the demand for water has increased, but regular power supply is not being provided to run tubewells. —Avtar Singh, A FarmerTill a few days ago, farmers were expecting bumper crop as weather was favourable. Further, there was forecast that March would witness normal temperature.Avtar Singh, a farmer, said, "Due to sudden rise in temperature, wheat crop needs water, but the power utility is not providing adequate and regular supply to run tubewells. We even blocked Fazilka-Delhi Road at Lambi recently in this regard. If the weather remains the same, it will affect the wheat yield."Muktsar Chief Agriculture Officer Gurpreet Singh said, "There is sudden rise in temperature, which is not good for wheat crop. It may decrease the weight of wheat grain and yield. There is nothing to worry if the weather changes in the next few days."He said the optimum temperature for the wheat crop at this stage varies from 11 degrees Celsius to 28 degrees Celsius, but the temperature has reached between 20 degrees Celsius and 33 degrees Celsius. Last year, the state had recorded average wheat yield of 48.68 quintal per hectare. #Agriculture||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rise-in-temperature-may-hit-wheat-yield-agri-experts-379278
21-03-2022||Chandigarh||BKU appeals to unions to come together again||The BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) has made a fervent appeal to all farm unions in Punjab to once again come together in order to jointly fight for the rights of farmers.Hitting out at the unions and Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders who had taken political plunge and contested polls under the aegis of the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM), BKU leaders accused them of disrupting the agenda of the morcha. Though they did not name anyone, the union was clearly hitting out at Balbir Singh Rajewal.Joginder Singh Ugrahan and Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, president and general secretary of the union, respectively, appealed to all farm unions, who are not part of the SSM, to once again join hands. They also appealed to the unions who had joined the SSM to leave the morcha and come back in the SKM fold. — #balbir singh rajewal #BKU #farmers protest #joginder singh ugrahan #SKM #SSM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-appeals-to-unions-to-come-together-again-379277
21-03-2022||Chandigarh||Explore legal ways on BBMB issue, Manish Tewari urges CM Bhagwant Mann||Former Union Minister and Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari has advised Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann to consult the Advocate General, to explore legal ways to reinstate Punjab’s permanent representation in the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB).The Government of India had changed norms for selecting the full-time chairman and two members of the BBMB. As per the conventional practice, two posts of full-time members (irrigation and power) have always been filled by candidates from Punjab and Haryana. The members were generally nominated by respective state governments. The Union Power Ministry in its notification issued on February 23, amended the selection criterion, allowing anyone to apply.Tewari has now asked the CM to explore the possibility of filing a lawsuit, challenging the BBMB Amendment Rules-2022. “Request Chief Minister Punjab @BhagwantMann to consult with his Advocate General to explore the possibility of filing an original suit under Article 131 of COI challenging BBMB (Amendment) Rules-2022 as they discriminate against Punjab. As an MP from Punjab will file objections,” Tewari tweeted. — #bbmb #bhagwant mann #manish tewari||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/explore-legal-ways-on-bbmb-issue-cm-urged-379276
21-03-2022||GS PaulAmritsar||Amritsar: Restoration of centuries-old Ram Bagh ‘deori’ begins||Finally, the miserable condition of centuries-old “deori” (entrance gateway) located in the historic Ram Bagh, has caught attention of the authorities concerned.Though, the possession of this priceless part of the summer palace of Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh, was officially with the Amritsar’s Municipal Corporation (MC), yet its restoration was being done by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).Also read: 14 years on, Summer Palace of Maharaja Ranjit Singh finally opens for publicProject to cost Rs 17 LakhTwo “deoris”, one on the southern end and another on the northern end of the Ram Bagh complex, were built in 1831. The southern “deori” was properly conserved, having “jallis” of the baradari atop the building, fortified citadel, two pavillions and beautiful balconies on the outer wall. It’s currently under the control of the ASI which runs its office from the premises.However, the “deori” on the northern end has been in a shambles. The projected balconies that were once decorated with ornamental floral designs in lime plaster have fallen and cracks have surfaced on the façade.Ironically, this historical structure was in the occupation of one of the three British-era clubs, running on the Ram Bagh complex for nearly a century, and was being “misutilised” as a store and an office. It was vacated only in December 2018 when a high profile ASI team led by TR Sharma, Regional Director, ASI (North India), along with the MC officials intervened. An official on condition of anonymity said, “The delay in its preservation was due to Covid-induced lockdown, followed by the time-consuming exercise to get the official nod for carrying out the restoration work from the ASI’s higher authorities.”He said after furnishing all formalities, the conservation and renovation of this ancient “deori” has been undertaken. The project costing approximately Rs 17 lakh would be completed within one-and-a-half month.“Expert artisans have been engaged to restore its glory. The major challenge is to restore its originality. With utmost care, its façade will be stiffened with special material and cracks will be filled up. Projections, parapets and balconies, will be refurbished as per the original design,” he said. The ASI would also initiate a proposal to procure its possession from the MC, which is the custodian of the Ram Bagh, and several structures located in it.As per an agreement, the ASI would take care of preservation of the historic structures only. #maharaja ranjit singh #ram bagh amritsar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/restoration-of-centuries-old-ram-bagh-deori-begins-379275
21-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress flags ‘direct’ wheat delivery to pvt silos in Haryana||Punjab Congress leaders have raised concern over the reports of wheat procurement at a private godown in Haryana, pointing out that next on the agenda of the BJP-led central government could be Punjab.Also read: Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni): Why link Kurukshetra mandis with Adani silo?Take up with centreThe AAP should take up with the Centre any such move to start direct delivery of wheat to silos. —  Raja Warring, Gidderbaha MLAIt’s against mandisPM Modi promised apni mandi will not be closed. But now the opposite is happening. — Barinder Dhillon, Punjab YC presidentCiting the Food Corporation India’s (FCI) order of direct delivery of wheat from farmers to the silos of a leading business group in Haryana, state Congress leaders alleged the BJP’s anti-farmer policy was coming in the open again. “Modi promised apni mandi will not be closed. But now the opposite is happening and the first step towards closing down of mandi has been initiated. It’s happening in Haryana and the next in line could be Punjab. As the Assembly polls are over, the BJP has initiated the process in Haryana,” said Barinder Dhillon, president, Punjab Youth Congress.Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, the MLA from Gidderbaha, said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) should take up with the Central government any such move to close mandis and to start direct delivery of wheat from farmers to silos of private groups. Giving the MSP gurantee was another demand that has to be fulfilled by the Centre, the former Transport Minister added. #barinder dhillon #farmers #MSP #raja warring||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-flags-direct-wheat-delivery-to-pvt-silos-379272
21-03-2022||---||Arora community seeks representation in ministry||Abohar, March 20Representatives of Hindu Arora and Sikh Arora community, owing allegiance to different political parties, today sought representation in the newly-formed Aam Aadmi Party government.Community leaders said none of the 11 AAP legislators from the Arora community had got a berth in the Cabinet that was sworn in yesterday.“Our community has been struggling to get its due share in the state politics for a long time. As many as 11 MLAs of the Arora community have been elected on AAP tickets. Even then none of them has been included in the Cabinet,” community leader Inderjit Singh Bajaj said.AAP trade wing leader Pankaj Narula said a resolution in this regard on behalf of the Arora community would be sent to Chief Minister Bhagwant Singh Mann and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal. #arvind kejriwal #bhagwant singh mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arora-community-seeks-representation-in-ministry-379269
21-03-2022||Lambi (Muktsar)||Parkash Singh Badal on thanksgiving tour in Lambi segment||After the SAD’s worst-ever performance in the Assembly polls and his defeat to a first-timer in Lambi, 94-year-old former Chief Minister and SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal today started a thanksgiving tour on the home turf. AAP leader Gurmeet Singh Khudian defeated Badal by 11,396 votes.The last time Badal lost an Assembly election was in 1967, when he was defeated by Harcharan Singh Brar (Congress) from the Gidderbaha segment by just 57 votes.Will keep doing social workPeople can approach me for any kind of help. I will keep doing social work, be it giving financial help for any wedding, health issue or education. —Parkash Singh Badal, SAD patronThanking the voters and SAD workers at his own Badal village this morning, Badal said: “There is nothing to feel sad about the election results. The winning and losing are part of every election. If a farmer faces crop failure, he does not stop sowing the next crop. Similarly, we have to go amid the public to know our shortcomings and work for the public welfare. Even Indira Gandhi once lost the election.”The former CM today visited Badal, Gaggar, Mithri, Singhewala and Fatuhiwala villages here. The SAD patron was the oldest candidate in the fray in the recently held elections. Before the reorganisation of the state, Badal first contested the Assembly election from Malout on the ticket of Indian National Congress (INC) in 1957 and won. Thereafter, he won five times in a row from Gidderbaha (1969, 1972, 1977, 1980 and 1985) and then continuously won five times from Lambi (1997, 2002, 2007, 2012 and 2017). — #gurmeet singh khudian #Lambi #parkash singh badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badal-on-thanksgiving-tour-in-lambi-segment-379267
21-03-2022||Sukhmeet BhasinBathinda||Dr Vijay Singla in Cabinet, Mansa upbeat; Bathinda residents disappointed||Mansa district got its first representation in the Cabinet as Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Dr Vijay Singla was inducted as minister on Saturday.Singla is the first MLA in the district to become a Cabinet minister since Mansa became a separate district from Bathinda in 1992. Earlier, Kirpal Singh Makha from Sardulgarh and Sher Singh Gagowal of Mansa remained ministers for a short period of time in former CM Harcharan Singh Brar and Rajinder Kaur Bhattal’s Cabinet, respectively.Dr Vijay Singla was polled 1,00,023 votes, the highest by any candidate. He defeated renowned singer Sidhu Moosewala from Mansa by a huge margin of 63,323 votes.Belonging to a middle class family, newly-appointed Cabinet Minister Dr Vijay Singla is a dentist by profession and runs a dental clinic in the city. A native of Bhopal village in Mansa, he completed his BDS from Patiala and had little connection with politics. Dr. Singla joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) about seven years ago. The party made him general secretary of the Punjab Beopar Mandal. He is associated with the Rotary Club and the Environment Society and runs home planting campaigns to protect the environment from pollution.While the residents of Mansa are in a jubilant mood following the induction of Dr Vijay Singla as the Cabinet minister, Bathinda residents are little upset with no representation in the Cabinet. People were expecting senior AAP leader and two-time MLA from Talwandi Sabo Baljinder Kaur to be part of the Cabinet.Even residents were also looking forward to seeing a new MLA from Bathinda Urban Jagroop Singh Gill in the ministry as he had defeated Manpreet Badal by a record margin of 63,581 votes. In 2017, Bathinda had two Cabinet Ministers Manpreet Singh Badal from Bathinda Urban and Gurpreet Singh Kangar from Rampura Phul. In 2012, Sikander Singh Maluka from Rampura Phul and Janmeja Singh Sekhon from Maur were part of the Cabinet.Last two govts had faces from BathindaIn 2017, Bathinda had two Cabinet ministers Manpreet Singh Badal from Bathinda Urban and Gurpreet Singh Kangar from Rampura Phul. In 2012, Sikander Singh Maluka (Rampura Phul) and Janmeja Singh Sekhon (Maur) were part of the state Cabinet. #dr vijay singla #sidhu moosewala||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/singla-in-cabinet-mansa-upbeat-bathinda-residents-disappointed-379265
21-03-2022||Amritsar||Navjot Singh Sidhu holds meeting with Congress leaders at Amritsar residence||Former Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu today held an informal meeting with some Congress leaders at his home here.At least seven Congress leaders met at Sidhu’s residence to discuss ways to bring the Punjab Congress back on track. As per information, besides Sidhu, the others were Sukhwinder Singh Danny Bandala, Sunil Dutti, Surjit Dhiman, Ashwani Sekhri, Jagwinderpal Singh and Navtej Cheema.Meanwhile, former Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni also chaired a meeting of Congress councillors at the party’s rural office to devise strategy on removal of Amritsar Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu who switched over to the Aam Aadmi Party.Discussion held on revival of partyThe discussion during the meeting mainly revolved around on how to revive the Congress and boost the morale of the workers on the ground. — Sukhwinder Singh Danny, ex-mlaSidhu posted a group picture on his social media account of the event, though he refrained from divulging details of the meeting.The Congress leaders said this informal meeting was called over ‘lunch’ hosted by Sidhu. Former MLA of Jandiala Sukhwinder Singh Danny Bandala, who was also appointed as the working president of the Punjab Congress Committee headed by Sidhu then, said the discussion was mainly on how to revive the Congress and boost the morale of the workers.Echoing identical views, former Amritsar North MLA Sunil Dutti said he attended the get-together to introspect and discuss the lapses that led to the defeat. He said the participation of each and every worker was needed to further strengthen the party.After defeat in the Assembly elections, Sidhu had resigned as desired by the All-India Congress Committee (AICC) president Sonia Gandhi. #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-holds-meeting-with-party-leaders-at-amritsar-residence-379263
21-03-2022||Jupinderjit Singh||IG Gursharan Singh Sandhu to supervise SIT probing Bikram Majithia case||Chandigarh, March 20Chief Minister Bhagwant Singh Mann on Sunday ordered the reconstitution of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the drug case against SAD leader and former Minister Bikram Singh Majithia.IGP, Crime Branch, Gursharan Singh Sandhu, known for his professionalism and clean service record, will supervise the working of the four-member team headed by AIG Dr Rahul S. The other team members are AIG Ranjit Singh and DSPs Raghbir Singh and Amanpreet Singh.4-member teamIG Sandhu’s supervision of the SIT means he will take a call on the line of action and ensure the SIT works within its mandate and remains on course. The actual investigation on the ground and questioning of the accused or witnesses will be done by Dr Rahul S and his team, an official said.The previous SIT was a three-member team headed by AIG Balraj Singh. The SIT was formed to investigate allegations against Majithia based on an FIR lodged under various sections of the NDPS Act on December 20, 2021. Director Bureau of Investigation B Chandershekhar has issued the orders regarding the formation of the new SIT.The 49-page FIR was based on an inquiry report by ADGP Harpreet Singh Sidhu, head of the special task force (STF) against drugs. Sources said ADGP Sidhu was not happy with the progress made by AIG Balraj’s team and had conveyed this to his superiors.Further, AIG Balraj was also caught in a controversy on out-of-turn promotion of his son in the police department. On the orders of then DGP Sidharth Chattopadhyaya, AIG’s son Princepreet Singh was promoted as Inspector a day after the FIR against Majithia. The AIG had defended the promotion saying his son was denied the due rise in the rank earlier.AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal had not talked much about the drug case against Majithia in the election campaign. The party said the law would take its own course in the matter. This was contrary to the party’s strategy in the 2017 Assembly elections, where the party targeted Majithia’s alleged role in drug smuggling. However, later Majithia sued Kejriwal for defamation after which the AAP chief apologised in an Amritsar court. #bhagwant mann #bikram majithia #drug menace #gursharan singh sandhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ig-sandhu-to-supervise-sit-probing-majithia-case-379260
21-03-2022||New Delhi/Chandigarh||AAP may pick Prof Sandeep Pathak, Raghav Chadha, cricketer Harbhajan Singh||Ahead of the March 31 Rajya Sabha elections for five of the seven seats from Punjab, academician Sandeep Pathak, AAP’s Delhi MLA and national spokesperson Raghav Chadha and former spinner Harbhajan Singh Bhajji have emerged among the frontrunners to bag the coveted nominations.Monday (March 21) is the last day for filing the nominations. All five vacancies are set to go to AAP, which swept the recent state elections winning 92 of the 117 seats in the Assembly. Pathak, an assistant professor at IIT-Delhi, has been strategising for AAP for years and laid the groundwork for its stupendous recent victory. A PhD from Cambridge University, Pathak is well known as a backroom boy in Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal’s team. Kejriwal today thanked Pathak for the Punjab win and hailed his contribution as a political strategist and campaign designer.Raghav Chadha, AAP’s Delhi MLA from Rajinder Nagar and party’s co-incharge in Punjab, has been routinely praised by Kejriwal for his hard work in the state and could be sent to the Rajya Sabha from here, said sources. Harbhajan Singh’s name as a likely RS candidate of AAP from Punjab has been doing the rounds.The five Punjab vacancies are arising due to the term of the following RS MPs ending on April 9. These MPs are Partap Singh Bajwa and SS Dullo (both from Congress), Shwait Malik (BJP), Naresh Gujral (SAD) and SS Dhindsa (SAD-Sanyukt). Punjab has seven RS seats. The term of Balwinder Singh Bhunder (SAD), Ambika Soni (Congress) will end on July 4 and polls to these two seats would be held later this year.It is unlikely that any other political party will file nominations for the RS elections, as none independently has the strength to elect a member.It may be noted that members to the Rajya Sabha are elected on the principle of proportional representation.Though AAP sources say that the names of RS candidates were decided almost a week back, intense lobbying is still on. Besides the names of the frontrunners already mentioned, former judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court, who had led the first inquiry into 2015 sacrilege incidents, Justice Jora Singh and former minister Jagmohan Singh Kang are also reportedly staking their claim. Both are members of AAP. The name of educationist and Dakha candidate Dr KNS Kang is also doing the rounds. — TNSRS nominationsNomination last day today #harbhajan singh bhajji #jagmohan singh kang #justice jora singh #raghav chadha #sandeep pathak||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-may-pick-prof-pathak-raghav-chadha-harbhajan-singh-bhajji-379246
21-03-2022||Sanjeev Singh BarianaChandigarh||Punjab: 'One MLA, one pension' in the works||The AAP government in Punjab is mulling one pension for every MLA, doing away with the practice of pension for each term served as an elected representative. Reliable sources within the party told The Tribune that the ‘one MLA, one pension’ proposal was under active consideration at the highest level.“Our legislature group in the previous Assembly too had demanded that MLAs be allowed only one pension. If not during this House session, the matter will certainly be taken up shortly,” a party leader said. Harpal Cheema, then LoP, had in a communication to the Speaker last year suggested that former MLAs be paid only one pension.Besides getting a pension of Rs 75,150 for one term, the MLAs in Punjab are given an additional 66 per cent of the pension amount for every subsequent term. Former CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, Congress leader Lal Singh and former minister Sarwan Singh Phillaur get a pension of Rs 3.25 lakh each. Senior leader BS Bhunder draws a pension of Rs 2.75 lakh and SS Dhindsa Rs 2.25 lakh.Five-time CM Parkash Singh Bada has decided to forgo his pension, asking the government to use the money for public welfare. Had he not done so, he would have drawn a pension of Rs 5,76,150.COSTLY AFFAIR #one mla one pension #parkash singh badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-mla-one-pension-in-the-works-379245
21-03-2022||Chandigarh||Arvind Kejriwal asks Punjab MLAs to perform||Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Singh Mann today reconstituted the special investigation team (SIT) probing the drugs case against SAD leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia.You will have to work round the clock. Targets have to be achieved. If you don’t meet people’s expectations, you will have to be changed. You need to be out on the streets to connect with the people. Arvind Kejriwal, AAP convenerIGP, Crime Branch, Gursharan Singh Sandhu would supervise the working of the four-member team to be headed by AIG Dr Rahul S. The other members of the team are AIG Ranjit Singh Dhillon and DSPs Raghbir Singh and Amarpreet Singh.Earlier during the day, AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal, while addressing a virtual meeting of the newly elected MLAs of Punjab, said, “The ministers who do not perform will be changed. People are watching you very closely. So not changing those not performing will be difficult for the government. You will have to be working round the clock. Targets have to be achieved.“I wish you accomplish the assigned task with sincerity. I am not congratulating you, but wishing you well to carry out the assigned task with sincerity. If you don’t rise up to the public’s expectations, they will have you changed,” Kejriwal said.The AAP convener said Mann had “very rightly pointed out that they should not be sitting at their homes”. “Don’t get used to the luxuries of staying in Chandigarh. You need to be out on the streets to connect with the people.”Kejriwal said: “I heard some MLAs are not happy with the new Cabinet. They feel they have been ignored. The Cabinet cannot be bigger than 18. I must tell everyone that we are a 92-member team under the leadership of Bhagwant Mann. Those not assigned Cabinet berths will be given equally responsible jobs.”Kejriwal said: “Meet the CM if you have any work of your constituency. He will always be available, but don’t meet him for transfer of DCs, SSPs or SHOs etc.” Talking about the anti-corruption helpline to be launched on March 23, Kejriwal said: “We have shown results of a clean administration in Delhi and are sure of similar results in Punjab.”Kejriwal said: “We have received messages that some leaders visited offices and used harsh words with employees. It is good that our leaders and workers are visiting offices... we need to be careful with our language.”AAP roadshow in Mandi on April 6 #arvind kejriwal #bhagwant mann #bikram majithia||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arvind-kejriwal-asks-mlas-to-perform-379244
21-03-2022||Chandigarh||Manish Tewari urges CM Mann to consult Advocate General on BBMB issue||Former union minister and incumbent Lok Sabha MP, Manish Tewari, has adviced Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann to consult Advocate General, to explore judicial ways to reinstate Punjab’s permanent representation in the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB).The Government of India had changed norms for selecting the full-time chairman and two members of the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB).As per the conventional practice, two posts of full time members (irrigation and power) have always been filled by candidates of Punjab and Haryana. The members were generally nominated by respective state governments.Union power ministry in its notification dated February 23, amended the selection criterion and the post remains vacant, allowing anyone to apply.MP Manish Tewari has now asked CM Mann to explore the possibility of filing a lawsuit, challenging BBMB Amendment Rules 2022. “Request Chief Minister Punjab @BhagwantMann to consult with his Advocate General to explore the possibility of filing an original Suit under Article 131 of COI challenging BBMB ( Amendment) Rules 2022 as they discriminate against Punjab. As an MP from Punjab will file objections”, Manish Tewari tweeted.Request Chief Minister Punjab @BhagwantMann to consult with his Advocate General to explore the possibility of filing an original Suit under Article 131 of COI challenging BBMB ( Amendment) Rules 2022 as they discriminate against Punjab. As an MP from Punjab will file objectionsMann had also criticised the move and accused BJP-led Modi government of robbing the rights of Punjab. He insisted that union government should resist taking arbitrary decisions on BBMB rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mp-manish-tewari-advices-cm-bhagwant-mann-on-the-bbmb-issue-suggests-possibility-of-filing-lawsuit-379200
21-03-2022||Jupinderjit Singh||In first order to Punjab police, Bhagwant Mann directs reconstitution of SIT probing Bikram Majithia drug case||Chandigarh, March 20In his first orders to Punjab Police after assuming charge, Chief Minister Bhagwant Singh Mann on Sunday reconstituted the Special Investigation Team investigating the drug case against SAD leader and ex-Minister Bikram Singh Majithia.IGP-Crime Branch Gursharan Singh Sandhu, known for his clean and professional service record, would supervise the working of the four-member team which will be headed by an IPS officer, Rahul S. The other members are AIG Ranjit Singh and DSPs Raghbir Singh and Amanpreet Singh.IG Sandhu’s supervision of the SIT means he will take a call on the line of action and ensure the SIT works within its mandate and remains on course. The actual investigation on the ground and question of accused or witnessed will be done AIG Rahul S and his team, an official explained.The previous SIT was a three-member team headed by AIG Balraj Singh. The SIT was formed to probe allegations against Majithia based on an FIR lodged under various sections of the NDPS Act on December 20, 2021.Director Bureau of Investigation B Chandershekhar has issued the orders regarding the formation of the new SIT.The 49-page FIR was based on an inquiry report by ADGP Harpreet Singh Sidhu, head of the STF against drugs.Sources said ADGP Sidhu was not happy with the progress made by AIG Balraj’s team and had conveyed this to his superiors.Further, AIG Balraj was also caught in a controversy on out-of-turn promotion of his son in the police department. On orders of then DGP Sidharth Chattopadhyaya, AIG’s son Princepreet Singh was promoted as Inspector a day after the FIR against Majithia. The AIG had defended the promotion saying his son was denied the due rise in rank earlier.Notably, AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal had not talked much about the drug case against Majithia in the election campaign. The party said the law will take its own course in the matter. This was contrary to the party’s strategy in the 2017 Assembly elections, where the party targeted Majithia’s alleged role in drug smuggling. It erected hoardings against Majithia all over the state. However, later Majithia sued Kejriwal for defamation at which the AAP chief apologised in an Amritsar court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-first-order-to-punjab-police-cm-mann-orders-reconstitution-of-sit-probing-bikram-majithia-drug-case-379195
21-03-2022||Sanjeev Singh Bariana ||Don't get used to luxuries of staying in Chandigarh; if you don't perform you will be changed: Kejriwal warns Punjab ministers||Chandigarh, March 20 Ministers who do not perform will be changed, said the chief of the Aam Admi Party (AAP), Arvind Kejriwal, while addressing a virtual meeting with newly elected MLAs in Punjab on Sunday.“I wish you carry out the assigned task with your hard work and sincerity. I am not congratulating you, but wishing you well to carry out the assigned task with sincerity. If you don’t fulfil the public expectations, they will have you changed. We should begin our task right away as Mann (Bhagwant) has rightly pointed out that we are more than 70 years late to get public welfare goals implemented after Independence,” said Kejriwal.He said: “People are watching us very closely. So not changing those not performing will be difficult for the government. You will have to work round the clock. Targets have to be fulfilled.” He said: “Mann has very rightly pointed out that you should not be sitting in your homes. Don’t get used to the luxuries of staying in Chandigarh. You need to be moving on the streets and villages to connect with people on ground."Kejriwal said: “I heard some MLAs are not happy with the new Cabinet. They feel they were ignored, the Cabinet cannot be bigger than 18. I must tell everyone that we are a 92-member team under the leadership of Bhagwant Mann. Those not assigned Cabinet will be given equally responsible jobs. We need to leave our selfish ambitions aside if we want to see our Punjab progress. Cabinet, department chairmanship or any other important post should not the prerogative of any leader.” Kejriwal said: “Majority of our MLAs are first timers. Even big names in politics have been defeated this time. So you also need to work. Meet the CM if you have any work for your constituency. He will always be available, but don’t meet him for transfers of Deputy Commissioners, SSPs or SHOs like earlier times.”  Kejriwal said: “Mann sahab tussi kamaal karr ditta. The entire nation is talking about you. We are getting messages about government's works like registration being done without any bribe. A dhaba owner sent a message that a cop who had tea at his stall paid for it himself. It was for the first time. Such messages are very encouraging. More changes will come."He congratulated Mann for announcing 25,000 jobs for the unemployed. Kejriwal also mentioned that the process for compensation of crop loss, last October, had started and farmers will receive their cheques within three-four days. Talking about the anti-corruption phone line to be launched on March 23, Kejriwal said: “We have shown results of a clean administration in Delhi with a similar initiative and are sure about similar results in Punjab as well.” Kejriwal said: “We got messages that certain leaders are going to offices and threatening employees using harsh words. It is good that our leaders and workers are visiting hospitals, schools and tehsildar offices. At the same time, we need to be careful with our language. We must not use words like ‘puttha tang devange. This is not correct. We must follow the procedure and not merely harass the staff.” Appreciating the steps for a honest administration initiated by Mann, the AAP convenor said “I can tolerate anything, but injustice.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/live-cm-bhagwant-mann-addresses-newly-elected-aap-mlas-of-punjab-via-video-conferencing-379167
21-03-2022||Sanjeev Singh Bariana and Aparna BanerjeeKhatkar Kalan||Bhagwant Mann sworn in as Punjab CM; Inderbir Nijjer appointed protem speaker||Bhagwant Mann was administered the oath of office as Punjab chief minister by Governor Banwari Lal Purohit here on Wednesday.Inderbir Singh Nijjer, Amrtisar South MLA, was appointed Protem Speaker of Punjab Vidhan Sabha, ahead of the session scheduled from March 17 to 22.After the swearing-in, addressing his supporters sporting yellow turbans and dupattas, Mann said, “We are already late. We will begin our journey today itself - our long journey to end unemployment, usher reforms in agriculture, improve hospitals and transform education.”Mann said, “We will ensure qualitative change in education and work out corresponding employment of youth to stop flight of youth abroad. We will make ground for their bright future here.”Mann said, “We will change our schools. We will take them to the level of Delhi where foreigners came to see the transformation and its quality. They will soon be coming here and we will show them.”He said, “We will leave a legacy of work quality which will qualify it to be taught in textbooks to our future generations. It will teach them about when the time changed in their state and from what it changed. The answer will be March 10, 2022. It will assure them that they can vote without fear.”  Mann asked his party workers to do honest work and be polite in their conduct with people on the ground. “Even our opponents are our own people and we will show them all respect”.He also asked his workers to stay away from using any wrong words on social media.Mann appreciated Arvind Kejriwal for bringing the party this far after a long struggle.Besides ‘Bharat mata ki jai’ and ‘Bole so nihal’, Mann said ‘Inqulaab zindabad’ at least thrice during the ceremony at the village of Bhagat Singh. He said he chose the village to remind people of the sacrifice of the leader for the nation.All AAP MLAs were seated on the left of the stage and Delhi cabinet members, including Kejriwal, were on the right. #bhgawantmann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/swearing-in-khatkar-kalan-all-decked-up-378110
