22-03-2022||Amritsar||2 men gunned down in clash in Amritsar village||Two men were shot dead on Tuesday in a clash in Anayatpur village allegedly over harassment of a woman, police here said.The deceased were identified as Surmu (22) and Arri (32), said police.They said the shooting arose out of an altercation that took place between two groups over some minor issue.However, the victims’ families challenged the version, alleging that the assailants were harassing some women and when they were asked to stop, they opened fire.Police said several police teams have been dispatched to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-men-gunned-down-in-clash-in-amritsar-village-379827
22-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann to meet PM Modi on March 24||Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann will be meeting the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday morning. He had sought time for a meeting with the PM, which has been conveyed to his office.Officials in the Chief Minister’s Office say that this is a courtesy call, which Mann is making on the Prime Minister after his win in the elections. However, important issues concerning the state are expected to be discussed in the meeting.Sources say that the BBMB issue, wherein most people feel that Punjab is being denied its right over its river waters through change in rules of appointment, will be discussed.The issue of coal shortage and high cost of coal is another issue that the CM is likely to take up with the Prime Minister. The issue of smooth procurement of wheat in April is also likely to be taken up for discussion.Earlier, when the results for the Punjab assembly polls were declared, PM Modi had congratulated him and assured that they would work together for the growth of Punjab and welfare of its people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-bhagwant-mann-to-meet-pm-modi-on-march-24-379803
22-03-2022||---||Raja Warring takes swipe at Arvind Kejriwal over Bhagat Singh birth date, says ‘half knowledge is more dangerous than no knowledge’||Chandigarh, March 22Congress leader Amarinder Singh Raja was quick to catch Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal off guard.As soon as Bhagwant Mann announced a holiday in Punjab on March 23, the martyrdom day of Bhagat Singh, Congress leader pinned both Aam Aadmi Party’s tallest leaders by tweeting: “Dear @BhagwantMann ji Half knowledge is more dangerous than no knowledge … Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh Ji’s Birthday is on 27 September or 28th, as you said ? Who is correct ? You or @ArvindKejriwalJi ?”Raja Warring, also, had tagged a snapshot of an old tweet from Arvind Kejriwal 2016 post, where he had wrongly mentioned the date of birth anniversary of Bhagat Singh on September 27, while the correct day is September 28.Dear @BhagwantMann ji Half knowledge is more dangerous than no knowledge … Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh Ji’s Birthday is on 27 September or 28th, as you said ? Who is correct ? You or @ArvindKejriwal Ji ? pic.twitter.com/hYX23AXwD5||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/raja-warring-takes-swipe-at-arvind-kejriwal-over-bhagat-singh-birth-date-says-half-knowledge-is-more-dangerous-than-no-knowledge-379783
22-03-2022||---||Harjot Singh Bains assumes office as Mines and Geology, Tourism and Cultural Affairs, Jails and Legal and Legislative Affairs Minister||Chandigarh, March 22Harjot Singh Bains on Tuesday assumed office as Punjab’s youngest cabinet minister at the civil secretariat here at Chandigarh.Bains took charge as Mines and Geology, Tourism and Cultural Affairs, Jails and Legal and Legislative Affairs Minister of Punjab. After completing the formalities of taking the charge, Bains left for Vidhan Sabha to join the session in time.Bains has been elected member of the legislative assembly from Sri Anandpur Sahib.After assuming the charge, Bains said, "I thank the almighty for providing me a chance to serve the people of Punjab”. He said that he was also thankful to Delhi Chief Minister and party convener Arvind Kejriwal and Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann for bestowing a huge responsibility upon him, assuring the people of Punjab that he will work 24x7 with full zeal and honesty for the betterment of the state.He further said that he will not leave any stone unturned to end the menace of corruption in the departments allotted to him. "I will bring the new mining policy on the table within 3 to 6 months which would only be focused upon saving the exchequer of the state which will be used to boost the development of Punjab", he added.While replying to a query on the situation of jails in Punjab, the minister said that jails are the most critical department in his portfolio and he will introduce reforms on larger level to stop any kind of smuggling into the jails. He added that stringent measures would also be taken to curb the activities of the gangsters from the Punjab jails.While divulging his plans to boost tourism in Punjab, Bains said that he would try his level best to highlight the cultural heritage and activities of villages which would attract the tourists from all over the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harjot-singh-bains-assumes-office-as-mines-and-geology-tourism-and-cultural-affairs-jails-and-legal-and-legislative-affairs-minister-379748
22-03-2022||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann announces holiday in Punjab on Bhagat Singh's martyrdom day on March 23||Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann on Tuesday announced a holiday in Punjab on March 23, the martyrdom day of Bhagat Singh.Earlier, the third day of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha session began with obituary references as the House paid tributes to Gen SF Rodrigues; Ramesh Dutt Sharma, a former minister; Ajit Singh, a former MLA; Harbans Singh, a former MLA, besides eight freedom fighters and Parveen Kumar, actor and athlete.As announced by CM Bhagwant Mann, the session was telecast live.The House paid tributes to Rana Mohinder Singh, brother of Congress MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh.The House also paid tributes to Gen Bipin Rawat and Brig LS Lidder, who died in a chopper crash, besides two Punjabi youths who died in the Ukraine crisis.Later, Bhagwant Mann purposed that the discussion on Governor’s address be postponed till next session as majority of the MLA were new and had to prepare themselves for the discussion. The House approved the proposal.The House also approved installing statues of BR Ambedkar and Bhagat Singh in the Vidhan Sabha. The proposal was moved by the CM.Congress MLA Partap Bajwa proposed installing the statue of Maharaja Ranjit Singh in the Vidhan Sabha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-announces-holiday-in-punjab-on-bhagat-singhs-martyrdom-day-on-march-23-379733
22-03-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||In its interim budget, Punjab govt focuses on education, agriculture, social security, health||Chandigarh, March 22The first government of Aam Aadmi Party presented its Vote on Account budget of Rs 37,120. 23 crore on Tuesday.This is the money required by the government as routine expenditure for the first three months of 2022-23.The expenditure to be incurred on payment of interest - Rs 4,788.2 crore - is among the largest chunk of finances to be taken away from the state’s limited income. The internal debt of the state is pegged at Rs 5,442.64 crore.The maximum allocation has been made in the education sector (Rs 4,643.74 crore), agriculture (Rs 2,367.23 crore), administration of justice and policing (Rs 2,726.95 crore), social security, women and child development (Rs 1,484.64 crore) and health and family welfare (Rs 1,345.61 crore).The Vote on Account was presented by the newly inducted Finance Minister Harpal Cheema.Talking to The Tribune, Cheema said that their government had a definite plan on revving up the state’s depleting revenue, by checking tax evasion, reducing expenditure and exploring other means of increasing revenue.“I have just assumed charge as Finance Minister. But by the time we present our budget in the next three months, we will be ready to incorporate all the guarantees and promises made by the party in the budget,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/third-day-of-punjab-vidhan-sabha-session-begins-with-obituary-references-379730
22-03-2022||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu takes potshots at Arvind Kejriwal for AAP's Punjab Rajya Sabha picks||Congress leader Navjot Sidhu on Tuesday took potshots at Aam Aadmi Party convenor Arvind Kejriwal on the party’s selection of the five Rajya Sabha nominees from Punjab.New batteries for the Delhi remote control , it’s blinking ….. Harbhajan is an exception , the rest are batteries and betrayal of Punjab ! @ArvindKejriwal  In a tweet, Sidhu questions the AAP choices barring cricketer Harbhajam Singh. He says, “New batteries for the Delhi remote control , it’s blinking….. Harbhajan is an exception , the rest are batteries and betrayal of Punjab ! @ArvindKejriwal.Also read:Rajya Sabha election: 2 poll strategists, 2 bizmen, cricketer file nominations from PunjabSending 'outsiders' to Rajya Sabha: Betrayal, blow to Punjabiat, says Congress||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-takes-potshots-at-kejriwal-on-aaps-punjab-rajya-sabha-picks-379724
22-03-2022||Deepender DeswalHisar||Punjabis in Haryana seek to curb lavish social gatherings||Perhaps taking a leaf out of the reformative agenda of khap panchayats in rural areas, people of the Punjabi community here have framed a 13-point agenda for reforms in the old customs prevalent in society regarding throwing a feast to the community people on the demise of any person in family.A meeting in this regard was held at Jai Bharat Mandal Dharamshala in Hansi, presided over by BJP’s local MLA Vinod Bhayana.However, a dispute cropped up during discussion on one of the agendas on the point whether the MLA should be allowed to speak in a condolence meeting. Following which the community formed a 15-member committee to take a final call on the issue. The reforms are likely to be implemented from April 1.Satish Kalra, one of the organisers said that the practice of offering a feast (mratyu bhoj) on the demise of any person by the family of the deceased had been prevalent in the Punjabi community for a long time. “This practice has turned into a huge burden for a section of society. Though the well-off families afford and organise extravagant feasts, incurring about Rs 8 lakh to Rs 10 lakh, but the weaker families and middle-class families which too have to organise such events (mratyu bhoj) due to a kind of social pressure even though these families cannot afford such heavy expenses,” he stated, adding that there were several families which had to take debt to organise feasts.Kalra said such practice was prevalent across Haryana and even in other states among the Punjabi community. “Thus we have taken an initiative to put curbs on this practice which is turning into a social evil and a financial liability on the affected families,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjabis-seek-to-curb-lavish-social-gatherings-379628
22-03-2022||Muktsar||Ex-servicemen protest ‘misbehaviour’ by Gidderbaha SHO||Police seize 6.5kg opium, Rs6 lakh ‘drug money’Abohar: The police in Sadulshehar on Monday seized 6.5 kg of opium by intercepting a car here. A police team stopped a car on suspicion and recovered the drug and Rs6 lakh, which the police said could be drug money, from the car. SHO Satveer Meena said accused Amar Chand of Sadulshehar told them that he had brought the consignment from Chittorgarh. A case has been registered. ocGian Sagar college gets nod to admit 100 BDS studentsPatiala: The Dental Council of India has approved 100 BDS seats for the 2021-22 academic session in the Gian Sagar Dental College and Hospital. Disclosing this, Dr Gurminder Singh, principal of the college, said the new dental hospital had already become functional. Claiming that it was one of the best dental hospitals in the region, he said state-of-the-art equipment had been made available in the college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-servicemen-protest-misbehaviour-by-sho-379577
22-03-2022||Bathinda||Centre must fulfil its promises, say farm unions||Scores of farmers under the banner of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), staged a protest in front of the district administrative complex in Bathinda over non-fulfilment of promises made to the SKM at the time of repeal of three farm laws; a legal guarantee of MSP and cancellation of FIRs registered against farmers among others.The union leaders later submitted a memorandum of demands addressed to Prime Minister via Bathinda DC.Union’s state senior vice-president Jhanda Singh Jethuke said: “If the Centre continues to adopt silence on the matter, then it may have to face farmers’ ire again.” — #BKU #MSP #SKM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-must-fulfil-its-promises-say-farm-unions-379575
22-03-2022||Fatehgarh Sahib||BBMB row: Farmers to take out tractor march to Chandigarh on March 25||On a call of the Sanyukat Kisan Morcha (SKM), various farm organisations of the district today protested against the Union Government’s alleged interference in the management of the BBMB. They also burnt an effigy of the Union Government.Farm union leaders said they had forced the Centre to repeal the three-farm laws by holding peaceful protests and would again start a protest if anti-state decisions were not taken back. They urged the government to fulfil all promises that were made with the farmers during the agitation. The leaders announced that if their demands are not met, they will be forced to start an agitation again and also announced a tractor march to Chandigarh on March 25.Addressing a gathering, SKM leader Harnek Singh Bhallamajra alleged that the Centre was behaving like a dictator and wanted to abolish the federal system in the country by bringing in new laws and working against the spirit of the Constitution.They raised slogans against the Centre and burnt its effigy and submitted a memorandum to the DC to be forwarded to President Ram Nath Kovind. — #bbmb #farmers #farmers protest #SKM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-to-take-out-tractor-march-to-ut-379573
22-03-2022||Fatehgarh Sahib||Regularise 60K outsourced workers in Punjab: Pensioners' union||Members of the Punjab Government Pensioners’ Union lauded the announcement of the CM to fill 25,000 posts.Addressing mediapersons after presiding over a state-level meeting here today, union president Thakur Singh said the CM must first regularise the services of 60,000 employees working on daily wage or contract.He said the new government must work to provide maximum employment as the previous governments had failed to provide employment to youths.He said the pensioners are facing various difficulties and it was decided to take up the issues with the government and will urge to implement the decisions taken by the previous government. He said the government should clear all their dues. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/regularise-60k-outsourced-workers-pensioners-union-379570
22-03-2022||---||Death of three persons: Court accepts cops' cancellation report||Faridkot, March 21The court of Chief Judicial Magistrate today accepted the cancellation report submitted by the police in a year-old case pertaining to the death of three persons here in which the brother-in-law of a Congress leader from Muktsar district was booked. A person had died by suicide after killing his two young children.Murder-suicideOn October 29 last year, the wife of the deceased had appeared before the court and given her consent to the cancellation report presented by the police in the case.Even an NGO, which had approached the court on October 8 last year and opposed the cancellation report claiming it to be an attempt to help the politically influential accused, also agreed to withdraw the protest application.On September 17, the Faridkot police had moved an application in the court here, seeking the cancellation of the FIR in the case.The court had summoned the brother and wife of the deceased for their statement in view of the cancellation report. While the brother had given his consent on October 8, the wife made a similar statement in the court later.It was alleged on February 6, 2021, Karan Kataria, a Faridkot resident had killed his two children in sleep before dying by suicide. As per the FIR, it was alleged Dimpy Vinayak, a close relative of a Congress leader, had extorted Rs 1.22 crore from Kataria.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-accepts-cops-cancellation-report-379569
22-03-2022||Chandigarh||Sending 'outsiders' to Rajya Sabha: Betrayal, blow to Punjabiat, says Congress||The Congress today targeted the AAP for falsely talking about Punjab and Punjabiat, going by the non-Punjabis among those who have been nominated to the Rajya Sabha. Party leaders said it was betrayal of Punjab mandate.Also read: Navjot Sidhu takes potshots at Kejriwal on AAP's Punjab Rajya Sabha picksRajya Sabha election: 2 poll strategists, 2 bizmen, cricketer file nominations from PunjabAAP justifies moveBoth Cong & SAD used to nominate ‘outsider’ Punjabis, who would never visit state after filing nominations. — Neel Garg, AAP SpokespersonAs AAP nominees Raghav Chadha, Sandeep Pathak, Harbhajan Singh, Sanjeev Arora and Ashok Mittal filed their nominations to the Rajya Sabha, Congress MLA Sukhjinder Randhawa alleged the AAP had set a new trend of sending “outsiders” from Punjab to the RS.Questioning the nominations of Arora and Mittal, Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Raja Warring said there were many who were doing genuine social work and running NGOs. People like Balbir Seechewal and those running the Pingalwara should have been nominated.Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira said the CM should have honoured his commitment to nominate Bibi Paramjit Kaur Khalra, a victim of police brutality and champion of human rights.Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh said the RS was the forum where the interest of the states were raised. “AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal has shown his true face by nominating those who have no history of standing up for Punjab. A couple of them even do not belong to Punjab.”Meanwhile, the SAD has termed the nomination as betrayal with the people of the state, saying the party had struck the first blow against “Punjab and Punjabiat” with the move.Former CM Parkash Singh Badal raised concern over the state’s river waters, saying the AAP government would now snatch it away from the state.In a statement, SAD legislative wing leader Manpreet Singh Ayali said: “Is this the ‘badlav’ the AAP was talking about? The AAP seems to have cheated Punjabis by doling out RS ticket to businessmen, besides rewarding a strategist.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/betrayal-blow-to-punjabiat-congress-379568
22-03-2022||New Delhi||Need efforts to rebuild Shiromani Akali Dal minus Badal family, say experts||Sikh religious experts, historians, intellectuals and leaders have called upon the community to make collective efforts to rebuild the Shiromani Akali Dal minus the Badal family.Prominent among those who attended the meeting in the national capital over the weekend were Prof Prithipal Singh Kapoor, Dr SP Singh, Prof Gurtej Singh, Dr Gurdarshan Singh Dhillon, SGPC member Bibi Kiranjot Kaur, Bir Davinder Singh, Dr Swaran Singh among others.At the meeting, grave concerns were raised over the decimation of the more than 100-year-old SAD. Former president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee Paramjit Singh Sarna, briefed a news conference on Monday saying, “Badals have pushed the Shiromani Akali Dal into its unprecedented crisis.” Sarna cautioned that in absence of a Sikh political voice, bigger powers may exploit the vacuum to their own advantage. Sarna appealed to the community to work out ways to revive the SAD with new inductions — #bibi kiranjot kaur #bir davinder singh #DSGMC #paramjit singh sarna #parkash singh badal #SAD #SGPC #shiromani akali dal #Sikhs #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/need-efforts-to-rebuild-akali-dal-say-experts-379566
22-03-2022||Jupinderjit SinghChandigarh||Drugs, sacrilege major challenges for Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann||Finding a lasting solution to the menace of drugs smuggling and addiction, justice in sacrilege and police firing incidents, besides handling "corruption" in the police would be the biggest challenges for Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann who has retained the Home portfolio.Minister warns peddlers‘Overdose’ claims another life in MogaMoga: A day after a 19-year-old youth allegedly died of drug overdose in Moga, another 26-year old youth, as Ravinder Singh of Dholewala village, breath his last on Monday due to drug abuse. TNSAlmost seven years since the first incident of sacrilege when a 'bir' was stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala, the conspirators are yet to be arrested. Latest police investigation has named 10 followers of Dera Sacha Sauda, but it is yet unknown who exactly in the dera was the mastermind.Similarly, the police have not yet established who ordered firing at a mob protesting the sacrilege incidents at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura. An SIT under ADGP LK Yadav, probing the firing incident, has not submitted its final report so far.Though people's movement against drugs has begun with the change in the government after some panchayats took on peddlers, the government will require massive combing operations to eradicate the menace. Most challenging would be to tackle the alleged police protection to drug smugglers by identifying and punishing errant police officials.As many as 52,656 FIRs were registered for drug smuggling and peddling since January 2017. Cops have arrested 68,575 persons in the cases. As a majority of these were addicts, the government faces an uphill task of de-addiction and rehabilitation.The state jails too are under pressure. At present, more than half of the 24,000 inmates in Punjab jails are addicts or peddlers.Apart from maintenance of general law and order, the new CM will have to take head-on attempts to prevent terrorism in the state. #bhagwant mann #drug menace #sacrilege||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drugs-sacrilege-major-challenges-for-cm-379564
22-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma||No pension for 10 yrs, 72-yr-old widow writes to CM||Sangrur, March 21A 72-year-old widow, who has been struggling to get the old-age pension for the past 10 years, has written to Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann seeking his intervention. Besides, she has been denied enrolment as a voter despite directions in this regard from relevant authorities.“My husband died around 14 years ago. My son stays separately and I don’t have any source of income. Nor do I have any proper place to stay. Some locals are helping me by giving food and clothes,” said Mirch, sitting in her dilapidated hut on Gamdi Road in Dirba town of Sangrur district.Every day brings a new challenge for this elderly woman as in the absence of any income, many a time she has to sleep without food. With the help of some area residents, she got her Aadhaar card after much efforts, but bank officers are refusing to open her account. “I have met many politicians of the Congress, SAD and the BJP, but none helped me. Now I have heard that there is ‘badlav’ in Punjab. I request our new CM Bhagwant Mann to help me lead a respectable life,” she said while showing her letter written to the CM.Dirba SDM Rajesh Kumar Sharma said he was unaware of her plight. “I will takeup her case with authorities concerned for her pension,” said the SDM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-pension-for-10-yrs-72-yr-old-widow-writes-to-cm-379561
22-03-2022||Amritsar||Sukhbir Badal assesses loss with Majha leaders||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today made a surprise visit to Amritsar to have a one-on-one discussion with Majha leaders to analyse the poll debacle. The SAD could win only three seats — Manpreet Singh Ayali (Dakha), Dr Sukhwinder Kumar Sukhi (Banga) and Ganieve Kaur Majithia (Majitha).Om Parkash Chautala meets Parkash Singh BadalMuktsar: INLD supremo Om Parkash Chautala on Monday met SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal at Badal village here. Chautala had campaigned in favour of Badal in the recent elections, in which Badal lost to a first-timer. Abhay Chautala, son of Om Parkash, tweeted a photo of the meeting between the two. TNSThe closed-door brainstorming sessions with SAD candidates, who unsuccessfully contested the polls, lasted over five hours at the residence of SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia. The aim was to analyse the lapses and boost the morale of leaders in a bid to bring the party back on track.Those who attended the meeting included Ravikaran Singh Kahlon, Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal, Rajanbir Singh Ghuman, Talbir Singh Gill and Baljit Singh Jalal Usman, Harmeet Singh Sandhu and Virsa Singh Valtoha.Kahlon, who gave a tough fight to former Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa on the Dera Baba Nanak seat, said the meetings were held to analyse the shortcomings. “The party president took feedback to analyse the lapses and devise ways to counter them,” he said. — #ganieve kaur #majha #manpreet singh ayali #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-assesses-loss-with-majha-leaders-379560
22-03-2022||New Delhi||SC defers hearing in Navjot  Sidhu case to March 25||The Supreme Court on Monday deferred to March 25 hearing on a petition seeking to enhance the punishment given to Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu in a 33-year-old road rage case in which he was let off with Rs 1,000 fine.A Bench led by Justice A M Khanwilkar said the Special Bench — in which Justice SK Kaul is there — would hear the matter on Friday.The top court had on February 25 asked Sidhu to respond to a plea to enlarge the scope of the petition seeking review of its verdict. The petitioner said Sidhu’s conviction should not have been for the lesser offence of voluntarily causing hurt.Responding to the court’s notice, Sidhu said: “It is respectfully submitted that the contents of the present applications reiterate only overruled arguments and do not show any extraordinary material, calling for interference on all aspects from this court.”Terming it a “malicious bid for reopening of a well-reasoned judgment”, he urged the court to dismiss the review petition on account of “unaccounted delay without any cogent explanation” that raised doubts on his bona fides. — #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-defers-hearing-in-sidhu-case-to-march-25-379558
22-03-2022||Rajmeet SinghChandigarh||Punjab: CLP leader's selection delayed by a week||The selection of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader has been delayed by at least a week as the party high command has asked Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary to listen to a cross-section of party leaders, besides the party candidates who have won or lost the elections.The announcement of the PCC chief to replace Navjot Singh Sidhu is also expected around the same time.Party president Sonia Gandhi has also appointed senior leader Ajay Maken to assess the post-poll situation in Punjab and suggest organisational changes based on the feedback from party contestants and other important leaders. The meetings with Punjab leaders are said to be taking place in Delhi.For the CLP leader, Partap Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Randhawa are among the contenders. In today’s session of the Vidhan Sabha, which saw the election of Kultar Singh Sandhwan as the Speaker, all eyes were on the conduct of the Congress MLA on the Opposition benches.Talking in the context of live telecast of proceeding of the House, Bajwa said traditional parties had lot to hide, whereas the AAP was a new party and had no old baggage. People had the right to see the performance of the CM, ministers and the Opposition. He further said the House should run for at least 125 days in a year. #harish chaudhary #navjot sidhu #partap singh bajwa #sonia gandhi #sukhjinder randhawa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/clp-leaders-selection-delayed-by-a-week-379557
22-03-2022||Sukhmeet BhasinBathinda||Will focus on civic issues: Bathinda Urban MLA Jagroop Singh Gill||A senior councillor, Jagroop Singh Gill, who defeated five-time MLA and two-time Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal with a record margin of 63,581 votes from Bathinda, is a humble man. Having been councillor for the past 40 years, he is well-aware of city’s issues and people have great hopes from him.People lost faith in ManpreetManpreet Badal has not been defeated, he has been rejected by the people of Bathinda as they did not like his work for the city in the last five years. — Jagroop Singh Gill, Bathinda Urban MLAWhile talking to The Tribune, the AAP MLA said, “I will come up with a common minimum programme on the city issues and will work on it with cooperation of city residents.”Gill said, “During the polls, I did not make big promises to the voters. Resolving waterlogging problem, ending drug menace and creating jobs for youth will be my top priority.”Speaking about defeating Manpreet, Gill said, “Manpreet has not been defeated, he has been rejected by the people of Bathinda as they did not like his work for the city in the last five years.”When asked about a ministerial berth, Gill said, “I don’t daydream as it is the prerogative of the CM and the party. Whatever responsibility has been given to me by the party, I will do it with utmost sincerity.” He said, “My first project will be to build a jogging track in the trans-railway line area as earlier during my stint as Chairman, Bathinda Improvement Trust, I had got it approved. However, somehow the work could not begin.”Appealing to the youth to shun drugs, Gill claimed that he would ask the party volunteers to create awareness among the youngsters to keep away from the drugs.Post poll result, his life has entirely changed as earlier he was seen mostly traveling on his two-wheeler in the city, but since his election as an MLA, he is busy all day long with people flocking his house. #jagroop singh gill #manpreet badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-focus-on-civic-issues-jagroop-gill-379556
22-03-2022||Chandigarh||Rajya Sabha election: 2 poll strategists, 2 bizmen, cricketer file nominations from Punjab||Five candidates selected by the Aam Aadmi Party today filed their nomination papers for the five Rajya Sabha seats from Punjab.Also read: Navjot Sidhu takes potshots at Kejriwal on AAP's Punjab Rajya Sabha picksSending 'outsiders' to Rajya Sabha: Betrayal, blow to Punjabiat, says CongressOpposition trains guns on AAP for nominating 'outsiders' for Rajya SabhaThese are Dr Sandeep Pathak, party’s poll strategist who designed the campaign for Punjab; Raghav Chadha, co-incharge of Punjab affairs; cricketer Harbhajan Singh; and businessmen Sanjeev Arora from Ludhiana and Ashok Mittal of Lovely Professional University, Jalandhar.The party nominees were accompanied by Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann as they went to the office of Returning Officer and Secretary Vidhan Sabha Surinder Pal Singh to submit their nomination papers. No other candidate filed his paper on the last day of the election process.Though the date of elections has been fixed for March 31, it is clear the nominees of the ruling the AAP will be elected unopposed. With this, the AAP will get eight members in the Rajya Sabha. Elections to two other Rajya Sabha seats are also due in July.All five nominated members thanked the party and its national convener Arvind Kejriwal for reposing faith in them. Off-spinner Harbhajan Mann said he would raise the issues of Punjab’s youth in the Rajya Sabha and work towards reviving sports culture in the state.Educationist Ashok Mittal said he would raise issues of unemployment and underemployment because of disconnect between course curriculum and industry requirements, forcing policymakers to make amends.While the Opposition parties have created a clamour over the nominations, saying the AAP should have nominated only Punjabis from Punjab to represent the state in the Upper House, in the past too many people who were Punjabis by birth but never stayed in the state have been nominated by political parties.“How can anybody doubt the intent of the AAP in making such a crucial decision for the state? Those who speak against the party should understand the mandate of the people of Punjab, who have chosen AAP. Dr Pathak and Raghav Chadha have been working tirelessly in Punjab for the past several years and understand the state and its issues. Also, both the Congress and Akali Dal used to nominate “outsider” Punjabis, who would never visit the state after filing their nominations, or speak in its favour,” Neel Garg, spokesperson of the party told The Tribune.Dr Pathak, reacting to accusation of being an outsider, said the Opposition should use its energy on constructive and positive politics. “The people of Punjab have given a clear verdict in our favour,” he said.Of the five seats, elections are to be held for two and three Rajya Sabha seats separately as these are from different biennial election cycles. The term of five sitting RS members — Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, Partap Singh Bajwa, Shwait Malik, Naresh Gujral and Shamsher Singh Dullo — will end in April.Raghav Chadha, 33He is credited with successfully running the AAP's poll campaign in Punjab. Claiming to be a Punjabi, with roots in Jalandhar, Chadha executed the party's poll strategy to perfection, helping it win 92 seats. Party's digital push, expose on illegal mining and poor education infra were all his brainchild. The sitting MLA from Delhi's Rajinder Nagar is the vice-chairman of the Delhi Jal Board.Dr Sandeep Pathak, 43The IITian has been hailed by AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal as the man who built the party’s organisational structure and designed the Punjab campaign. His team was involved in not just conducting poll surveys, but also getting feedback on candidates picked by the party and their poll prospects. Pathak is an alumnus of the University of Cambridge.Sanjeev ‘Sunny’ Arora, 58A businessman and philanthropist from Ludhiana, Arora runs a successful business empire, with interests in real estate, industrial, housing and commercial sectors. He also started a charitable trust in 2005, which provides free cancer treatment to the needy. During the pandemic, he was instrumental in ensuring distribution of supplies such as PPE kits and masks to patients.Ashok Mittal, 58One of the founders of Lovely Professional University, Jalandhar, the educationist has worked his way up. His family used to run a sweet shop in Jalandhar. He expanded the family business first in the automobile sector and later by setting up the LPU. The varsity has students from 50 countries. He is also involved in creating an ecosystem for encouraging startups.Harbhajan Singh, 41Awell-known cricketer, Bhajji played for the country from 1998 to 2016. The Arjuna and Padam Shri awardee has been involved in training budding cricketers in his academy, which he runs in partnership with a sports manufacturing unit. He had been toying with the idea of taking a political plunge for some time. There was even speculation of his joining the BJP and Congress. #ashok mittal #bhagwant mann #dr sandeep pathak #harbhajan singh bhajji #raghav chadha #sanjeev arora||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-poll-strategists-2-bizmen-cricketer-file-nominations-379554
22-03-2022||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann keeps Home, Harpal Cheema gets Finance||Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann has retained 27 departments, including the all-important Home portfolio, leaving the remaining 29 for his 10 Cabinet ministers.On the advice and recommendation of Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann, Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Monday allotted portfolios to the newly inducted ministers.Bhagwant MannCHIEF MinisterAdministrative Reforms | Civil Aviation | General Administration | Home Affairs & Justice | Personnel | Vigilance | Housing & Urban Development | Local Government | Industries & Commerce | Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare | Horticulture | Conservation of Land & Water | Food Processing | Investment Promotion | Science Technology & Environment | Parliamentary Affairs | Elections | Removal of Grievances | Freedom Fighters | Technical Education and Industrial Training | Employment Generation & Training | Labour | Printing & Stationery | Defence Services Welfare | Governance Reforms | New & Renewable Energy Sources | Information & Public RelationsAs is the practice in the past, CM Mann will hold the portfolios of Home Affairs and Justice and Vigilance. He will also retain Administrative Reforms, Civil Aviation, General Administration, Housing and Urban Development, Local Government, Industries and Commerce, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Horticulture, Conservation of Land and Water, Food Processing, Investment Promotion, Science Technology and Environment, Parliamentary Affairs, Elections, Removal of Grievances, Freedom Fighters, Technical Education and Industrial Training, Employment Generation and Training, Labour, Printing and Stationery, Defence Services Welfare, Governance Reforms, New and Renewable Energy Sources and Information and Public Relations. The portfolio, if any, not allotted to any of the ministers shall vest with the Chief Minister.Dirba MLA Harpal Singh Cheema has been assigned the portfolios of Finance, Planning, Programme Implementation, Excise and Taxation and Cooperation.Dr Baljit Kaur has been given Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities and Social Security, Women and Child Development. Harbhajan Singh ETO has been given the charge of Public Works and Power. With health being a key focus area of the new government, Dr Vijay Singla, a dentist, has been allocated the portfolios of Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education and Research. Lal Chand has been allotted Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, Forests and Wildlife.Education, another thrust area for the AAP government, has gone to Barnala MLA Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer. He been allotted the departments of School Education, Sports and Youth Services and Higher Education.Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal, a farmer, has been given charge of Rural Development and Panchayats, Animal Husbandry, Fisheries and Dairy Development. Dhaliwal, who had been an NRI, has also been given the NRI Affairs. Laljit Singh Bhullar has been given the charge of Transport and Hospitality. Brahm Shankar Jimpa has been assigned Revenue, Rehabilitation and Disaster Management, Water Resources and Water Supply and Sanitation departments. Harjot Singh Bains has been given the portfolios of Legal and Legislative Affairs, Mines and Geology, Tourism and Cultural Affairs and Jails. #bhagwant mann #harpal cheema||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mann-keeps-home-cheema-gets-finance-379548
22-03-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Will push for more sittings: Punjab Vidhan Sabha Speaker Kultar Singh Sandhwan||Chandigarh, March 21Newly elected Speaker of Punjab Vidhan Sabha Kultar Singh Sandhwan today said he would work to ensure each and every issue concerning the welfare and growth of Punjab and meant for welfare of Punjabis was discussed in the House.He was speaking to The Tribune after his unanimous election as the Speaker of the 16th Vidhan Sabha. Sporting a red rose in the button hole of his pearl white ‘achkan’, an attire similar to what his granduncle and former President of India Giani Zail Singh used to wear, Sandhwan said he owed it to his grounded upbringing.Will allow Opposition timeI will give time to speak to all Opposition MLAs.We will reply to each of their queries (pointing to Opposition benches), as the Opposition is very important for a functional democracy. —Kultar Singh Sandhwan, SpeakerSandhwan remembered how, as an Opposition MLA, he had made several applications and proposals to ensure the number of sittings of the Vidhan Sabha should be increased.“I will talk to the government for increasing the number of days of the Vidhan Sabha session. The CM has taken it positively. I will try that instead of reducing the days of session, as has been the past practice, we will increase the days of sittings so we know which public issues require immediate attention of lawmakers,” he said. Earlier, during the session, the proceedings began with the election of the Speaker. The proceedings were initiated by the Pro-Tem Speaker Inderbir Singh Nijjar. The name of Sandhwan was proposed by Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann and was seconded by Harpal Cheema.After Sandhwan was unanimously accepted by the House as Speaker, CM Mann addressed the House. Congratulating Sandhwan, he said he hoped as Speaker he would act in an unbiased manner and would give time to speak to all Opposition MLAs.“We will reply to each of their queries (pointing to Opposition benches), as Opposition is very important for a functional democracy. I hope we make this Vidhan Sabha the most talked about House, where each and every issue is debated,” he said.Opposition MLAs including Tript Bajwa, Manpreet Singh Ayali, Ashwani Kumar Sharma and Dr Sukhwinder Sukhi congratulated Sandhwan and hoped he would work in an unbiased manner and allow them sufficient time to speak. The Treasury benches took a friendly swipe, saying they would not do what the previous ruling party MLAs did to them. “All issues will be discussed and solutions found. We want to honour the mandate given to us,” said Aman Arora, Dr Budh Ram and Manjit Singh Bilaspur.Many first-time MLAs such as Nijjar, Inderjit Kaur Mann and Tarunpreet Singh Sondh spoke on the occasion, pleading to raise people’s voice in the House.On the sidelinesBhagwant Mann for live coverageCM Mann said he was in favour of airing the live proceedings of the House, as people should know what all transpired here and who speaks for them. Mann had done a live on his mobile from the Lok Sabha, which had landed him in trouble. The demand was also raised by Partap Singh Bajwa and Sukhpal Khaira. Speaker Sandhwan said that his party was always in favour of airing the proceedings live and he would discuss the matter soon.Ex-President invokedInvoking ex-President Giani Zail Singh, the granduncle of Speaker Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Congress MLA Tript Bajwa congratulated the Speaker and hoped he would reach the top position one day. Partap Bajwa said: “We (Congress) have a long association with ‘you’ (indirectly referring to ex-President) and hope you will take care of us.”2 BJP MLAs take oathBJP legislators Ashwani Sharma and Jangi Lal took oath on Monday. However, three members of the House — Ganieve Kaur Majithia, Rana Gurjeet Singh and his son and independent MLA Rana Inderbir — are yet to take oath.Arora’s swipe at CongressAAP MLA Aman Arora had the House in splits as he reminded the Opposition how his party raised slogans demanding discussion on public issues in the previous Vidhan Sabha, while you (referring to Congress MLAs) did not listen and chose to avoid debate. “You are on Opposition benches now,” he said. #kultar singh sandhwan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-push-for-more-sittings-says-sandhwan-379531
22-03-2022||Sanjeev Singh BarianaChandigarh||Punjab Government to end drug menace in six months, scrap false cases: Governor||“The Punjab Government will do everything possible to end drug menace in the state within six months,” said Governor Banwarilal Purohit while addressing the Vidhan Sabha here today. False cases against innocent people would also be scrapped, he added.Also read: Bhagwant Mann keeps Home, Harpal Cheema gets FinanceHe said the government was also committed to ending illegal syndicates in liquor, sand mining and transport sectors. “Anti-social elements looted Punjab during the previous regimes and deprived the state exchequer of thousands of crores,” he said.Portfolios at a glance: Home with CMHarpal Singh Cheema: Finance, Excise and TaxationDr Baljit Kaur: Social Justice, Women and Child DevelopmentHarbhajan Singh ETO: Power and Public WorksDr Vijay Singla: Health and Family Welfare, Medical EducationLal Chand: Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, ForestsGurmeet Singh Meet Hayer: Education, Sports & Youth AffairsKuldeep Singh Dhaliwal: NRI Affairs and PanchayatsLaljit Singh Bhullar: Transport and HospitalityBrahm Shankar Jimpa: Revenue, Water Supply & SanitationHarjot Singh Bains: Tourism & Cultural Affairs and JailsUnderlining the worrisome financial condition of the state, he said Punjab was most indebted. The government would invite suggestions from people, farmers, traders, students, women, youth and businessmen to tackle the situation, he said.The Governor said, “The existing hospitals will be made world-class, besides setting up new ones. My government will ensure that every person has access to world-class and affordable healthcare. Every citizen will get free treatment in government hospitals. They will be issued health cards. Around 16,000 village and ward clinics will be established all over the state on the lines of mohalla clinics in Delhi.” The government “will ensure that the life of every accident victim is saved. A scheme on the lines of ‘Farishtey’ in Delhi will be launched. Anybody can take any injured to any hospital where he will be provided free treatment”.“A number of teachers in Punjab have been working for only Rs 10,000 per month for the past 18 years. My government will make permanent recruitments on all vacant posts and formulate a policy for regularising jobs of outsourced and contractual teachers,” he said. Teachers would not be assigned non-teaching work and a transparent transfer policy would be put in place soon. Purohit said, “The government is committed to giving 300 units of free electricity to every household in the state. This means about 80 per cent households will get zero power bill. Ensuring 24-hour power supply across the state will take 2-3 years as it will require infrastructure upgrade.”Steps would be taken to establish and reform government medical colleges to stop student outflow. An international airport would be set up in Jalandhar. Resolving NRI issues would also be a priority. The country’s biggest sports university would be set up in Jalandhar.A special plan would also be unveiled to make agriculture and animal husbandry profitable. He said the government was committed to providing an honorarium of Rs 1 crore to the families of martyred jawans. It would give Rs 1,000 per month to every woman above 18 years of age, while older women would continue to get old-age pension. Corruption-free recruitment of officers would be ensured. “No terrorist will be allowed to enter state and there will be no drug smuggling from across border,” he added. #banwarilal purohit #drug menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-to-end-drug-menace-in-six-months-scrap-false-cases-guv-379530
22-03-2022||New Delhi||SC to hear on March 25 review plea in 1988 road rage case against Navjot Singh Sidhu||The Supreme Court on Monday said it would hear on March 25 the plea seeking review of the sentence awarded by it in May 2018 to cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu in a 1988 road rage case.The matter was listed for hearing before a special bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and S K Kaul.As soon the bench of Justices Khanwilkar and A S Oka assembled for hearing matters in the post-lunch session, Justice Khanwilkar said the special bench would hear the review plea on Friday.“This bench is going to continue with the remaining work. So, the special bench matter can be taken up on Friday at 2 pm,” Justice Khanwilkar said.On February 25, the apex court had asked Congress leader Sidhu to file response within two weeks on an application which has said that his conviction in the case should not have been merely for the lesser offence of voluntarily causing hurt.Though the top court had in May 2018 held Sidhu guilty of the offence of “voluntarily causing hurt” to a 65-year-old man, it spared him of a jail term and imposed a fine of Rs 1,000.Later in September 2018, the apex court agreed to examine a review petition filed by the family members of the deceased and had issued notice, restricted to the quantum of sentence.In a reply filed to the application seeking enlargement of scope of notice, Sidhu has said the apex court, after a careful perusal of the contents of the review petitions, has restricted its scope to quantum of sentence.“It is well settled that whenever this court issues notice confining to sentence, arguments will be heard only to that effect unless some extraordinary circumstance/material is shown to the Court. It is respectfully submitted that the contents of the present applications reiterate only overruled arguments and do not show any extraordinary material, calling for interference on all aspects from this court,” the reply said.It said the petitioners have moved the applications after a lapse of about three-and-a-half-year from the issuance of limited notice on September 11, 2018 and this “unaccounted delay without any cogent explanation” raises doubts on the bonafides of the applications.“It is respectfully submitted that the present applications seeking expansion of the limited notice will amount to a second review which is impermissible in law,” it said, adding, “It is further submitted that the petitioners through the present applications are requesting this court to undertake a roving/fishing enquiry and re-appreciate the entire evidence on record.”The reply said the apex court had perused the entire evidence on record, including medical evidence, to conclude that cause of death of Gurnam Singh could not be ascertained.“The impugned judgement has specifically concluded that the prosecution has failed to prove that the injuries inflicted by the accused had resulted in death of the deceased. Therefore, in this background, application of sections 299/300 (of the Indian Penal Code) is not possible as these provisions will only apply when the injury has led to death,” it said.It said as there was no evidence whatsoever that the “death was caused by the single blow by the answering respondent (even assuming the incident did take place), this court rightly concluded that the same would fall under section 323 IPC.”Section 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code entails a maximum jail term of up to one year or with a fine which may extend to Rs 1,000 or both.While seeking dismissal of the applications, the reply said there is no infirmity in the verdict delivered by the apex court and the applications are nothing but a “malicious attempt for reopening of a well-reasoned judgment”.Senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, appearing for one of the petitioners, had earlier told the apex court that they have moved an application seeking enlargement of scope of the notice.The apex court had on May 15, 2018, set aside the Punjab and Haryana High Court order convicting Sidhu of culpable homicide and awarding him a three-year jail term in the case, but had held him guilty of causing hurt to a senior citizen.The top court had also acquitted Sidhu’s aide Rupinder Singh Sandhu of all charges saying there was no trustworthy evidence regarding his presence along with Sidhu at the time of the offence in December 1988.Later in September 2018, the apex court had agreed to examine a review petition filed by the family members of the deceased.The apex court’s May 2018 verdict had come on the appeal filed by Sidhu and Sandhu challenging the high court’s 2006 judgment convicting them.According to the prosecution, Sidhu and Sandhu were in a Gypsy parked in the middle of a road near the Sheranwala Gate Crossing in Patiala on December 27, 1988, when the victim and two others were on their way to the bank to withdraw money.When they reached the crossing, it was alleged, Gurnam Singh, driving a Maruti car, found the Gypsy in the middle of the road and asked the occupants, Sidhu and Sandhu, to remove it. This led to heated exchanges.Sidhu was acquitted of murder charges by the trial court in September 1999.However, the high court had reversed the verdict and held Sidhu and Sandhu guilty under section 304 (II) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC in December 2006.It had sentenced them to three years in jail and imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh each on them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-to-hear-on-march-25-review-plea-in-1988-road-rage-case-against-navjot-singh-sidhu-379501
22-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab portfolios announced; CM Mann keeps Home and Vigilance, Cheema gets Finance, Singla Health, Harbhajan Power||The Aam Aadmi Party in Punjab on Monday announced the portfolios of the newly sworn-in ministers. Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann has retained the departments of Home, Vigilance and Personnel.Dirba MLA Harpal Singh Cheema has been allotted the Finance and Revenue departments, while Barnala MLA Gurmeet Meet Hayer has been given Education portfolio.Dr Vijay Singla has been given the charge of Health, while Dr Baljit Kaur, the lone woman minister in Cabinet, has been given Women Welfare, Child Development and Social Security portfolio.  Harbhajan Singh has been allocated the Power Department, while Lal Chand has been given the charge of the Food and Civil Supplies Department.Kuldip Singh Dhaliwal will be the state’s Rural Development and Panchayat minister and Laljit Singh Bhullar has been allocated the Transport Department.  Harjot Bains has been given Law and Tourism Departments, while Bram Shanker Jimpa has been given the charge of the Water and Disaster Management Departments.  #punjab portfolios||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-portfolios-announced-cheema-gets-finance-and-revenue-harbhajan-eto-power-dr-baljit-women-welfare-and-child-development-379489
22-03-2022||New Delhi||'7 of 11 new Punjab ministers face criminal cases; 9 are crorepatis'||Seven of the 11 newly sworn-in ministers in Punjab have declared criminal cases against them, with four of them facing serious charges, poll rights group Association for Democratic Reforms said on Monday.The 11 ministers include Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann.Punjab Election Watch and the Association for Democratic Reforms analysed the affidavits of all 11 ministers, including the CM.The ADR said seven ministers (64 per cent) had declared criminal cases against them. Four of them (36 per cent) have declared serious criminal cases against them.Of the 11 ministers, nine are crorepatis and the average of their assets is Rs 2.87 crore.The minister with the highest declared total assets is Bram Shanker (Jimpa) from Hoshiarpur. He has assets worth Rs 8.56 crore. Lal Chand from Bhoa (SC) constituency has the lowest declared total assets worth Rs 6.19 lakh.Nine ministers have declared liabilities.The minister with the highest liabilities is Bram Shanker, He has liabilities worth Rs 1.08 crore.The ADR said five ministers (45 per cent) had declared their educational qualification to be between Class 10 and 12 while the rest are graduate or above.Six ministers (55 per cent) have declared their age to be between 31 and 50 while five (45 per cent) are aged between 51 and 60, the ADR said.Ten AAP MLAs were sworn in as Punjab ministers on Saturday.They are Harpal Singh Cheema, Harbhajan Singh, Vijay Singla, Lal Chand, Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer, Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal, Laljit Singh Bhullar, Bram Shanker Jimpa, Harjot Singh Bains and Baljit Kaur. Earlier, Bhagwant Mann had taken oath at a programme at Khatkar Kalan, the ancestral village of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh. #criminals in politics||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-of-11-new-punjab-ministers-face-criminal-cases-9-are-crorepatis-379473
22-03-2022||---||From top cricketer to Delhi IIT professor, here is all you need to know about AAP's 5 Rajya Sabha candidates from Punjab||Aditi TandonNew Delhi, March 21The Aam Aadmi Party has nominated former cricketer Harbhajan Singh, Lovely Professional University founder Ashok Mittal, AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, IIT Delhi faculty Sandeep Pathak and industrialist Sanjeev Arora for the March 31 Rajya Sabha polls.All the five party nominees filed their nomination papers at the Punjab Vidhan Sabha complex here.Below are the details of the AAP’s RS nominees from Punjab:1. Ashok K MittalAshok K Mittal is an academic reformer, social activist and philanthropist, and is the founder chancellor of the Lovely Professional University. Hailing from a humble background, Mittal worked his way up to become an accomplished automotive entrepreneur. He founded LPU which is one of the largest universities in India today with students from over 50 countries and is recognized amongst the top universities of the world. Under Mittal’s leadership, LPU secured the third rank amongst all private universities in India in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA).“Mittal’s professional experience and service to the people of Punjab make him one of the most accomplished individuals in the state,” AAP said.2. Harbhajan SinghHarbhajan Singh is India's most successful off-spin bowler who played for the Indian national cricket team between 1998 and 2016. Singh was captain of the Indian Premier League team Mumbai Indians and captained Punjab for the 2012–13 Ranji Trophy season. Under his captaincy, Mumbai won the 2011 Champions League Twenty20. An Arjuna and Padma Shri awardee, Singh has been actively working for the upliftment of disadvantaged children through the Smile Train Foundation and Tera Tera Foundation. Singh has been engaged in various social welfare activities and served the people during the difficult years of the Covid -19 pandemic.3. Raghav ChadhaA loyal soldier and trusted aide of AAP Convenor Arvind Kejriwal, Raghav Chadha was appointed as the youngest spokesperson of the party and has executed crucial party campaigns in Delhi and Punjab. Chadha spearheaded the critical water reforms as Delhi Jal Board Vice-Chairman and is one of the architects of the party’s resounding victory in Punjab. A graduate from the London School of Economics, Chadha met Arvind Kejriwal in 2012, who urged him to get involved in the drafting of the Delhi Lokpal Bill as his first task. In the 2020 Delhi Legislative Assembly Elections, Chadha registered an emphatic victory as the party’s candidate from Rajinder Nagar Assembly Constituency. Chadha was appointed as the Chairperson of the Delhi Assembly’s Peace and Harmony Committee.4. Sandeep PathakTouted as Aam Aadmi Party’s Chanakya responsible for the party’s spectacular win in Punjab elections in 2022, Sandeep Pathak is an ​​IIT-Delhi Associate Professor who joined the party to realize Arvind Kejriwal’s dream of a corruption-free India. Pathak received his Ph.D. from the University Of Cambridge, U.K. in 2011. He has been working behind the scenes for many years and built the entire organization cadre in Punjab. He was the man behind conducting accurate and scientific surveys in the state, selection of candidates, and deciding the entire strategy for the party’s resounding victory in Punjab.5. Sanjeev AroraAn accomplished businessman running ​​a successful export house in Ludhiana, Sanjeev Arora runs the Krishna Pran Breast Cancer Charitable Trust that was established after his parents lost their lives to cancer. The trust has been serving the people of Punjab for over 15 years, and more than 160 cancer patients have been treated free of cost. Sanjeev Arora is also on the governing board of Dayanand Medical College & Hospital, Ludhiana, and is member of the Apex Council of Punjab Cricket Association. Arora has been the Secretary of Sutlej Club, Ludhiana a prime institution of Punjab that provided ample help to the Ludhiana District Administration by donating ambulances, PPE Kits, and other essentials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/from-top-cricketer-to-delhi-iit-professor-here-is-all-you-need-to-know-about-aaps-5-rajya-sabha-candidates-from-punjab-379469
22-03-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Kultar Sandhwan unanimously elected Speaker of Punjab Vidhan Sabha||Chandigarh, March 21Kultar Sandhwan on Monday was unanimously elected Speaker of the 16th Punjab Vidhan Sabha.Earlier, the Assembly session resumed. The proceedings began with two BJP MLAs - Jangi Lal and Ashwani Sharma - being administered the oath as MLA.The House started proceedings for the election of the Speaker. CM Bhagwant Mann proposed the name of Kultar Sandhwan and Harpal Cheema seconded the motion.Sandhwan was unanimously elected Speaker and Mann led him to his chair in the House. Sandhwan was greeted by all MLAs. #bhagwant mann #harpal cheema #kultar singh sandhwan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kultar-sandhwan-unanimously-elected-speaker-of-16th-punjab-vidhan-sabha-379447
