23-03-2022||Chandigarh/New Delhi||Sunil Jakhar warns Congress leadership against indulging dissenters ‘too much’||After Congress president Sonia Gandhi met leaders of the G-23 grouping to resolve internal party issues, former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Wednesday said “indulging the dissenters too much” will encourage more dissent.“Indulging the dissenters - ‘too much’ - will not only undermine the authority but also encourage more dissent while discouraging the cadre at the same time,” he tweeted.झुक कर सलाम करने में क्या हर्ज है मगरसर इतना मत झुकाओ कि दस्तार गिर पड़ेIndulging the dissenters - 'too much' - will not only undermine the authority but also encourage more dissent while discouraging the cadre at the same time. pic.twitter.com/59DuhBb5vI  He also posted his tweet in Hindi, saying, “Jhukh Kar Salaam Karne Mein Kya Harj Hai Magar, Sar Itna Mat Jhukao Ki Dastar Gir Pade”(There is no harm bowing to salute but one shouldn’t lower the head so much that the headgear, a symbol of pride and self respect, falls down).Jakhar also posted some newspaper clippings of Gandhi’s meeting with the G-23 leaders along with the tweet.Responding to Jakhar, Rahul Gandhi loyalist Manickam Tagore came out in support of the Gandhi family, saying the incumbent Congress president and former party chief are democratic leaders and encourage contrarian viewpoint.“Sunilji, You know well Congress is a Democratic party and Congress President and Rahul Gandhi ji are democratic leaders who always hear those with different views, congress workers always loved Gandhi’s because of their generosities. Their leadership gives unity and Hope,” Tagore tweeted.Days after meeting Ghulam Nabi Azad, Gandhi had on Tuesday met some more leaders of the G-23 grouping, including Anand Sharma and Manish Tewari, at her residence and held discussions on resolving differences.The Congress president is likely to meet more leaders of the group in the coming days.Tuesday’s interaction was part of a series of meetings that the Congress top leadership is having with some of the leaders who have raised critical organisational issues and have suggested measures to revamp the party.These meetings are being held amidst indications that some of the G-23 leaders may be accommodated in the Congress Working Committee or a new body like the Parliamentary Board, which will be responsible for all policy decisions, including finalising chief ministerial candidates and tie-ups with like-minded parties in states.Earlier, following the Congress’ defeat in the Punjab Assembly elections, Jakhar had hit out at former chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and called him a liability whose “greed pulled the party down”.Without taking any names, Jakhar had also targeted senior Congress leader Ambika Soni for trying to project Channi as an asset for the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/sunil-jakhar-warns-congress-leadership-against-indulging-dissenters-too-much-380107
23-03-2022||The Sikh Research Centre established at the Khalsa College has now been opened for public. Serving as a museum and seat of excellence in Sikh history research||Treasure trove of the past: Sikh Research Centre at Khalsa College, Amritsar||Also read: Khalsa College Amritsar: A heritage marvelSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranThe Sikh Research Centre, set up inside the heritage Khalsa College premises, is one of the most exclusive centres for research in Sikh heritage, cultural and socio-political history of the undivided Punjab.Originally set up in 1930, the Sikh research centre was established as a seat of excellence by Dr Ganda Singh, a noted Sikh historian, who headed this department from 1930 to 1947. The five galleries created inside the centre houses thousands of artefacts, books, manuscripts, paintings on Sikh religion, Sikh philosophy, culture, politics and the history of Punjab by establishing a reference library and a gallery of thousands of manuscripts, rare books, portraits and paintings of great historical significance and value. Some of these have been brought here from the museum in Britain and Lahore. Several notable works including Gurbani Viakaran, a textual grammar of the Guru Granth Sahib, and 10 volumes of commentary of Guru Granth Sahib entitled Shri Guru Granth Sahib Darpan form part of the exhibits.The museum houses rare and exclusive collections depicting various periods in the Sikh history. It has a collection of 375 paintings, 601 manuscripts, newspapers from 1904, 675 files books and journals. As many as 261 manuscripts are in Persian and Urdu language and 207 rare manuscripts are in Punjabi. The manuscripts include ‘Pothi Mehrban’, Janam Sakhi of Guru Nanak Dev by Mehrban (1651) copied in 1928. Out of approximately 6,397 books, more than 500 are a century old. There are 500 paintings, photographs and weapons of the 17th and 18th centuries. The museum has recently added to its collection rare coins, dating back to the 3rd century, some belonging to the Naga dynasty and Satvahana dynasty. Ragamala painting, Sikh rules and old doors of the Golden Temple, works of noted master artist Bhai Gian Singh Naqquash, who spent a lifetime working on the frescoes at the Golden Temple, have also been preserved. #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/treasure-trove-of-the-past-sikh-research-centre-at-khalsa-college-amritsar-379994
23-03-2022||---||Arvind Kejriwal should clear AAP's stand on SYL: Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa||Gurdaspur, March 22Qadian ex-MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa asked the Punjab CM, Bhagwant Mann, and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal to clarify their party’s stand on the contentious SYL issue.Bajwa, who joined the BJP after he was denied the ticket in the recent elections, said Punjab did not have even a single drop of water to spare. “The SYL envisages that Punjab gives water to Haryana and Delhi. But from where will Mann and Kejriwal bring in extra water? In the next few weeks, when the issue again comes up in the Supreme Court, the Delhi and Punjab CMs will have to be on the same page. But that is highly unlikely,” he said.Bajwa said Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar had rightly red-flagged the issue hours after the AAP formed the government in Punjab. “After all Delhi, like Haryana, is also a beneficiary of the water under the SYL agreement. Punjab does not have excess water to give it to the neighbouring states while Delhi and Haryana have repeatedly said they need the water. In this context I request Mann to clarify his party’s stand,” he added.Bajwa had unsuccessfully contested the polls on the BJP ticket from Batala. #fateh jung singh bajwa #syl||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/arvind-kejriwal-should-clear-aaps-stand-on-syl-fateh-bajwa-379992
23-03-2022||New Delhi||Delhi to Amritsar by road in 4 hours||Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari today said in the Lok Sabha that all toll collection points that were within 60 km of each other on national highways would be closed within next three months.Srinagar-Mumbai in 20 hrsUnion Minister Nitin Gadkari said that efforts were afoot to ensure that before the end of the current year, commuters were able to travel from Srinagar to Mumbai in 20 hoursSpeaking about the upcoming roads, Gadkari said the Delhi-Amritsar section of the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway would be ready by year-end and the distance could be covered in four hours. “There will be only one toll collection point within 60-km distance,” the minister said during a discussion on the budget allocation for roads and highways. He said the Srinagar-Jammu highway would be linked to the Katra-Amritsar-Delhi expressway. “This highway will facilitate Srinagar-Mumbai journey in 20 hours. Efforts are afoot to ensure the Jammu-Srinagar highway is upgraded by the year-end,” the minister said.Also, the Delhi-Jaipur, Delhi-Mumbai and the Delhi-Dehradun expressways were expected to be completed by the end of 2022, he said. “While Jaipur and Dehradun will be reachable from Delhi within two hours, the Delhi-Mumbai distance could be covered by car in 12 hours,” he said.The minister said he had set 2024 deadline for opening of the tunnel beneath Zoji La, a pass at 11,650 feet, on the Srinagar-Leh highway. On roads connecting the religious circuit, he said the route to Mansarovar (in Tibet) via Uttarakhand would be ready on the Indian side by the end of 2023.On road safety, he said it had been made mandatory for all cars to have six air bags. “About 1.5 lakh people, mostly youth, are dying annually in road accidents,” he said. For road engineering, the minister said, the best global road planners were being roped in. #nitin gadkari||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-to-amritsar-by-road-in-4-hours-379876
23-03-2022||---||Punjab to regularise jobs of 35K govt staff, Bill soon||Chandigarh, March 22Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann today said his government would regularise the services of 35,000 Group C and D contractual staff.Calling it a historic decision, Mann said, “I have directed the Chief Secretary to prepare the draft Bill before the next session. We will implement it at the earliest. I have also asked the Chief Secretary to stop the practice of contractual employment. While schools are without staff, eligible teachers are holding protests for jobs or regularisation. This must end.” The announcement came days after Mann announced to fill 25,000 posts in the government sector.Thrust on edu, farming in interim BudgetThe AAP government on Tuesday presented Rs37,120-cr interim Budget for the first three months of 2022-23, with focus on education (Rs4,643.74 cr) and agriculture (Rs2,367.23 cr)Contract system to goI have asked the Chief Secretary to stop the practice of contractual employment. Bhagwant MannHoliday on Bhagat Singh’s death AnnivStatues of Ambedkar, Ranjit Singh in HouseBhagwant Mann to meet PM tomorrowThere are about 70,000 contractual employees working in various government departments, boards and corporations. Besides, there are 50,000 “outsourced” employees. The efforts by previous Congress and SAD regimes to regularise the services of such staff failed to yield the desired results.Ashish Julaha of the Contractual Employees Action Committee said, “We are hopeful that the Bill gets passed this time as unlike previous governments, an attempt has been made by the AAP government in the beginning of its term rather than towards the fag end.”Mann said, “Punjab will have no ‘kutcha ghar’ or ‘kutcha mulazam’. I assure every section of society that all promises made to them will be fulfilled.” The Vidhan Sabha on Tuesday passed a resolution to install statues of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Dr BR Ambedkar and Maharaja Ranjit Singh in the Assembly complex. Mann said, “We can never forget the contribution of Bhagat Singh who laid his life for the country. Likewise, Dr Ambedkar shaped the destiny of the nation in the pre and post-Independence era.” He said his government would leave no stone unturned for perpetuating the legacy of these great personalities.The CM also announced a gazetted holiday in the state on the martyrdom day of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev on March 23. #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-regularise-jobs-of-35k-govt-staff-bill-soon-379862
23-03-2022||Faridkot||Cricketer Yuvraj Singh sets up 120 critical care beds at at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College||YouWeCan, a foundation run by former cricketer Yuvraj Singh, today set up 120 critical care unit (CCU) beds at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Fardikot to tackle a possible fresh Covid wave, under its ‘Mission 1,000 Beds initiative’ in partnership with IndusInd Bank. — #Cricket #yuvraj singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/yuvraj-singh-sets-up-120-critical-care-beds-379858
23-03-2022||Abohar||Jail inmate sent to Rajasthan on production warrant||Central and state intelligence agencies, coordinating with the Sriganganagar police, have been trying to crack an international heroin smuggling network. This is likely to help curb drug mafia in Punjab and Rajasthan.Nirvail Singh of Arifke village in Ferozepur, who has been lodged in the Faridkot jail for the past nine years in a drug smuggling case, has been taken into custody by the Sriganganagar police after obtaining a production warrant from the court.Various intelligence agencies along with the police are interrogating Nirvail to know his contacts with Pakistan smugglers. The police claimed that Nirvail was in contact with Pakistan smugglers through a virtual network phone (VPN), while he was lodged in the jail. His younger brother Gurjant Singh Janta and two others were caught by the Border Security Force (BSF) on the intervening night of October 2 and 3, 2021. They had come in a car near the Kohli Border Outpost of the BSF.The police said some persons from across the border were carrying heroin packets but they failed to deliver them inside the Indian territory. On a report of BSF Assistant Commandant Gurjinder Singh, a case was registered. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jail-inmate-sent-to-rajasthan-on-production-warrant-379857
23-03-2022||Faridkot||Death of three persons: Can't allow abuse of process, says Court on Akali leader Parambans Romana's plea||Dismissing an application of an Akali leader who had urged the court to provide him the copy of a cancellation report submitted by the police into the death of three persons here, the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) said it could not allow its process to be abused by a leader in the name of public interest to achieve his political ambition.Also read: Death of three persons: Court accepts cops' cancellation reportHe had no locus standi to claim the copy and challenge the police investigation in the case, observed the court.In its investigation, the police have given a clean chit to Dumpy Vinayak, brother-in-law of a Congress MLA and former Cabinet Minister. Vinayak was named as an accused in the case on February 6, last year.The case had been filed after Karan Kataria, a Faridkot resident, had killed his two children before dying by suicide on February 6 last year. Akali leader Parambans Romana had approached the court, seeking the copy of the police cancellation report in the case.The court could not be permitted to be directly used as an instrument by the Akali leader, said the court.“The leader cannot be permitted to question the correctness of the police investigation,” said the court.Romana claimed that he wanted to challenge the police investigation in the death of three persons, including two children, which had given a clean chit to the relative of Congress leader under political pressure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-allow-abuse-of-process-court-on-akali-leaders-plea-379856
23-03-2022||New Delhi||Supreme Court panel report fake, say farm unions||A day after a member of the Supreme Court-appointed committee on farm laws, Anil Ghanawat, released a report stating that “over 85.7 per cent farmers were in favour” of the farm laws, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and its leaders debunked it as “fake, bogus and trashy”.Also read: Supreme Court panel opposed repeal of three farm lawsOf 19K, only 5K responses were of farmersThe committee got 19,027 responses to its online questionnaire, of which only 5,451 were of farmers and the rest were from non-farming community. SKM leaderAccording to the 92-page report released by Ghanawat, the bilateral interactions of the committee with the stakeholders demonstrated that only 13.3 per cent of the stakeholders were against the three farm laws. “Around 85.7 per cent of the farmer organisations representing around 3.3-crore farmers supported the laws,” it said.Claiming that the report was based on “fake data collected through online feedback,” Yadav said the committee got 19,027 responses to its online questionnaire, of which only 5,451 were of farmers, while 12,496 were from non-farming community. He questioned why the panel merged all responses for analysis. — #farm laws #farmers #farmers protest #SKM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/supreme-court-panel-report-fake-say-farm-unions-379855
23-03-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Village vows to boycott those backing peddlers||Bathinda, March 22Irked over drug-related deaths and supply of contraband in the district, villagers have taken it upon themselves to fight the menace by nabbing peddlers. Four deaths have been reported due to drug overdose in Bathinda district in the past 10 days.The panchayat of Sema village has passed a resolution to boycott those supporting drug peddlers and asked villagers not to secure bail for the accused.On Monday, 18-year-old Akashdeep of Dhobiana Basti, reportedly died due to drug overdose. On Saturday, Arshdeep Singh of Bhai Rupa and Gagandeep Singh of Pakka Kalan also allegedly died due to overdose. Similarly, 25-year-old Pala Singh died allegedly due to overdose at Jhumba village on March 11.Jagsir Singh Jhumba, BKU Ekta Ugrahan leader, said: “A 21-member committee has been constituted under the banner ‘Anti-Chitta front’ at Jhumba village to tackle the sale of drugs. We have warned drug suppliers against selling contraband at the village.”Panchayat members have been passing resolutions and making announcements from gurdwaras in this regard. #drug menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/village-vows-to-boycott-those-backing-peddlers-379854
23-03-2022||---||2 die in lintel collapse at Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, March 22Two persons were killed and two others seriously injured when the lintel of an under-construction structure collapsed at Gurdwara Dukh Niwaran in Chohla Sahib, 25 km from here, today.The injured have been admitted to a private hospital here, where their condition was stated to be critical.The deceased have been identified as Sarabjit Singh (40) and Gurmej Singh (60), both of Chohla Sahib. The injured are Karandep Singh and Mangal Singh.On receiving information, Goindwal Sahib DSP Preet Inder Singh along with a police team visited the scene. The police officer said work on rooms was under way on the first floor when the mishap occurred.Eyewitnesses said Sarabjit Singh, the contractor, noticed some dislodged wooden supports under the linter. As he warned workers, the lintel gave way, burring him along with three others.Nearby residents started the rescue operation and pulled out two from the rubble soon after. The other two were also retrieved after some time.The injured were taken to the Community Health Centre, Sarhali, where Sarabjit Singh and Gurmej Singh were declared dead. The other two were referred to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar.The gurdwara is supervised by Baba Sukha Singh, head of the Kar Sewa sect, Sarhali Sahib. The DSP said a report under Section 174 CrPC had been lodged by the Chohla Sahib police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-die-in-lintel-collapse-at-tarn-taran-379853
23-03-2022||---||Two killed in firing at Majitha village||Amritsar, March 22Tension gripped Inayatpura village in Majitha when a group of 12 persons allegedly opened fired at some Gujjars following a minor dispute over not giving passage here on Tuesday. Two Gujjars, identified as Surmuddin (18) and his uncle Ali (35) died, while several others were injured.Following the incident, heavy police force reached the spot and took the bodies into their possession for post-mortem.After recording the statements of the injured and eyewitnesses, the police booked 10 persons by name and their unidentified accomplices on charges of murder, attempt to murder and under sections of the arms Act. Raids were on to nab the perpetrators, said Amritsar Rural SSP Deepak Hilori.Ferozdeen, in his complainant, alleged their community was being targeted by village residents ever since they procured a property and started living there 16 years ago. He alleged women folk were often harassed and they were under pressure to leave the village.He said in the morning when his father-in-law Karim, his son Makha and Baggu were going to get fodder on a tractor-trailer, Jindu stopped his cart in the middle of the road. They sought passage, but the accused did not relent.Later, Jindu put his cart aside and as they passed, their vehicle grazed the cart, which overturned. The matter was settled but later the accused set straw in their fields on fire besides thrashing his relative Fattu, who had confronted them at the time, he claimed.Ferozdeen along with relatives, including Surmuddin and Ali, reached the scene, where the accused and his accomplices armed with weapons were present. The accused opened fire, injuring Surmuddin and Ali. Surmuddin died on the spot, while Ali succumbed to his injury at a hospital. Makhandeen, a relative of the deceased, claimed several others, including Sattu, Baga, Zaquir, Makhan and Emna, who had come to rescue the victims, were also injured in the firing.Majitha police station SHO Harsandeep Singh said 10 persons, including Laddi, Manjinder, Billa, Happy, Jindu, Simar, Angrej, Nishan, Gullu and Avtar, besides several unidentified persons, all residents of Inayatpura village, had been booked and raids were on to nab them.Attack over minor dispute; 10 booked||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-killed-in-firing-at-majitha-village-379852
23-03-2022||Chandigarh||SBS Nagar judges to observe 'no-car day' every week||In a novel initiative, judicial officers and other officials of the SBS Nagar Sessions Division have decided to observe a ‘no-car day’ every week. The judges will, on that day, pedal their way to the courts complex.Setting the process in motion, the judicial officers led by District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman District Legal Services Authority KS Bajwa rode bicycles across the city this morning, displaying placards raising awareness on saving and educating the girl child, planting trees and ending drug abuse. — #climate change #Environment #global warming #Pollution||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sbs-nagar-judges-to-observe-no-car-day-379851
23-03-2022||---||Bikram Singh Majithia's judicial custody extended till April 5||Mohali, March 22The Mohali court today extended the judicial custody of SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia till April 5 in a drugs case. Currently lodged in the Patiala jail, Majithia appeared in a Mohali court today through video conferencing. On the directions of the Supreme Court, Majithia surrendered in the court on February 24 after the completion of the election process in Punjab.Majithia was produced in the Mohali court as his judicial remand ended on March 8. His judicial custody was extended till March 22.On March 20, CM Bhagwant Mann had ordered the reconstitution of the SIT probing the drug case against the SAD leader. IGP, Crime Branch, Gursharan Singh Sandhu will supervise the four-member team headed by AIG Dr Rahul S. The other team members are AIG Ranjit Singh and DSPs Raghbir Singh and Amanpreet Singh.The previous SIT was a three-member team headed by AIG Balraj Singh. The SIT was formed to investigate allegations against Majithia based on an FIR lodged under various sections of the NDPS Act on December 20, 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bikram-singh-majithias-judicial-custody-extended-till-april-5-379850
23-03-2022||Chandigarh/Fatehgarh Sahib||Navjot Singh Sidhu targets AAP over Rajya Sabha nominees||Former PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday hit out at AAP leader Arvind Keriwal over recent nominations to the Rajya Sabha.On Monday, AAP nominees Raghav Chadha, Sandeep Pathak, Harbhajan Singh, Sanjeev Arora and Ashok Mittal had filed their papers for the Rajya Sabha.In a tweet, Sidhu said, “New batteries for the Delhi remote control. It’s blinking. Harbhajan is an exception....(It is) betrayal of Punjab!”Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh tweeted, “Tomorrow (March 23) is Bhagat Singh’s martyrdom day....I dare CM Mann to put into action what he claims. Otherwise, it will be betrayal of not only the great martyr, but also people of Punjab.”Congress’ Phillaur MLA Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary said to pay a real tribute to Bhagat Singh, the party should send a member of the martyr’s family to the RS.Meanwhile, Lok Insaaf Party workers today staged a protest and burnt an effigy of the AAP and CM Mann in Mandi Gobindgarh, over the nomination of non-Punjabis to the Rajya Sabha.—||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-targets-aap-over-rajya-sabha-nominees-379849
23-03-2022||---||Clear dues of cane growers, says Partap Singh Bajwa||Chandigarh, March 22Former Rajya Sabha MP and Qadian MLA Partap Bajwa has urged Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann to ensure that the pending dues of sugarcane farmers are released.In a letter to the CM, Bajwa urged him to issue directions to state officials to make these payments to the sugarcane farmers’ at the earliest.He pointed out that the delay in payments to the sugarcane farmers was in violation of the provisions of Clause 15A of the Punjab Sugarcane (Regulation of Purchase and Supply) Act-1953 and the Sugarcane Control Order-1966. The 2021-22 cane growing season is almost over in Punjab.The cooperative sugar mills have been unable to release even 50 per cent of the total dues owed to the farmers. The arrears of the cooperative mills as on March 18 stood at Rs 280.70 crore.Similarly, private sugar mills are yet to pay Rs 513 crore to farmers. “I wish to mention here that Dhuri Sugar Mills, which falls under your constituency is yet to release Rs 85 lakh to cane growers for the 2020-21 season and Rs 19 crore for the 2021-22 season,” he wrote.The Government of Punjab had announced an increase in the SAP of sugarcane to Rs 360 per quintal for the 2021-2022 season from the earlier rate of Rs 310. The government also agreed to share Rs 35 per quintal with private sugar mills. #partap singh bajwa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/clear-dues-of-cane-growers-says-partap-bajwa-379848
23-03-2022||Vishav Bharti||Amid 3rd wave, Punjab health officials 'paid inflated rates' for sanitisers||Chandigarh, March 22As the Covid third wave started to take toll in January, Punjab’s health officials allegedly bought 1.55 lakh bottles of hand sanitisers at inflated rates.As per the documents available with The Tribune, to meet the requirements of the Election Commission for the recently held Vidhan Sabha elections, the Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC) purchased over 1.8 lakh bottles of hand sanitisers on January 5. Each 500 ml bottle was bought at Rs 54.54 (excluding GST).DoP placed orderThe Director of Procurement (DoP), PHSC, was responsible for the purchase order.Bhupinder Singh, MD, PHSCUrgent purchaseDue to the outbreak, we had to make urgent purchases, so the rates were a little high.Dr Sharanjit Kaur, Director procurementNot aware of any such buyingI am not aware of any such purchase. It might have been done by the PHSC. OP Soni, former Health MinisterSimilar bottles were required for hospitals of Punjab also. However, this time, the PHSC allegdly bought the sanitiser bottles for Rs 160 (excluding GST) each. As per the documents, the PHSC placed the order for 1.55 lakh bottles (500 ml each) for Rs 2.49 crore on January 3.The purchase for the EC was made through an open tender. However, the PHSC made purchase for its own consumption through Punjab’s Controller of Stores, which works under the Department of Industries and Commerce.According to health experts, Rs 160 per bottle of sanitiser is one of the highest price for a 500-ml bottle paid by any state in the country.Not just sanitisers, but the purchase for the hospital furniture also raises eyebrows.As per the documents, the Government of Punjab asked the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot (BFUHS) to procure fowler and semi-fowler beds. The university floated the tender on the government procurement portal. In August 2021, it procured 466 fowler beds for Rs 31,356 each and 4,308 semi-fowler beds for Rs 27,411 each.However, the Controller of Stores which makes procurement for the Health Department has the rate contract for fowler bed at Rs 58,042 and semi-fowler bed with mattress at Rs 46,872.Significantly, after the Covid outbreak, the Centre had given Rs 198-crore Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health Systems Package to Punjab. Initially, the BFUHS was given the charge of making all Covid-related purchases for the state’s hospitals. As per the package guidelines, every purchase is done through the government portal.After Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni assumed the charge of the Health Department in September 2021, the department took the control of purchase from the BFUHS. When contacted, Soni said he was not aware of any such purchase. “It might have been done by the PHSC,” he said. #op soni||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-3rd-wave-punjab-health-officials-paid-inflated-rates-for-sanitisers-379847
23-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Will take Rs 1 as pay, no pension: Amargarh AAP MLA Jaswant Singh||Amargarh, March 22Known for his business and philanthropic work, Amargarh AAP MLA Jaswant Singh Gajjan Majra wants to bring quick improvement in health, education and other facilities in his constituency. He is hopeful to see quick action and makeover in coming months.Govt got cracking from Day 1Our government has started the work from Day 1 and all would see a change in sometime. Even before results, I was working for my area. — Jaswant S Gajjan Majra, Amargarh MLA“Being in business and social work, I am accessible to all residents and I know majority of my voters personally as I hail from the constituency. Our government has started the work from Day 1,” he said.He got 44,523 votes while SAD(A) candidate Simranjit Singh Mann got 38,480. “I am serious to fulfil all poll promises, made with my voters. During my election campaign, I did not make big promises with my voters, but made only those promise, which could be fulfilled as I am in politics to serve voters , not like other party candidates, who have been fooling residents” he said. .Apart from 120 panchayats, the Amargarh constituency has two urban areas, including Amargarh and Ahemdgarh. Earlier the Amargarh constituency was part of Sangrur district, but now it has come under Malerkotla district.“When I got the ticket, I had announced that it I would only take Re 1 as salary and would not take any pension. Our state is already facing financial problems and we should think about it seriously,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-take-rs-1-as-pay-no-pension-jaswant-singh-379846
23-03-2022||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann to meet Narendra Modi tomorrow||Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi on Thursday morning. Mann had sought time for a meeting with the PM, which had been conveyed to his office, said officials in the Chief Minister’s Office. They said it was a courtesy call by the CM after assuming office. However, important issues concerning Punjab are expected to be discussed.Sources said the BBMB issue, wherein most people felt that Punjab was being denied its right over its river waters through change in rules of appointment, would be taken up. The shortage and high cost of coal and smooth procurement of wheat in April are other issues that are likely to be discussed. PM Modi had congratulated Mann when the poll results were declared and had assured that they would work together for the growth of Punjab. — #bbmb #bhagwant mann #narendra modi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-to-meet-pm-modi-tomorrow-379845
23-03-2022||Chandigarh. March 22||9 Punjab Cabinet ministers take charge||Nine of the 10 Cabinet ministers of the Bhagwant Mann government assumed charge today. The ministers, accompanied by party MLAs and supporters, reached their respective offices.Brahm Shankar Jimpa, Minister for Revenue, Water Supply and Sanitation, is the only one left to assume charge. Harpal Cheema, who took over as the Finance Minister, assured fast progress in the state. Cabinet Minister Harjot Singh Bains announced a new mining policy would be framed.Social Justice & Empowerment, Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Baljit Kaur stressed better implementation of laws pertaining to women's safety. she said the post-matric scholarship and shagun schemes would be implemented immediately. School Education, Higher Education and Sports & Youth Services Minister Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer chaired a meeting of the top brass about evolving an efficient mechanism. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/9-punjab-cabinet-ministers-take-charge-379844
23-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab House complex to have Bhagat Singh, Dr Ambedkar, Maharaja Ranjit Singh statues||The Vidhan Sabha on Tuesday passed a unanimous resolution moved by Leader of the House and Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann to instal the statues of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh, Bharat Ratna Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar and Sher-e-Punjab Maharaja Ranjit Singh in the Punjab Legislative Assembly complex.The CM moved the resolution seeking installation of statues of Dr BR Ambedkar and Shaheed Bhagat Singh. On demand raised by Congress MLA Partap Singh Bajwa, the name of Maharaja Ranjit Singh was also included.Moving the resolution, CM Mann said: “As an indebted nation, we can never forget the contribution of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh who laid down his life for the freedom of the country. Likewise, Dr Ambedkar shaped the destiny of the country in pre and post-Independence era as chief architect of the Indian Constitution.”Describing them as role models for countrymen, CM Mann said the lives of the iconic leaders would remain a source of inspiration for millions of people. Mann said the state government would leave no stone unturned to perpetuate the legacy of these great personalities. “Likewise, a statue of Maharaja Ranjit Singh would also be constructed within the premises of Punjab Vidhan Sabha as a humble and befitting tribute to the founder of Khalsa Raj,” reads the resolution.Tributes paid to Gen Rodrigues, Brig LidderMembers led by CM Bhagwant Mann paid tributes to former Punjab Governor Gen SF Rodrigues, Brig LS Lidder, who died in the IAF helicopter crash along with CDS Gen Bipin Rawat and other senior military officers, and BSF jawan Dharminder Kumar, who laid down his life while patrolling in Assam, among others. A two-minute silence was observed in the memory of departed souls.Install Beant’s statue too: Congress MLAPhillaur MLA Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary demanded installation of a statue of ex-CM Beant Singh in the Vidhan Sabha building. In a communication to CM Mann and Speaker Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Chaudhary said: “I feel we should also honour Shaheed Beant Singh who sacrificed his life just outside the Vidhan Sabha building for maintaining peace and harmony in Punjab.”CM catches Warring off guard  #bhagwant mann #dr br ambedkar #maharaja ranjit singh #partap singh bajwa #shaheed bhagat singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/house-complex-to-have-bhagat-singh-dr-ambedkar-maharaja-ranjit-statues-379843
23-03-2022||Ravi DhaliwalSri Hargobindpur||Setting up rail coach factory MLA Amarpal Singh's top priority||Advocate Amarpal Singh (37), a first-time MLA from Sri Hargobindpur, is a man in a hurry. He seems to have taken to heart his chief Bhagwant Mann’s words that “Punjab is already late by 70 years” and hence he wants development projects to be fast-tracked.Amarpal, who did his post-graduation in political science from the LPU, Jalandhar, after completing his law degree from the GNDU, Amritsar, announced his arrival on the political scene in the 2017 polls by garnering nearly 29,000 votes. This was the highest margin recorded by any AAP candidate in Majha barring its then Punjab chief Gurpreet Singh Ghuggi who had managed 30,000 votes from the adjoining seat of Batala.The MLA says it saddens him when he comes across IELTS centres which have mushroomed almost in every nook and cranny of his seat. “This is the result of non-governance provided by successive governments ever since we got Independence. Youngsters will stop going abroad only if they are given jobs here. We pushed British out of the country yet our children are begging them for jobs in the UK and Canada. If we have some big ticket projects in the area, a lot of employment opportunities can be generated. Why will they seek greener pastures when they will have decent jobs in their own country?” he questions.Amarpal says it is a bit ironic that just 30 km away in Batala, more than 1,500 small and medium scale industries are flourishing but in his seat of Sri Hargobindpur there are barely a dozen.The MLA says his area is in dire need of a Rail Coach Factory (RCF) on the lines of the one established in Kapurthala. “I will take up the matter with my government. If the Railways agree to set up such a unit, hundreds of youngsters of Sri-Hargobindpur can prosper. Scores of allied industries, too, can flourish. I understand it is a big ticket project, but there is no harm in trying. We have to take the first steps somewhere,” he said. #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faces-of-change-setting-up-rail-coach-factory-amarpal-singhs-top-priority-379842
23-03-2022||Vijay C Roy||Punjab: Revenue receipts witness 4.22% shortfall in Financial Year 2020-21||Chandigarh, March 22While Budget estimates are always optimistic about the state’s finances and income, actual revenue receipts paint a different picture.Although, the Punjab Government envisaged a considerable reduction in revenue receipts at the revised estimate stage as compared to budget estimate, actual revenue receipts witnessed a shortfall of 4.22% in 2020-21. As a result, the state has spent less than the anticipated in the Budget. According to the data, the revenue receipts fell short by more than Rs 3,046 crore as compared to revised estimates during the period.According to the Budget estimates, the total revenue receipts (excluding borrowings) for 2020-21 was estimated at Rs 88,004 crore, which was reduced to Rs 72,042.42 crore at the revised estimates stage as pandemic affected the economy and Punjab was no exception. However, the actual collection was Rs 68,996 crore in 2020.21. So, if Budget estimates are compared with actual collection, the shortfall will be around 21.60%.The state Budget includes three sets of figures — Budget estimate (an estimate for the upcoming fiscal year), revised estimates (a revision in the Budget estimates for the current fiscal) and previous year’s final audited amount or actual.While, the share of the central taxes in 2020-21 was higher by Rs 800 crore compared to revised estimates, state’s own tax and non-tax revenue witnessed lower collection. Also, the grant-in-aid from the Centre was lower than the anticipated in revised estimates.The saving grace was that the total receipts were higher by over 12% as compared to the actual collections in 2019-20. Compared to preceding fiscal 2019-20, the state registered increase (65%) in grant-in-aid from the Centre in 2020-21, which led to increase in receipts.Grant-in-aid from the Centre increased by Rs 9,554 crore and share of central taxes went up by 2.85% i.e. by Rs 395 crore. The state’s own tax revenue has shown a marginal positive growth of 0.19% over the previous year with major increase in revenue contributed by state excise (26.71%), stamps & registration (9.39%) and VAT (2.86%).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/revenue-receipts-witness-4-22-shortfall-in-financial-year-2020-21-379841
23-03-2022||Chandigarh||Thrust on education, farming in Rs 37K cr interim Budget of Punjab||The Aam Aadmi Party government today presented its interim Budget of Rs 37,120. 23 crore. The money is required by the government as routine expenditure for the first three months of 2022-23.The vote on account for three months was presented by the newly appointed Finance Minister Harpal Singh Cheema. A glance at the vote on account reveals the expenditure to be incurred on payment of interest — Rs 4,788.20 crore — is amongst the biggest chunk of finances to be taken away from the state’s limited income. The internal debt of the state during this period is pegged at Rs 5,442.64 crore.The maximum allocation has been made to the education sector (Rs 4,643.74 crore), agriculture (Rs 2,367.23 crore), administration of justice and policing (Rs 2,726.95 crore), social security, women and child development (Rs 1,484.64 crore) and health and family welfare (Rs 1,345.61 crore).It may be noted the state is already facing a huge gap in its revenue receipts and expenditure. As on January 31, the state’s revenue receipts stood at Rs 58,021.17 crore and the revenue expenditure was Rs 67,329.75 crore, thus leading to a revenue deficit of Rs 9,308.58 crore.The state’s outstanding debt at the end of the fiscal is expected to zoom to Rs 2.82 lakh crore and till January, the state has incurred Rs 11,507.39 crore only on paying interest for its borrowings.Talking to The Tribune, Cheema said their government had a definite plan on revving up the state’s depleting revenue, by checking tax evasion, reducing expenditure and exploring other means of increasing revenue. “I have just assumed charge. By the time we present our budget in the next three months, we will be ready to incorporate all guarantees and promises in it,” he said. #harpal cheema||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/assembly-in-session-thrust-on-education-farming-in-rs-37k-cr-interim-budget-of-punjab-379840
23-03-2022||Ruchika M. Khanna ||Punjab to regularise services of 35,000 Group C and D employees, CM Bhagwant Mann announces 'historic decision'||Chandigarh, March 22Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann on Tuesday announced his decision to regularise services of 35000 Group C and D governmnet employees.He said this will be a historic decision.“I have already held meetings with all officers in the government, and urged the chief secretary to stop the practice of contractual employment," he said."The schools have no teachers, but eligible teachers are climbing atop water tanks to protest against government for not regularising their services. These teachers are to be adjusted against vacant posts," said Mann.Mann said that he has asked the CS to make a bill for regularisation of services before the next Vidhan Sabha.“We want to implement it at the earliest by getting the bill passed through the Vidhan Sabha. I don’t want these teachers protesting on the roads,” he said, adding, “I had promised to regularise their services, if we are voted to power and I am fulfilling my promise.”The CM said: “I assure all sections of the society that each and every promise made to them will be fulfilled. Punjab will have no Katcha Ghar or Katcha Mulazzam.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-announces-to-regularise-services-of-35-000-group-c-and-d-employees-of-punjab-379758
23-03-2022||New Delhi||Supreme Court panel opposed repeal of three farm laws||The Supreme Court-appointed panel was against total repeal of the three farm laws and had suggested leaving procurement of crops at a specified price to states and scrapping the Essential Commodities Act, Anil Ghanwat, who was on the three-member panel, said on Monday.Also read: Supreme Court panel report fake, say farm unionsKey proposalsReleasing the committee’s report, Ghanawat, a Pune-based farm leader, said bilateral interactions of the committee with the stakeholders demonstrated that only 13.3 per cent of the stakeholders were against the three laws.“Around 85.7 per cent of the farmer organisations, representing over 3.3 crore farmers, supported the laws,” Ghanawat said, adding the report would help in making policies for the agriculture sector in future.The other two members, economist Ashok Gulati and agri-economist Pramod Kumar Joshi, were not present at the press conference here.Ghanawat said he had on three occasions written to the SC for releasing the report of the committee but in the absence of a response, he was releasing it on his own.On November 19, 2021, the PM announced the withdrawal of the three farm laws, ahead of Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab.Ghanwat said the committee had suggested many changes in the laws, including giving freedom to states to make MSP system legal. It had also suggested that the open-ended procurement policy should be discontinued and a model contract agreement should be formulated.Ghanwat said 40 unions, which had organised agitations against the laws under the banner of SKM, did not make any submission despite repeated requests.A concrete road map for gradual diversification from paddy to more sustainable high-value crops, especially in Punjab-Haryana belt, needed to be formulated, the panel said.Ghanwat said he would soon come out with a discussion paper on agricultural policy and would also organise a rally in Delhi. On the farmer unions’ demand to legalise the MSP system, the panel said in its report that the demand was not based on sound logic and was infeasible to implement.The committee recommended that procurement of crops at a declared MSP could be the prerogative of the states as per their specific agricultural policy priorities. — #Agriculture #farm laws #farmers #farmers protest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-panel-opposed-repeal-of-laws-379576
23-03-2022||Washington||US-based EcoSikh organisation plants 400 sacred forests as part of climate action||A US-based Sikh organisation has announced the planting of 400 forests in India and other parts of the world as part of its climate action.According to the announcement made on the occasion of Sikh Environment Day (SED), EcoSikh said it has planted a forest of 1150 trees in Ireland and of 500 trees in Derbyshire, the United Kingdom.In addition, a forest of 250 trees was planted in Surrey, Canada. EcoSikh, based out of Washington DC, has collaborated with local governments and gurdwaras in its projects.These forests are called 'Guru Nanak Sacred Forests', named after the founder of the Sikh faith. This campaign started in 2019 when Sikhs celebrated his 550th birth-anniversary, EcoSikh said in a statement on Saturday.Gurdwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha, Sabzi Mandi with Municipal Corporation Gurugram organized an environmental awareness rally on March 14 in which people rode on bicycles & on foot for 3 KMS to promote Green solutions. Sangat planted more than 3k trees to maintain that green belt. pic.twitter.com/yNnS8E8gwV“The Sacred Forest project has become a community-based initiative and many hundreds have joined this massive grass roots campaign all across the globe. This is a solid step to mitigate the effects of climate change and the good news is that all trees planted are surviving in these thriving forests,” said Rajwant Singh, EcoSikh (USA), the founder and global president.He said over the last 36 months, EcoSikh has planted forests in many states across India including, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat and in Jammu. Each forest has 550 trees of native species.These forests are planted following the Japanese Miyawaki methodology and are tagged on Google maps all across Punjab and India, he said.Every year hundreds of Sikh institutions and Gurdwaras all across the world celebrate SED by taking step to reduce carbon footprints and to save water and energy.EcoSikh released a tool kit for the community to take action on SED which includes organic langar, nature walk, switching to LED bulbs and solar panels. #ecosikh #Environment #guru nanak #Sikhs #tree plantation #UK #usa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/diaspora/us-based-sikh-organisation-plants-400-sacred-forests-as-part-of-climate-action-379174
