25-03-2022||Chandigarh||3 IPS officers transferred; ADGP Deo appointed Chief Vigilance Officer of Punjab Police||The Punjab Government on Friday transferred three senior IPS officers with immediate effect.Special Director General of Police (Investigation, Lokpal) Prabodh Kumar, a 1988-batch IPS officer, has been posted as the Special DGP (Intelligence), according to an official order.Additional Director General of Police (Traffic) S Srivastava has been given the charge of ADGP (Intelligence), replacing senior IPS officer Amardeep Singh Rai.Rai, a 1994-batch IPS officer, will take over as the ADGP (Traffic) from Srivastava.Meanwhile, according to another order, ADGP Gurpreet Kaur Deo has been appointed as the Chief Vigilance Officer of the Punjab Police. Deo replaces officer Ishwar Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-ips-officers-transferred-adgp-deo-appointed-chief-vigilance-officer-of-punjab-police-380708
25-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Former Sangrur SP, DSP, warden jail booked for corruption||Sangrur, March 25A case under the prevention of corruption Act against former Superintendent, Deputy Superintendent and warden of Sangrur jail has been registered after a retired Air Force officer alleged that the accused “took money from him when he was lodged in the jail”.Sharing details, Sangrur SSP Swapan Sharma said that a retired Flight Lieutenant, in his complaint, has alleged that the accused took money from him while he was lodged in Sangrur central jail.Accused allegedly took money from the complainant to provide him various facilities.“We have registered a case against former SangrurSP jail Balwinder Singh, former DSP Amar Singh and jail warden Dhana Singh. Accused took money from complainant by harassing him in jail. Further investigations are on"said SSP Sharma.The mobile of former SP Balwinder Singh was switched off while when contacted present SP Sangrur jail Manjit Singh, he said that he was unaware about the whereabouts of accused.“Balwinder Singh was posted here from December 16, 2019, to December 29, 2020. I do not have any details about their present location,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-sangrur-sp-dsp-warden-jail-booked-for-corruption-380686
25-03-2022||New Delhi||SC reserves verdict on plea seeking review of its order letting Navjot Sidhu off with a fine of Rs 1,000 in 1988 road rage case||The Supreme Court on Friday reserved its verdict on a petition seeking review of its order letting off Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu with a fine of Rs 1000 in the 1988 road rage case in which a man had died.A Bench led by Justice A M Khanwilkar reserved the verdict hearing arguments from senior advocate AM Singhvi, representing Sidhu and senior counsel Siddharth Luthra for review petitioner.Describing it as an extra-ordinary case, Singhvi submitted that the Sidhu didn’t have any intention to kill, no personal enmity, no motive, no violation of bail conditions and the top court had even suspended his conviction to enable him contest polls after he resigned following his conviction.He urged the Bench not to enhance the sentence, saying the top court doesn’t interference with the sentence, except in death penalty cases of ‘rarest of the rare’ category.Luthra, however, said, it didn’t matter if there was no intention to cause death. The intention to cause an injury of a kind that was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature was sufficient to attract a higher punishment, he added.The petitioner has sought a review of the Supreme Court’s 2018 order letting off Sidhu with a fine of Rs 1,000 in the 1988 road rage case in which one Gurnam Singh had died. Sidhu was acquitted of homicide charges May 15, 2018, by the top court but convicted of voluntarily causing hurt to the deceased and ordered to pay a fine of Rs 1,000.The Supreme Court had on September 12, 2018, agreed to consider a petition seeking review of its May 15, 2018, order.Sidhu was initially tried for murder but the trial court in September 1999 acquitted him. However, the Punjab and Haryana High Court reversed the verdict and held them guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and gave him a three-year sentence. But the top court in its May 15, 2018 verdict let him off by asking him to pay Rs 1,000 fine.In his affidavit, Sidhu had said, “It is well settled that whenever this court issues notice confining to sentence, arguments will be heard only to that effect unless some extraordinary circumstance/material is shown to the Court. It is respectfully submitted that the contents of the present applications reiterate only overruled arguments and do not show any extraordinary material, calling for interference on all aspects from this court.”Terming it a “malicious attempt for reopening of a well-reasoned judgment”, he had urged the court to dismiss the review petition on account of “unaccounted delay without any cogent explanation” that raised doubts on his bona fides.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-reserves-verdict-on-plea-seeking-review-order-of-letting-navjot-sidhu-off-in-1988-road-rage-death-case-380674
25-03-2022||Mohali||Farmers hold protest in Mohali in support of their demands||Hundreds of farmers under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha gathered in front of the Gurdwara Shri Amb Sahib in Mohali.Addressing the farmers from Punjab and Haryana, the leaders said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while revoking the three farm laws, had promised to set up a committee to hold talks with the farmers to resolve the agricultural issues.He said the main issues include the river waters, changes in Sikh history and minimum support price.They warned the central government that they would continue to struggle till their demands were not met.A delegation of farmers’ unions has submitted the memorandum to the Punjab governor, according to sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-hold-protest-in-mohali-in-support-of-their-demands-380659
25-03-2022||Ruchika M. Khanna ||Only one pension for Punjab MLAs, announces Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann||Chandigarh, March 25Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann on Friday announced his decision to give just one pension to all law makers. The family pension to MLAs, too, has been slashed. The decision to reduce the pension was taken in view of many MLAs getting multiple pensions for each term that they serve as representatives of people in the Vidhan Sabha.Lal Singh, Sarwan Singh Phillaur and Rajinder Kaur Bhattal were getting monthly pension of Rs 3.25 lakhRavi Inder Singh, Balwinder Singh were getting a monthly  pension of Rs 2.75 lakhHad Akali Dal Supremo Parkash Singh Badal not announced to  forego his pension, he would have got over Rs 5 lakh per month as pension.This demand of “one MLA one pension” was also made by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the last Vidhan Sabha, when the party was in the Opposition. Announcing the decision, Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann today said that politicians from across the political spectrum go to people with folded hands, seeking votes from people in the name of doing their “sewa”.“But you will be shocked that those who have been elected MLAs for three, five or even six terms, have been taking away lakhs as pension. They don’t even come to the Vidhan Sabha. The pension they get varies from Rs 3.50 lakh to Rs 5.25 lakh. This burdens the state exchequer. Some of these politicians have even served as members of Parliament and get that pension as well,” he said. He said that the money thus saved will be used for the welfare of people.“I have already asked the officers to reduce the family pensions of all lawmakers,” he added.It may be noted that MLAs get a pension of Rs 75,150 for one term. For each subsequent term they serve, the MLAs in Punjab are given an additional 66 per cent of the pension amount.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/only-one-pension-for-punjab-mlas-announces-chief-minister-bhagwant-mann-380655
25-03-2022||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu targets Arvind Kejriwal over 2015 sacrilege issue||Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday targeted AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal over the 2015 sacrilege issue, asking who was stopping his party's government in the state from taking action against those involved in the desecration of religious text.Sidhu, the former Punjab Congress chief, shared a video clip from last year in which Delhi Chief Minister Kejriwal is heard saying action could be taken against the accused in the sacrilege incidents within 24 hours."So who is stopping you now….@ArvindKejriwal," Sidhu said in a tweet.So who is stopping you now ... @ArvindKejriwal pic.twitter.com/8atSdMCe68  Congress MLA Pargat Singh also shared the video clip and asked Kejriwal and Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann, "Who is stopping you now?"In the clip posted by Sidhu on his Twitter handle, Kejriwal is heard saying that the people of Punjab were angry at the inaction over the 2015 Faridkot sacrilege incidents."The masterminds in the sacrilege incidents have not been punished till now. I don't need to tell who the masterminds are. The names are there in the report of Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, and (Charanjit Singh) Channi saab can go through that. The culprits can be arrested within 24 hours," Kejriwal said in the clip, addressing the media.Former IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh was part of a special investigation team probing the 2015 Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing incidents in Punjab. He joined the AAP last year and was elected as MLA from Amritsar North.The incidents of sacrilege and subsequent police firing had taken place in Faridkot in 2015, when the SAD-BJP government was in power in the state.The previous Congress-led government was targeted by the AAP over its inaction on the issue.Three cases - theft of a ‘bir’ (copy) of the Guru Granth Sahib from the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara, putting up of handwritten sacrilegious posters in Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala, and torn pages of the holy book found scattered in Bargari - were registered in 2015.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-posts-kejriwals-old-video-on-bargari-demanding-action-on-sacrilege-says-who-is-stopping-aap-now-380637
25-03-2022||Amritsar||IndiGo's direct flight from Amritsar to Lucknow from March 27||A private airline company is going to start a direct non-stop flight on a daily basis from Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International (SGRDJI) Airport to Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport in Lucknow from March 27.The flight (6E-6075) will depart from Lucknow at 6.15 am every day and reach Amritsar at 7.55 am. Return flight will take off from Amritsar at 12.20 pm daily and reach Lucknow at 2.05 pm.Yogesh Kamra, convener of the FlyAmritsar Initiative, said this was a long-awaited connection. Many tourists and Punjabis residing in UP had to take long journey via limited trains and through one-stop flight connections earlier via Delhi. This is a good opportunity for tourism and business exchange between two cultural cities.IndiGo has opened bookings for flights on its website, mobile app and third party travel websites.—||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/indigos-direct-flight-to-lucknow-from-march-27-380623
25-03-2022||A gazebo of colourful streams of clothes right at the entrance makes everyone feel that they are entering into an exciting zone. Designer umbrellas put up across various corners add to the hues||Glimpses of mini India at Crafts Bazaar in Hoshiarpur||However, the main attraction, especially for the women and children, is the 70-plus stalls of unique items. Assam’s masala tea, green tea and bamboo items, Dokra tribal jewellery from West Bengal, miniature paintings from Rajasthan, embroidered sceneries from Chamba, jewellery boxes, runners, purses and stuff made of Madurkathi (woven reed) from West Midnapore, coloured pen drawings from Madhya Pradesh, walnut handicrafts from Himachal Pradesh and Saharanpur’s carved furniture — all are available under one roof.The host state does not lag behind. The very own Punjabi jutti and phulkari from Patiala, inlay work of Hoshiarpur, charpoys, furniture typical of Punjab, too, are all put up on display. Cast iron figurines, glass bead jewellery, tie-and-dye dupatta suits, carpets and rugs also remain a major attraction for the shopping freaks. Kids have a special ride zone with merry-go-rounds, Columbus and other big rides. Stalls of fast food remain a delight for all visitors.the exhibition.The event, which started on March 20, will continue till March 29 had the biggest stage performance on Thursday evening when ace singer Satinder Sartaj regaled everyone. DC Apneet Riyait and ADC (UD) Himanshu Jain said: “Folk dances and folk music are organised twice a day daily. Troupes from Tripura, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal, J&K, Gujarat, Punjab, Odisha, Assam, Manipur, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana and Rajasthan have been all performing here. Besides, nachaars, baazigars, nagada and Malwai giddha, too, are crowd-pullers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/glimpses-of-mini-india-380562
25-03-2022||Chandigarh||142 cops vaccinated||Agents dupe man of Rs1 crMoga: A 42-year-old man of Moga was allegedly duped of Rs1.11 crore by the travel agents on the pretext of obtaining Canadian permanent residency (PR) for him and his family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/142-cops-vaccinated-380492
25-03-2022||Amritsar||US man publishes 'saroop' of Guru Granth Sahib without Akal Takht's permission||A US-based publisher has triggered a row following reports that Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy scripture, was being made available online.According to information, the publisher in question, Sikh Book Club Publishers’ Thaminder Singh Anand, has allegedly got published the copies of ‘saroop’ and is also uploading PDFs (portable document file) on his website. Terming it as an act of ‘sacrilege’, Akal Takht’s officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has constituted a panel. — #akal takht #giani harpreet singh #guru granth sahib #sacrilege #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/us-man-publishes-saroop-without-takhts-permission-380491
25-03-2022||Fazilka||4-year-old Pakistan girl strays across IB, repatriated||A 4-year-old girl from Pakistan who inadvertently strayed into Indian territory on Wednesday evening has been handed over to Pakistani Rangers by the Border Security Force officers in Fazilka sector.Sources said jawans of the 181 Battalion of the Border Security Force found the girl in BOP Khanpur. The BSF lodged a protest with Pakistani Rangers and repatriated the girl on humanitarian grounds. — #Pakistan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-year-old-girl-strays-across-ib-repatriated-380490
25-03-2022||Abohar||7 held with opium,  poppy husk||The police have arrested seven peddlers, including a woman, today. In Sadulshehar, which has been considered a hub of drug trafficking, a local goldsmith along with a woman and her relative who had come from Madhya Pradesh were caught with 4 kg of opium.The accused have been identified as Purushottam Soni of Sadulshehar, Bansi Lal Chandel and Bachan Bai of Neemuch. All have been arrested under the NDPS Act and two cars belonging to the accused have been impounded.In another incident, cops recovered 900 gm of opium from Kuldeep Singh of Chak 77 GB and Vijay Bishnoi of Raisinghnagar.The police seized 20-gm heroin from Resham Singh Bubby of Ghattianwali Bodla village. Cops seized 2 kg of poppy husk from Sahib Ram of Chak 2-STR village. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-held-with-opium-poppy-husk-380486
25-03-2022||---||Remove iron grills from dividers: Sangrur DC||Sangrur, March 24The Public Works Department (PWD) has spent lakhs of rupees on installing pointed iron grills on road dividers and roundabouts here, posing a risk to commuters.The Deputy Commissioner (DC) has written to the PWD authorities, directing them to immediately remove the grills and initiate strict departmental action against the officials who got these installed.Despite objections by residents, PWD officers not only got constructed dividers on congested roads, but also got installed sharp grills on various roads, including from the Sunami Gate area to Gaushala Road, Railway station road and Mahavir Chowk to Dhuri road.In its letter to the Executive Engineer, PWD, the DC said it had come to his notice that the authorities had violated norms as pointed grills had been installed on the roundabouts and dividers, posing threat to life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/remove-iron-grills-from-dividers-dc-380484
25-03-2022||GS Paul||Manual screening of trucks back at Attari ICP||Amritsar, March 24After the full-body truck scanner (FBTS) installed at Attari-Wagah Integrated Check Post (ICP) could not prove its reliability due to a technical snag, the authorities have resorted to age-old practice of manual scanning of trucks laden with goods coming from across the border.The Rs 23-crore FBTS is an X-ray device that detects arms, ammunition, explosives, detonators or any radioactive material, if concealed in any part of the truck. Officials had claimed that it could detect narcotics and fake currency too, but for these specific adjustments needed to be made to the equipment.It is learnt that there was a technical snag in the software that senses the alignment, calibration and scanning images of the truck.Sukhdev Singh, an official with the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI), the custodian of the ICP, said the FBTS was not in use as it required an upgrade in the software.Rubbishing the reports of ‘scrapping’ the project, he said it was a technical snag that has to be rectified. He said it was for the Atomic Energy Regulatory Board (AERB) to take the final call.“So far, we have not received any communication about the FBTS. Since it’s a technical issue, I cannot comment on when it will be rectified,” he said.Though India had suspended trade with Pakistan after the Pulwama attack and revocation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, trucks from Afghanistan have been entering India (Attari) via Wagah (Pakistan). On an average, nearly 25-30 trucks of dry fruits and herbal material from Afghanistan crossed over the Attari border daily through the ICP.Sources said the Customs’ Department has shown its resentment to the LPAI for the failure of the FBTS and demanded an efficient system that could be relied on.Punjab shares a 553-km long border with Pakistan. Narcotics are routed through the infamous Golden Triangle from Afghanistan and Pakistan to India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/manual-screening-of-trucks-back-at-attari-icp-380483
25-03-2022||Bathinda||Five depot holders’ licence suspended||The Department of Food and Civil Supplies today suspended licence of five depot holders (sought reply within a week) after it found the latter to be flouting norms and not providing ration to beneficiaries (blue card holders) despite availability of stocks.Sources said despite the availability of adequate wheat stock, the depot holders were not providing the same to beneficiaries citing one reason or the other, following which the latter raised the issue with the District Food Supplies Controller who initiated the action in the matter. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/five-depot-holders-licence-suspended-380481
25-03-2022||Bathinda||Give regular jobs: Health workers||Members of the NHM Joint Front Punjab in Sangat block submitted a memorandum of demands to Bathinda Rural MLA Amit Rattan, seeking regularisation of services.The union members lauded the announcement made by the AAP government that 35,000 contractual employees would be regularised.“The successive governments have ignored our genuine demand of regularisation and forced us to work on meagre salaries. Many of us have been rendering the services for past over 10 years. We have high hopes from the government,” Union convener Narendar Kumar said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/give-regular-jobs-health-workers-380480
25-03-2022||Chandigarh||Small bus operators demand fair timetable||The State Carriage Bus Operators’ Association (SCBOA) has alleged the Regional Transport Authorities (RTAs) at Patiala, Jalandhar, Ferzoepur and Bathinda are resorting to illegal methods to frame timetable.In a representation to Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann, JS Grewal, acting president, SCBOA, alleged influential bus operators had buses beyond the number of permits which were operating illegally in connivance with RTAs. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/small-bus-operators-demand-fair-timetable-380479
25-03-2022||Chandigarh||New mining policy to enhance revenue: Harjot Singh Bains||In keeping with the AAP government’s policy of efficient governance, Cabinet Minister Harjot Singh Bains reached his office at 9 am on Thursday and met experts to seek their views on the formation of a new mining policy.The Mines and Geology, Tourism & Cultural Affairs, Jails and Legal & Legislative Affairs Minister said: “New initiatives were being introduced in the Mining and Tourism departments, which would bear fruit soon.”Bains said corrupt practices in the Mining and Jails Departments would be stopped and a new mining policy was on the cards, which would enhance the state’s revenue drastically.He said the complaints received on anti-corruption helpline were being dealt with on a priority basis.Directing officials, employees and other staff members to be punctual and readdress the grievances of people, Bains said the newly formed AAP government would provide timely and hassle-free services to citizens. — #harjot singh bains||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-mining-policy-to-enhance-revenue-bains-380478
25-03-2022||Amritsar||Majitha killings: Send report by Mar 30, says minority panel||Taking serious note of killing of two members of the Gujjar community in a firing incident at Inayatpura village in Majitha subdivision two days ago, the Punjab State Minority Commission today asked the police to submit its report by March 30.A two-member delegation, included Lal Hussain and Dr Subhash Masih Thoba, visited the village. The delegation members were accompanied by SP Detective Manoj Thakur, and DSPs Gurmeet Singh and Ravinder Singh.While the police officials assured the commission of carrying out the investigation in an impartial manner, the commission asked them to arrest the suspects soon.Tension had gripped the village when a group of 12 persons allegedly opened fire at some Gujjars following a minor dispute over passage. Surmuddin (18) and his uncle Ali (35) died while around 10 persons from both sides were injured. The police booked 10 persons by name and their unidentified accomplices on charges of murder, attempt to murder and under arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/send-report-by-mar-30-minority-panel-380476
25-03-2022||Vijay C RoyChandigarh||Crop diversification: Punjab, Haryana see increase in area under mustard cultivation||Having reaped a rich harvest last year as mustard prices crossed Rs 7,000 per quintal in the open market against the MSP of Rs 4,650 per quintal, more and more farmers in Punjab and Haryana have shifted to mustard cultivation. They are hopeful of a good yield this year too (harvested in March) as prices are firm on account of the Russia-Ukraine war.While Haryana is anticipating that the total area under mustard will increase by 1.19 lakh hectares and touch 7.66 lakh hectares in the ongoing Rabi season with the estimated production of 15 lakh tonnes, believed to be an all-time high, Punjab, despite witnessing a considerable increase in area, is nowhere close to what it was nearly five decades ago.In 1974-75, area under mustard in Punjab was 1.8 lakh hectares, which was the largest ever. It came down to 1.01 lakh hectares in 1995-96 and since then, it has been dropping. Last year, the area under mustard was 31,000 hectares and the Agriculture Department anticipates that the area will touch 50,000 hectares in the ongoing rabi season.Gurvinder Singh, Director of Agriculture, Punjab, said, “Last year, the crop fetched better returns for farmers, so they were encouraged to bring more area. This marketing season (2021-22), the area under mustard will touch 50,000 hectares.”“We anticipate that our area under mustard will increase significantly this year. Normally, prices come down when the new crop starts arriving, but it doesn’t hold true for this year. The produce has just started arriving in mandis and farmers are getting prices much above the MSP,” said Jagraj Dandi, Joint Director (Stats), Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Haryana.The Centre has fixed the MSP of Rs 5,200 per quintal for mustard this season. Insiders maintained that private buyers were offering better remuneration, much above the MSP. For both states, mustard is the main oilseed crop which constitutes around 96-99 per cent of the total oilseed production in the respective states. #Agriculture||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-haryana-see-increase-in-area-under-mustard-cultivation-380475
25-03-2022||Jalandhar||Rid sport of drugs, gangsters: Kabaddi leagues||Lack of foolproof dope testing norms for players, pressure on associations cleaning the game, rampant inter-association jealousies within kabaddi brought things to a point where one of the most prominent players was gruesomely killed at an arena recently.Also read: Sandeep Singh Nangal Ambian's murder: Bid to end kabaddi in state, says MP Chaudhary Santokh SinghAs thousands bade adieu to Sandeep Singh Nangal Ambian at his bhog ceremony yesterday, kabaddi associations asserted his efforts to cleanse the game led to the murder. Speaking to The Tribune, associations said while the sport’s popularity had witnessed a steady decline since 2007, the murder was a clarion call for ridding it of the “influence of drugs and gangsters” and bringing it under one umbrella body.Dope test mustThere is pressure on associations that want to play it clean. Unless there is stringent dope testing, game will be mired in controversy forever. —Lakha Gazipuria, BC United kabaddi association, VancouverLakha Gazipuria, who runs the BC United Kabaddi Association in Canada, said: “Sandeep has fallen prey to politics over his efforts to clean the game.” Baljit Sandhu, chairman, California Kabaddi Federation of USA, said: “The biggest player in the game has been murdered. The game needs to be brought under one umbrella league to encourage security among players and investors.”Hakam Singh, chairman, Major League Kabaddi Federation, said: “In 2019, we held dope tests and kept results confidential (sharing these only with players and coaches). Next year, we asked them to come clean. Many federations began approaching these very players.” — #drug menace #kabaddi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rid-sport-of-drugs-gangsters-leagues-380473
25-03-2022||Aparna Banerji||Sandeep Singh Nangal Ambian's murder: Bid to end kabaddi in state, says MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh||Jalandhar, March 24The Major League Kabaddi (MLK) Federation has decided to retain slain player Sandeep Singh Nangal Ambian as the president of the federation even as Jalandhar MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh has termed the killing “murder of kabaddi” and sought Centre’s help to stop “this new trend of international crime” in the state.Also read: Rid sport of drugs, gangsters: Kabaddi leagues“This isn’t the murder of Sandeep, whoever has murdered him, has killed kabaddi,” said the Congress MP while addressing a gathering at the bhog ceremony of the international player at his native Nangal Ambian village on Wednesday.There was angst over the murder, amid calls for justice in the ongoing investigation by kabaddi associations, farmers and others.Centre must step inThe Centre must stop this new trend of international crime in the state. This isn’t the murder of Sandeep. Whoever has murdered him, has killed kabaddi. —Chaudhary Santokh Singh, Jalandhar MPThe MP said: “As a member of Parliament’s standing committee for sports, I have raised the issue of including kabaddi as in Olympics. Sandeep dreamt of taking kabaddi to the Olympics. I have warned the state government of a new trend of ‘international crime’ being carried out on our land, which needs to be stopped immediately.”Chaudhary announced naming of a Rs 25 lakh stadium at Nangal Ambian village after Sandeep and announced Rs 10 lakh from the MPLAD fund.Farm leader Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra said it was a milestone in the effort to save kabaddi. “Sometimes, investigations go cold after the last rites. We must ensure it doesn’t happen in this case. Let us fight those who have sold kabaddi out. Let us rid the sport of gangsters.”Federation chairman Hakam Singh said: “Sandeep was killed because he wanted to clean the game. His murderers chose a sports ground to scare people and end kabaddi. As long as the federation exists, Sandeep will be our president. A chair will be placed for him at all our meetings. I urge local committees to resume matches. Our federation will resume matches from the next season. We also request the police to probe the murder and find the missing links.” #kabaddi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bid-to-end-kabaddi-in-state-says-mp-380470
25-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Cop dismissed 9 years after acquittal in criminal case, HC raps Police Dept||Chandigarh, March 24The Punjab and Haryana High Court said “all is not well” with the Police Department. The assertion by Justice Fateh Deep Singh came in a case in which a police official was dismissed nearly nine years after his acquittal in a criminal case.Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted the order itself appeared to be “impregnated with illegalities purely for a certain purpose”. The alleged incident, resulting in the registration of an FIR against the police official, pertained to 2001 when he was an SPO. It was after much delay and belatedly that he was dismissed from the service in 2010. By that time, he had become a regular constable in the Punjab Police.Order ‘impregnated with illegality’The matter was brought to Justice Fateh Deep Singh’s notice after an appeal was filed by the State of Punjab against an order by a Jalandhar Civil Judge (Junior Division) decreeing with costs the suit filed by the plaintiff police official. The state’s appeal was subsequently dismissed by Jalandhar Additional District Judge, following which it moved the High Court. The police official was represented before the High Court by counsel RS Bajaj and Sidakjit Singh Bajaj.Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted the state counsel was squarely at loss of words as to how and by what means the state woke up from its slumber. “Rather, what one can come across is that after his acquittal on the recommendation of higher authorities, including the Director General of Police, the plaintiff was enrolled as a regular constable in the department. By that analogy, such an act of the appellant state reflects that all previous acts of the plaintiff stand exonerated and he has been given a clean slate. How or by what means, the Commandant of the PAP Battalion after so many years had thought it prudent to dismiss the plaintiff from service after such a long interval, rather smacks of vindictiveness…”Dismissing the appeal after holding it to be wholly devoid of merits, Justice Fateh Deep Singh added such an order, without holding a regular departmental inquiry in terms of the Punjab Police Rules, was on the face of it rendered illegal, null and void. The state, undoubtedly, was vested with unbridled powers to dismiss a constable in a disciplined force. But it was subject to scrutiny by the courts. The very timing of the passing of the dismissal order and the absence of substantial reasoning in the state counsel’s arguments rather strengthened “the plea for the court that all is not well with the department”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cop-dismissed-9-years-after-acquittal-in-criminal-case-hc-raps-police-dept-380467
25-03-2022||Chandigarh||Time sought in Sumedh Saini’s case||A law officer representing the state of Punjab today again sought “short accommodation” to address the High Court in former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s matter on the ground that Advocate General Anmol Rattan Singh Sidhu was to argue the matter and was awaiting instructions.Justice Avneesh Jhingan said there was a direction by the SC for disposal of the main petition preferably within 15 days. A request was made on the previous date of hearing by the state counsel that he was not having instructions due to current changes. — #sumedh saini||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/time-sought-in-sainis-case-380466
25-03-2022||---||Now, physical hearings in Punjab and Haryana HC from March 28||Chandigarh, March 24More than two years after the Punjab and Haryana High Court adopted virtual mode of hearing following the apprehensions of Covid outbreak, it today announced the decision to resume total physical functioning from March 28.The decision by Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha was taken “keeping in view the decline in number of Covid cases in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh”. The order made it clear that the hearing of all cases in the High Court would be held through physical mode only and request for videoconferencing through any mode would not be entertained in any case.Decision taken as covid cases declineThe order added “online mentioning” portal would be deactivated. Mentioning of cases would only be made through physical mode in the same manner as in the pre-Covid period. The order added no litigant represented by an advocate would be permitted entry unless there were specific directions by the court. Facemasks have been made mandatory for all officers, officials, staff, advocates and their clerks.The High Court had initially shifted to virtual mode of hearing in March 2020. Limited physical hearing was ordered to be resumed from February 8 last year, but it had to be suspended as the second wave took in its grip High Court Judges, judicial officers in the subordinate judiciary, advocates, and the staff. The High Court was forced to go back to restrictive functioning from April 19, last year.Following a surge in cases, the functioning had to be restricted further from April 28, last year. But all Benches resumed functioning through virtual mode from July 28, last year, with the reduction in the severity of the second wave. The High Court decided to partially resume physical hearing of cases from September 6, last year. The number of Benches hearing cases through physical mode increased gradually till the third wave once again pushed the HC back to the system of virtual hearing. As of now, all Benches are taking up matters both offline and online.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-physical-hearings-in-hc-from-march-28-380465
25-03-2022||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||20K plaints in two days, most sans proof||Chandigarh, March 24The anti-bribery helpline ‘9501200200’ announced by Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann on Wednesday has received more than 20,000 complaints so far. However, a majority of these do not have an audio or video proof to support the claim.Talking to The Tribune, a senior officer from the Chief Minister’s Office said: “Since it’s early days, people are not fully aware of how to appropriately report their case. Most of complaints that we have received are without audio or video proof. There are messages of allegations against the government and senior officers.”How to send graft complaints“Also, most of the complaints are just being repeated. We can understand the rush because of people’s expectations from the government, but the process needs to be streamlined. While even normal complaints are being accepted and also replied to, it must be pointed out complaints with audio or video proofs serve the purpose better and stand a chance of faster redress,” said the officer.Send audio, video clipsMost of the plaints are being repeated. The process needs to be streamlined. Complaints with audio or video proof stand a chance of faster redress. —Senior officer, CMOThe complaints will be handled by a special team, which has been assigned an office in the Vigilance Bureau. The team comprises AIG Vikas Sabbarwal, and PPS officers Angreiz Singh and Rupinderdeep Kaur.A sarpanch from a village in Gurdaspur district said: “People are appreciating the government initiative to stem the malpractice of bribery. However, the exercise will be appreciated more if a time limit is set on the ‘action taken report’. #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/20k-plaints-in-two-days-most-sans-proof-380461
25-03-2022||Chandigarh||Most officers in CMO unchanged||In a departure from the norm, the new dispensation has so far retained most of the officers in the Chief Minister’s Office. While A Venu Prasad was appointed as the Additional Chief Secretary to the CM last week, a new Deputy Principal Secretary to the CM is set to be appointed.GS Sodhi, Deputy Principal Secretary to CM, today proceeded on deputation to the Chandigarh Administration. He is among four PCS officers from Punjab who have proceeded on deputation to the UT Administration. The others are OSD to Chief Secretary AS Bhatti, HS Brar and Nitish Singla.KK Yadav and Ravi Bhagat, both Special Principal Secretaries to the CM, and Jatinder Jorwal and Shauqat Ahmad Parray, both Additional Principal Secretary to the CM, will continue in the CMO for the time being. Interestingly, the erstwhile office of the PS to CM has been converted into a studio room, where all video messages of the CM Bhagwant Mann are recorded for dissemination through the social media. — #a venu prasad #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/most-officers-in-cmo-unchanged-380457
25-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Will reach out to every village: Lehra MLA Barinder Kumar Goyal||Lehra, March 24Lehra AAP MLA Barinder Kumar Goyal (63) has started working from the first day of his government for the development of his constituency. He alleges that previous governments failed to take serious steps for the development of Lehra constituency, which is still without basic amenities.“Punjab residents have high hopes from our government as all were fed up with the repeated failures of the previous state governments. We will give our 100 per cent,” says Goyal.A first-time MLA, Goyal has defeated five-time Lehra MLA and former CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, five-time MLA and former Finance Minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa and former SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal.“Despite electing political heavyweights, our residents are still struggling for basic amenities like health and education facilities. There is no supply of potable water in many areas of our constituency. Our constituency is still in a poor shape,” he says.Goyal had contested his first election in 1992 on the BJP ticket, but had lost to Bhattal. Later, he tried to contest from other parties, but he failed to get any ticket. Goyal had also formed Lehra Vikas Manch in 2021 to fight for the development of area.“My voters will not have to come to me. I am going to each village and each street of my constituency. Everyone knows that I have been working for the development of my area for many years. Since our government is already in action, residents will see a major positive change in the state in some days,” says Goyal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/goyal-will-reach-out-to-every-village-380454
25-03-2022||Raj Sadosh||Will ensure water  for tail-end villages: Abohar MLA Sandeep Jakhar||Abohar, March 24Sandeep Jakhar, who braved the AAP tsunami and emerged as the only Congress winner in nine segments of Ferozepur, looks more energetic after his maiden meeting with Chief Minister Bhagwant Singh Mann.The introductory encounter was just a coincidence. On his way to the Vidhan Sabha for the first time, Sandeep introduced himself to Mann as grandson of late tall parliamentarian Balram Jakhar. This brought a smile on the CM’s face who said, Sandeep, Punjab was in dire need of honest politicians. Sandeep in short spoke about the ongoing development works and hoped the same would be completed without hindrance.Job prospects will be visibleThe industrial focal point of Abohar, which has remained neglected for years, will be developed. The prospects of new jobs will now be visible. — Sandeep Jakhar, Abohar MLASandeep, an alumnus of Mayo College, Ajmer, who pursued higher studies in hotel management in the US, said his priority would be to complete construction work of government college, Abha Square, stadiums, bus stand and renovation of old grain market.He said the AAP govt’s emphasis on cleanliness and environmental development was a welcome move. “We launched a similar drive two years ago through “Apna Abohar Apni Abha Abhiyan. Every effort will be made to make this campaign more dynamic,” he said.He said he would ensure minors (sub-canals), which were constructed when his grandfather served as Union Minister of Agriculture in 1992, were cleaned so that there was no shortage of irrigation and drinking water till the tail-end villages. Besides, thrust would be given to agricultural development, he added. Quoting the Governor’s address, Sandeep expressed confidence that the industrial focal point of Abohar, which was neglected for many years, would be developed under the new policy of the government and the prospects of employment would now be visible. “I won’t hesitate in coordinating with other parties’ responsible leaders in carrying out the development projects,” he added. #bhagwant mann #sandeep jakhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-ensure-water-for-tail-end-villages-380452
25-03-2022||Chandigarh||Interim relief  to Sukhbir Badal will continue: Court||More than a year after the Punjab and Haryana High Court directed keeping in abeyance two orders passed by the Chandigarh court against Punjab’s former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal in a defamation case, the Bench today directed the continuation of the interim relief.In December 2020, the High Court, had directed that the orders issuing bailable and non-bailable warrants against Sukhbir Badal be kept in abeyance.As the case came up for resumed hearing, Justice Lisa Gill observed a written request for adjournment had been circulated on behalf of the petitioner’s counsel and the same was not opposed. Adjourning the case to August 23, Justice Gill added: “The interim order to continue till the next date of hearing”.Rajinder Pal Singh, a spokesperson for religious organisation, had filed a complaint alleging defamation and other offences. — #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/interim-relief-to-sukhbir-will-continue-court-380451
25-03-2022||New Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal meets Bhagwant Mann, Rajya Sabha nominees||AAP National Convenor and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today met his Punjab counterpart Bhagwant Mann and party’s five NEET-nominated Rajya Sabha MPs from Punjab at his residence in Delhi today.“We all have to live up to the expectations of people. We have to make sure that we remember our goal of fulfilling the dreams of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh and Babasaheb Ambedkar.” — #arvind kejriwal #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arvind-kejriwal-meets-mann-mp-nominees-380450
25-03-2022||Chandigarh||Rajya Sabha poll: All 5 in fray from Punjab elected unopposed||On the last day of withdrawal of nomination papers for the Rajya Sabha election, none of the five candidates withdrew their nominations. As a result, all five who had filed nominations for the biennial election were declared winners unopposed.Returning Officer-cum-Secretary, Vidhan Sabha, Surinder Pal said the biennial election process was being carried out under the supervision of Punjab Chief Electoral Officer Dr S Karuna Raju, who had been appointed Observer by the Election Commission of India.He said as none of the candidates withdrew their nomination papers by 3 pm on March 24, Sandeep Kumar Pathak and Raghav Chadha (first cycle), Harbhajan Singh, Ashok Mittal and Sanjeev Arora (second cycle) were declared winner unopposed. A report in this regard had been sent to the EC, he added. — #ashok mittal #harbhajan singh bhajji #raghav chadha #sandeep kumar pathak #sanjeev arora||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-pollall-5-in-fray-elected-unopposed-380449
25-03-2022||Ropar||Breaking convention, Class IV staffer unveils machine at Ropar Civil Hospital||Breaking the convention, AAP MLA from Ropar Dinesh Chadha today let a Class IV employee, Sunil Kumar, to inaugurate a new digital X-ray machine installed at the Civil Hospital here.Applauding the hospital staff’s efforts in providing best treatment to patients, he said Class IV employees had a vital role to play in the smooth running of any health institution for which it was imperative they were accorded due respect.He said government hospitals must provide 24-hour emergency services of high standards to patients, adding it would be possible only when medical officers did not leave their stations without any valid reason. He assured that the government would strengthen the infrastructure of the hospitals so that the needy did not have to visit private facilities. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/breaking-convention-class-iv-staffer-unveils-machine-at-hospital-380447
25-03-2022||Chandigarh||Misled on statues, punish officials: Partap Singh Bajwa||The Punjab Assembly that is part of the Chandigarh Capitol Complex is classified as a UNESCO World Heritage Site and does not allow modifications to the building, including installation of permanent statues.Also read: 'Martyrs' statues at Punjab Assembly will violate edict of Chandigarh'Raking up the issue, Congress leader Partap Bajwa has pointed out while passing a unanimous resolution on the installation of statues of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh, Bharat Ratna Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar and Maharaja Ranjit Singh in the Assembly complex at the recently held session, the officers kept the Members of the House in the dark on the heritage status of the House building.Permissions requiredModifications can be done only after permissions from competent authority. Also, Le Corbusier's edict does not allow for personal statues to be installed in Chandigarh. —Partap Bajwa, Congress MLASeeking action from CM Bhagwant Mann against erring officers, Bajwa said he also participated in the discussion on the installation of the statues believing the state government had done the groundwork for the installation of the same. “The fact remains as per the law of the land, the Assembly is part of the Chandigarh Capitol Complex, which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and therefore such modifications to the building can be done only after permissions from the competent authority. Furthermore, the edict of Chandigarh by Le Corbusier does not allow for personal statues to be installed in Chandigarh. But these facts should have been brought forward to the House, so as to give MLA’s a proper understanding of the situation,” he said.Bajwa further pointed out in 2010, a similar proposal was rejected by the UT Administration. The officer’s incharge who drafted the resolution put forward in the House must be held accountable for concealing such information from the Chief Minister. In 2019, a demolition drive was carried in the Assembly to remove and undo alterations carried out over the past five decades. The exercise was aimed at restoring the building to its original status since it was part of the Capitol Complex, which was given the heritage status in 2016. — #bhimrao ambedkar #maharaja ranjit singh #partap singh bajwa #shaheed bhagat singh #unesco world heritage site||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/misled-on-statues-punish-officials-bajwa-380445
25-03-2022||Lambi (Muktsar)||Vote judiciously in SGPC elections, says Badal||Having lost the Assembly elections, the SAD is now worried about the much-delayed SGPC polls. Addressing public meetings in Lambi, SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal urged people to be judicious while polling in the SGPC elections.Badal said: “The other parties are now planning to capture gurdwaras in Punjab. If the SPGPC comes under the control of others, Kejriwal or someone else will hold the sway. I am warning you all.”He added: “Sometimes governments are formed by taking false oaths. In the past, Capt Amarinder Singh became the CM after taking a false oath by holding ‘gutka sahib’ in his hand. The AAP too has come to power in the state on the basis of its false propaganda on the social media. This party is nominating outsiders to the Rajya Sabha from Punjab.” — #parkash singh badal #SGPC #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vote-judiciously-in-sgpc-elections-says-badal-380443
25-03-2022||New Delhi||Sikhs have excelled globally: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday met a delegation of eminent Sikh scholars and luminaries that called on him at his official residence. Addressing the delegation, the PM said Sikhs had made a huge contribution to struggle for country’s Independence and even today, Sikh soldiers were guarding the borders of the nation.He said apart from guarding the frontiers, intellectuals from the community were leading the society in different fields. He said he was proud of the community members who had earned global fame. Modi said their government was committed to resolving issues being faced by the Sikhs. BJP leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa thanked the PM for swift resolution of problems of the community. He said for the past 70 years, Sikhs had been facing several problems that had been ignored by successive governments. The delegation thanked the PM for taking steps for resolving their issues.Prominent members included KBS Sidhu, a former IAS officer; Karamjit Singh, Vice Chancellor, Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Open University, Patiala; Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice Chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar; Babbu Tir, PPSC member; Dr PS Pasricha, former chairman, Takht Hazur Sahib Board; Harmeet Singh Kalka, president, Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee; Tarlochan Singh, chairman, Khalsa College, and Dr HS Gill, Chancellor, Adesh Medical University, Punjab. — #harmeet singh kalka #manjinder singh sirsa #narendra modi #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikhs-have-excelled-globally-pm-380440
25-03-2022||---||Minister Dr Baljit Kaur warns government doctors doing private practice||Malout (Muktsar), March 24Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Dr Baljit Kaur today visited the Malout Assembly constituency where she again warned of action against government doctors doing private practice.Interacting with mediapersons, she said: “After my visit to the Malout Civil Hospital a few days ago, I learnt that some doctors have taken leave. All those not taking care of patients in government hospitals or doing parallel private practice will face action. If I am polite, it doesn’t mean I can’t take strict action. All those violating the rules will be dealt with sternly.”The minister said child begging would be stopped soon and such kids would be enrolled in government schools. “I will take care of poor people and officers have assured me full support in this regard. I have cleared the pending files of the post-matric SC scholarship. Besides, the post-matric SC scholarship scam will be thoroughly investigated,” she said. #dr baljit kaur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minister-warns-government-doctors-doing-private-practice-380439
25-03-2022||Vibha SharmaNew Delhi||Parliamentary panel: Stubble-burning spiked during farm protest||Punjab recorded more stubble-burning incident during the farmers’ protest against the now-repealed agricultural laws, according to a report submitted to the Parliament by the department-related parliamentary panel.Lens on Punjab, Haryana, UPYear - Burning incidents2019 - 61,3322020 - 89,4302021 - 1,02,379Stubble-burning incidents events are monitored by multiple satellites with thermal sensors during the harvest period from October 1 to November 30 in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, the Department of Agricultural Research and Education under the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare told the panel.“The burning events recorded during 2019 in the three states were 52 per cent fewer as compared with 2016. However, the number was 89,430 and 1,02,379 in 2020 and 2021, respectively, as compared with 61,332 in 2019,” it said.“The burning events were higher, particularly in Punjab. It may be a result of ‘protest burning’ by Punjab farmers. The efforts have resulted in 52 per cent reduction in crop residue burning incidents as compared with the base year 2016,” the department told the panel headed by Bagalkot MP PC Gaddigoudar when asked about the steps taken to mitigate the problem of stubble-burning in Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and the NCT of Delhi.Under the central sector scheme on “Promotion of Agricultural Mechanisation for in-situ management of crop residue in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and NCT of Delhi”, Rs 1,151.80 crore were allocated for two years (Rs 591.65 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 560.15 crore in 2019-20) and Rs 600 crore in 2020-22.During four years, 2.13 lakh machines were supplied to the states for the in-situ residue management. At present, the department is working on promoting equipment for in-situ management. #farmers protest #stubble burning||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/parl-panel-stubble-burning-spiked-during-farm-protest-380438
25-03-2022||Ruchika M KhannaChandigarh||Massive drive must to weed out corruption, says Revenue Minister Brahm Shankar Jimpa||New Revenue and Water Resources Minister Brahm Shankar Jimpa says the Aam Aadmi Party government will weed out the “cancerous spread of corruption” in the Revenue Department.Talking to The Tribune here today, the minister, who assumed charge after a “purification ritual by his spiritual guru” at the Punjab Civil Secretariat, said a massive operation was needed to weed out corruption in the department. “If this is done, it will be our biggest achievement,” he said.“The Revenue Department deals with public and officials will have to stop their ‘old ways of working’. Our government’s top priority is to provide honest administration, and bring transparency in working,” he said.Transparency a priorityRevenue Dept deals with public. Officials will have to stop their ‘old ways of working’. Our priority is to bring transparency in working. — Brahm Shankar Jimpa, Revenue MinisterWhile hailing the move to livestream the working of revenue staff in Gurdasapur yesterday, he termed the protest by Punjab Revenue Officers Union as “unjustified and unfair”. “If they are honest and have nothing to hide, why should they protest a move to bring transparency in a department that has such massive public dealing?” he told The Tribune after assuming charge as the minister today.An order was passed in Gurdaspur yesterday to livestream the work done by revenue officials, including tehsildars and naib-tehsildars.The orders also said they would have to submit a day-to-day report of their working to the District Revenue Officer. He, in turn, was supposed to give a copy of the report to a clerk who was asked to call up people and to enquire if any bribe was being taken by revenue officials. However, following objections and threat of protest by the revenue officers, the orders were later withdrawn.“Livestreaming the working of tehsil offices was a good move. If the revenue officers have a problem, we can always talk to them. We want to make them partners in our attempt to “clean up the mess” that has been there for years,” he said, reiterating using technology to keep an eye on officials for public welfare would be examined for implementation.Falling watertable worryingBrahm Shankar Jimpa, who also holds the charge of Water Resources Department, said he was concerned at the fall in watertable. “A ‘jan andolan’ on water conservation in agriculture, domestic and commercial will be launched soon.We will look into promoting rainwater harvesting,” the minister said. #brahm shankar jimpa #watertable||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/massive-drive-must-to-weed-out-corruption-says-jimpa-380437
25-03-2022||Parvesh SharmaSangrur||Previous govts overspent on projects: Harpal Singh Cheema||In his first meeting with senior officers on Thursday, Finance Minister Harpal Singh Cheema said perusal of official records had brought to the fore numerous instances where previous governments spent almost double the amount on several projects than what was needed.For instance, Cheema said, there was a project of Rs 500 crore wherein state authorities ended up spending Rs 1,200 crore. “When I went through some documents, I was surprised to see the overspending. We will expose all such robbers to recover the looted money of the state,” Cheema told The Tribune at Sangrur.Though Cheema didn’t name anyone, he said ‘robbers’ had faced mass rejection in the Assembly elections. “The public money was misused not only to renovate government houses, but offices also. We are in the government to serve and not to rule. But MLAs and ministers of previous governments spent crores on their houses and offices as the kings used to in ancient times,” he said.Cheema, who also has Planning and Excise and Taxation Departments, said the AAP government would serve the state with honesty and fulfil all guarantees made to the people ahead of the polls.He added in the past, ministers delayed many important decisions over petty issues. “My party has assigned Finance, Planning, Programme Implementation and Excise and Taxation to me for quick action to improve the financial situation of state. We will not impose any new tax. State residents will soon see the improvement. I will bring synergy among finance, planning and excise and take quick decisions. In the past, ministers concerned wasted months and delayed many important decisions,” said Cheema.Procurement will be hassle-freeFinance Minister Harpal Singh Cheema on Thursday said the state government was making all preparations for wheat procurement starting next month. “We are confident that the farmers will not face any problem,” said Cheema. #harpal cheema||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/previous-govts-overspent-on-projects-fm-380433
25-03-2022||---||Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann seeks Rs 1 lakh crore aid for reviving growth||New Delhi, March 24Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann on Thursday sought a special financial package worth Rs 1 lakh crore from the Centre for the revival of the state’s economy.Turnaround in 3 yrsI told the PM that by the third year, we will be able to fill the state coffers by ending the mafia raj. — Bhagwant Mann, Punjab Chief MinisterAfter his first meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi after becoming the CM, Mann said the PM had “assured him of all possible help in making ‘rangla’ (vibrant) Punjab”.Speaking to the media later, Mann said he had sought the Centre’s support to address the unique security challenges the border state faced on account of the “enemy acquiring sophisticated equipment”. The CM said he cited the “massive financial mess” of Rs 3 lakh crore left behind by past governments and demanded a package of Rs 50,000 crore each for two years. “I told the PM that by the third year, we will be able to fill the coffers by ending the mafia raj,” Mann said, describing the meeting as “fruitful and productive”. Mann met the PM at Parliament House complex. #bhagwant mann #narendra modi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-seeks-1l-cr-aid-for-reviving-growth-380427
25-03-2022||Patiala||Encyclopedia of the Sikh literature: Punjabi University yet to correct mistakes in 'Mahan Kosh'||After Punjabi University banned all copies of “Mahan Kosh” produced by its publication bureau in March 2019, the university is yet to make any headway in carrying out correction and reprinting work of the encyclopedia of the Sikh literature. Not only lack of experts, but also paucity of funds has delayed the progress.The “Mahan Kosh”, known as “Guru Shabad Ratnakar Mahan Kosh”, is considered to be the greatest work in Punjabi literature. It was written by Bhai Kahan Singh Nabha and first published in 1927. The university’s publication bureau and the Department of Development of Punjabi Language later reprinted the copies. After this, a number of errors were identified by scholars in 2016. In March 2019, a committee formed after identification of the mistakes decided to scrap all its volumes.Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor Professor Arvind today said: “We were earlier facing a shortage of experts having knowledge in the fields of English, Punjabi and Gurbani. The university is also facing paucity of funds. Had the state government provided us the grants to the tune of Rs150 crore, many of our works would have been streamlined. The work of ‘Mahan Kosh’ is one of them.”He said: “The university has now roped in a number of experts. We are in a position that we can start the correction work soon. We are in touch with a number of experts of all languages and Gurbani. The work may start by June. It will be announced soon.”All volumes scrappedThe university’s publication bureau and the Department of Development of Punjabi Language later reprinted the copies. After this, a number of errors were identified by scholars in 2016. In March 2019, a committee formed after the identification of mistakes decided to scrap all its volumes. #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-punjabi-varsity-yet-to-correct-mistakes-in-mahan-kosh-380272
25-03-2022||Karam Prakash||Limited seats, high fee at private colleges force MBBS aspirants to go abroad||Patiala, March 23Exorbitant tuition fee in private colleges and limited seats in government colleges are the reasons that force MBBS aspirants of the state to look for admission in other countries such as Ukraine.Six of the 10 medical colleges in the state are private. These have the bigger chunk of the seats. Of 1,475 MBBS seats in the state, 775 are in private colleges while 700 are in four government medical colleges. The MBBS course fee of the private colleges, excluding hostel and other charges, is around Rs 50 lakh per student.Stiff competition1,475 MBBS seats in state775 in private colleges700 in 4 govt colleges10K qualified for admissions in 2021Rs 50L MBBS course feeBesides tuition fee, some private institutes charge 15 per cent of the total fee as registration fee and around Rs 1.75 lakh a year as administrative charges. In all, one has to spend above Rs 70 lakh to study medicine in Punjab.Around 14,847 MBBS aspirants from the state had appeared for the NEET UG 2021, a common entrance test for MBBS admission. Of the total, over 10,000 qualified for the admission to 1,475 MBBS seats in the state.It has been learnt that some of the students who had better ranking chose to go abroad, in the face of unaffordable fees in the private colleges of Punjab. Fees of MBBS courses in many countries — China, Georgia, Belarus, Ukraine — are far less.Dr Harish Kumar, professor, Punjabi University, said, “I had to send my son to Ukraine because I cannot afford the cost of an MBBS seat in the private institutes in the state.” #MBBS #NEET||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/limited-seats-high-fee-at-private-colleges-force-mbbs-aspirants-to-go-abroad-380132
