26-03-2022||New Delhi||India repatriates 3 Pakistani prisoners after completion of jail terms||India on Saturday repatriated three Pakistani prisoners through the Attari-Wagah border transit point after they completed their jail terms.The prisoners are Sameera Abdul Rehman, Murtaza Asghar Ali and Ahmed Raja, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA).“Three Pakistani prisoners, who had completed their sentences, were repatriated to Pakistan via the Attari-Wagah border on March 26,” the MEA said.It said Sameera Abdul Rehman was accompanied by her four-year-old girl child Sana Fatima.The MEA also said India attaches highest importance to addressing all humanitarian matters, including early release and repatriation of all Indian prisoners and fishermen from Pakistan.“The government’s persistent efforts have succeeded in release and repatriation of 20 Indian fishermen and one civilian prisoner from Pakistan’s custody in 2022, so far,” the MEA said in a statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/india-repatriates-3-pakistani-prisoners-after-completion-of-jail-terms-381025
26-03-2022||Mansa||Farmers to get compensation for damaged crop prior to loss assessment, says CM Mann||Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann on Saturday announced that farmers will get compensation for crop damage due to vagaries of weather prior to the completion of girdawari, an exercise for the assessment of loss.Mann also announced that a thorough inquiry will be conducted into the supply of spurious seeds and pesticides to farmers.He made these announcements during a function organised to distribute compensation to cotton growers whose crop got damaged because of the pink bollworm attack.The chief minister said it is unfortunate that food growers get the compensation after a long and troublesome process of assessment of crop loss.He said this will be reversed and now farmers will get compensation prior to assessment as already being done in Delhi.“If crops get damaged next time, girdwararis can be done later as happens in Delhi,” said Mann, adding that affected farmers would get compensation first.He said this will be instrumental in saving the undue harassment of farmers for getting compensation after a cumbersome process.Mann said farmers in Malwa region lost their cotton crop not because of an attack by white and pink bollworm, but it was the supply of poor quality seeds and pesticides that was responsible for this huge loss.He said a thorough enquiry will be conducted in this regard and strict action will be taken against those who had supplied these spurious seeds and pesticides to farmers.In Mansa district alone, 1.36 lakh acre crop of 56,372 farmers was destroyed due to the attack. A compensation of Rs 231 crore has been paid to farmers.“For (cotton) crop loss, our destiny was not responsible. It was ‘nakli spray’ and ‘nakli beej’ (spurious quality of pesticides and seeds) are responsible for it. We will hold an inquiry into it,” said Mann.Mann said if farmers get quality seeds and pesticides and guidelines for usage of pesticides, then there will be no need for holding such functions as being held on Saturday.He said if the then government had performed its duty well and ensured supply of good seeds and pesticides then farmers would not have faced such hardships.He said meagre compensation during the previous regime after such a whopping loss rubbed salt into the wounds of farmers.Mann said the previous governments turned the food growers into beggars, who had to face a lot of exploitation for getting compensation.The chief minister promised farmers to turn farming into a profitable venture. “We will not let the farming be a deal of loss. We will not let agriculture be as an occupation of compulsion. You will feel proud of doing farming,” said Mann.He informed that the state government was holding parleys with the experts of various universities including foreign ones to introduce new technology for motivating the farmers to cultivate high profit yielding varieties of crops.He said agriculture is the backbone of Punjab’s economy and the state government will leave no stone unturned to make it a profit making occupation.Mann said budgetary provision will be made to provide funds to the agricultural university for carrying out new research and developing high quality seeds of various crops.Expressing concern of depleting underground water table, the chief minister said it is the only available natural resource of the state.He said for producing one kg of rice, 3,800 litres of water is needed as he urged the farmers to grow less water guzzling crops, saying Punjab’s fertile land can produce any crop.On his government’s decision of giving pension to former MLA for only one term, Mann said it has led to a debate in the country.He said the state exchequer is meant for the general public and will be spent only for their welfare.Mann said in Delhi, an MLA gets Rs 54,000 as salary including all allowances whereas a former legislator gets pension worth Rs 7,200.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crop-damage-farmers-to-get-compensation-before-assessment-says-cm-mann-381016
26-03-2022||New Delhi||Supreme Court reserves verdict on plea to enhance Navjot Sidhu's sentence in road rage case||The Supreme Court on Friday reserved its verdict on a petition seeking review of its order letting off PCC ex-chief Navjot Singh Sidhu with a fine of Rs 1,000 in the 1988 road rage case in which a man had died.Acquitted in 1999A Bench led by Justice AM Khanwilkar reserved the verdict hearing arguments from senior advocate AM Singhvi, representing Sidhu and senior counsel Siddharth Luthra for review petitioner.Describing it as an extraordinary case, Singhvi submitted that the Sidhu didn’t have any intention to kill, no personal enmity, no motive, no violation of bail conditions and the top court had even suspended his conviction to enable him contest polls after he resigned following his conviction.He urged the Bench not to enhance the sentence, saying the top court doesn’t interfere with the sentence, except in death penalty cases of “rarest of the rare” category.Luthra, however, said, it didn’t matter if there was no intention to cause death. The intention to cause an injury of a kind that was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature was sufficient to attract a higher punishment, he added.The petitioner has sought a review of the Supreme Court’s 2018 order letting off Sidhu with a fine of Rs 1,000 in the 1988 road rage case in which one Gurnam Singh had died. Sidhu was acquitted of homicide charges May 15, 2018, by the top court but convicted of voluntarily causing hurt to the deceased and ordered to pay a fine of Rs 1,000. The Supreme Court had on September 12, 2018, agreed to consider a petition seeking review of its May 15, 2018, order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/road-rage-sc-reserves-verdict-on-plea-to-enhance-sidhus-sentence-380778
26-03-2022||Karam Prakash||Only one neurosurgeon in state, patients at receiving end||Patiala, March 25Patients of spinal cord and traumatic brain injuries (TBI) are at the receiving end as there is only one government neurosurgeon in the state.According to experts, spinal cord and TBI are common in road mishaps and such cases are generally rushed to government hospitals. In the absence of a specialist, these patients are referred to PGIMER, thereby, golden hours are lost and majority of patients lose life due to this.Ironically, even tertiary healthcare institutes — Government Medical College and Hospital Patiala and Amritsar — don’t have neurosurgeons.It has been learned that the lone neurosurgeon in the government health sector is posted at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot.Officials at the Government Medical College in Patiala said they had a neurosurgeon at the hospital, who resigned in 2020. Notably, owing to lack of a functional OT, he couldn’t perform even a single surgery and eventually had to resign. The Health Minister could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.Low pay a reasonHealth experts said super-specialists do not join government set-up due to ‘low salary’ and perks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/only-one-neurosurgeon-in-state-patients-at-receiving-end-380759
26-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Magistrate's refusal to entertain FIR registration plea isn't clean chit: High Court||Chandigarh, March 25The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the refusal of a magistrate to refer a case to the police under Section 156(3) of the CrPC and treating the matter like a private complaint did not tantamount to declaration of the other person/party’s innocence. Justice Jasjit Singh Bedi added that a Magistrate had the discretion to decline a complainant’s prayer under Section 156(3) and treat the case like a private complaint as envisaged under Chapter XV CrPC.The ruling by Justice Bedi came in a land dispute after one of the parties moved the HC for quashing an order passed by a Judicial Magistrate First Class, vide which his application under Section 156(3) was dismissed and the court directed the complainant to get himself examined, thereby treating the matter as a complaint case.Refusing to interfere with the order, Justice Bedi added a perusal of the provisions of the CrPC and the settled proposition of law clearly revealed that the Magistrate had the discretion to refer the case to the investigating agency under Section 156(3) for the registration of an FIR, which would be at the pre-cognisance stage. He could also choose to take cognisance and treat the complaint as one under Chapter XV CrPC, record the complainant’s statement and proceed thereafter in accordance with law. “In view of it, no fault can be found with the Magistrate having exercised one of the two options available to him,” Justice Bedi asserted.Dismissing the petition, Justice Bedi added the Magistrate may, in addition, also order another inquiry under Section 202 of the CrPC, if he thought it fit to satisfy himself regarding the allegations. The complainant, as such, had multiple opportunities to bring forth all the necessary material before the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/magistrates-refusal-to-entertain-fir-registration-plea-isnt-clean-chit-high-court-380760
26-03-2022||---||Will put end to mobile use, VIP treatment in jails: Bains||Patiala, March 25Jails Minister Harjot Singh Bains today said the AAP government would put an end to use of mobile phones by jail inmates, adding strict action would be taken against officials found guilty of laxity.Talking to mediapersons during a surprise visit to the Patiala Central Jail, the minister said: “A popular Punjabi song talks of people getting calls from jail inmates. We will put an end to this culture. All illegal activities being run from jails will end in the coming days.”Meanwhile, referring to media reports about SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia being given alleged preferential treatment in the jail, Bains said: “All inmates will be treated equally. Henceforth, no VIP treatment will be allowed to anyone.” The Tribune had highlighted how jail officials had allegedly allowed meetings to Majithia.Bains said the government would introduce a new technology to put an end to all illegal activities being run from inside jails.The state government was planning to set up de-addiction centres inside the jail premises as around 40 per cent of the inmates were addicts, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-put-end-to-mobile-use-vip-treatment-in-jails-bains-380761
26-03-2022||---||New Rajya Sabha members given  certificate||Chandigarh, March 25All five Rajya Sabha (Upper House) candidates from Punjab, who were elected unopposed on Thursday, secured their certificates on Friday.Four candidates received their certificate by hand, while Harbhajan Singh’s certificate was received by his authorised representative.While Sanjeev Arora received his certificate from Punjab Chief Electoral Officer-cum-Observer S Karuna Raju and RS Election Returning Officer-cum-Vidhan Sabha Secretary Surinder Pal, Sandeep Kumar Pathak, accompanied by Cabinet Ministers Harpal Singh Cheema and Lal Chand Kataruchak, was given the certificate by Pal.In the evening, Raghav Chadha, a representative of Harbhajan Singh, and Ashok Mittal received their certificates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-rajya-sabha-members-given-certificate-380764
26-03-2022||Abohar||11 arrested with contraband||The police have arrested 11 persons for illegally possessing drugs. Cops seized 2 kg of ganja and Rs 1.25 lakh from Shivaji Yadav of Gopalganj, Bihar, 230-gm ganja from Rajesh Shah.The police recovered 10-gm heroin from Sagar, 50-gm smack from Harkamal Singh, 11 gm from Prince and Naveen of Raisinghnagar, 7-gm smack from Inderjit and Vijay, 130-gm opium from Ajay and 90 gm from Sukhwinder. Mohammad Arif was held with 4-kg poppy husk and Jaswinder Singh with 800-gm. The accused have been held. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/11-arrested-with-contraband-380765
26-03-2022||Our Correspomndent||Woman shot, youth hurt along Himachal border||Hoshiarpur, March 25A woman was killed and a youth injured in a firing incident near Surangwari on the state’s border with Himachal Pradesh here this morning.Soon after the incident, there was confusion over the jurisdiction as the HP Police took stock of the situation. Later, it came to the fore that the place of crime fell under the Hariana police station in Hoshiarpur.The police were yet to register an FIR as investigation was on. According to information, around 9 am, Rajneesh of Tantpalan village and his aunt Raksha Devi (deceased) were going to the Daulatpur Chowk on a bike when a youth opened fire at them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-shot-youth-hurt-along-himachal-border-380767
26-03-2022||Sangrur||Sangrur ex-SP, DSP, jail warden booked for graft||Former Superintendent, Deputy Superintendent and warden of the Sangrur jail have been booked after a retired Air Force officer alleged that the accused “took money from him when he was lodged in the jail”. Sangrur SSP Swapan Sharma said a retired Flight Lieutenant has alleged that the accused took money from him while he was lodged in the Sangrur Central Jail. “We have registered a case against former Sangrur jail SP Balwinder Singh, former DSP Amar Singh and jail warden Dhana Singh,” said the SSP.“Balwinder was posted here from December 16, 2019, to December 29, 2020,” he said.A case has been registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Prisons Act. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-ex-sp-dsp-jail-warden-booked-for-graft-380768
26-03-2022||Bathinda||Council ex-chief booked for assault on SHO||Rampura Phul MC former chief Surinder Kumar, alias Ninni Bansal, was today booked for allegedly assaulting the incharge of a police station. Phul police station SHO Manpreet Singh claimed, a few days ago, Bansal had an argument with Chamkaur Singh, security staffer at his sheller. ASI Jaswinder Singh had called Bansal to the police station, where the latter allegedly attacked the SHO. Bansal, however, accused the police of beating him up and claimed he had helped AAP MLA Balkar Sidhu in the poll. A case under Sections 332, 353, 186 and 506 of the IPC has been filed against Bansal. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/council-ex-chief-booked-for-assault-on-sho-380769
26-03-2022||Chandigarh||4 senior Punjab cops shifted, SS Srivastava is new ADGP, Intelligence||In transfer orders issued on Friday, Prabodh Kumar, Special DGP Investigation, Lokpal, has been posted as Special DGP Intelligence. SS Srivastava, ADGP Traffic, has been posted as ADGP Intelligence in place of Amardeep Singh Rai, who has been posted as ADGP Traffic. Gurpreet Kaur Deo, ADGP, Administration, has been appointed as Chief Vigilance Officer of Punjab Police in place of Ishwar Singh, ADG-cum-Director Vigilance. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-senior-cops-shifted-380771
26-03-2022||Muktsar||Two hurt in bus mishap||Kin allege police inactionAbohar: Relatives of a woman who had gone missing from Sherewala village with her child four days ago staged a dharna at Wahabwala police station on Friday. The police officials said the complaint was registered and search was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-hurt-in-bus-mishap-380773
26-03-2022||---||Punjab ex-MLAs to get pension for only 1 term||Chandigarh, March 25Doing away with the practice of drawing pension for each term served, Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann on Friday said former MLAs would now get the benefit for only one term. The officers concerned have been directed to work out amendments to the existing pension scheme.Money saved to go into public welfareIn a video message, Mann said, “Crores of rupees being given as pension to former MLAs will now be spent on public welfare. A reduction will be made in their family pensions as well.”An MLA gets a monthly pension of Rs 75,150 for one term. Thereafter, an additional 66 per cent of the pension amount is given for each subsequent term. Official figures reveal that 325 former MLAs are drawing pension from the state treasury and 225 of them are eligible for more than one pension.Five-time CM Parkash Singh Badal, who voluntarily gave up his pension for public cause, was eligible to get Rs 5,76,150 per month. Other prominent pension beneficiaries included former CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, Congress leader Lal Singh and former minister Sarwan Singh Phillaur. They are at present eligible for a pension of Rs 3.25 lakh each. Senior leaders BS Bhunder and SS Dhindsa are drawing Rs 2.25 lakh each. #Bhagwantmann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ex-mlas-to-get-pension-for-only-1-term-380758
26-03-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Power crisis looms in Punjab as coal prices soar||Chandigarh, March 25The never-seen-before increase in the prices of coal, which is needed to fuel thermal power plants, has led to a sharp jump in the cost of power production. This has not just burdened the state power utilities, but has also led to threat of a looming power crisis as plants shut down.Release entire allocation, Centre urged1,000 MW Average rise in electricty demand7,395 MW- 8,490 MW Daily requirement during past fortnight15,000 MW Expected demand in paddy seasonA unit of GvK Power at Goindwal Sahib and another of Guru Gobind Singh Super Thermal Power Plant at Ropar have shut down. Two units of Talwandi Sabo Power Limited are reportedly running on less capacity due to coal shortage, confirm official sources. The coal linkage to the private power plants is reportedly less than their installed power production capacity. Also, the high cost of coal has led to the state not getting its share of 475 Megawatt from Coastal Gujarat Power Limited Tata Mundra Plant, which has stopped supplying power to the state, in spite of a power purchase agreement. PSPCL officers say against an agreement to sell power to Punjab at Rs 2.90 per unit, they are demanding Rs 5.50-Rs 6 per unit, asking Punjab to share the increase in cost of imported coal.As power demand in the state rises by an average of 1000 MW over the corresponding period last year, because of the early onset of summers, PSPCL struggles hard to meet the demand. Over the past fortnight, the daily power demand in Punjab has varied between 7,395 MW to 8,490 MW. As of now, no power cut on any category of consumer is being imposed and we are meeting our daily demand, a senior official in PSPCL said.To make matters worse, even the rates of power that is available for sale on the power exchange have gone up by 450 per cent. Data available with The Tribune shows that the rate of power on the exchange was Rs 3.86 per unit in March 1, which has increased to Rs 18.67 per unit today. “For the past two days, we have not bought any power on the Exchange. Since there is also no surplus, Punjab has also not sold any power,” said a senior officer.Exchange rates up 450%The rates of power that is available for sale on the power exchange have gone up by 450 per cent. Data available with The Tribune shows that the rate of power on the exchange was Rs3.86 per unit in March 1, which has increased to Rs18.67 per unit #punjabpowercrisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-crisis-looms-as-coal-prices-soar-380740
26-03-2022||---||Punjab anti-corruption helpline: 1st arrest as clerk lands in vigilance net after complaint on anti-graft helpline||Jalandhar, March 25A clerk at the tehsildar office here has been arrested in connection with one of the first formal FIRs to be registered on the basis of a complaint received on Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann’s newly launched anti-corruption helpline.This is the first such arrest after the launch of helpline ‘9501200200’ on March 23. In the complaint filed yesterday, the complainant had alleged a woman clerk at the Tehsildar-1 office had demanded a bribe of Rs 4.80 lakh to facilitate job.ALSO READ: Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann orders FIR against clerk after plaint on anti-corruption helplineClerk ‘takes’ Rs4.80L bribe promising jobUpon verification, the complaint was found to be true, said officials of the Vigilance department today. The woman was arrested last night after a detailed investigation by the department.The clerk, Meena, had allegedly accepted Rs 4.80 lakh from the complainant over a period of nearly one year. Vigilance sources said the complainant, who met the clerk at a wedding in Bhogpur a year ago, had been promised a job for his daughter at Ludhiana in lieu of graft.Most of the money was transferred to the clerk’s accounts, while Rs 1 lakh was handed over in cash.After the complaint and subsequent investigation, an FIR under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, was lodged against the clerk.The clerk, who is two months pregnant, was taken into custody after a medical check-up at the Civil Hospital and clearance from doctors.Meenu has been placed under suspension. During the period, she would report to the SDM office at Nakodar.Sources at the Civil Hospital said Meenu was brought last night after her arrest, when she complained of nausea and sickness. She remained admitted overnight and was discharged this afternoon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1st-arrest-on-anti-graft-helpline-plaint-380741
26-03-2022||Balwant Garg||Punjab construction activities take hit as sand prices skyrocket||Faridkot, March 25With record hike in sand prices, being sold at Rs 90 to Rs 100 per quintal for the last one week, most of the building construction activities have come to a halt in the area.Against the state government’s fixed price of Rs 5.5 per cubic feet at sand pits, sand is being sold at Rs 36 to Rs 40 per cubic feet in the retail market here. One cubic feet sand weighs around 40 kg due to moisture content.Contractor stopped from mining in malwa regionAll time high rate of sand is attributed to its almost non-availability in the retail market. After the AAP government assumed charge in the state, illegal sand mining is negligent due to tightened noose around miners in the area.Vijay Kumar Garg, superintending engineer in the Water Resources Department, said a contractor, who was allotted the clusters in Ferozepur and Moga, two main sources of river bed and floodplain mining, was stopped from mining for non-payment of royalty since October 2021. His contract ends on March 31, 2023.Though we stopped mining by him, we have already started the process to annul his contract and it will be allotted to a new contractor as per the state government policy, said Garg. Due to this, Ferozepur, Faridkot, Fazilka, Moga and Muktsar districts are facing a shortage of sand, he said.The Mines and Geology Department was merged with the Water Resources Department some time back.However, insiders in the sand business said while the contractor was stopped from mining sand and gravel in the last week of December 2021, the primary raw material for all kind of concrete construction was freely available in the local markets at Rs 65 to Rs 70 per quintal till the second week of March. As there were no visible check on illegal sand mining in the area, so it was readily available but at high prices. But after the AAP government assumed charge, illegal mining on the river banks and floodplains has halted. Now, sand is being mined at some farm clusters in rural areas, where the quality is poor.For this reason, buyers are forced to pay hiked price of Rs 90 to Rs 100 per quintal, which is only available here, said a dealer in construction material in Faridkot. As the construction work has come to halt in the absence of sand, there is considerable fall in the sale of cement, iron and other building materials also in the region, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/construction-activities-take-hit-as-sand-prices-skyrocket-380742
26-03-2022||Vijay C Roy||Crop diversification: Mustard loses out on lower yield in Punjab, Haryana||Chandigarh, March 25While in the ongoing marketing season, Punjab and Haryana have witnessed an increase in area under mustard cultivation, mainly on account of better prices they received last year, farmers in both states still prefer wheat, which is sown on 60 lakh hectares compared to 8.20 lakh hectares under mustard cultivation.For both states, mustard is the main oilseed crop, which constitutes around 96-99 per cent of the total oilseed production. In comparison to wheat, the total area under mustard is likely to touch around 50,000 hectares in Punjab and around 7.66 lakh hectares in Haryana — the area in neighbouring state is larger because the crop is grown in rainfed area.According to scientists, besides other factors, higher profits play a key role in farmers preferring wheat to mustard.If both crops are sold at the MSP, wheat fetches better returns per acre than mustard. “The yield of wheat is three times more than mustard. If we consider last’s year MSP, it was Rs 1,975 for wheat, against Rs 4,650 for mustard. So, considering an average yield, we have found that on an average, a farmer earns Rs 13,500 more if he cultivates wheat. So, better remuneration is the main motivating factor,” says Dr Raj Kumar, Principal Extension Scientist (Agricultural Economics), Punjab Agricultural University.The highest per acre yield of wheat is around 22 quintals, while that of mustard is seven. This year, more farmers opted for mustard as it fetched higher returns and was sold over Rs 7,000 per quintal above the MSP.Absence of end-to-end mechanisation is another crucial factor. In case of wheat, there is end-to-end mechanisation, right from sowing to harvesting, which has come as a saviour for farmers, as they are dependent on migrant labours. In case of mustard, there is absence of mechanisation especially at the harvesting level, so a significant labour is required to harvest the crop.Further, there is price volatility in case of mustard, making it dependent on market forces. In case of wheat, profit is guaranteed as farmers are assured MSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mustard-loses-out-on-lower-yield-380743
26-03-2022||Chandigarh||Congress: Attempt to 'coerce' sarpanches to join AAP||The Congress has slammed the AAP for stopping development projects in nearly 300 panchayats in the state and demanded immediate resumption of such works.Taking up the issue with Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann, Congress’ Qadian MLA Partap Bajwa said 11 type of grants had been withheld, including those for development, cattle fair, liquid waste management, solid waste management, memorial gates, crematoriums and burial grounds, installation of solar lights, modernisation of villages with half the population from SC community and for infrastructure gap filling scheme for optimum utilisation of assets in villages.Even grants under the Rashtriya Gram Swaraj Abhiyan or the construction of community centres in villages had been withheld, he said.“By stopping the disbursal of these grants, the Government of Punjab will negatively impact the development of villages. It seems this action was taken to engineer defections from the Congress at the grassroots. As a party elected on a platform of change, I believed you would be the last person to encourage ‘aaya Ram, gaya Ram’ kind of politics,” he said.Congress leaders, including Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh, Aruna Chaudhary and Sukhjinder Randhawa, said the decision to stop grants was a direct attack on grassroots democracy and an attempt to coerce the elected sarpanches and panches to join the AAP. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-attempt-to-coerce-sarpanches-to-join-aap-380744
26-03-2022||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu slams AAP for seeking Centre's aid||Day after CM Bhagwant Mann met PM Narendra Modi seeking a special financial package of Rs 1 lakh crore, former PCC president Navjot Sidhu targeted AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal and the CM on Friday.Referring to Kejriwal’s pre-poll statement of generating Rs 30,000 crore by ending corruption and Rs 20,000 crore by checking sand mafia, he said it was a paradox to see the AAP government now going with a “begging bowl” to seek Rs 50,000 crore annually from the Centre. — #bhagwant mann #navjot sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-slams-aap-for-seeking-centres-aid-380745
26-03-2022||Lambi (Muktsar)||Punjab should get maximum financial package, says ex-CM||A day after Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and demanded Rs 1 lakh crore financial package for the state, former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal today said the Centre should give maximum financial package to the state.Interacting with mediapersons in his Lambi constituency today, Badal said, “I don’t know how much money the Centre can give to the state, but I have always said Punjab should be given maximum money as financial package.”About the farmers’ protest today, he said, “The farmers’ issues are yet to be resolved. A number of crops are still not getting the minimum support price (MSP). The farmers even lodged protests in the past and everyone should support them now too.”Badal said the other parties were now trying to capture the SGPC and hold sway in the gurdwaras. “I have already warned people in this regard,” he said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-should-get-maximum-financial-package-says-ex-cm-380746
26-03-2022||New Delhi||Look into Rajoana's  petition: Supreme Court to Centre||The Supreme Court has asked the Centre to immediately look into the mercy plea of Balwant Singh Rajoana for commuting the death penalty awarded to him in former CM Beant Singh’s assassination case.“The matter shall immediately be looked into by the authorities concerned, including the Government of India, and the CBI,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice UU Lalit ordered on Thursday. Convicted of assassinating Beant Singh in 1995, Rajoana has been in jail for 25 years awaiting execution. His mercy petition has been hanging fire for more than eight years.The Bench said despite the Centre seeking time to spell out its stand, “nothing has been done in the matter and the learned counsel appearing for Union of India has no clear instructions in the matter”. The top court ordered the CBI to make the proposal for or against commutation of death penalty in two weeks. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/look-into-rajoanas-petition-supreme-court-to-centre-380747
26-03-2022||---||Bathinda MLA refuses official vehicle, security||Bathinda, March 25Bathinda Urban MLA Jagroop Singh Gill has refused to take a government vehicle or security cover. Gill is these days seen moving around in his Wagon R car without any security detail.Gill is among a few leaders in the new government to have shunned security cover or declined an official car, which he is entitled to as an MLA. After taking oath as an MLA, Gill is learnt to have received a call pertaining to a government vehicle, an Innova, but he declined.Talking to The Tribune, Gill said: “I am against VIP culture. I had written a letter requesting not to provide security, but the local police sent a few security personnel. But I don’t take them along. I will again ask them to take back the security personnel. I am a common man and don’t need security.” He has also declined to take an official vehicle. Gill says he owns two cars and doesn’t require an official vehicle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-mla-refuses-official-vehicle-security-380748
26-03-2022||Chandigarh||Won't spare those selling wheat from outside Punjab at MSP:  Civil supplies minister||The Punjab Government will take strict action against unscrupulous elements trying to sell on MSP wheat procured at lower rates from other states.Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Lal Chand Kataruchak said the MSP was only for farmers and not for traders who purchased the produce of farmers for a song and sold the same in mandis here on MSP to earn handsome profits. “This is nothing but sheer organised loot of the precious government funds and taxpayers’ money,” he said.Government Will buy every single grainThe AAP government will buy every single grain of farmers’ produce and ensure they don’t face difficulty during procurement. —Lal Chand Kataruchak, Food, Civil Supplies MinisterThe minister further pointed out the DGP had been asked to put up checkpoints at the state border crossings and ensure thorough checking of all trucks laden with wheat entering Punjab. “Unscrupulous elements will not be spared,” said the minister, while urging farmers, NGOs and public to assist the state government in identifying element trying to sell wheat in mandis illegally.Underscoring the preparations for the upcoming kharif marketing season, the minister said all necessary arrangements had been made with more than 2,300 mandis fully geared up to receive farmers from April 1.The state had received “bardana” (jute bags) in ample quantity. Robust arrangements were being made for adequate transport and labour. The minister exhorted farmers to bring dry produce to the grain market to ensure prompt purchase of their produce. “The government will buy every single grain of farmers’ produce and ensure they don’t face difficulty,” he added. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-spare-those-selling-wheat-from-outside-punjab-at-msp-380750
26-03-2022||Mohali||Will revive stir, if needed, says Tikait||The farmers’ struggle was not over and if the Centre felt the Samyukt Kisan Morcha was divided, it was wrong, said SKM leader Rakesh Tikait here today. Addressing around 3,000 members of nearly 50 farm unions and social organisations near Amb Sahib Gurdwara here, Tikait said if the need arose, they would hold the agitation again.The farmers demanded withdrawal of decision to end permanent representation of Punjab and Haryana members in the BBMB, action against those responsible for distorting Sikh history in syllabus books of the Punjab School Education Board, dismissal from the Union Cabinet of Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Khiri case and punishment to Ashish Mishra and other accomplices, release of imprisoned farmers, law to fix the MSP for all crops as per the recommendations of the Swaminathan Committee and guaranteed procurement of these crops under the MSP.A 35-member delegation led by Tikait and Dr Darshan Pal submitted a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind through Governor Banwarilal Purohit. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-revive-stir-if-needed-says-tikait-380751
26-03-2022||Nitin Jain||Will cleanse system, fulfil poll promises, says MLA||Ludhiana, March 25Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Hardeep Singh Mundian, 46, scripted history by winning the rural Assembly seat Sahnewal in Ludhiana district by defeating the two-time sitting SAD legislator and former minister Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, who ended third in a triangular contest. Except the SAD and the Congress nominees, all other 16 candidates in the poll fray lost their security deposits as they failed to garner even 16.67 per cent of the total polled votes.Eradicate drug menaceWe will also eradicate the widespread drug menace, and improve education and health facilities, apart from upgrading infrastructure. —Hardeep Singh Mundian, AAP MLAA matriculate businessman, dealing in building material and running a hotel, Mundian had switched over to AAP a few months ago after his previous stints in the Congress and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP). He had also contested as an Independent candidate in the past. In the recently concluded elections, Mundian polled 61,515 votes, which accounted for 34.33 per cent of the total 1,79,196 votes polled. He defeated the Congress nominee Vikram Singh Bajwa, 51, son-in-law of former Chief Minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, who got 46,322 votes, constituting 25.85 per cent of the total votes polled.“The AAP government will cleanse the corrupt system and provide pro-people governance to fulfil all the pre-poll promises made by the party,” the new MLA said.“I got a massive response from people as they were fed up with bad governance and corrupt system during the successive governments run by the traditional parties.”“We will also eradicate the widespread drug menace and improve education, health facilities and upgrade infrastructure besides ensuring better basic civic amenities to all,” the first-time MLA stressed.Sahnewal was part of Koom Kalan and Ludhiana Rural Assembly segments till 2007, before being carved out as an independent constituency following the delimitation in 2009. It had elected SAD’s Sharanjit Singh Dhillon in the past both elections held in 2017 and 2012.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-cleanse-system-fulfil-poll-promises-says-mla-380753
26-03-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Reviving industry is  Batala MLA's agenda||Batala, March 25For young Batala Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Amansher Singh Kalsi, it is the case of being second time lucky. In the 2017 polls, he was all set to bag the ticket, but at the last moment he was denied it.The man was not at all disappointed. For five years, he remained the voice and face of the AAP in Batala. This time he was seen as the “natural candidate.”No more ‘iron bird’Batala was once called the 'iron bird' of the country for the large number of industrial units it had. Barely 200 of the 1,500 units remain now. — Amansher Singh Kalsi, Batala MLASomeone like Gurdaspur Planning Board chief Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar, who has seen him from close quarters ever since his birth, says Kalsi has the potential to raise the bar. “He understands the problems of the city like no other person does,” addedDr Nijjar.Kalsi says his first and foremost priority will be to improve the civic amenities, including widening and re-carpeting of roads and replacing decades-old sewer lines. This may prove to be an uphill task as the Municipal Corporation is controlled by the Congress.“I will sit down with the civic body officials and chart out a plan for welfare of the residents. The political configuration of the MC does not matter. What matters is the will to work for the benefit and welfare of the people. If you have the will, half the battle is won,” he said.Kalsi will also have to take a hard look at the industry. “Batala was once called the ‘iron bird’ of the country for the large number of industrial units it had. This, however, no longer remains true as barely 200 of the 1,500 units remain,” he says. The MLA will have to impress upon the state government to dole out sops to the ailing units.“He will also have to bat for rationalisation of the tax structure. A majority of the factories have shifted to the neighbouring states of HP and J&K because of the favourable tax climate. All in all, it is going to be a Herculean task to provide a fillip to the factories,” said Harinder Singh, a councilor from Ward No. 38.The MLA exudes a lot of confidence and claims that he will sit with leading industrialists of the area and prepare a blueprint which will ensure “the old units do not shift base.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/reviving-industry-is-batala-mlas-agenda-380754
26-03-2022||Malout (Muktsar)||Doctor first, minister examines patients during village tour||Cabinet Minister Dr Baljit Kaur is a doctor first and then a politician. She examined the eyes of some needy people on the spot when she toured some villages in her Malout Assembly segment.Dr Baljit Kaur is an MS (ophthalmology). Before joining Aam Aadmi Party, she served as a government doctor at the Civil Hospital, Muktsar. She had resigned from the job in November last year and started practice at a charitable hospital in Muktsar town.A state awardee eye-specialist, she has created record in conducting eye surgeries in the government sector. Dr Baljit Kaur, 46, defeated the two-time SAD MLA Harpreet Singh by a record margin of 40,261 votes in the recently held elections. She is daughter of former MP Faridkot Prof Sadhu Singh. During her election campaign too, she used to examine patients. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctor-first-minister-examines-patients-during-village-tour-380755
26-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann orders FIR against clerk after plaint on anti-corruption helpline||Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann on Friday ordered the registration of an FIR against a woman clerk after a complaint against her was received on the anti-corruption helpline, said AAP leader Malwinder Singh Kang here. The Punjab CM had launched the anti-corruption helpline on March 23 and it allows people to upload videos of officials asking for a bribe or indulging in other malpractices.ALSO READ: Punjab anti-corruption helpline: 1st arrest as clerk lands in vigilance net after complaint on anti-graft helplineKang said the clerk was posted at the tehsildar office in Jalandhar. She demanded a bribe of Rs 4.80 lakh from the complainant to get a job done, official sources said. “I received a complaint on our anti-corruption action helpline. Directed the authorities for immediate investigation, those caught asking for bribes will face severe consequences. Corruption won’t be tolerated in Punjab now,” Mann said in a tweet.The anti-bribery helpline ‘9501 200 200’ has received around 20,000 complaints so far. However, a majority of these do not have an audio or video proof to support the claim.Meanwhile, the AAP government has suspended the clerk. During the suspension period, her head office would be SDM Office at Nakodar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-says-received-complaint-on-anti-corruption-action-helpline-told-authorities-to-investigate-380667
