27-03-2022||Vijay Mohan||Water level below normal in Himachal dams, surplus in Punjab’s||Chandigarh, March 27As summer sets in over northwest India amidst deficient rain and a looming heat wave, water level in dams in Himachal Pradesh that are crucial for irrigation and power generation remains below normal. The situation in Punjab, on the other hand, is better.The combined storage in two major dams in Himachal Pradesh is 12 per cent below normal for this time of the year, data compiled by the Central Water Commission (CWC) reveals. In Punjab, the current storage, however, is 23 per cent above average.At Bhakra Dam, which lies on the Sutlej in Himachal, the current storage is 26 per cent of its total capacity as compared to the past 10 year average of 33 per cent. The storage at Pong Dam is 28 per cent as compared to 30 per cent over the past 10 years.In contrast, Thein Dam, which lies on the Ravi in Punjab, is filled up to 45 per cent of its capacity as compared to the past 10 year average of 27 per cent. CWC data also shows that the current storage at all three dams this year is better than the previous year for the same period.As far as benefits are concerned, the combined hydel power generation capacity of Bhakra and Pong dams is 1,775 megawatts and the irrigation potential is 676 thousand hectares. Pong has a hydel capacity of 600 megawatts with an irrigation potential of 348 thousand hectares.While temperatures over most parts of northwest India have been above normal on several days during March, the weather department has further predicted gradual rise in maximum temperatures by 2-3 degree Celsius and isolated heat wave conditions over the western Himalayan region, which may spur snowmelt and consequently increase inflow into reservoirs.According to available information, rains in northwest India have also been deficient in spring. While rain was below the long period average in Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh in February, these states remained almost dry in March, affecting inflow into rain fed reservoirs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/water-level-below-normal-in-himachal-dams-surplus-in-punjabs-381278
27-03-2022||Abohar||Woman threatens to end life||3 Pak nationals releasedAmritsar: India released three Pakistan nationals after they completed their prison terms in Indian jails. Sameera, Ahmed Raza and Murtaza Azhar Ali crossed over to Pakistan through the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post on Saturday. Sameera was accompanied by her three and half-year-old daughter, who was born in jail. TNS12-foot breach in canalAbohar: A breach in minor near Chak Radheywala inundated fruit orchard in 40 acres. Farmers said they noticed 12-foot-wide breach and informed the officials concerned. With the help of farmers of Himmatpura village, process to plug the breach was under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-threatens-to-end-life-381070
27-03-2022||Ludhiana||5 held for illegal mining||Five persons have been arrested for illegal mining after a complaint was filed on the anti-corruption helpline released by CM Bhagwant Mann.The arrests came after the Koom Kalan police along with AAP MLA Hardeep Singh Mundian conducted a raid at Balliawal village here on Thursday.Those arrested are Gurnam Singh and Satnam Singh of Koom Kalan, Gurinder Singh and Amanpreet Singh of Gahi Bhaini, and Harkirat Singh of Doaba Bhaini. A case under the Mining Act was registered against the accused on Thursday. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-held-for-illegal-mining-381067
27-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma||MLA: Will work harder to meet expectations||Bhadaur, March 26After defeating former Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, AAP Bhadaur MLA Labh Singh Ugoke has been on the go since Day 1. He says he needs to work harder to meet people’s expectations.“Voters are surprised that all AAP legislators have hit the ground running on assuming office. This is a break from the past. Earlier, MLAs used to disappear after winning elections. This is not the case now,” Ugoke told The Tribune.On the goVoters are surprised that all AAP legislators have hit the ground running on assuming office. This is a break from the past. —Labh Singh Ugoke, Bhadaur MLAThese days, he is working from his Tapa office, but soon he will open an office in Bhadaur. “Apart from completing the paper work for the pending works, AAP legislators will offer free legal services to residents. Party volunteers will visit houses of the needy, learn about their problems and resolve them. Majority of residents are still without basic facilities as education and healthcare facilities are in bad shape,” said Ugoke.The sorry state of healthcare facilities can be gauged from the fact that two hospitals — one each in Tapa and Bhadaur — have been reduced to referral centres.During campaigning, Ugoke had built a narrative of “real versus fake poor” to counter Channi. Ugoke has assets worth Rs 1,29,634.“I belong to a poor family and know the problems of residents. I will visit Chandigarh and meet ministers for the speedy redressal of problems,” added Ugoke.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mla-will-work-harder-to-meet-expectations-381058
27-03-2022||Avneet Kaur||BSP's lone MLA seeks cooperation from govt||Nawanshahr, March 26Nachhatar Pal Singh (47), a first-time MLA from Nawanshahr and the only Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader to have won the Assembly elections in the state, is clear about his priorities. He says all promises he made during his election campaign will be fulfilled and, under his leadership, the constituency will touch new heights.Education, health on agendaMy priorities are to upgrade the educational infrastructure and build a sports stadium and a medical college in the martyrs’ name in the Nawanshahr segment. —Nachhatar Pal Singh, Nawanshahr MLAThis is for the first time since 1972 Nawanshahr voters have given a chance to a party other than the Congress or the SAD. The BSP has won a seat in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha after a gap of nearly 25 years.Singh had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly elections in 2017 on the BSP ticket, garnering just 19,578 votes. This time, however, he made a strong comeback by defeating AAP’s Lalit Mohan Ballu and then Congress MLA Angad Saini by a margin of nearly 6,000 votes.The BSP legislator says it was a hard-earned victory and he is grateful to the people of Nawanshahr for not getting swayed by religion or caste politics and elected a Scheduled Caste person from a general seat.“Nawanshahr has never been divided on religious or caste lines. I will make sure that the constituency remains undivided,” he says.“I welcome the decision of Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann to instal statues of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, BR Ambedkar and Maharaja Ranjit Singh in the Punjab Assembly complex. I hope the government will support all MLAs irrespective of party allegiance and set an example in good governance,” the BSP legislator says.Singh adds that upgrading the educational infrastructure, building a sports stadium and setting up a medical college in the martyrs’ name are his priorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsps-lone-mla-seeks-cooperation-from-govt-381059
27-03-2022||Aman Sood||Power reforms: Instal prepaid meters or lose funds, Modi govt tells Punjab||Patiala, March 26The newly elected Punjab Government faces a challenge following the recent decision of the Centre to withhold power reform funds to the state if it fails to convert all 85,000 smart meters into “prepaid” ones within three months.In a state, where government departments have Rs 2,000 crore power dues, the project can help cut losses and stop power theft.3-month deadlineITS BENEFITIt will cut down on power pilferage85,000 smart meters in stateRs 8,000 cr cost of prepaid meter projectThe Union Ministry of Power, in its March 10 letter to the Principal Secretary (Power), said that “Punjab has not yet prepared a roadmap for the installation of prepaid smart meters”.A senior official of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) said the fund-starved state would need Rs 8,000 crore to implement the scheme, with only 15 per cent of it coming from the Centre. “Around 15 lakh agricultural consumers in the state will oppose the move for installing smart meters, leave aside prepaid ones,” he said.Another PSPCL functionary said, “An ordinary meter costs between Rs 550 and Rs 1,500, while the cost of a smart prepaid meter is in the range of Rs 5,500 to Rs 7,000. The government will bear the cost initially, but it will be extracted from consumers over five years. This is the primary opposition to the Centre’s decision.”Farmers to opposeAround 15 lakh agricultural consumers will oppose the move for installing smart meters, leave aside prepaid ones. —PSPCL officialTo date, Punjab has refused to instal prepaid meters in spite of launching the smart meter project. With a consumer base of more than 1 crore, Punjab loses Rs 1,200 crore through power theft, every year.“While the prepaid meter industry will gain, the government should give prepaid or postpaid option to consumers. But surely the move will help check power pilferage,” said a power sector expert.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/instal-prepaid-meters-or-lose-funds-punjab-told-381044
27-03-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab power crisis: Another unit shut, cuts in rural areas||Chandigarh, March 26Rural areas of the state today witnessed power cuts as one unit of Nabha Power Limited at Rajpura went down, taking the total number of shut thermal units to three. The unit developed a technical snag. It is expected to be functional only after five days.Two units — one at Guru Gobind Singh Super Thermal Power Plant, Ropar, and the other at GVK Goindwal Sahib Thermal Power Plant — have been down for the past couple of days, as the coal shortage continues to threaten the state’s energy security.Sources in the Power Department say unscheduled cuts ranging from one-and-a-half to four-and-a-half hours were imposed in several villages, even as the state government was allowed to draw additional power from the Northern Grid.However, the total power generation in the state went down by almost 1,500 MW. Other than the three units that are down, the Talwandi Sabo Power Limited plant in Mansa was producing less power than its optimum capacity because of severe coal shortage. This plant’s coal stock will not last a day. If coal is not arranged immediately, the power situation could worsen.The total power generation in the state — from thermal, hydro, solar and other renewable energy sources —was 3,853 MW today, though the demand was around 8,000 MW.The state managed to get additional power from the grid, saving other consumers from unscheduled power cuts. Official sources told The Tribune that expensive coal available on the Power Exchange (it was available for Rs 17 per unit) prevented the state from buying power from there.Baldev Singh Sran, CMD, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, said: “It is hoped that the situation will improve by tomorrow. This is because tomorrow being a Sunday, the power consumption of commercial consumers will reduce. The demand in the agricultural sector, too, is low now. By Monday, we hope to make additional arrangements for power.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-unit-shut-cuts-in-rural-areas-381045
27-03-2022||---||Farmers to get crop relief before girdawari: Punjab CM||Mansa, March 26Asserting that successive governments had failed farming and farmers in the state by not taking measures to make agriculture profitable, Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann today said those incurring loss from natural disasters would be duly compensated prior to assessment of quantum of loss to crop (girdawari) in the future.The CM was addressing farmers during an event in Mansa to provide compensation to farmers whose cotton crop was damaged due to pink bollworm infestation last year.In Mansa district, 1.36 lakh acres crop of 56,372 farmers was destroyed due to the attack and the farmers would be provided a relief of Rs 231 crore at the rate of Rs 17,000 per acre. The CM handed over cheques to a few affected farmers during the event. The rest would be provided relief in a phased manner.Mann said: “Had spurious seeds and sprays being used by farmers been kept in check, there wouldn’t have been any crop loss. A thorough probe will be conducted and strict action taken against those who had supplied spurious seeds and pesticides to farmers. The real culprit was not infestation but the then government that supplied poor seeds and pesticides. In the future, farmers incurring any loss from a natural disaster will be duly compensated prior to assessment of quantum of loss to crop (girdawari).”He said: “It is unfortunate whenever crop gets damaged in fields and doesn’t reach mandis. When crop comes under pest attack, does anyone come here to guide you as to which spray or pesticide to be used? It is not just infestation that destroys the crop, there is politics behind it.”“Agriculture is the mainstay of people of the country but owing to indifferent approach of successive governments, it is not being considered a profitable profession by many farmers now and they weigh options of selling their land. But plans are afoot to make farming more lucrative. This will also bring down suicide rate. Just give us some time to bring about reforms,” added Mann.Health Minister Dr Vijay Singla, MLAs Budh Ram (Budhalada), Sukhveer Singh Maiserkhana (Maur) and Gurpreet Singh Banawali (Sardulgarh) were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-to-get-crop-relief-before-girdawari-cm-381047
27-03-2022||Vijay C Roy||Right policy must to boost mustard cultivation in Punjab, Haryana||Chandigarh, March 26Lack of policy support and intervention for oilseed in the last few decades has seriously compromised the edible oil security. However, with growing dependence on imports, there is a dire need to boost domestic production by incentivising farmers, which can be possible by introducing right policy and Punjab and Haryana can play a significant role.Need of the hourCurrently, India’s total consumption of edible oils is about 230 lakh tonne, of which domestic production stands at 100 lakh tonne. The deficit of 130 lakh tonne is met through import. In such a scenario, Punjab and Haryana can play a significant role in increasing oilseed production, especially mustard, a native crop with high oil content (38-43%) and wide acceptability across the nation. Currently, around 8.20 lakh hectares are under mustard cultivation in these two states.Atul Chaturvedi, who heads the Solvent Extractors’ Association (SEA), says: “It’s time to promote oilseed cultivation, especially mustard, in these frontline states. If we ensure higher returns to farmers compared to wheat, there is no reason why they will not shift. Assured offtake will also have to be guaranteed.” According to industry experts and scientists, as a start, a few districts in these states may be encouraged to divert land to these crops and also procurement at assured price may be guaranteed.The likely rise in mustard seed production will result in higher mustard oil output. As a result, the overall edible oil import will decline.“The prevailing situation makes it imperative for the government to formulate a National Mustard Policy. Farmers, who are key stakeholders, need to be one of the main areas of focus in the proposed policy. It should also explore the possibilities of significantly expanding the area under cultivation,” says Vivek Puri, promoter of P Mark Mustard Oil. Experts feel another important policy measure can be to allow the export of branded mustard oil in bulk. Further, the rollout of a policy requires infrastructure, supporting systems and networking capabilities. For this, the industry recommends the constitution of a Mustard Oil Development Board.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/right-policy-must-to-boost-mustard-cultivation-381049
27-03-2022||Chandigarh||Transparent rice milling policy soon: Minister||A delegation of the Punjab Rice Millers’ Association today called on Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Lal Chand Kataruchak here today, seeking a transparent rice milling policy.The delegation led by association president Tarsem Saini also requested the minister to take steps for stopping pilferage of paddy, which is stored in rice mills for custom milling.Every year, pilferage of paddy causes a huge loss to the state exchequer. Kataruchak assured the delegation that a sound policy catering to the interests of rice millers would be framed soon.Meanwhile, in Gurdaspur, Kataruchak today held a meeting with officials of his department, directing them to streamline the wheat procurement process commencing on April 1. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/transparent-rice-milling-policy-soon-minister-381050
27-03-2022||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Move to cut pension arbitrary: Ex-MLAs||The AAP government’s decision to do away with the practice of drawing pension for each term served has not gone down well with former legislators who had served for more than one term.Terming the move an attempt to distract the attention from real issues, SAD (Sanyukt) leader and two-time legislator Jadish Singh Garcha alleged the announcement on the pension was ultra vires as the Centre had considered the right to pension as a fundamental right, which cannot be infringed upon arbitrarily.Shouldn’t be entitledFormer MLAs should not be entitled to pension. One becomes MLA for the welfare of public. It is not a government job. —Parkash Singh Badal, Former CM“The right to pension is a fundamental right under Article 21 and as ‘property’ under Article 300-A,” said Garcha.Former SAD legislator Darshan Singh Shivalik said, “Having suffered a steep fall in income, we rely on pension to meet expenses on travel and hospitality.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/move-to-cut-pension-arbitrary-ex-mlas-381054
27-03-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Punjab Congress leaders in huddle ahead of key meeting||Jalandhar, March 26Ahead of a likely meeting of the Congress legislature party in the coming days to pick the Leader of Opposition, a group of 25 party leaders met over a luncheon meeting at the residence of former MLA Navtej Cheema in Sultanpur Lodhi on Saturday.The meeting was aimed at creating a pressure group in favour of Sukhpal Khaira as the Leader of Opposition and Navjot Sidhu once again as the PCC chief.Besides Khaira, the only party MLA to join the meeting was BS Dhaliwal from Phagwara. Even as the meeting was held in Doaba, from where the party sent nine MLAs to the Assembly, seven abstained.Prominent among those who stayed away were Sidhu’s aides Pargat Singh (Jalandhar Cantt) and Bawa Henry (Jalandhar North).Those present included former minister MS Kaypee, ex-MLAs Rakesh Pandey, Ashwani Sekhri, Sunil Dutti, Davinder Singh Gubhaya, Sukhwinder Danny, Jagdev Singh Kamalu, Pirmal Singh and Rupinder Ruby.The leaders said they felt a clean and vocal Opposition was required to take on the AAP government on various issues, for which Khaira could be the best option as the LoP within the Assembly and Sidhu outside it as the PCC chief.“A meeting of some-like minded, honest and upfront party leaders was held a few days ago wherein eight leaders were present,” said Danny.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-leaders-in-huddle-ahead-of-key-meeting-381055
27-03-2022||Aditi Tandon||When Narendra Modi donated Rs 11 to a Haryana war widow||New Delhi, March 26Sudha Yadav has many warm memories of Narendra Modi.“I can never forget how Narendra Modi, as organisational in charge of the BJP Haryana, went all out in 1999 to mobilise my election donation. The first donation I received was from Modiji himself. He donated to my campaign fund Rs 11 his mother had once given saying they would come to good use one day,” recalls Yadav, a Kargil war widow, who contested the 1999 Lok Sabha election as a BJP candidate.Yadav’s memories of Modi and similar testimonies by several others who have interacted with the prime minister over all these years are now in public domain in the form of a web portal - modistory.in - a volunteer initiative to piece together the life of a leader many describe in their narrations as “enigmatic and exceptional”.Sharing Yadav’s story on the portal, former union minister and sitting Lok Sabha MP Ratan Lal Kataria speaks of how the BJP, on Modi’s suggestion in 1999, decided to field Kargil war widows in the Lok Sabha election.“After a great deal of search, we found Sudha Yadav in Gurugram. Modiji spread a sheet in the party office to invite campaign donations for her. He began by making a donation himself and within half an hour, Rs 7.5 lakh was collected,” remembers Kataria.Yadav, in a separate testimonial on the portal, confirms the development and speaks of how overwhelmed she felt when Modi donated Rs 11 to her campaign.Modistory.in reveals the lesser-known aspects of Modi’s life through recollections of people he met during his journey from an RSS worker to Gujarat CM to the Prime Minister.The portal records testimonies of Modi’s friends who recall the time when the former RSS worker masqueraded as a Sikh during the Emergency in 1975.“Modi adapted the manners and attire of a Sikh so well that even RSS workers could not spot him,” said one of his friends.In his testimony, former Punjab minister Manoranjan Kalia speaks of election tips Modi gave to him once.“Modiji asked me to carry toffees during election campaigns and offer them to kids. That way we can win over not just children but also parents,” Kalia says, narrating another instance where he forgot to pick up Modi from Amritsar railway station but Modi was calm about the lapse and did not make a fuss.In another video, Modi’s former Rohtak-based assistant Deepak Kumar speaks of the prime minister’s commitment to zero wastage. “Modiji once came in late and asked for food. Since there was none left, he spotted a bottle of pickle with some leftover mixture. He cut some onions, prepared a dough with the pickle leftovers and relished parathas made out of the mix,” said Kumar also recalling another of Modi’s ‘khichdi paratha; recipe which even Manohar Lal Khattar used to enjoy at the time Modi was national BJP secretary in charge of Haryana.In another testimonial, former Union finance secretary Hasmukh Adhia remembers how Modi once praised a peon’s handwriting to him. “I felt ashamed when Modiji told me whether I knew that his office peon Pratap had a wonderful handwriting. I thought to myself that I could not even properly recall the names of my peons,” Adhia said.In her narration, paralympian Deepa Malik speaks of how the PM shielded her back when people were patting it as a sign of praise for her paralympic feat. “PM Modi shielded my back. I could not believe that a prime minister could be so sensitive as to know that my back could get hurt as I have a spinal cord injury,” Malik says.The portal, replete with incidents that offer an insight into Modi’s life, also shows how Modi wanted to get admitted to Sainik School as a child with his schoolteacher making the revelation.In yet another testimonial, Kedar Tambe, a Gujarat RSS leader, sheds further light on Modi’s personality.“I once asked Modiji whether he will ever find the time to rest. His reply was – may be in another lifetime. He said he had his task cut out for this life,” Tambe says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/when-as-punjab-incharge-modi-had-advised-manoranjan-kalia-to-carry-toffees-for-kids-during-election-campaign-380955
27-03-2022||Satya Prakash||Supreme Court asks Centre to immediately look into Rajoana's mercy plea in Beant Singh assassination case||New Delhi, March 26The Supreme Court has asked the Centre to immediately look into the mercy plea of Balwant Singh Rajoana for commuting the death penalty awarded to him in former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh's assassination case.“The matter shall immediately be looked into by the authorities concerned, including the Government of India and the Central Bureau of Investigation,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice UU Lalit ordered on Thursday.Convicted of assassinating Beant Singh in 1995, Rajoana has been in jail for 25 years awaiting his execution. The former Punjab chief minister and 16 others were killed in an explosion outside the Civil Secretariat in Chandigarh in 1995.  He was sentenced to death in 2007 by a special court. His mercy petition has been hanging fire for more than eight years.The Bench said despite the Centre seeking time to spell out its stand, “nothing has been done and the learned counsel appearing for the Union of India has no clear instructions in the matter”.The top court ordered the CBI to make the proposal for or objection to commutation of death penalty in two weeks.“The appropriate authority in the Central government shall bestow attention and take the required decision within two weeks of the receipt of the proposal or objection from the Central Bureau of Investigation,” said the Bench – which also included Justice S Ravindra Bhat and PS Narasimha.“The Action Taken Report and the decision in terms thereof shall be placed on record of this case on or before April 30, failing which the Secretary, Department of Home Affairs, and the Director (Prosecution), Central Bureau of Investigation, shall remain personally present along with the record in the court on the next occasion,” it ordered, posting the matter for May 2.The petitioner’s counsel had earlier said the convict’s mercy petition had been pending for almost nine years and the case shouldn’t be adjourned for more than two weeks.Citing Devender Pal Singh Bhullar’s case, the petitioner has claimed that the "delay caused by circumstances beyond the prisoners’ control mandates commutation of death sentence”. The inordinate delay caused agony and adversely affected his physical and mental health, Rajaona contended.Maintaining that pendency of appeals by co-accused has no bearing on presidential pardon granted to a death-row convict, the Supreme Court had questioned the Centre over delay in sending proposal to the President for commuting Rajoana’s death penalty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/beant-singh-assassination-sc-asks-centre-to-immediately-look-into-rajaonas-mercy-plea-380954
