28-03-2022||---||Drug case: Bikram Majithia moves Supreme Court for quashing of FIRs||New Delhi, March 28SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Monday moved the Supreme Court seeking quashing of cases registered against him by the Punjab Police under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.Majithia, who was given protection from arrest till February 23 by the Supreme Court in view of the February 20 assembly polls to contest as an SAD candidate from Amritsar East assembly constituency, had surrendered after the expiry of the period. He is currently lodged in Patiala Jail following rejection of his bail plea by a special court.Majithia – a former minister in the state – termed the cases were politically motivated, contending they had already been investigated by high-ranking police officers.In his first orders to Punjab Police after assuming charge, Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Singh Mann had on March 20 reconstituted the Special Investigation Team (SIT) investigating the drug case against Majithia.IGP-Crime Branch Gursharan Singh Sandhu was given the supervision of the working of the four-member team headed by an IPS officer, Rahul S. The other members are AIG Ranjit Singh and DSPs Raghbir Singh and Amanpreet Singh.The previous SIT was a three-member team headed by AIG Balraj Singh. The SIT was formed to probe allegations against Majithia based on an FIR lodged under various sections of the NDPS Act on December 20, 2021.A Bench led by CJI NV Ramana had on January 31 wondered how several criminal cases were suddenly coming out on the eve of the assembly elections in Punjab. “Sorry to say this, suddenly these cases are coming up before elections and everybody has reasons to suspect some motives... We are in a democracy…We are not saying hold your hands and not control drug mafias. But let the elections take place on February 20…At least allow the candidates to file nominations and contest elections,” the CJI had noted. #bikram majithia #drug case||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drug-case-bikram-majithia-moves-supreme-court-for-quashing-of-firs-381576
28-03-2022||Chandigarh||RBI clears Rs 24,773 crore towards CCL for wheat procurement in Punjab||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday cleared Rs 24,773.11 crore of cash credit limit till April-end this year for the procurement of wheat in Punjab during the coming rabi crop marketing season, a state government statement said on Monday.Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann said that the timely release of CCL (Cash Credit Limit) will go a long way in ensuring seamless procurement of wheat in the state, the statement said.With this, the bulk of the CCL sought by the state government for the purchase of 132 lakh tonnes of wheat for this season has been released by the central bank, it said.Mann has directed the food and civil supplies department to ensure smooth and hassle-free procurement of crops from the farmers and make payments to them beginning April 1, the very first day of procurement.The procurement of wheat for this season will continue till May 31.The Punjab government will procure every single grain produced by farmers, Mann said in a tweet.The central government has fixed the minimum support price of wheat at Rs 2,015 per quintal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rbi-clears-rs-24-773-crore-towards-ccl-for-wheat-procurement-in-punjab-381570
28-03-2022||Nawanshahr (Punjab)||NGT monitoring committee directs Punjab officials to fix deadlines for waste management projects||A monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday directed the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district administration in Punjab to fix deadlines for completion of solid waste management projects, sewage treatment plants and others works.According to an official release, the committee held a meeting with top officials of the district administration, including Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal and heads of the Punjab Pollution Control Board and other key departments.Justice (retired) Jasbir Singh is the chairman of the committee, and former chief secretary S C Aggarwal and renowned environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal are its members.Justice Singh said that officials will have to fix the timeline of each component in the projects, including preparation of detailed project report, tendering, date of execution and completion, and the committee will also check the progress of the projects regularly by visiting the sites.The committee also asked the officials to ensure construction of green belts and boundary walls around the solid waste management sites in the district. Besides, CCTV cameras must also be installed at dumping sites.The members of the committee also asked the officials to mark collection centres of e-waste so that people can dump e-waste there. They also told them to set up stations for monitoring air pollution in the district, said the release.The committee directed that all projects must be completed timely and asked the officials to give “top priority” to the environment “so that we can give a safe future to coming generations”.Further, the committee told the police department to ensure SHOs have frequency metres to monitor the noise level in their areas.The committee also exhorted people to start segregation of waste at home to help the administration in eliminating garbage dumping points in the district.Deputy Commissioner Sarangal assured the committee that the district administration will adhere to guidelines fixed by the NGT and would ensure the directions were followed in letter and spirit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ngt-monitoring-committee-directs-punjab-officials-to-fix-deadlines-for-waste-management-projects-381545
28-03-2022||Karam Prakash||16,000 mohalla clinics to be set up in Punjab, health card for every resident: Singla||Patiala, March 28Extending the Delhi health model to Punjab, Health and Medical Education Minister Dr Vijay Singla on Monday announced that the Aam Aadmi Party Government would set up 16,000 mohalla clinics across the state. Besides, every resident in the state would get a ‘health card’, he added. Singla made the announcements while addressing a gathering at an annual function held at the Government Dental College (GDC), Patiala. The Minister was accompanied by Ajit Pal Singh Kohli and Dr Bablir Singh MLAs from Patiala Urban and Rural, respectively. Singla, who himself is a dental surgeon, said apart from improving rural healthcare, tertiary healthcare institutions like government medical colleges also needed revamping.He urged the doctors of government medical colleges to shun private practice. “We all get Non-Practice Allowance (NPA). Instead of indulging in private practice, a doctor should spend an extra hour at the government hospital itself for poor patients,” Singla said, adding that he didn’t have a magic wand to overhaul the system; therefore, he needed support from everyone. Notably, The Tribune on Sunday highlighted that senior doctors of the Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital were indulging in private practices.Attributing the private practice by doctors to the rampant corruption in the healthcare system, Dr Singla alleged that “in the previous governments, doctors had to give money to Civil Surgeon, Director and ministers as monthly. Now, they don’t have to give a single penny to anyone.”Meanwhile, Singla, who is an alumnus of Government Dental College, Patiala, said the government would soon be recruiting faculty at the two Government Dental Colleges in Patiala and Amritsar. “The quality of teaching is being compromised as there are only 10-11 faculty members against 59 posts. We will soon be hiring faculty in Government Dental Colleges and Medical Officers (Dental) in Civil Hospitals.”Later, the Minister visited the Government Rajindra Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/16-000-mohalla-clinics%C2%A0to-be-set-up-in-punjab-health-card-for-every-resident-singla-381537
28-03-2022||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann, Harpal Cheema slam Centre's move; say Punjab will fight for its claim over Chandigarh||Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann has slammed the Centre’s recent decision about the rules governing the Chandigarh administration employees.Also read: Chandigarh staff to get central service benefits: Amit ShahAccording to Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s statement, Chandigarh administration’s employees, who are currently working under the Punjab service rules, will now come under the central civil services rules.Central Govt has been stepwise imposing officers and personnel from other states and services in Chandigarh administration. This goes against the letter and spirit of Punjab Reorganisation Act 1966. Punjab will fight strongly for its rightful claim over Chandigarh…  Reacting to this, Mann put out a tweet saying, “Central Govt has been stepwise imposing officers and personnel from other states and services in Chandigarh administration. This goes against the letter and spirit of Punjab Reorganisation Act 1966. Punjab will fight strongly for its rightful claim over Chandigarh…”Meanwhile, Punjab Finance Minister Harpal Cheema also accused the BJP-led Centre of trying to usurp the rights of Punjab over Chandigarh, by announcing to impose central service rules over UT employees.He said the Centre is deliberately taking steps to take away Punjab’s claims over Chandigarh. He said the Punjab government is opposed to this. “We will take the fight to the people,” he said. #amit shah #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-slams-centres-move-on-rules-governing-ut-staff-says-punjab-will-fight-for-its-claim-over-chandigarh-381499
28-03-2022||Avneet Kaur||Youth shot dead in broad daylight in Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr, March 28Six armed men gunned down a youth in broad daylight at Nawanshahr on Monday.The deceased was identified as Makhad Kanga, 30.According to police, six assailants riding a Safari SUV fired at least 15 rounds at the youth after he stopped at Ganga petrol station on Rahon Road.They fled the spot after the killing at around 7.30 am.SP Sarabjit Bahia said Makhad was staying with his in-laws at Garcha village for the past few days as his house at Kang village was under construction. He used to travel to his house every morning to tend to the cattle.“On Monday, when he was returning from his house, he stopped at the petrol pump to get fuel for the Activa scooter he was riding. Meanwhile, the men in the Safari started firing at him,” said SP Bahia, adding that he died on the spot.He said the deceased is survived by wife, a son and a daughter.The SP said the crime seemed to be a case of personal rivalry. “Someone from his gang might have shot him as there were rivalries within the group. He also had several criminal cases registered against him," he said.The SP ruled out reports of a gang war saying various other angles, including a love affair and personal enmity, were being investigated.A case under Section 302 of the IPC had been registered against unidentified men, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/armed-men-shoot-dead-youth-at-nawanshahr-petrol-pump-381497
28-03-2022||Chandigarh||Public transport services affected in Haryana as roadways employees join nationwide strike||Public transport services were affected in Haryana on Monday as the roadways employees joined the two-day nationwide strike call given by a joint forum of the central trade unions to protest against the Centre's alleged wrong policies that are affecting farmers, workers and others.Commuters had to face a tough time as the bus services remained suspended at several depots of Haryana Roadways.The roadways employees held protest at many depots in the state as part of the strike.Sarbat Singh Punia, a leader of the joint front of 10 unions of roadways employees, said "in all the depots bus services are suspended"."Only a few buses which are run under the kilometre scheme were operated in the morning in Narnaul, Jhajjar and Chandigarh depots by private operators. Our roadways employees are observing a complete strike," he said.He alleged that the BJP-led Haryana government was not strengthening the Haryana Roadways fleet."This indicates their intent to promote privatisation of the transport services. There were 4,200 buses in the Haryana Roadways fleet about six years back, which have been reduced to 2,600 now and route permits are given to promote private buses. Haryana Roadways needs 10,000 buses in its fleet but the government is not paying heed," he claimed.In some districts, prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC were imposed to maintain law and order during the strike under which a ban has been imposed on the gathering of five or more persons in a 100-metre area of the bus stands, officials said.Punia claimed that employees and workers of some other departments, including public sector banks and municipal bodies, are also participating in the nationwide strike.Meanwhile, public transport buses were plying normally in neighbouring Punjab, officials said."Our bus services are running normally in Punjab," an official of the State Transport Department said.Naresh Gaur, Deputy General Secretary of Punjab Bank Employees Federation, however, said the employees of nationalised bank employees joined the strike and the banking services remained affected in Punjab.A joint forum of central trade unions had given a call for a nationwide strike on March 28 and 29.Their demands include the scrapping of the labour codes, no privatisation of any form, scrapping of the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP), increased allocation of wages under MNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Act) and regularisation of contract workers, among others.The central trade unions that are part of this joint forum are INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/public-transport-services-impacted-in-haryana-as-roadways-employees-join-nationwide-strike-381495
28-03-2022||Aparna BanerjiJalandhar||Sukhpal Khaira: Even if I hadn't been freed, I would have emerged victorious||Being released from jail with exactly 22 days to go for the 2022 Assembly election, Sukhpal Khaira sprang a surprise by winning the Bholath seat by a margin of over 9,000 votes against Panthic stalwart Bibi Jagir Kaur despite the AAP wave in the state.It was the second time that Khaira secured his seat despite the AAP wave. In 2017 (then with AAP), Khaira won Bholath despite the Congress wave in the state and in 2022, he is among the Congress MLAs in Doaba who secured a decisive win despite the AAP tsunami which swept the state. A firebrand leader who is known never to mince his words, especially against powerful adversaries, Khaira has been able to maintain an aura of invincibility despite huge rivals like Bibi Jagir Kaur and his own party colleague Rana Gurjeet Singh.In 2017 and 2022, his Congress (2017) and AAP (2022) rivals also lost their respective security deposits. His 2022 AAP rival (who was also 2017 Congress candidate) got only 13,612 votes this time.Khaira said, “For the last 50 years, our family has been working at the grassroots in this constituency. My father (Akali leader Sukhjinder Singh Khaira who was the education minister of the state) fought the poll in 1972. This was my sixth election, so we have very deep roots in Bholath. People have a strong faith in me. They know that Sukhpal Khaira may be anywhere, but he will always be standing up for the issues of Punjab, besides being a reliable leader. My relations with people are not political.”Though Khaira spent 78 days in Patiala jail, he has been vocal in his criticism against political rivals. During his road show on January 30 in his Bholath constituency after his return, he took on bete noire Rana Gurjeet Singh and ever since the AAP formed government, he has been taking on the AAP on issues ranging from hefty spending on the oath-taking ceremony to the choice of the party’s Raja Sabha nominees.Speaking on what clicked for him in such a short time, Khaira said, “When I had joined the Congress, NRIs and supporters worldwide felt a little bad. They felt that I shouldn’t have gone to the Congress. But after my arrest, all those of them came around. I earned both the sympathy and appreciation of voters. People appreciated the way I defended myself. The situation got even better than 2017. I feel even if I had not been allowed to come out of jail, I would still have won the elections.”He considers his joining the AAP as a blunder. It’s meant for people who are subservient. Kejriwal cannot tolerate people with independent minds. I feel the AAP won’t be able to honour and live up to promises they made for change as the decay is so much. Only freebies cannot get you popularity. You need to take bold decisions like depoliticising the police and civil administration.”Sharing his hopes from the AAP, he says, “It remains to be seen whether AAP will ignore opposition MLAs in traditional style of governance or they will give them their due. If the government does not help me, I will look for alternative arrangements also.”Speaking on the drug menace, Khaira says, “Drugs is a major challenge. At the Patiala jail, of the 2,100 inmates, 50 per cent of them were arrested under the NDPS Act. They were all very petty drugs peddlers, people who have now become addicts. I hope the present government can cut off drugs supply. In my constituency, use of drugs is comparatively less prevalent. My strict watch will be on two-three prime villages, the Hamira belt and Dogranwala, which are two major drug hubs.”Sukhpal KhairaParty: CongressConstituency: BholathVotes polled: 37,254Vote margin: 9,225Vote percentage: 32.42Defeated: Bibi Jagir Kaur (SAD)PrioritiesSUKHPAL KHAIRA says he is getting a 30-km-long road made on the Dhussi Bandh (from the Shri Hargobindopur bridge to the Dhilwan bridge) which is unprecedented and it connects 35 to 40 villages of my constituency. It also connects Majha and Doaba. This road has been completed 75 per cent and 55 km of new roads are also being made. Work on education, drug menace and healthcare will also be among my top priorities. #sukhpal khaira||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bholath-even-if-i-hadnt-been-freed-i-would-have-emerged-victorious-says-sukhpal-khaira-381483
28-03-2022||Avneet KaurJalandhar||Beware! Cyber scammers using AAP’s Rs 1,000 poll promise to defraud Punjab women||As the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has formed government in the state after registering a landslide victory in the Assembly poll, the hackers and cyber scammers have started taking advantage of the party’s pre-poll promise of giving a monthly allowance of Rs1,000 to all women above 18 years.The swindlers are sending WhatsApp messages that attempt to trick innocent people into clicking on a malicious link in order to avail the benefit of Rs1,000 per month as promised by the AAP government.This cyber scam was brought to the notice of The Tribune by Palvinder Singh, cyber expert and founder of Secuneus Technologies based in Jalandhar. He said many women in the past few weeks have approached him to verify the authenticity of the ‘link’ they received via WhatsApp with a claim ‘Aam Aadmi Party Punjab Women Pension Registration’.He said two such messages were being forwarded which read as “AAP government has started Punjab Women Pension 1000 Rs Scheme, registration now open, last date to apply is March 31”. Along with this message, a malicious link has been attached and if one clicks on that link, a Google form appears which asks for the user’s personal details like name, address, mobile number, bank account number and even debit card details.When contacted a few AAP workers to check if any new guidelines were issued to avail this benefit, it was known that the party had released a number for registration in December, 2021 (during campaigning), and that was the only way to register. The messages going viral with a link to register for Rs 1,000 pension are totally bogus, they said.“The woman who forwarded me this link was smart enough to understand that this was a fraud or phishing attack. She said while all other information asked in the form appeared genuine, the column that asked for debit card details made her realise that it’s a fraud,” Palvinder said, adding that as majority of people especially those belonging to rural villages lag behind in cyber-security awareness, the swindlers take advantage of their innocence and loot their hard-earned money in the name of government announcements or schemes etc.He said many such scams were also unearthed during Covid outbreak and lockdown periods, in which many people lost their money worth lakhs by registering themselves on fake Covid websites, which asked them to share bank details to receive relief funds.Palvinder further said fraudsters keep finding new ways to dupe people but if one has to survive in this digital world, he/she needs to remain alert and aware. “We should never share any confidential details with anyone and neither should we believe in WhatsApp forwards, especially related to government schemes or any discount offers,” he added. #cyber crime||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/beware-swindlers-are-on-the-prowl-381479
28-03-2022||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann to make big pro-Punjab announcement today||Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann is expected to make a big announcement on Monday.This was stated rough his social media handles on Monday morning.ਅੱਜ CM ਸਰਦਾਰ @BhagwantMann ਇੱਕ ਵੱਡੀ ਪੰਜਾਬ ਪੱਖੀ ਘੋਸ਼ਣਾ ਕਰਨਗੇ  Mann is expected to share a video message about this on social media.Since assuming office on March 16, Mann has launched an anti-corruption helpline, announced the decision to regularise jobs of 35,000 contractual employees and also stopped multiple pensions to MLAs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-to-make-big-pro-punjab-announcement-later-today-381478
28-03-2022||Muktsar||Two peddlers nabbed||3 held with 25K sedative pillsMuktsar: The police have claimed to nab three persons and seize 25,000 sedative pills from their possession. Muktsar SSP Sandeep Kumar Malik said a car was intercepted near Lalbai village and three persons— Gurpreet Singh, Jaspreet Singh and Sonu Singh— were found carrying 25,000 sedative pills. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the trio. TNSTwo held for minor’s rapeAbohar: The police have arrested two persons for allegedly kidnapping and raping a minor girl. The accused have been identified as Armaan and Sanjay of Chak 9-LNPPS. A case has been registered under Sections 376, 363 and 366A of the IPC and Sections 3 and 4 of the POCSO Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-peddlers-nabbed-381345
28-03-2022||Fazilka||Heroin worth Rs40 cr seized||The BSF claimed to recover eight packets of heroin worth Rs 40 crore today. Jawans deployed near Samaske BOP observed some movement. The jawans opened fire at miscreants, but they managed to escape. During the inspection jawans recovered 8-kg heroin. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heroin-worth-40-cr-seized-381344
28-03-2022||Chandigarh||Revisit change in rules for Chandigarh staff: Oppn||Senior Akali leader Daljit Cheema today asked the Centre to reconsider its decision to impose central government rules on the employees of Chandigarh, saying it went against the spirit of the Punjab Reorganisation Act.“This means denial of right of Capital to Punjab forever. After changes in BBMB rules, this is another big blow to the rights of Punjab,” he said. Congress MLA Sukhpal Khaira said it was a “dictatorial” decision of the BJP government to usurp the rights of Punjab over control of Chandigarh. “It belongs to Punjab and this unilateral decision is not only a direct attack on federalism, but also on Punjab’s share of 60 per cent control over the UT,” said Khaira. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/revisit-change-in-rules-for-ut-staff-oppn-381343
28-03-2022||---||Punjab Speaker tenders apology to Akal Takht over cow worship||Amritsar, March 27Vidhan Sabha Speaker Kultar Singh Sandhwan has tendered an apology to the Akal Takht over worship of cow at a gaushala, which went against the Sikh tenets.Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, however, has not received the apology letter submitted by Sandhwan last night.After flak from the Sikh Sangat, Sandhwan paid obeisance at the Golden Temple last night. He handed over a communique to a manager of the Golden Temple as the Akal Takht secretariat was closed.The secretariat did not open today due to weekly off. The apology letter, wherein he stated he had on an invitation gone to the gaushala, where cow worship was going on, is likely to be received by the Jathedar tomorrow.He said the unintentional mistake had hurt the Sikh sentiments and he apologised to the Panth for the same. He stated he was committed to his religion but at the same time respected other religions too. A video in this regard had also gone viral on the social media. #akal takht #giani harpreet singh #kultar singh sandhwan #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/speaker-tenders-apology-to-akal-takht-381342
28-03-2022||---||Parkash Singh Badal refers to Delhi CM as 'Kesriwal'||Muktsar: The grand old man of Punjab politics, former Chief Minister and Akali Dal patriarch Parkash Singh Badal, is often seen targeting Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal in his public speeches. However, Badal regularly refers to him as ‘Kesriwal’. Recently, while speaking in his Lambi Assembly segment as part of his thanksgiving tour, Badal said: “Kesriwal and other are trying to capture the SGPC...,” much to the amusement of the audience. A kind gestureAbohar: Rukmani Riar, second Punjabi woman to serve as District Collector at Sriganganagar, surprised Jaspal Kaur, an elderly Punjabi woman, by accosting her at the interstate bus terminal recently. The DC inquired in chaste Punjabi about the class her granddaughter was studying in. The woman replied that the girl had dropped out of the school. She said her son was suffering from tuberculosis, due to which his wife had left the house along with her two sons, leaving behind their daughter. Due to poverty, it was not possible to educate her. After listening to her patiently, Riar assured the woman of making arrangements for her education and boarding in a government school. The woman later learnt the gentle woman she had talked to was the District Collector.Race for CLP leader’s postGurdaspur: The district has seven seats, out of which five are represented by Congress MLAs. Out of these, three legislators are in the race for the leader of the Congress legislature party who, in any case, will also be the Leader of the Opposition. They are two-time former MP and four-time MLA Partap Singh Bawja, five-time MLA Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, who is also the senior-most member in the Vidhan Sabha, and former Deputy CM and four-time legislator Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. On the very face of it, Partap Bajwa possesses the seniority and experience and in addition has also remained the PCC chief. All three may well be left fuming if the AICC, known for its fickleness when it comes to making decisions, gives the post to somebody else.Winning propositionGurdaspur: The AAP has taken the art of promoting its halqa incharges to a new level. The other day, Cabinet minister Lal Chand Kataruchak gave legal sanctity to the concept by inviting them to his PWD guesthouse room to have direct confabulations with the Deputy Commissioner and other officials. Later, he called all five of them to his room and gave them some do’s and don’ts. This was enough for Congress men to point out AAP had indeed given an official tinge to the otherwise unconstitutional concept. Interestingly, the two party MLAs from this district stayed away. The word was they do not concur with their seniors to nominate losing candidates to such self-styled posts. #arvind kejriwal #parkash singh badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/a-kind-gesture-381341
28-03-2022||Abohar||Rs1.65 cr released for canal repair works||Finally, decks have been cleared for annual repair works of Gang Canal in Punjab and Sriganganagar. Recently, the Rajasthan Government released Rs 40 lakh for the Punjab Irrigation Department.The canal irrigates 303,000 hectares, equivalent to that of Upper Bari Doab Canal. Officials from the Water Resources Department said the canal would be closed from April 1 to 20.The Rajasthan Government has also released Rs 1.25 crore for cleaning and desilting its distributaries.Harvinder Singh Gill, chairman, Ganga Canal project, said a 5-member committee would be formed to oversee the repair works. The Punjab Government has issued tenders for works at 11 different places on the main feeder. Of these, eight tenders have already been floated. The remaining three tenders would likely be floated by Monday.Gill said efforts should be made to recover the outstanding irrigation charges (Abiyana) from farmers and deposit the same with the department. Around Rs 12 crore has to be recovered, but only Rs 1.5 crore has been recovered so far. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-65-cr-released-for-canal-repair-works-381340
28-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma||No service, Lehra villagers catch bus from Haryana villages||Sangrur, March 27Amid tall claims of overall development in Lehra segment by various governments, numerous villages bordering Haryana still do not have bus service.Since many families do not own land, banks refuse to give them loan for two-wheelers and four-wheelers. As a result, residents first go to Haryana to catch a bus and then head to their destination.Najar Singh, former sarpanch of Maniana village, said, “There is no bus service in our area. Earlier, PRTC and private buses used to cross through our villages, but both stopped their services since the past many years. We have met officials concerned, but to no avail.”Will ensure better connectivityI have taken up the matter with the Transport Minister. Hopefully, area residents will soon get better bus connectivity. —Barinder Kumar Goyal, AAP MLA, LehraHe said the lack of bus service has made things worst for them. Najar said in case anyone from Maniana wanted to go to Lehra or Moonak, first he/she would have to go to Tohana in Haryana to board a bus.Another resident said, “The state governments have failed to provide bus service in the area. One can very well imagine the scale of development here.”Lehra AAP MLA Barinder Kumar Goyal said many villages, including Gobindgarh Chatha, Karaunda, Bamninwala, Harigarh Gela, Maha Singh Wala, Maniana and Bishanpur Khokhar had no bus services to date.Goyal said, “There are many other villages—Banarasi, Baupur, Chandu and Thedi—where only one bus is available. I have taken up the matter with the Transport Minister. Hopefully, residents will soon get better bus connectivity.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-service-residents-catch-bus-from-haryana-villages-381339
28-03-2022||Sameer Singh||Lone labour court for 7 Malwa districts sans judge, litigants suffer||Bathinda, March 27Litigants are a harried lot as the labour court in Bathinda is lying non-operational after the judge retired in February.The court caters to litigants of seven Malwa districts, including Faridkot, Muktsar, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Moga, Mansa and Bathinda. As a result, all the litigants were being given further dates of hearing.Last year, The Tribune had highlighted that the labour court remained non-functional for almost the entire year, after the Additional Sessions Judge had retired. Later, a judge was appointed, but she, too, retired recently.Petitioners at receiving endAs of now, there is no clarity as to when the new judge will be appointed at the labour court. Litigants are suffering as their cases are not being heard. —Varinder Sharma, Chief, Bathinda Bar ASSNA lawyer said there’s shortage of judges and Bathinda labour court would likely get a new judge in April. “Litigants keep on asking us when their cases will be settled. We ask them to wait till the new judge is appointed,” he said.Bathinda District Bar Association chief Varinder Sharma said, “As of now, there is no clarity as to when the new judge will be appointed at the labour court. Litigants are suffering as their cases are not being heard. Moreover, new cases are also not getting filed now. We will reach out to the High Court and request to appoint a judge at the court as it caters to seven Malwa districts.”Cases related to pending dues, termination from job and disputes related to benefits are filed at the labour court. #Malwa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lone-labour-court-for-7-malwa-dists-sans-judge-litigants-suffer-381338
28-03-2022||Karam Prakash||Despite relieving order, re-employed officials stay put||Patiala, March 27Even after five months of government ordering that re-employed employees must be relieved, many of them working in the Punjab Building and Other Construction Workers’ (BOCW) Welfare Board are still enjoying the perks of a government job.Ironically, Principal Secretary (Labour) Ravneet Kaur, who is also the vice-chairman of the Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board, had on January 20 issued special directions, as per which employees appointed after retirement had to be relieved by February 28.However, the order was not implemented. Sources allege re-employed officials have been indulging in corrupt activities.Vijay Walia, who has been fighting for the construction workers’ rights, said: “The BOCW Welfare Board, in its 28th meeting in December last year, had decided that no person above 58 years, hired through an outsourcing agency, will continue at his post. Therefore, an inquiry should be conducted to find out why these officials have not been relieved so far?”When contacted, the Principal Secretary said, “I have asked the newly appointed Labour Commissioner to look into the matter and take action immediately.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-relieving-order-re-employed-officials-stay-put-381337
28-03-2022||Parvesh SharmaBarnala||Drugs, alcohol take toll on 3 generations of Barnala family||A number of families of drug addicts here have been complaining about lack of proper treatment of substance abuse victims. One such case is of 26-year-old Joga Singh (name changed) of Dangarh village. He’s from the third generation in his family, which has been addicted to drugs and facing withdrawal symptoms when they try to stop taking drugs.Joga’s 55-year-old father said: “Earlier, my 80-year-old father was a hard drinker and spent all his earnings on drugs. Later, I started taking poppy husk and now my son faces withdrawal symptoms when he tries to quit medical drugs. Though my son and I have taken medicines for de-addiction, the day we do not take the tablet, we experience body pain. We have got addicted to de-addiction pills now.”Will send team for examinationI will send a team for the examination of the father-son duo. We can admit them to our de-addiction centre if they are unable to shun drugs. They must follow the instructions of doctors. —Dr Jasvir Singh Aulakh, Barnala civil surgeonFace withdrawal symptomsEarlier, my 80-year-old father was a hard drinker and spent all his earnings on drugs. Later, I started taking poppy husk and now my son faces withdrawal symptoms when he tries to quit medical drugs. — 26-year-old youth’s fatherThe landless family stays in a two-room house, which does not has a kitchen. Joga’s father, who works as a labourer, is the sole breadwinner of the family. “I have done BEd and want to work. I fell into the trap of medical drugs in 2016 after someone offered me a habit-forming tablet in the name of “tension killer”.Since then, I have tried various medicines to shun drugs, but failed to do so due to lack of de-addiction facilities,” said Joga. His mother and sister, too, are unwell and the family needs aid for their treatment.“I started free treatment of Joga three days ago and he is feeling better now. I’ve seen other such cases too, where the addicts have been facing problem in shunning the de-addiction tablet offered by government hospitals. The state government must look into the issue and get the needful done immediately,” said Dr Parwinder Singh, a private practitioner.Dhanaula Senior Medical Officer Dr Satwant Aujla said the patients must follow the instructions issued to them by doctors. “Many addicts have successfully shun drugs easily and if anyone faces some problem, he could meet me anytime,” he said.Barnala Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh Aulakh said he would send a team for the medical examination of the father-son duo. “We can admit them to our de-addiction centre if they are unable to shun drugs. They must follow the instructions of doctors,” he said. #drug menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drugs-alcohol-take-toll-on-3-generations-of-barnala-family-381336
28-03-2022||---||2 teachers, school mgmt booked for thrashing 3-yr-old||Ropar, March 27The local police have booked two teachers besides the school management for allegedly thrashing a three-year-old student. The minor, admitted to the kindergarten a few weeks ago, reportedly pulled the mask of one of the teachers, following which he was slapped repeatedly by the two teachers. The parents of the child lodged a complaint with the police on March 19 in this regard.Child’s father Raghuraman claimed he had admitted his son to the kindergarten situated at Bela Chowk. He said his child resisted going to the school and kept insisting that the teachers there had been thrashing him repeatedly.Despite this, the patents kept sending the child to the kindergarten. On March 16, he received a call from the school authorities to reach the institute, where he found his child crying. On seeing the CCTV footage of the classroom, they learnt that two woman teachers had slapped him repeatedly, he said.A case under Sections 82 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act and 506 of the IPC had been registered against the two teachers and school management on Friday, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-teachers-school-mgmt-booked-for-thrashing-3-yr-old-381334
28-03-2022||---||Online classes for returnees commence||Amritsar, March 27There’s a glimmer of hope for medical students who were evacuated from Ukraine and it’s neigbouring countries after Russia launched a “military operation” on February 24. Their teachers, despite being stuck in the war-torn country, have commenced online classes.Recently, Kharkiv International Medical University issued an online communiqué for its students to take assistance from the nearest medical colleges and universities in their countries for practical classes.Ambuj Soni, who’s pursuing MBBS, said little hope has emerged after the resumption of online classes. He said, “Our teachers who have taken refuge in different parts of Ukraine are conducting online classes. They are sending presentations as well.”Our teachers who have taken refuge in different parts of Ukraine are conducting online classes. They are sending presentations as well. —Ambuj Soni, MBBS StudentSaumya, a fifth-year student of MBBS, said though there’s no regular timing for online classes, their doubts were being cleared.Displaying a communiqué received from the Ukrainian university, she said it asked them to approach the nearest university or hospital to seek cooperation in conducting practical classes. “I will approach the Government Medical College, Amritsar, to seek their support.”Kayinaat Mahajan, a second-year student, said, “Online class lasts for two hours. We used to have four classes of two hours each on the campus. The staff is mailing us dissertations.” #indians in ukraine #MBBS #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/online-classes-for-returnees-commence-381332
28-03-2022||---||Now, 500 medical students in Philippines on back foot over NMC rules||Faridkot, March 27After Russian invasion of Ukraine left a large number of medical students from the state in the lurch, a new notice by the National Medical Commission (NMC) has come as a jolt to more than 500 students studying medicine in the Philippines.According to the NMC’s latest notification — Foreign Medical Graduate Licentiate (FMGL) Regulations 2021, dated November 18, 2021, it will not consider the Bachelor of Science (BS) as part of medical education to be recognised in India.Bachelor of Science not to be consideredThe NMC said after receiving representations from many medical students pursuing BS in the Philippines prior to the publication of FMGL Regulations, seeking exemption or special dispensation, it has observed that the BS and MD courses are two separate degrees in the Philippines and BS cannot be equated or included in the MBBS, reads the notice by the NMC.In the Philippines, medical education is offered in two parts — BS (Biology) is for 18-24 months which is followed by 48-month doctor of medicine (MD) which is considered equivalent to the MBBS.Students who have taken admission in MD in the Philippines prior to the FMGL regulations can be considered subject to fulfilling other eligibility criteria for registration, reads the notice.The NMC says that it protects the interest of students who have taken admission in MD before the date of notification, which is November 18, 2021.What about those students who have already taken admission in BS in 2020 and 2021, say parents of two medical students studying in Philippines. The father of a medical student from Moga said, “The NMC notice will be implemented retrospectively. This is highly illogical.” #MBBS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-500-students-in-philippines-on-back-foot-over-nmc-rules-381330
28-03-2022||Amritsar||Sikh scriptures brought to UK from Ukraine||Members of the Sikh Dharma International, United Sikhs and Sikh Defence Network, UK, with the assistance of Ukrainians, have shifted Sikh religious scriptures from war-torn Ukraine to England.As per the Sikh ‘Rehat Maryada’, the scriptures were brought to the UK and housed in the National Sikh Museum in Derby (England).Joint effort by sikh outfitsTalking to The Tribune, Simran Singh, a representative of the Sikh Dharma International, said they learnt from acquaintances in Ukraine that the scriptures were no longer safe at a gurdwara situated in Odessa, a port city, which had come under heavy attack from Russian forces.So representatives of various Sikh organisations jointly formed a team to retrieve the religious literature from the gurdwara. The scriptures included sets of Senchis, published in Hindi and Gurmukhi, over 30 ‘gutkas’ of Gurbani and other religious literature.Reaching the war-torn nation was not easy for Simran and other members of his group, who first reached Romania. From there they went to Moldova and with the help of some Ukrainians salvaged these religious texts.He claimed they heard loud explosions near the place during their stay in Odessa. They had also taken along food, medicine and warm clothes for the stranded Ukrainians, which they distributed among them.He said Russia’s invasion of Ukraine had caused great devastation. Most of the women, children and the elderly from different cities of Ukraine have already fled the country to safer places. #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/scriptures-brought-to-uk-from-ukraine-381329
28-03-2022||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Brahm Shankar Jimpa wants booster shot for health sector||Hoshiarpur, March 27First-time MLA from Hoshiarpur Brahm Shankar Jimpa (57) has his priorities clearly defined. He wants to revamp the healthcare and educational system of the constituency, and ensure timely delivery of services to the people.Revenue and Water Resources Minister Jimpa recently visited the Hoshiarpur civil hospital and had meetings with officials. Taking note of the shortcomings, he asked the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) and other officials to plug the gaps and update him on the action taken.Revamp on cardsI want public health facilities to be on a par with private hospitals. I am against political interference in health services. Doctors must work for the people instead of taking orders from politicians. — Brahm Shankar Jimpa, Hoshiarpur MLAHe says, “I am against political interference in health services. Doctors must work for the people instead of taking directions from politicians. Doctors will have the right to refuse my order if they consider it to be not in the interest of the public.” Health facilities, Jimpa says, will be upgraded on a par with the private sector. “I want that people of my segment to prefer Hoshiarpur civil hospital to a private facility. The vacant posts will be filled and more specialties will be added to the civil hospital.”Jimpa, who has studied up to BA II, is also keen on improving the condition of government schools.“I will try my best to implement the Right to Service Act in letter and spirit. The civic body will be overhauled. Being the Revenue Minister, I will ensure the department will be revamped,” adds Jimpa. #brahm shankar jimpa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jimpa-wants-booster-shot-for-health-sector-381328
28-03-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||Will give govt staff freedom to perform: Harbhajan Singh ETO||Amritsar, March 27Minister for Power and Energy Harbhajan Singh is popularly known as ETO in his Jandiala constituency as he resigned from the post of Excise and Taxation Officer (ETO) before joining the politics.An MA in political science, Singh, 53, comes from a humble background and has experience of working with bureaucrats. A 2012-batch PCS officer, he quit the post of ETO to unsuccessfully contest the Assembly elections in 2017 on AAP ticket. He remained loyal to AAP even as many of its MLAs and candidates turned rebel after the 2017 elections. He kept working in his constituency and remained active in public. He used to take private tuitions to meet the expenses after leaving the job.Need their cooperation There are high expectations from AAP which cannot be fulfilled without the cooperation of government officials and employees. — Harbhajan Singh, Jandiala MLANow, he won from the same constituency by defeating Congress’ MLA Sukhwinder Singh Danny. “I wanted to change the system but it was not possible while doing a government job under the leadership of traditional parties. I decided to be part of the revolution against the mainstream parties. It took time, but we finally won,” said Singh.“I have served in the government department and am well aware of the needs and problems of government employees. I will not put any pressure government employee and given them the required freedom. There are high expectations of the people from AAP which cannot be fulfilled without the cooperation of government officials and employees,” said Singh.“I will ensure that there was no inconvenience to the people in government offices. First of all, I have issued the directions to Food Supply Department officials to distribute the wheat at subsidised rates in the villages and towns from the government office or any other commonplace instead of house of a panch or sarpanch,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-give-govt-staff-freedom-to-perform-381326
28-03-2022||Chandigarh||AAP's quid pro quo with Badals exposed: Cong on Patiala jail supdt row||The AAP is under fire from the Congress over the appointment of Sucha Singh, a confidant of the Badals, as the Patiala Jail Superintendent.Raking up the issue, former Jails Minister and Dera Baba Nanak MLA Sukhjinder Randhawa said a person who was charge-sheeted by the department had been appointed as the Jail Superintendent. He was supposedly close to the Badal family. “It is an unfortunate thing to have happened. The government’s negligence in taking action against drugs is clear,” he said.Deeply worryingDeeply worrying that a known associate who has admitted to his proximity to the Badals has been appointed Patiala Jail Superintendent. —Partap Singh Bajwa, Qadian MLAQadian MLA Partap Singh Bajwa said such quid pro quo agreements were disturbing. In a tweet addressed to Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann, Bajwa said: “I urge you to look into the matter immediately and ensure stern action is taken to prevent your ministers from allowing favourable treatment to specific inmates. You have been elected on the platform of change by the people of Punjab. I find it deeply worrying that a known associate who has publicly admitted to his proximity to the Badal family has been appointed as the Superintendent of Patiala Jail.”Former Education Minister Pargat Singh said AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal and CM Mann needed to explain why a person close to the Badals had been appointed as the Superintendent of Patiala Jail, where Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia was lodged. “Is this part of some quid pro with the Badals? Is this the ‘Badlav’ that Punjab wanted?” he sought to know. The Punjab Youth Congress said a secret arrangement to help each other had come out in the open. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/governments-quid-pro-quo-with-badals-exposed-cong-on-jail-supdt-row-381325
28-03-2022||Ropar||Akalis target AAP over closure of Ropar school||The SAD has targeted the AAP government over shutting down of a government school in the Power colony. The PSPCL had invited “expression of interest” from private players in this regard.Senior SAD leader and former education minister Dr Daljit Singh Cheema wrote to Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann and demanded to scrap the plan. The former minister said the AAP, which boasted of the Delhi model of education to won the 2022 Assembly poll, has started selling school buildings within a few days of coming to power.Cong govt’s decisionThe decision to dispose of the building was taken by the PSPCL during the Congress govt. Appropriate action will be taken in this regard. —Dinesh Chadha, AAP MLAHe said in case the state government moves ahead with its plan, the SAD would launch an agitation. Cheema said the school was started 40 years ago, which benefited residents of the Power colony and the Police Lines, besides Paprala, Tapparian, Bheora and Kotla Nihang villages.The former minister said the state government should take over the school building from the PSPCL and in case the government wants to shut down the thermal plant then it should return the land to farmers. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-target-aap-over-closure-of-ropar-school-381324
28-03-2022||Chandigarh||After debacle, Punjab BJP unit may see rejig||Following a crushing defeat, the BJP’s state unit is likely to see a change in its organisational structure as questions are being raised over the conduct of several senior leaders, including district presidents.Having high hopes from the recently held Assembly elections, the saffron party could muster just 6.6 per cent votes and 54 out of 73 candidates of the party lost their security deposit.Following the election results, the party had called a meeting of “vistharaks” in Chandigarh on March 15. It was attended by top BJP and RSS leaders, including BJP’s national joint general secretary (organisation) Shiv Prakash, state general secretary (organisation) Pavan Rana and BJP state president Ashwani Sharma. Around 35 “vistharaks” attended the meeting.Sources said the party “vistharaks” were asked to submit written reports regarding the election debacle. It was a common view that ground leaders failed to take the campaign to people. Serious questions over the conduct of the leadership were also raised.Sources said following the adverse reports of some of the “vistharaks”, there was a likelihood of change in the party leadership. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-debacle-punjab-bjp-unit-may-see-rejig-381322
28-03-2022||Aparna Banerji||Some Jalandhar councillors worked for AAP: Congress MLAs||Jalandhar, March 27At a Congress review meeting here today, objections were raised against certain councillors who might have been working for the AAP.Divisions among party workers and leaders, and lack of diligent work by some councillors were among key issues discussed at the meeting held at the Congress Bhawan to assess the poll debacle in the state.The meeting was also aimed at gearing up cadres for the upcoming MC election in December. MP Santokh Chaudhary, MLAs Pargat Singh and Bawa Henry, former MLAs Sushil Rinku and Rajinder Beri, Jalandhar Mayor Jagdish Raja, councillor and DCC (urban) president and councillor Balraj Thakur along with 12 councillors were present at the meeting.Nothing newSome objections were raised against certain councillors. It’s nothing new. If we get something in writing, we’ll take action. — Pargat Singh, Congress MLASources said MLAs Sushil Rinku and Rajinder Beri sought action against the councillors working against the party. Upon their suggestion, the names of the councillors had been sought in writing, which could be submitted in the coming days.Beri said: “Some of the councillors did not work for the party. If required, their names will be given to the party.” Seconding this, Rinku said: “We are assessing the scenario. Can’t take names, but will write to the party.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/some-councillors-worked-for-aap-congress-mlas-381321
28-03-2022||Jalandhar||AAP adopting ‘double standards’ on crop compensation, claims BJP||A day after Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann handed over compensation cheques to cotton farmers whose crop was damaged due to the pink bollworm attack, BJP leader Nimisha Mehta today questioned the “double standards” of the AAP government in disbursing relief to farmers.Mehta, who contested the Assembly poll from Garhshankar segment, said CM Mann was giving compensation on the basis of the girdawari done by the previous Congress government.“The AAP government must tell what difference has this act made from the previous Congress government,” she said. Taking a dig at the Chief Minister, Nimisha said, “If CM Bhagwant Mann can offer Rs 45,000 per acre compensation to farmers for clearing the standing wheat crop for his swearing-in ceremony at Shaheed Bhagat Singh’s native village Khatkar Kalan in Nawanshahr, then what stopped him from giving the same amount to cotton farmers?”Manvesh Sidhu, secretary, Revenue Department, said, “We have given Rs 17,000 per acre compensation to farmers on the basis of assessment of loss. There was not complete damage to crop. The compensation given to cotton farmers cannot be compared to that given in Khatkar Kalan as the entire wheat crop had to be cleared for the compensation. These are two separate cases.” — #farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-adopting-double-standards-on-crop-compensation-claims-bjp-381320
28-03-2022||---||Post arrest, questions raised over seized 'sand'||Faridkot, March 27The arrest of a man with illegally mined “sand” here has stirred a controversy with the accused claiming the seized material was coarse soil used in brick-kilns.Acting on a tip-off, the police had impounded a tractor-trailer laden with “sand” at Kaler village of the district. The police nominated two persons — Jasvir Singh, alias Kala, and Sonu — both working at a brick-kiln, under various sections of the IPC and Mining and Minerals Development Act. While Jasvir was arrested, the other accused fled the scene.Police differWe have registered the case after getting a nod from district mining officials. The sand is used at brick-kilns but it is also part of construction work. —Sikander Singh, Investigating officerRefuting the allegations, the accused claimed the police had not impounded sand, but coarse soil used in brick kilns to prevent clay from sticking during the formation of bricks in moulds.Brick-kilns used the soil for making bricks by machine or hand. It was a poor quality sand that could not be used for construction purposes, claimed brick-kiln owners in the area. The use of the coarse soil-cum-sand in brick-kilns to lubricate the moulds to produce “sand-struck” brick had been in practice for years.However, Sikander Singh, investigating officer, claimed the accused were making excavation beyond the permissible depth. “We have registered the case after getting a nod from the district mining officials,” he said. He, however, admitted the sand was being used at brick-kilns, but was also part of construction work.“For years, illegal mining of sand had been going on without check in the area under political patronage, but with the change of government in the state, the police have started arresting even those excavating soil,” alleged a brick-kiln owner. #illegally mining||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-arrest-questions-raised-over-seized-sand-381319
28-03-2022||Ludhiana||Illegal mining sites raided in Ludhiana, 2 held||Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Samrala Jagtar Singh Dyalpura along with Mining Department officials yesterday conducted a raid on an illegal mining site at Powat village, near Machhiwara Sahib.Officials found illegal activity being carried out on private land and seized a JCB machine and a tipper from the spot. AAP worker Sukhwinder Singh, who accompanied the MLA, said on seeing the police team, suspect fled the scene. The MLA said he had been receiving complaints of illegal mining from village residents for the past few days due to which a raid was carried out.ASI Parmod Kumar said a case had been registered against unidentified persons. “We are getting the land records examined from the Revenue Department, and after identifying the accused, they will be booked. There were no documents of the machines used. We are identifying the owners,” he said.Also, the Sidhwan Bet police arrested two persons on charges of illegal mining of sand near the Sutlej last evening. A case under the Mining Act had been registered. ASI Dalwinder Singh said they had received information that illegal mining was going on near the Sutlej. A raid was conducted and the accused were nabbed.The police also seized two tractor-trailers laden with illegally mined sand from the spot. Further probe was on to ascertain any political link to the accused. Sources said after Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann directed the police authorities to ensure no illegal mining should take place, the police along with MLAs wer conducting raids at illegal sites.On the basis of a complaint received on the government’s helpline recently, AAP’s Sahnewal MLA Hardeep Singh Mundian had raided at a site at Koom Kalan from where five persons were arrested.8 held, 11 tractor-trailers impoundedFazilka: Sources in the Fazilka police say as many as eight persons have been arrested and five others booked on the allegation of theft of sand from March 16 to 26. As many as 11 sand-laden tractor-trailers have also been impounded from the accused. Newly-elected Fazilka AAP MLA Narinderpal Singh Sawna said the crackdown would continue in future too. oc #illegal mining||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-mining-sites-raided-in-ludhiana-2-held-381317
28-03-2022||---||Hike in straw price may curb farm fires in Punjab||Faridkot, March 27An unprecedented hike in the price of wheat straw (toori) is set to push more and more farmers toward storing this residue, which is a major feed for ruminants.Wheat straw, which used to sell for Rs 3 to 4 per kg during this time of the season, has been selling at Rs 10 to 12 per kg due to high demand in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. In the neighbouring states, it’s selling for Rs 14 to 16 per kg.More storage of wheat straw would ensure less burning of stubble and would also add to the profit of farmers and daily wagers, said experts in the Agriculture Department.Dr Rajiv Chhabra, deputy director, Animal Husbandry Department, said, “In north-west India, owners feed ruminants with wheat straw throughout the year, either alone or in combination with other feed, depending on availability. High rate of wheat straw will encourage farmers to store it.”Urban dairies depend mainly on wheat straw as a source of roughage because it can be stored even in the open provided it’s protected from rain.Dr Manjeet Singh, an inseminator for ruminants, said, “The stack of wheat straw covered by mud in the field is called ‘bonga’ or ‘kuup’. It is a tall stack covered either with soft long wild grass or with long leafless wheat straw itself. The ‘bonga’ is used to store straw if sufficient space and time for storage is available near the house.” #farm fires #stubble burning||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hike-in-straw-price-may-curb-farm-fires-381316
28-03-2022||New Delhi||Hindus may be declared minority where in smaller numbers: Govt to Supreme Court||Ahead of Monday hearing on a PIL seeking minority status for Hindus in nine states and union territories, including Punjab, where they were numerically in lower strength, the Centre has told the Supreme Court that the states concerned can notify Hindus as “minority” for setting up of minority educational institutions.In an affidavit filed in response to a PIL by Delhi BJP leader Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, the Ministry of Minority Affairs said in states where they were in a minority, Hindus could be notified as minorities for the purposes of Articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution by the state governments concerned.The affidavit defended the National Commission for Minorities Act, 1992, and National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions Act, 2004, saying Parliament has the legislative competence to pass such a law. #hindus #minorities||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/government-to-supreme-court-hindus-may-be-declared-minority-where-in-smaller-numbers-381315
28-03-2022||Sangrur||Wheat purchase in Punjab from April 1, but grain markets not yet ready||A majority of grain markets in the district are found wanting in basic amenities such as lighting and drinking water, even as wheat procurement starts on April 1.Mandi board authorities have said that the Assembly elections have delayed the tender process, which sets the ball rolling for making arrangements in grain markets.During a visit to various grain markets of Sangrur and surrounding villages, it has come to light that heaps of waste have been lying at many places. The stray cattle menace is a stark reality at some places.Heaps of waste all aroundArrangements for procurement has not yet begun. There are heaps of waste all around. There is not a single sweeper cleaning the place. How will the authorities get the mandi cleaned in a few days? —Gurmail Singh, Truck driver in SangrurAll in place by April 1In the past, the tender process was completed by March 15. This time, however, the process was delayed because of the Assembly elections. Everything will be in place by April 1. —Mandeep Singh, Sangrur district Mandi officerTruck driver Gurmail Singh, who was whiling away time at the Sangrur grain market, said: “Arrangements for procurement has not yet begun. There are heaps of waste all around. There is not a single sweeper cleaning the place. How will the authorities get the mandi cleaned in a few days?”There are 11 market committees in Sangrur and four in Malerkotla.Senior officers of the mandi board told The Tribune the budget of each market committee for cleaning and making arrangements for water and lighting was more than Rs 10 lakh.Till Sunday, the authorities finalised the tenders for 10 committees of Sangrur. The tenders for the rest of the committees will be finalised on Monday.This means that mandis will be cleaned and other arrangements will be made after the tenders are allotted.“Is it possible to make arrangements within two days? Like past instances, a huge amount of government money will be misappropriated this time as well,” alleged Sukhdev Singh, a labourer.Sangrur District Mandi Officer Mandeep Singh said, “Earlier, the tender process was completed by March 15. This time, however, the process was delayed because of the Assembly elections. Everything will be in place when farmers will come with their produce on April 1.” #wheat procurement||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wheat-purchase-from-april-1-but-grain-markets-not-yet-ready-381314
28-03-2022||Chandigarh/Bathinda||Punjab farm unions threaten statewide stir over prepaid smart meters||The Krantikari Kisan Union has threatened to launch a protest across Punjab against the move to instal smart meters. In a statement, Dr Darshan Pal said the move was aimed at benefitting corporate houses and forcing the common man to pay more for power consumed.He was referring to a report published in The Tribune today, wherein the Centre has threatened to withhold power reform funds meant for Punjab in case the state failed to replace 85,000 meters of consumers with prepaid smart meters. He said while some corporate houses would benefit from the move, nearly 15 lakh agriculture pump set consumers would oppose it as they would have to bear additional cost.Will benefit corporate housesThe government wants to hand over the power sector to corporate houses, leading to high cost of power for consumers. —Dr Darshan Pal, Krantikari Kisan Union“With this, the government wants to hand over the power sector to corporate houses and it will lead to high cost of power for consumers,” he said. He urged the state government to immediately take up the matter of tweaking rules to deny representation to Punjab in the BBMB. He urged all political parties to join hands and start a joint agitation.In Bathinda, farmers under the banner of the BKU (Dakonda) staged a protest at Poohli village over the move.The farmers said if the decision was not revoked, they would intensify their stir and start a district-level stir soon. Baldev Singh, district president of union, said: “The direction to instal prepaid electricity meters is aimed at favouring corporate houses. It wants to introduce Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 and favour corporate houses. Majority of the consumers cannot afford to pay in advance, so we will ensure this decision doesn’t get implemented in the state.” —BKU (Ugrahan) lends support to trade unionssangrur: Farmers under the banner of the BKU (Ugrahan) have extended their support for a nationwide strike on March 28 and 29 by the central trade unions. Amrik Singh, district chief, BKU Ugrahan, said “We will support the central trade unions in their fight against the anti-worker and anti-farmer policies. We have asked all our leaders to make the required preparations.” — TNS #bbmb #BKU #farmers protest #prepaid smart meters||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-unions-threaten-statewide-stir-over-prepaid-smart-meters-381313
28-03-2022||Ruchika M KhannaChandigarh||Centre's no to Punjab's demand for additional coal||Even as Punjab continue to struggle to meet its surging demand for electricity, it has been dealt a blow by the Centre with the latter literally asking the state to “fend for itself”.The Ministry of Power has said they would not be able to allocate more coal to the state and the supply would be in proportion to the stock received from Coal India Limited and Singareni Collearies Company Limited, to make up for any shortfall in coal availability.Can import 10% of total requirementA unit of coal-based plants at Goindwal Sahib has been forced shut because of unavailability of coal, while all three units at Talwandi Sabo are unable to work to optimum capacity because of poor stocks at the plant. A unit of Rajpura thermal plant is down due to fault in its equipment and will be operational only by March 31. Being Sunday today, many commercial units were closed and the power demand fell down. As a result, bare minimum power cuts were imposed. However, the demand would again zoom on Monday.The letter from the ministry, which was sent to the state government today, says the state imported coal for the plants that are categorised as “imported coal-based plants”, so as to avoid putting pressure on domestic coal demand. Punjab is required to get maximum of 10 per cent of its annual demand for coal by importing it, and blending it with domestic coal. The Government of India has also asked the state to use biomass pellets of five to 7 per cent in the coal-based plants.The letter also hints that the state re-negotiate its power purchase agreement with Coastal Gujarat Power Limited Tata Mundra plant, saying the issue needed to be resolved on the basis of mutual negotiation in a just and transparent manner. Since September last year, this private plant has stopped supplying 475 MW to Punjab, saying they were unable to supply power to the state at the earlier contracted rate as the coal prices had zoomed skywards. The Independent Power Producer has been asking the Punjab Government to increase the rate at which they sell power to the state.The state, like all other states in the country, has been asked to operationalise its captive coal mine and thus meet its demand. Officials in Punjab State Power Corporation Limited have told The Tribune that the state’s captive coal mine at Pachhwara would be operationalised only in June. The Centre has “advised” Punjab for bundling of renewable energy-based electricity with coal-based generation.‘Operationalise captive mine’The state, like all other states in the country, has been asked to operationalise its captive coal mine and thus meet its demand. PSPCL officials said the state’s captive coal mine at Pachhwara would be operationalised only in June. The Centre has advised the state for bundling of renewable energy-based electricity with coal-based generation. #coal #pspcl||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centres-no-to-demand-for-additional-coal-381311
28-03-2022||Aman Sood||In Punjab, custodial death to invite stern action||Patiala, March 27Following three custodial deaths in the past few weeks, two in March alone, the Punjab Police have issued an advisory to SSPs and Commissioners to brief junior officers to ensure the safety of arrested persons.Custodial deaths serious matter: ADGPMarch 7, 2022: Scrap dealer in Fazilka dies in custody; ASI, senior constable booked (Read story)March 8: Snatching case accused ‘hangs self’ in Ludhiana, 2 cops booked (Read story)The authorities have warned in case of custodial death or torture, the responsibility of senior officers will be fixed. The advisory, issued by the ADGP (Law and Order), reads, “It’s a serious matter and indicates lapses in supervision of police stations by senior officers.”All senior officers have been directed to brief DSPs, SHOs and police post heads to be vigilant and ensure the safety accused persons as per law. “No negligence should be tolerated. In case of any eventuality, senior officers must ensure prompt action as per law,” the advisory reads.A senior IPS officer confirmed that despite repeated directions by various courts, the officers concerned were showing reluctance in transparent monitoring of police stations and custodial rooms. “In most cases, heads of police stations blame birds or windstorms for non-functional CCTVs. This has to stop else custodial deaths and torture of arrested accused will continue. Some accountability has to be fixed,” he said.Punjab had recorded the third highest number of deaths in judicial custody in the last five years after Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. In 2021, Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai informed the Lok Sabha that UP registered the highest number of 126 deaths in judicial custody between 2018-19 and 2020-21, followed by Bihar (58) and Punjab (32). Punjab has nearly 24,000 prisoners in its 25 jails. #custodial death #human rights #punjab police||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-punjab-custodial-death-to-invite-stern-action-381306
28-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||437 innocents framed by Punjab police during Akali regime: Inquiry commission||Chandigarh, March 26The implication of innocents in false cases by the Punjab Police for political and other reasons has been a matter of surmises for long. But the final report submitted by the “Commission of Inquiry” — initially headed by Justice Mehtab Singh Gill — has confirmed the framing of as many as 437 innocents in false cases due to political considerations during the 10 years of Akali regime.Report on false FIRs submitted to CMA perusal of the 420-page report, submitted to the Punjab Chief Minister, makes it clear that the cases were registered for offences, including cheating, forgery and rape. The FIRs under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, too, were registered. The relief was granted by the commission to not just the Congress, but the AAP and the SAD leaders as well.The report says feedback from nodal officers indicated implementation of the commission orders in 360 cases out of the 437 complaints that were allowed. It says the FIR cancellation reports were filed before the trial courts in 236 cases and proceedings under Section 182 of the IPC was initiated in 35 cases. The section deals with false information, with intent to cause public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person.The report adds compensation was awarded in 33 cases and action against erring police officers/ officials has been taken in 17 cases. Nine out of the 17 are from Ludhiana district alone. In all, 4,702 complaints were received by the commission since its setting up under Justice Gill in April 2017.The commission was entrusted with the task of inquiring into cases where “persons are said to have been wrongly implicated in allegedly false and baseless cases/FIRs in Punjab during the last 10 years”. It was also asked to recommend to the state government measures to be adopted to prevent the recurrence of such cases in future.A former Acting Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Gill, resigned from the commission in March last year after his appointment as the State’s Chief Vigilance Commissioner. Commission member and retired district and sessions Judge BS Mehandiratta then took over as the chairman and submitted the final report after 31 interim reports.The report makes it clear that the commission did not go into 1,132 complaints due to pending trials. Another 526 complaints were dismissed following acquittal after trial due to benefit of doubt or compromise. As many as 727 complaints were dismissed due to conviction by the courts.No less than 93 complaints were dismissed due to the cancellation of the FIRs by the court. While 90 more complaints were dismissed as withdrawn, 294 were spiked following the non-appearance of the complainants. The commission did not find merit in 1,179 complaints, while 224 were returned to the state’s Home Department, being without jurisdiction. #punjab police #shiromani akali dal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/437-innocents-framed-due-to-political-considerations-inquiry-commission-381046
28-03-2022||---||Row erupts over shifting of Patiala Jail Superintendent where Bikram Majithia is lodged||Patiala, March 26Hours after Cabinet Minister Harjot Singh Bains replaced Jail Superintendent Shivraj Singh with Sucha Singh this afternoon, a controversy erupted over allegations of the new appointee’s proximity to the Badals.On Friday, Bains had paid a surprise visit to the Central Jail here and ordered frisking of SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia and his barrack. However, nothing objectionable was found. Today, the Jail Department appointed the new Jail Superintendent.I am close to themI do not deny my proximity to the Badals. I was posted at the jail in 2003 when Badals were jailed. — Sucha Singh, Jail SuperintendentFollowed orders: ADGPThe orders were issued at the intervention of the minister. I have no comment to make. —PK Sinha, additional DGP, JailsControversy erupted as the new appointee is considered close to the Badal family. Sucha Singh has claimed to have known them “for the past two decades”. The department is already facing allegations of VIP treatment to certain inmates.On March 1, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had met former minister Majithia at the Central Jail on the latter’s birthday. Sources say during their two-hour stay on the jail premises, the Badals spent around an hour at the government residence of Sucha Singh within the premises.“I do not deny my proximity to the Badals. I was posted at the jail in 2003 when Parkash Singh Badal and his son Sukhbir were jailed. As an officer, you get close to inmates and that’s why I hosted them for tea. I will offer any former inmate tea,” Sucha Singh told The Tribune.Asked about his new posting despite the fact that Badals’ relative is lodged in the jail, Sucha replied: “I never asked for any posting. It is the head of department who issued the orders due to my clean image.”Additional DGP Jails PK Sinha said the orders were issued at the intervention of the minister. “I have no comment to make,” he added. Jails Minister Bains could not be reached for comment. #bikram majithia #harjot singh bains||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/row-erupts-over-shifting-of-patiala-jail-superintendent-381064
28-03-2022||Vishav Bharti||Disquiet in SGPC, members seek probe by retired HC judges into 'corruption'||Chandigarh, March 26Alleging irregularities in land lease and receipt of funds from affiliated shrines, at least 12 Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) members have demanded a probe by a panel comprising retired High Court judges into the “large-scale corruption” in the functioning of the body managing hundreds of gurdwaras across the country.Addressing the media, SGPC member Master Mithu Singh Kahneke alleged that a mere Rs 4.89 crore was being earned from the lease of 2,991 acres of land owned by three gurdwaras in Majha. The shrines are Gurdwara Baba Budha Ji at Ramdaspura (1,300 acres), Gurdwara Baba Budha Ji at Tejakalan village (1,015 acres) and Dera Baba Nanak Gurdwara (676 acres).Kahneke also claimed that the SGPC budget for the 2022-23 fiscal had not been prepared as per the Shiromani Gurdwara Act, 1925. “The budget, to be presented on March 30, shows Rs 29.70-crore deficit. In the budget estimates, the actual income from 2,991 acres is shown Rs 4.89 crore, which is abysmally low,” he said, alleging illegal occupation of the land worth hundreds of crores.The SGPC members alleged that the land in Majha had been leased out at an average price of Rs 15,000-16,000 per acre even as similar gurdwara properties in Malwa were fetching Rs 60,000 to Rs 65,000 per acre.SGPC executive member Gurpreet Singh Randhawa alleged that the management committee had been raising excessive funds from directly managed gurdwaras in violation of norms. “Though rules stipulate receiving 38 per cent of the total revenue, the SGPC is claiming 51 per cent from Harmandar Sahib and 46 per cent from Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib,” he alleged.The members also alleged irregularities in the management of trusts controlling engineering and medical colleges and other institutions built by the SGPC. “Private individuals, mostly close to one political family and who aren’t Amritdhari, control these trusts,” they said. These educational institutions are receiving crores of rupees annually from the SPGC to pay staff salaries and manage other expenses. They also alleged embezzlement in the corridor scheme set up around Harmandar Sahib and procurement of langar commodities, including ghee, pulses and sugar.SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami denied irregularities in the working of the trusts. About the leasing of gurdwara land, he said some properties were under illegal occupation and the SGPC was fighting court cases. #harjinder singh dhami #SGPC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/disquiet-in-sgpc-members-seek-probe-by-retired-hc-judges-into-corruption-381056
