29-03-2022||---||BrahMos missile incident: Tewari suggests Indo-Pak dialogue on nuclear issues||New Delhi, March 29Congress MP from Anandpur Sahib Manish Tewari on Tuesday said the recent inadvertent launch of BrahMos missile presented a strong case for the initiation of an institutional dialogue with Pakistan on the nuclear issue.Speaking in Lok Sabha during Zero Hour, Tewari referred to the March 15 statement of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on the issue as “responsible”.“Defence Minister was being responsible on a sensitive issue. I have no quibble with his statement. However, facts which have emerged in the public space suggest that Pakistan had actually prepared a retaliatory strike when the missile entered their territory. The trajectory of the missile had a large number of civilian aircraft in its vicinity and there could have been an unintended catastrophe. We were lucky on that day. This is an extremely sensitive issue. A court of enquiry has been instituted but there is a strong case for an institutionalised dialogue with Pakistan on the nuclear issues,” former minister Tewari said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/brahmos-missile-incident-tewari-suggests-indo-pak-dialogue-on-nuclear-issues-381838
29-03-2022||Chandigarh||Nodal officers to be appointed in every district of Punjab for facilitation of NRIs: Dhaliwal||Punjab NRI Affairs Minister Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal on Tuesday said the government has decided to appoint nodal officers in all 23 districts of the state to facilitate Non-Resident Indians (NRIs).Dhaliwal also said special courts will be set up in districts of Amritsar, Patiala, Ludhiana and Bathinda to resolve cases related to NRIs in a timely manner.He said directions have been issued to department officials to immediately initiate the process in this regard and physical work would be started soon on the ground.Chairing a high-level review meeting with the officials of the NRI Affairs Department and members of NRI Commission, Dhaliwal issued directions that the appointment of nodal officers should be made in a transparent manner and the working of these officers should be reviewed by the deputy commissioners concerned on regular basis.He said apart from these steps, the state government would also coordinate with the Union government and embassies concerned to resolve the problems of NRIs, an official statement issued here said.He said the state government would also honor the NRIs who have done commendable work in various walks of life.The minister said the NRI Affairs Department will also coordinate with the Rural Development and Panchayats Department to collect the village-wise data of all NRIs.Dhaliwal appealed to all Punjabi NRIs to actively participate in the social and sustainable development of their native villages to assist the state government in achieving desired results in terms of overall development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nodal-officers-to-be-appointed-in-every-district-of-punjab-for-facilitation-of-nris-dhaliwal-381828
29-03-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Navjot Sidhu, former Congress MLAs join protest at Behbal Kalan||Chandigarh, March 29Getting proactive ahead of the naming of the new PPCC chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu along with some of the former party MLAs reached Behbal Kalan village to join the protest by the families of those killed in the 2015 police firing incidents.Sidhu targeted the AAP government over the delay in justice to the families.ਇੰਤਹਾ ਹੋ ਗਈ ਇੰਤਜ਼ਾਰ ਕੀ pic.twitter.com/4wQRMpEvhDSidhu who earlier in the day held a meeting with party former MLAs at Ludhiana to strategise on the issues to be taken up against the AAP government.This was third meeting with party leaders before they moved towards Behbal Kalan.Justice delayed is justice denied ! Culprits (AAP Goons) should be booked and arrested immediately. pic.twitter.com/hUVgMorbNb  Talking to the protesting families, Sidhu said he had been raising the issue in his own government and would continue to do so against the current government.On December 16, 2021, Sukhraj Singh, son of Krishan Bhagwan Singh, had started an indefinite dharna over government’s failure to deliver justice, saying he would expose political parties in the state. For the past six years, parties had been using Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing incidents and sacrilege cases as a political tool to exploitthe religious sentiments of the people and grab power, he had alleged.By visiting the site, Sidhu reiterated his demand for early justice in the cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-former-congress-mlas-join-protest-at-behbal-kalan-381823
29-03-2022||New Delhi||Need for institutionalised dialogue with Pakistan on nuclear issues: Manish Tewari||Voicing concern over the accidental firing of a missile that landed in Pakistan, Congress leader Manish Tewari on Tuesday called for an institutionalised dialogue on nuclear issues. Raising the matter during Zero Hour, he said facts suggested that Pakistan had prepared a retaliatory strike when the missile had entered their territory.“The trajectory of the missile had a large number of civilian aircraft in its vicinity and there could have been an unintended catastrophe. We were lucky on that particular day,” Tewari said.The Lok Sabha member from Anandpur Sahib said the incident made a strong case for an institutionalised dialogue with Pakistan on nuclear issues.He said Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had made a statement on the issue on March 15 and informed the House that a Court of Inquiry had been ordered to probe the incident.According to the defence ministry, a missile got accidentally released around 7 pm on March 9 during a routine maintenance and inspection of the missile unit.It said the missile was learnt to have landed in an area in Pakistan.“While this incident is regretted, we are relieved that nobody was hurt,” Singh had told the Lok Sabha on March 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/need-for-institutionalised-dialogue-with-pakistan-on-nuclear-issues-manish-tewari-381809
29-03-2022||Ravneet Singh||Punjabi University will not be left under financial burden: CM Mann on maiden visit to varsity||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 29Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann on his maiden visit to Punjabi University, Patiala, has said the University will not be left under financial burden. Though insiders anticipated that the CM will waive-off the University’s outstanding bank loan as announced by former CM Charanjit Channi, Mann did not specify on it.Utter chaos prevailed at the university during the unscheduled visit by CM Bhagwant Mann. Many outsiders attended the event while students and faculty despite having been part of the event were left outside the venue, Guru Tegh Bahadur Hall. Police personnel manned the entry and exits of the hall where the CM accompanied by Education Minister Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer and others discussed university-related matters with the administration and later participated in the event.People associated with a number of unions also made a beeline outside wishing to submit memorandums to the CM. Mann, rather than taking the main entrance, entered Guru Tegh Bahadur Hall from a side-door.Mann said “the university will not be left under financial burden” and added that all pending issues of teachers would be resolved. He said no school teacher would be left to resort to pressure tactics and protest atop water tanks. “They will exclusively concentrate on teaching work,” he said.The CM also honoured noted film director Manmohan Singh, renowned Punjabi actors Yograj Singh, Guggu Gill and Vijay Tandon, singers Mohammad  Sadiq and Surinder Chinda and film producer-cum-director Sumit Kang.Education Minister Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer assured the university authorities that the Punjab government would provide 100 per cent assistance for promotion of education and sports.Media not allowed insideDespite having invited mediapersons to the event on ‘Punjabi cinema, television and theatre’ days ago, Punjabi University failed to allow them inside. University Vice-Chancellor Professor Arvind said it was the Chief Minister’s call not to allow the media inside. When pointed out that the University had earlier sent invites for the event he merely said, “I regret this.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-bhagwant-mann-to-visit-punjabi-university-faculty-students-expect-release-of-special-grant-381796
29-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma||7 unemployed people climb atop water tank in Sangrur||Sangrur, March 29Seven unemployed members of the '2016 Police Recruitment Struggle Union' climbed atop a water tank here on Tuesday. Protesters also erected a tent on the main road near Haripura, raising slogans against the Punjab government.They have been alleging that they had cleared all mandatory tests for the police recruitment in 2016, but their recruitment has not been done yet.“We are fed up with the excuses by the successive governments. Today, we have started an indefinite protest here. We won't end our protest till we get appointment letters,” said Navdeep Singh, one of the protesters.The unemployed refused to end their protest till their demands are met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-unemployed-climb-atop-water-tank-in-sangrur-381787
29-03-2022||Muktsar||Punjab Revenue Officers Association goes on indefinite strike||The Punjab Revenue Officers Association today went on an indefinite strike in the state after a naib-tehsildar, some patwaris and other officials were held captive by farmers belonging to the Bharti Kissan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) at sub-tehsil office in Lambi on Monday.The farmers had started a protest outside the sub-tehsil complex demanding compensation for the damage of their cotton crop due to pink bollworm attack in the morning, but later barged into the complex and stopped the officials from going out.Meanwhile, the police lathi-charged the protesting farmers at midnight and dispersed them. Some farmers suffered injuries and were admitted to a hospital.However, the farmers have again started the protest while revenue officers are gathering at a government rest house at Badal village.The Muktsar DC Office Employees' Union too, has gone on a strike on Tuesday. The employees from SDM offices in Malout and Gidderbaha are also reaching Muktsar town to join the protest.Parmod Singla, SDM, Malout said, "A naib-tehsildar, three patwaris and seven other employees were freed in the midnight. We have given an application to register a case against the protesters who held captive the government employees. Two of them were above 50-year-old. We were concerned over their health."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-revenue-officers-association-goes-on-indefinite-strike-381777
29-03-2022||Chandigarh||Petrol, diesel hike: Know what is the current price in Punjab cities, Chandigarh||With petrol, diesel prices on a hike, these were the prices in Chandigarh tricity, and other Punjab cities on Tuesday.The petrol price soared to Rs 99.63 while diesel went up to Rs 85.99 in Chandigarh. The petrol prices in Mohali and Panchkula crossed Rs 100 with the prices there being Rs 100.58 and 101.31, respectively. Diesel price increased to Rs 89.29 in Mohali while in Panchkula it touched Rs 92.50.Prices in Amritsar were also hiked as petrol went up to Rs 100.26 while diesel touched Rs 88.99.In Ludhiana, petrol crossed Rs 100 by 18 paise while diesel was at Rs 88.91.Also Read: Petrol price hike: Crosses Rs 100 mark in Delhi, Rs 115 in Mumbai; seventh hike in 8 daysThe petrol price in Jalandhar was at Rs 99.55 whereas diesel was priced at Rs 88.31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/petrol-diesel-hike-know-what-is-the-current-price-in-punjab-cities-chandigarh-381770
29-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Art of letter writing almost on verge of extinction: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, March 29The art of letter writing, with the formation of sentences punctuated with proper grammar, is almost on the verge of extinction, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted. The assertion by Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal came in a case where the police registered an FIR against a youth who used the expression “straight shooter” in a WhatsApp message to the complainant.Justice Grewal asserted the FIR was based on a WhatsApp message sent by the petitioner to the complainant. The message began with reference to certain property and a certain sum of money. In the latter part of the message, “boss-to-boss” and “straight shooter” were used.Making it clear that a “straight shooter” was a straightforward and forthright person, who would call a spade a spade, Justice Grewal added the expression did not mean literally to shoot with a firearm. It did not even refer to any violent activity or meant literally.Justice Grewal also quashed the FIR registered on March 7, 2019, under Sections 386 and 506 of the IPC at “Faridabad Central” after asserting that the use of the slang was fairly common amongst the younger generation adept at messaging and could be misunderstood if taken literally. The messages may often appear to be cryptic, but the point was driven home.Section 386 deals with extortion by putting any person in fear of death or of grievous hurt. Justice Grewal added an offence under Section 386 would not be attracted. A bare look at the WhatsApp message in the attending facts and circumstances would not indicate that the complainant was put to fear of injury, or there was any inducement to deliver property or valuable security.Justice Grewal observed even if a phrase or an idiom sent through a message was capable of two interpretations, the one favourable to the accused would be acceptable. A narrow and pedantic view may curtail freedom of speech and expression.“In a democracy, people are free to express their views. Freedom of speech and expression is one of the essential foundations of a democratic society, one of the basic conditions for its progress and for the self-fulfilment of an individual. Besides the message in the instant case, there is no supporting material which would constitute a prima facie case under Section 387 IPC,” Justice Grewal added.            `Before parting with the case, Justice Grewal added it was noteworthy that the police had been overzealous in registering the FIR. The complaint was made on March 7, 2019, before the Faridabad Commissioner of Police. The FIR was registered and the petitioner was also arrested the same day, although the Supreme Court in Lalita Kumari’s case had held it was not mandatory to arrest the accused immediately on registration of the FIR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/art-of-letter-writing-almost-on-verge-of-extinction-high-court-381764
29-03-2022||Amritsar||Amritsar: An afternoon dedicated to treasure trove of Punjabi literature||It was an afternoon dedicated to the insightful exploration of Punjabi literature, its relevance and status in contemporary context as eminent literary personalities shared a common stage at Majha House. The Prabha Khaitan Foundation in association with Majha House held a day-long Punjabi Yuva Sammelan and Sahit Sabhyachaar meet on Sunday.Opened by Punjabi poet Surjit Patar, the meet hosted several sessions and discussions on Punjabi literature and had young and upcoming writers of Punjabi sharing their work with a mixed audience. Patar, while speaking on the lack of holistic environment in current Punjab for its youth, said: “It’s a tragedy that the current environment, be it cultural, socio-economic and otherwise, is not hospitable for the youth. That’s the reason we have a large number of youngsters migrating to foreign lands for better prospects. If this continues, without the stakeholders providing a solution, then there would be no custodians left for our cultural and literary heritage.”Patar also shared his views on the indifference that ghazal received in literary circles, when he was an upcoming poet. “Ghazal had always been considered as a lesser respectful counterpart of nazm. This was because ghazal does not follow a single theme or even a pattern like nazm, which talks about a single topic. So, when I started writing ghazals, I attempted to bring in consistency in it, which later became popular,” he said.Patar’s ghazals and poetry were also recited later in the afternoon. An immensely popular poet of Punjabi language among the old and young, Patar also talked about how in poetry writing it was important to maintain that the spotlight remains on the verse and the one, who pens it down, which is often the case.In another session, on the ethos on Punjabiyat, where conservation expert Gurmeet Sangha Rai, Gurupdesh Singh and literary experts Jasbir Singh and Harvinder Singh Bhandal, it was discussed how Punjabis have always been a rebellious community.“We always were a mixed, secular society, with caste system seeping into it quite late. By nature, Punjabis were known to be rebellious, a martial race, a fact that British also realised and therefore, a lot of Sikhs were inducted into armed forces,” said Gurupdesh Singh.Later in the day, poetry recitals and a story reading session were also held. In an engaging story reading session, Rabindranath Tagore’s Ghar Wapsi, Khushwant Singh’s A portrait of a Lady, Jaswant Singh Kamal’s SadhDey Zakhm and Gulzar’s Satranga were read. #punjabi #surjit patar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/an-afternoon-dedicated-to-treasure-trove-of-punjabi-literature-381752
29-03-2022||Chandigarh||Court orders to produce Jagtar Singh Hawara online||A local court has ordered to produce Jagtar Singh Hawara, who is serving life term at Tihar jail in Delhi for assassination of former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh, through video conferencing in two cases registered against him in 2005 in Chandigarh. The court has pronounced the order on the application moved by Hawara’s counsel seeking to start the trial in the cases.The FIRs were registered against Hawara at the Sector 36 and Sector 17 police stations in Chandigarh. Due to these pending cases, Hawara’s parole proceedings could not be started. The counsel argued his trial did not take place on account of order of the UT Administration. He said other accused were either convicted or acquitted in these FIRs, but Hawara’s trial did not start, which was injustice with the accused. #jagtar singh hawara||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-orders-to-produce-jagtar-hawara-online-381682
29-03-2022||Muktsar||Muktsar: Pothole claims student's life||Mason hits Rs1.2 cr jackpotRopar: Lalli Singh, a mason from Ghanauli village, hit a jackpot of Rs 1.2 crore by winning the first prize of Punjab State Lottery on Saturday. Lalli said he had purchased the lottery ticket a few days ago for Rs 200.“I was not expecting any miracle. Brij Mohan, a lottery agent, informed me that I have won the first prize,” said Lalli. TNSWoman killed by daughterPhillaur: A 85-year-old woman, Jeeto, was allegedly murdered by her daughter at Atti village. The accused has been identified as Satya. A property dispute was said to be the reason behind the murder. DSP Harleen Singh said Satya’s husband Binder and three kids were away at the time of the incident. The accused has been booked case under Section 302 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-pothole-claims-students-life-381638
29-03-2022||---||Ropar: Missing man's body found buried, 1 booked||Ropar, March 28The Samrala police today recovered the body of a missing 38-year-old man buried in sand near Chamkaur Sahib. The deceased has been identified as Surinder Singh, a resident of Haidon Kotla village. He was missing since March 24.Samrala Deputy Superintendent of Police HS Khaira said Surinder worked at a factory and had left home on a bike at 7.30 am for his work. He said his relatives failed to connect with him on his mobile phone.He said the motorycle of the deceased was found near Bassi Gujran village in Chamkaur Sahib two days ago by the police.Khaira said the police had registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC against Laddoo, a colleague of the deceased on the complaint of Surinder’s relatives who alleged he tried to mislead them over his whereabouts. The body had been sent for post-mortem, said the DSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-missing-mans-body-found-buried-1-booked-381637
29-03-2022||Faridkot||Drug menace: Schools in Punjab to have 'Prahari Clubs'||More than three years after the Punjab Government had launched the “Tu Mera Buddy” programme in schools to make students aware of the deleterious impact of drugs, it has now decided to constitute “Prahari Clubs”, proposed by the Union Government, in schools.The Director General, School Education, has issued orders to all school heads to this effect. The clubs will consist of 20-25 students of Class VI to XII, with a teacher as its head. — #drug menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drug-menace-schools-in-punjab-to-have-prahari-clubs-381636
29-03-2022||---||Farmers hold revenue staff captive in Lambi||Muktsar, March 28Demanding compensation for the cotton crop damaged in the pink bollworm attack, a large number of farmers under the banner of Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) today held naib tehsildar, a few patwaris and other officials captive inside the Lambi sub-tehsil office.The farmers were staging a protest outside the sub-tehsil in the afternoon but barged into the office late in the evening. The protesters refused to allow the officials to move out and continued raising slogans against the Deputy Commissioner and other revenue officials.Malout SDM Parmod Singla, who reached the spot, said, “A naib tehsildar, patwaris and other officials have been held captive.”He claimed the farmers from about 10 villages had gathered for the protest and were falsely claiming 50 per cent of their cotton crop had been damaged.“They have no documents to claim relief. The government only gives compensation in cases where the crop suffers more than 25 per cent damage,” he said, adding that “the Deputy Commissioner has assured them of a solution. Further, the compensation will be disbursed among farmers, who suffered crop damage, within two days”. #BKU #farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-hold-revenue-staff-captive-in-lambi-381635
29-03-2022||In Bathinda||Tepid response to Bharat Bandh||The bandh had little impact as work in almost all government and private offices continued unhinderedMembers of the Punjab UT Employees and Pensioners’ Joint Front protested for two hours and then resumed workIn Amritsar, health employees, including contractual ones, also protested, demanding regular jobs. TNSPSUs in private handsThe Centre has been handing over PSUs to corporate houses. The amendments to labour laws will push people into poverty. Darshan Maur, union leader||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tepid-response-to-bharat-bandh-381634
29-03-2022||Nawanshahr||Man gunned down at Nawanshahr petrol pump||About two weeks after the killing of international kabaddi player Sandeep Nangal Ambiyan at a tournament in Jalandhar’s Mallian village, another daylight murder rocked Nawanshahr today.Makhan Kanga (30) was shot dead allegedly by six armed men on Phillaur-Rahon road around 7.30 am.SP Sarabjit Singh Bahia said Makhan was staying with his in-laws at Garcha village for the past few days as his house at Kang village was under construction. “As Makhan stopped at a petrol station to get his scooter refuelled, the masked assailants riding a Safari SUV fired at least 15 rounds at him, killing him on the spot,” the SP added.Bahia said it appeared to be a case of personal rivalry as the victim too had several criminal cases pending against him. He said the preliminary probe didn’t indicate a gang war, but the police were probing all angles. A case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered.Makhan was said to be a close aide of Nawanshahr Congress ex-MLA Angad Singh Saini who, in a social media post, called the victim his “younger brother”. Saini condemned the killing and raised questions on the state’s law and order situation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-gunned-down-at-nawanshahr-petrol-pump-381633
29-03-2022||Chandigarh||SAD forms sub-panel to analyse Punjab poll debacle||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today formed a 13-member sub-panel headed by its Sangrur district chief Iqbal Singh Jhoonda to take feedback from all sections of society as well as cadre at the grassroots level to analyse the reason for the party’s debacle in the Assembly poll.The decision to form the sub-panel was taken at a meeting of the 16-member high-powered committee of the party presided over by Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra.Senior SAD leader Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said the sub-panel would present its report to the committee in two weeks. He said the sub-panel had been tasked with taking feedback from workers at the grassroots level as well as all sections of society.“The SAD is committed to taking genuine feedback from the people based upon which it will make necessary changes to rise to the aspirations of the Punjabis,” he added. — #shiromani akali dal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-forms-sub-panel-to-analyse-punjab-poll-debacle-381631
29-03-2022||New Delhi||SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia moves SC||Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Monday moved the Supreme Court seeking the quashing of cases registered against him by the Punjab Police under the NDPS Act-1985.Majithia, who was given protection from arrest till February 23 by the SC in view of the February 20 Assembly poll to contest as SAD candidate from Amritsar East constituency, had surrendered after the expiry of the period. He is currently lodged in Patiala jail following rejection of his bail plea by a special court.Majithia, state ex-minister, termed the cases were politically motivated, contending these had already been probed by high-ranking police officers. In his first orders to the Punjab Police after assuming charge, CM Bhagwant Mann had on March 20 reconstituted the SIT probing the drug case against Majithia.IG (Crime Branch) Gursharan Sandhu was given the supervision of the working of the four-member team headed by IPS officer Rahul S. The other members are AIG Ranjit Singh and DSPs Raghbir Singh and Amanpreet Singh.The previous SIT was a three-member team headed by AIG Balraj Singh. — #bhagwant mann #bikram majithia #ndps||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-leader-bikram-singh-majithia-moves-sc-381628
29-03-2022||Chandigarh||Submit tax or lose permit, private bus operators of Punjab told||Transport Minister Laljit Singh Bhullar on Monday directed the defaulting bus operators to submit tax at the earliest, failing which they could lose their permits and their vehicles won’t be included in the new time table.Chairing a review meeting of the Transport Department here at the Punjab Civil Secretariat, Bhullar directed the officials that special emphasis should be laid on increasing the income so that the PRTC, Punjab Roadways and Punbus could be brought to the top position.He directed them to issue bus permits to the state’s unemployed youth on priority and that the process should be completed as per rules in a transparent manner.Meanwhile, the Transport Minister also instructed the officials to thoroughly probe the matter of illegal extension in route permits. Asking the officials to ensure that the government and private buses stop inside the stands, he said strict departmental action would be initiated against the erring employees. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/submit-tax-or-lose-permit-private-bus-operators-of-punjab-told-381627
29-03-2022||---||RBI approves Rs 24,773 cr limit for Punjab for rabi season||Chandigarh, March 28The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday cleared a sum of Rs 24,773.11 crore towards cash credit limit (CCL) up to April-end for the procurement of wheat in Punjab during the ensuing rabi marketing season.Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann expressed gratitude to the Centre for timely release of the CCL, which would go a long way in ensuring seamless procurement of wheat. With this, the bulk of the CCL sought by the state government for the purchase of 132 lakh tonnes of wheat for the season has been released by the central bank.Mann directed the Food and Civil Supplies Department to ensure smooth and hassle-free procurement of wheat, besides timely payment to farmers from the first day of procurement.The procurement of wheat will start from April 1 and culminate on May 31. The Union Government has fixed the minimum support price of wheat at Rs 2,015 per quintal, hiking it by Rs 40 compared to last year’s rate of Rs 1,975. #bhagwant mann #rabi #rbi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rbi-approves-24-773-cr-limit-for-punjab-for-rabi-season-381623
29-03-2022||Nitin Jain||Will work for better education facilities, says Khanna MLA Tarunpreet Sond||Ludhiana, March 28The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) first-timer, Tarunpreet Singh Sond, scripted history by trouncing Industries Minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli from Khanna in the recently held Assembly elections.Sond (38), joined the AAP in January 2012, after being inspired by AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal’s book titled “Swaraj”.“The traditional parties that had ruled Punjab after Independence failed to fulfil the aspirations of public. Thus, the voters brought about a change by voting the AAP to power,” said the AAP MLA.Sond, a Class XII passout had polled 62,425 votes, which accounted for 48.55 per cent of the total votes, while Kotli (48), grandson of slain Chief Minister Beant Singh, lost his security deposit by failing to get even the minimum required 16.67 per cent vote share. Kotli, who had won two consecutive elections from Khanna in 2012 and 2017, could secure only 20,305 votes.Sond, who tasted success in his maiden election, said he was inspired by the anti-corruption movement spearheaded by Anna Hazare, in which Kejriwal also took a prominent part.“I worked at the grassroots level before contesting the Assembly poll. I was appalled by the plight of residents in the Khanna segment,” Sond asserted.Having served as incharge of the AAP’s industry, trade, transport and BC wing in Fatehgarh Sahib Lok Sabha constituency, Sond runs a soap and detergent manufacturing unit.Listing his priorities, the Khanna MLA said, “The new regime will live up to the expectations of residents. We will take up the cudgels against the widespread drug menace, traffic chaos and pollution on a priority basis.”Sond has promised overall development and better education, health facilities and infrastructure to regain the lost glory of Khanna.Drugs on agendaThe new regime will take up the cudgels against widespread drug menace, traffic chaos and pollution on a priority basis. — Tarunpreet Sond, Khanna MLA||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-work-for-better-education-facilities-tarunpreet-sond-khanna-mla-381618
29-03-2022||PK Jaiswar||Ending drug abuse, job creation priority: Dr Jasbir Singh, Amritsar West MLA||Amritsar, March 28Emerging as a winner from Amritsar West (SC) constituency by defeating Congress heavyweight and three-time MLA Raj Kumar Verka is no mean feat for new AAP MLA Dr Jasbir Singh.The seat has remained a Congress stronghold for the past over two decades.Riding on strong undercurrent in favour of the AAP, Dr Jasbir defeated Verka by 44,000 votes, which is among the highest victory margins in the state Assembly poll. He got 69,251 votes while Verka secured 25,338 votes.“People have shown their supremacy. I had preferred door-to-door campaign and visited slums and villages, which remained ignored for years,” he said, adding that people in urban areas also supported the AAP.He owns assets worth over Rs 2 crore, while having a liability of Rs 15 lakh. An SMO at a private hospital, Dr Jasbir said what’s done was done.“I have a bigger responsibility now. With people reposing so much faith in the AAP, my endeavour will be to stay connected with them.“After attending the Vidhan Sabha session, I’ll be visiting the constituency to meet people. My focus is on ending the drug menace in the area and making efforts towards job generation,” he said.Health key area tooBeing a doctor for 16 years, I know the issues people face while getting affordable & quality treatment in hospitals. So, providing basic health amenities will also be my priority. Dr Jasbir Singh, Amritsar West MLA||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ending-drug-abuse-job-creation-priority-dr-jasbir-singh-amritsar-west-mla-381611
29-03-2022||---||Political row erupts over anti-encroachment drive in Abohar||Abohar, March 28The Congress and the AAP activits came face to face here on Monday after the Abohar Municipal Corporation used earth movers to remove encroachments by shopkeepers on North Circular Road.After finding that the platforms raised by them were demolished early in the morning, dozen of shopkeepers staged a dharna and raised slogans against the Municipal Corporation.As soon as the protesters came to know that the complaint had been filed by an AAP leader to remove “encroachments” on Street-8, they started raising slogans against the state government.The locals said traffic on both sides of the divider came to a halt due to construction of speed breakers and demolition drive.Abohar Mayor Vimal Thatai claimed that he was not taken into confidence before launching the anti-encroachment drive. Later, Congress MLA Sandeep Jakhar also reached the protest site. He said a three-week notice should have been given before launching such a drive. Jakhar said the AAP activists had earlier removed concrete blocks from the divider without consulting the officials concerned.Municipal Commissioner Abhijeet Kaplish said, “The shopkeepers had been told to do away with illegal construction on government land, but they ignored the advice. There is no political interference. The shopkeepers may get some liberty for easy access to their outlets, but violation of the rules will not be tolerated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/political-row-erupts-over-anti-encroachment-drive-in-abohar-381606
29-03-2022||---||Resume Sachkhand Express: Fatehgarh Sahib MP to Railway Minister||New Delhi, March 28Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh here today met Union Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and urged him to restart the Sachkhand Express and other trains, including Amritsar-Bandra Express, Amritsar-Dehradun Express, Jammu Tawi Express and Hemkund Express.Amar Singh told the minister that these trains were diverted during the Covid lockdown and despite repeated assurances from the Railways, the diverted trains had not been restarted.The MP said when religious fairs and other events took place, special trains were run by the government. But the opposite had been done for Fatehgarh Sahib constituency through diversion of crucial trains that brought lakhs of devotees to the annual Shaheedi Zor Mela, he complained.In a statement, Amar Singh said connecting Raikot by rail line with Fatehgarh Sahib was also discussed. The minister promised to get a feasibility survey done at the earliest, he said. #sachkhand express||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/resume-sachkhand-train-fatehgarh-sahib-mp-to-railway-minister-381605
29-03-2022||---||Now, drones to curb illegal mining in Punjab forests||Chandigarh, March 28Forest and Civil Supplies Minister Lal Chand Kataruchak today launched surveillance drones to curb illegal mining and deforestation.Briefing mediapersons after a meeting with officials of the Forest Department, Kataruchak said it had set a target to increase area under the forests and trees to 7.5 per cent of the total area of the state by 2030.To achieve this goal and to make Punjab a greener state, around 1.15 crore saplings would be planted by the Forest Department during 2022-23, he said and added that 60 lakh saplings would be planted on the forest land and 55 lakh saplings would be planted by farmers and locals.He said the departmet has also launched a toll- free number 1800-180-2323 for the convenience of people and an online portal to facilitate transparency in the process of issuing permits to owners of Kandi area.The minister said a procedure would be formulated to remove illegal occupants from the forest land. He directed the officials to start a timber market in the state to ensure the growth of agro-forestry.Seema Jain, Additional Chief Secretary, Forest Department, informed that the work related to digitisation of forest boundaries would be started on a war footing to curb encroachments and illegal mining.He said the government would take a call on filling vacancies of forest guards and forest range officers. #illegal mining #lal chand kataruchak||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-drones-to-curb-illegal-mining-in-forests-in-punjab-381604
29-03-2022||Rajmeet Singh||4 names proposed for PCC president in Punjab||Chandigarh, March 28Senior Congress leaders appointed by party president Sonia Gandhi to identify the reasons for the electoral loss in Punjab and suggest remedial measures have recommended a panel of four leaders for the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president.After having factored in factionalism and infighting in the state unit, the leaders have forwarded the names to the party president. A decision is expected soon.Without naming the probable candidates for the post, a senior leader said the panel included two MPs.Sources say MPs Ravneet Bittu and Santokh Chaudhary are among the probables. Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring is also among the contenders for the post.With the 2024 General Election just two years away, state party leaders have been asked to strategise accordingly and make organisational changes.A senior Congress leader said the party had taken a serious view of the infighting and contradictory statements by senior leaders in the run-up to the Assembly elections.The Congress was reduced to just 18 seats from 77 it had won in the 2017 elections.“Factors such as loyality, seniority and credibility will be factored in while choosing the state unit chief. Sonia Gandhi’s decision will be acceptable to all,” said the leader.The series of meetings convened by PCC ex-chief Navjot Sidhu in the last few days is being seen by the leadership as a pressure tactic to propose his name as the party chief for the second term and Sukhpal Khaira as the Leader of Opposition (LoP). The sources say it would be a challenge for the party to choose the LoP among the 18 MLAs.Two MPs among probablesSources say MPs Ravneet Bittu and Santokh Singh Chaudhary are among the probable candidates for the PCC chief’s post. Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring is also among the contenders for the post. #navjot sidhu #raja warring #ravneet bittu #santokh chaudhary #sonia gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-names-proposed-for-pcc-prez-in-punjab-381602
29-03-2022||New Delhi||Can't stop idea whose time has come: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Monday hailed his Punjab counterpart Bhagwant Mann for announcing the “doorstep delivery of ration to the poor”, saying no one can stop an idea whose time has come.In a swipe at the Centre, which has been resisting the Delhi Government’s similar plan for over two years, Kejriwal said, “You cannot stop an idea whose time has come. You (the Centre) did not allow us to implement the scheme in Delhi. No problem. We will implement it in Punjab and then the entire country will emulate it like Delhi’s mohalla clinics.”The Centre had in November last year moved the Supreme Court against an interim order of the Delhi HC, paving the way for Kejriwal’s doorstep ration delivery scheme. The SC had refused to interfere with the order. The Centre is asking Delhi, like 34 other states and UTs, to join the ‘one nation, one ration card’ scheme started for the delivery of PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, which the Union Cabinet extended until September two days ago.“The Centre tried to stop mohalla clinics, schools, hospitals in Delhi and then the doorstep ration delivery scheme when even pizzas are being delivered at home. But they cannot stop India now. Indians are intelligent. They are moving on and have elected an honest government in Punjab and Delhi,” Kejriwal said.Ration planYou (the Centre) didn’t allow us to implement the ration scheme in Delhi. No problem. We will implement it in Punjab and then the entire country will emulate it. — Arvind Kejriwal, AAP convener #arvind kejriwal #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-stop-idea-whose-time-has-come-arvind-kejriwal-381600
29-03-2022||Anirudh GuptaFerozepur||Bhagat Singh's hideout, protected monument, in shambles||While the newly elected AAP government in the state is aspiring to follow the principles and ideals of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, a historic double-storey building that served as a hideout of the Krantikari Party led by the legendary revolutionary, is crying for attention despite it being declared a protected monument seven years ago.After a prolonged legal battle by locals, the Department of Tourism and Cultural Affairs had declared the building as a ‘protected monument’ on December 17, 2015. Thereafter, neither any step was taken to take over the building nor any funds were allocated for it.At present, the building is under the control of the Krishna Bhagti Satsang Trust. Nand Kishore Sharma, one of the trustees, said his grandfather Lahori Ram Shastri had met Bhagat Singh here several times. “I am ready to do anything for the construction of a museum in the building,” he said. Earlier, the district administration had served a notice on the occupants not to alter the structure or sell the premises.In 2016, then DC DPS Kharbanda had mooted a proposal to relocate the shop on the ground floor and family occupying the first floor to another location for which an agreement was also drafted. However, the matter is still stuck.“This building is no less than a pilgrimage for me. This was taken on rent by my father Dr Gaya Prashad under the fake name of Dr BS Nigam to run a pharmacy in 1928-29,” said Kranti Kumar Katiyar.Rakesh Kumar, who has authored books on the monument, said the AAP government must come forward to develop the building.Pharmacy on ground floor #shaheed bhagat singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagat-singhs-hideout-protected-monument-in-shambles-381598
29-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Poor being duped on  pretext of jobs, says Punjab & Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, March 28Taking note of the duping of indigent in a large number of cases on the pretext of getting them jobs, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the petitioner-accused did not deserve the concession of anticipatory bail in such a matter. The assertion came as Justice Vikas Bahl dismissed with Rs 50,000 the second anticipatory bail plea filed by an accused, who allegedly promised a job to the complainant’s son in the Punjab Mandi Board Department.“This court has also noticed that in a large number of cases, poor persons are being duped on the pretext of false promises being made to them regarding their appointment in various institutes. The present case is one of the said cases. Thus, even on merits, the petitioner has no case,” Justice Bahl asserted. The matter was brought to the HC’s notice after the accused filed the second petition for anticipatory bail in an FIR registered for cheating on August 26, 2021, at Dinanagar police station. Justice Bahl asserted the second anticipatory bail application was not maintainable and deserved to be dismissed on the ground alone. Considering the case on its merits, Justice Bahl added the FIR’s perusal showed allegations by the complainant that the present petitioner had committed fraud with her and her family by promising a job for her son in the Mandi Board Department.She alleged the petitioner allegedly claimed he had good connections in Punjab Mandi Board. As such, he would get her son appointed. He had demanded Rs 2, 80,000. The complainant alleged neither the money was returned nor a job was arranged. Her husband moved an application before the SSP concerned. But the petitioner entered into a compromise with her husband in the presence of the police officials and agreed to return Rs 2, 60,000. It was further alleged that only Rs 50, 000 was returned. When they tried to contact the petitioner after the death of the complainant’s husband, it was learnt that he was in custody and would return the money after being released from the jail.“Keeping in view the facts, this court is of the view that the present petition is not maintainable and thus, the same is dismissed with costs of Rs 50, 000. The petitioner is directed to deposit costs within a period with the DLSA,” Justice Bahl said.Rejects anticipatory bailThis court has noticed that in a large number of cases, poor persons are being duped on the pretext of false promises being made to them regarding their appointment in various institutes. The present case is one of the said cases. Justice Vikas Bahl, Punjab & Haryana High Court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poor-being-duped-on-pretext-of-jobs-says-punjab-haryana-high-court-381596
29-03-2022||---||Centre's Chandigarh move bid to infringe on Punjab's rights: Bhagwant Mann||Chandigarh, March 28The state government and the Opposition have taken umbrage at Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s announcement that central civil services will now apply to Chandigarh Administration employees, who are at present covered under the Punjab service rules.The AAP sees the move as a “conspiracy” against its government in Punjab and an “infringement of the rights of the state over Chandigarh”.Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann said in a tweet, “The Central government has been imposing officers from other states on the Chandigarh Administration. This goes against the letter and spirit of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966. Punjab will fight strongly for its rightful claim over Chandigarh.”Finance Minister Harpal Singh Cheema told the media today the BJP government at the Centre was adopting a “dictatorial” attitude and continuously taking “anti-Punjab” decisions.“If it (the BJP) does not refrain from it, the state government will take the fight to the people — starting from the streets to Parliament,” he said, adding the people of Punjab would never allow the Centre’s plans to end the state’s participation in the Chandigarh Administration, Panjab University (PU) and Bhakra Beas Management Committee (BBMB) to succeed.Former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal also condemned the Centre’s decision.“When the states were reorganised on the basis of language, parent states were given the existing capitals and new capitals were formed for the newly carved out states. Punjab, however, has not yet got complete rights on its capital Chandigarh. Further, the percentage of Punjab and Haryana employees was fixed for Chandigarh. The Centre sent back Punjab employees. Now, it wants to take full possession of Chandigarh,” he told the media in Lambi.In a statement, the SAD requested the CM to call an all-party meeting with the objective of putting up a united stand against the Centre’s move which, it said, was a violation of the Punjab Reorganisation Act.Congress MLA Partap Singh Bajwa said multiple decisions taken by the Centre against the federal structure of the Constitution required strong reaction by Punjab.He urged CM Mann to consult the Advocate General and explore all legal remedies available to the state.In Jalandhar, Congress MLA from Bholath Sukhpal Singh Khaira condemned the announcement made by Amit Shah, calling it an “attempt to usurp the right of Punjab over Chandigarh”.“Chandigarh belongs to Punjab. The Centre’s unilateral decision is not only a direct attack on federalism, but also on Punjab’s 60 per cent control over the UT,” he added.Violation of lawThe Centre has been imposing officers from other states on the UT Admn. This goes against the Punjab Reorganisation Act. Bhagwant Mann, Chief MinisterWhat’s your problem if staff benefit, asks BJPChandigarh: Reiterating its stand that Punjab had complete and non-negotiable right over Chandigarh, the BJP on Monday asked the Aam Aadmi Party as to what problem it had if the Chandigarh UT cadre employees, most of whom were Punjabis, benefitted after being brought on a par with other Central government employees. The BJP also demanded that the Punjab Government must implement the recommendations of the Seventh Pay Commission to benefit employees like those in Chandigarh. Punjab BJP general secretary Subash Sharma said instead of welcoming the decision, the AAP, for alleged vested interests, was trying to misrepresent the facts. TNSUT belongs to PunjabChandigarh belongs to Punjab. The Centre’s move is an attack on federalism and Punjab’s 60% control over UT. — Sukhpal Singh Khaira, Congress #amit shah #bbmb #bhagwant mann #harpal cheema #sukhpal khaira||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centres-chandigarh-move-bid-to-infringe-on-punjabs-rights-government-381595
29-03-2022||Karam PrakashPatiala||16,000 mohalla clinics to come up in Punjab on lines of Delhi health model||Extending the Delhi health model to Punjab, Health and Medical Education Minister Dr Vijay Singla today said the Aam Aadmi Party government would set up 16,000 mohalla clinics across the state. Besides, every state resident would be provided a health card for free treatment, he said.Also read: No long queues, Punjab rolls out 'doorstep ration delivery' schemeSingla said this while addressing a gathering at the annual function of the Government Dental College (GDC), Patiala. The minister was accompanied by Patiala MLA Ajit Pal Singh Kohli and Patiala (Rural) legislator Dr Bablir Singh.A dental surgeon himself, Singla said that apart from improving rural healthcare, tertiary facilities such as government medical colleges also needed to be revamped.Urging government doctors to shun private practice, he said, “You all are paid non-practising allowance (NPA) to give up private practice. Doctors should instead spend an hour extra at government hospitals to help the poor…. The government doesn’t have a magic wand to change the system. We all need to pitch in.”The Tribune had on Sunday highlighted that senior doctors of Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital were doing private practice. Attributing the private practice by doctors to the “rampant corruption” in the healthcare system, he said, “During the previous regimes, doctors had to pay to their higher-ups for postings and other works. But that practice has been stopped. Now, nobody has to pay anyone a penny.”A Government Dental College alumnus, Dr Singla said the government would soon recruit faculty at the two government dental colleges in Patiala and Amritsar. “The quality of teaching is being compromised as there are only 10-11 faculty members against 59 posts,” he said.After attending the function, the minister inspected the super speciality wing of Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital. Dr Harjinder Singh, college Director Principal, said the minister had assured all help to make the super speciality wing fully functional at the earliest.Docs must shun private practiceYou (doctors) are paid non-practising allowance to give up private practice. Doctors should instead spend an hour extra at government hospitals to help the poor. We all need to pitch in. — Dr Vijay Singla, Health Minister #dr vijay singla #mohalla clinics||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/16-000-mohalla-clinics-to-come-up-in-punjab-on-lines-of-delhi-health-model-381593
29-03-2022||Ruchika M KhannaChandigarh||Pass law to check misuse of Rural Development Fund, Centre tells Punjab||In a significant development, the Punjab Government is learnt to have been told by the Centre to pass a law to ensure the Rural Development Fund (RDF) was used only for developing rural infrastructure if the state wanted the stopped central grant to be released.Alleging misuse of the grant, the Centre has refused to release the RDF to Punjab for the wheat season beginning April 1. The AAP-led state government will lose Rs 1,750 crore per annum as RDF if it fails to pass the law.The state government, therefore, is learnt to be considering to bring in an ordinance to amend the Punjab Rural Development Act, 1987. With this, it will bind the use of the RDF only for creating infrastructure in rural areas and do away with the clause that allowed use of this fund to repay the loan taken by the Punjab Mandi Board during the previous Congress regime. The RDF grant amounting to Rs 4,700 crore was reportedly diverted for repaying the loan taken to fund the previous government’s flagship ‘Farm Loan Waiver Scheme’.Top officials in the state government have told The Tribune that the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution had not calculated the RDF to be given on wheat purchase (3 per cent) in its provisional cost-sheet. They said the issue was to be discussed at the next Cabinet meeting, scheduled later this week.While Punjab gets Rs 1,000 crore as RDF on paddy purchase, the remaining Rs 750 crore is earned on the purchase of wheat. The grant is given to the state by the Food Corporation of India. For the past three years, the Centre has been accusing Punjab of misusing the funds.Following this, the previous state government had formed a committee, including then ministers of Finance, Rural Development and Food and Supplies, to see if and how the Punjab Rural Development Act, 1987, could be amended. This committee had reportedly given its consent to amend the clause 7 of the said Act. But before any decision could be taken, the model code of conduct for the Assembly polls was imposed. Ever since the NDA government has been at the helm, they have been asking Punjab to stop the “misuse” of these grants. Before the Congress government started using this fund to repay loan, the grant was used for the Sangat Darshan programmes of the then CM Parkash Singh Badal.Sources said the state would have to immediately take the ordinance route to bind the use of the RDF only for creating infrastructure in the mandis, if it had to avail the Rs 750 crore RDF on the purchase of around 132 lakh metric tonnes of wheat.Rs 1,750 crore at stakeDiverted during previous govtsCongress: RDF used to repay loans taken by Punjab Mandi Board, also used for the govt’s flagship ‘Farm Loan Waiver Scheme’Akali Dal: Grant used during the Sangat Darshan programmes of then CM Parkash Singh Badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pass-law-to-check-misuse-of-rural-fund-centre-tells-punjab-381591
29-03-2022||Chandigarh||No long queues, Punjab rolls out 'doorstep ration delivery' scheme||Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann on Monday announced the rollout of a scheme to deliver ration on people’s doorstep across the state. Making an announcement to this effect in a video message, Mann said the scheme aimed at providing good quality ration (wheat) to the people on their doorstep.Also read: 16,000 mohalla clinics to come up in Punjab on lines of Delhi health model16k mohalla clinics on Delhi patternPatiala: Extending the Delhi health model to Punjab, Health and Medical Education Minister Vijay Singla on Monday said the Aam Aadmi Party government would set up 16,000 mohalla clinics across the state. Besides, every resident would be provided a ‘health card’ for free treatment, he said. Singla said this while addressing a gathering at annual event at Govt Dental College, Patiala.Mann slams CentreCentre has been imposing officers from other states on UT, against the letter and spirit of Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966. Punjab will fight for its rightful claim over Chandigarh. CM“You need not stand in long queues or miss your daily work anymore for getting ration. Now, our officials will check your availability before delivering the ration on your doorstep,” he added.Under the scheme, an option would also be given to those who want to get ration supply from nearby depots as per their convenience, he added. “This initiative will ensure the best quality ration on people’s doorstep. Earlier, our elderly had to go to depots for getting ration, which, on many occasions, was of substandard quality and not fit for human consumption,” he said. The modalities for the implementation of the scheme would be rolled out shortly, he added. The scheme was earlier introduced in Delhi by the Kejriwal government, but was stalled by the Centre as it intended to make people stand in long queues for ration, he said.AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal has hailed the Mann government’s decision. He said he tried to implement the scheme in Delhi, but the BJP-led Centre stopped him from implementing it. “Nobody can stop an idea whose time has come. This is one such thing. People of Punjab will not have to stand in queues now,” he said. After Punjab implemented this service, other states would follow suit, he added.There are 1.51 crore beneficiaries (37 lakh families) in Punjab under the National Food Security Act who get wheat at Rs 2 per kg. Each eligible person gets 5 kg wheat every month. Till December, wheat for six months was distributed bi-annually. This was changed to quarterly distribution of wheat from January this year. When the scheme of doorstep delivery is implemented in Punjab, the government is likely to shift to monthly distribution of wheat. #bhagwant mann #vijay singla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-long-queues-punjab-rolls-out-doorstep-ration-delivery-scheme-381588
29-03-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Bhagwant Mann unravels another 'pro-Punjab' decision; ration to be delivered at people's doorstep||Chandigarh, March 28Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann on Monday announced that people in the state would no more have to stand in queues to get ration as it would be delivered at their doorstep.Also read: Bhagwant Mann slams Centre’s move on rules governing UT staff; says Punjab will fight for its claim over ChandigarhIn a video shared by the CM, Mann said while the rich sat in the comfort of their homes and ordered things, the poor had to wait in long queues to get ration. “Often they have to leave their day’s work to get the ration. Old women have to walk for kilometres to get it from ration depots,” he said.Mann said the ration given to the poor is often of poor quality. “But the poor have no choice but to eat it. However, now the AAP is all set to change this. Good-quality ration will be packed in clean gunny bags and delivered at people’s doorstep,” he said.He said people would have the choice to opt for the scheme. Those who lived near ration depots could get it from the depots as earlier. Those who opted for the doorstep delivery would have to tell the personnel concerned at what time they were available at their place and clean and good-quality ration would be delivered to them, he said.Mann said the government had decided to make people’s lives easier as that is what governments are supposed to do. He said the scheme would be rolled out soon after working out the modalities.The CM asked the people to report to the government in case they got shortchanged.Earlier in the morning, the AAP had put out a tweet saying Mann would make a big pro-Punjab announcement later in the day.There are 1.42 lakh beneficiaries in Punjab under the National Food Safety Act. Wheat at 5 kg per beneficiary per month is provided for six months in one go, twice a year. #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/people-in-punjab-will-no-more-have-to-stand-in-queues-to-get-ration-at-their-doorstep-announces-cm-bhagwant-mann-381490
29-03-2022||New Delhi||Nationwide strike hits banking, public transport services in West Bengal, Kerala, other states||Banking and public transport services were thrown out of gear in West Bengal and Kerala on Monday as thousands of workers began their two-day nationwide strike against various policies of the government.While essential services mostly remained unaffected, banking services in different parts of the country were partially impacted and there were reports of workers staging protests at several places across states.Electricity and fuel supplies remained unaffected but unions claimed the agitation had had an impact in coal mining belts in Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh.A joint forum of central trade unions has given a call for a nationwide strike on March 28 and 29 to protest against the government policies affecting workers, farmers and others.Their demands include the scrapping of the labour codes, no privatisation in any form, scrapping of the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP), increased allocation of wages under MNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Act) and regularisation of contractual workers.In West Bengal, normal life was hit with protesters blocking roads and stopping movement of trains at some stations.State road transport buses as well as auto-rickshaws and private buses were off the road in Kerala but essential services, including supply of milk, hospital and ambulance services, were not affected.Public transport services were hit in Haryana as employees of state roadways joined the two-day nationwide strike.Thousands of workers of state-owned SAIL, RINL and NMDC also joined the nationwide strike, affecting production at steel plants and mines.Banking services were partially impacted on Monday as a section of bank employees did not report for work. However, there was hardly any impact on the functioning of new-generation private sector banks.There might be a delay in cheque clearances and government treasury operation might also be affected by the strike.The impact of the strike is prominent in eastern India as many branches of public sector banks there are closed, All India Bank Employees' Association (AIBEA) general secretary CH Venkatachalam said.In the other regions, branches are open as officers are present but services are being impacted due to many employees participating in the strike, he said.Bank unions are protesting against the government move to privatise two public sector banks as announced in the Budget 2021-22. They are also demanding an increase in interest rate on deposits and reduction in service charges.The central trade unions that are part of this joint forum are INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC."The two-day nationwide strike by the joint forum of central trade unions has begun on Monday morning and has got good response," Amarjeet Kaur, general secretary of All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), told PTI.She said the entire coal belt (mining area) had been affected in Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh.According to her, there is a good response for the strike call in industrial areas of Assam, Haryana, Delhi, West Bengal, Telangana, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Bihar, Punjab, Rajasthan, Goa, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha.Amarjeet Kaur claimed that banks and insurance sectors had been affected all over India while steel and oil sectors were also seeing partial impact.As many as 10 central trade unions have joined hands to go on a two-day nationwide strike from Monday. About 20 crore workers are expected to join the strike.The strike notices have been given by the unions in various sectors, including coal, steel, oil, telecom, postal, income tax, copper, banks and insurance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/central-trade-unions-begin-two-day-nationwide-strike-good-response-in-industrial-areas-of-punjab-haryana-381465
