31-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Punjab drops law officers appointed under discretionary quota||Chandigarh, March 31Just about a fortnight after the formation of the new government, the State of Punjab has decided to do away with the services of the law officers earlier appointed under the Advocate-General’s discretionary quota.The State, at the same time, extended the contractual term of other law officers. Their term was to come to an end today.An order issued by the State of Punjab this evening made it clear that the extension was being granted till further orders or the completion of fresh engagement process. In a communication to the State Advocate-General Anmol Rattan Singh Sidhu, Additional Secretary, Department of Home Affairs and Justice Uma Shankar Gupta stated that the government had decided to extend the contractual term of the law officers on prevailing terms and conditions.Sidhu said the process of further streamlining the functioning of the Advocate-General’s office was on with the view of rendering effective assistance to the Bench. “Effort is on to get the best of talent,” Sidhu asserted. His assertion assumes significance as the State is the biggest litigant.The order further made it clear that the law officers granted extension included 18 Additional Advocates-General, 10 senior Deputy Advocates-General, 30 Deputy Advocates-General and 39 Assistant Advocates-General.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-drops-law-officers-appointed-under-discretionary-quota-382454
31-03-2022||Parvesh Sharma ||Protesting girls admitted to hospital after their health deteriorates, protest continues in CM city Sangrur||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, March 31After the health of two protesting girls deteriorated, both have been admitted in local civil hospital for treatment. Seven members of “2016 police recruitment struggle union” have been sitting atop water tank while others have started protest near the local residence of Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann.“Manjit Kaur, who was sitting at CM residence, faced health problems last night while Manpreet Kaur, who was sitting atop, had health complications today. Both were admitted in Sangrur civil hospital. Manjit has been discharged while Manpreet is still there. We would not end our protest till the fulfillment of our demands” said Jagdeep Singh, a protesting youngsters.Eight unemployed members of the ‘2016 Police Recruitment Struggle Union’ climbed atop a water tank here on Tuesday. They have also blocked Sangrur-Dhuri road near railway over bridge (ROB) and raised slogans against Punjab government for delaying their recruitment. Though they ended their protest from Sangrur-Dhuri road on Wednesday evening, but they have started indefinite protest near the local residence of Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann while the protesters sitting atop, have also refused to come down.Sangrur SSP Swapan Sharma said that they have arranged meetings of protesters with all senior police authorities. SSP said that they were also making all required arrangements of water and other required items for protesters.“Their issue has been discussed repeatedly with all senior police officers at Chandigarh level also. There is a set procedure for every recruitment, but protesters are not listening as they are adamant to continue their protest. We are trying to convince them to follow the procedure” said SSP Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-girls-admitted-to-hospital-after-their-health-deteriorate-protest-continues-in-cm-city-sangrur-382447
31-03-2022||---||Punjab govt extends excise policy for three months till June 30||Chandigarh, March 31The Punjab Cabinet led by Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann on Thursday approved to extend the Excise Policy for three months of the next financial year from April 1 to June 30.A decision to this effect was taken in the Cabinet meeting chaired by the Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann here at CMO this evening.According to a spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office, the policy has been allowed renewal for a period of three months to those existing licensees who will give 1.75% excess revenue over Minimum Guaranteed Revenue (MGR) of Financial Year 2021-22 for their respective group/zone in order to maintain stability in the liquor trade. However, the number of groups/zones and the number of liquor vends will remain the same.Pointing out further, the spokesperson said the MGR of groups/zones of the State would be Rs 1,440.96 crore for a period of three months. However, the revenue target of this short term Excise Policy is kept at Rs 1,910 crore for three months' period.In order to generate more revenue, the Minimum Guaranteed Quota (MGQ) of PML, IMFL, Beer and IFL of each group/zone has been increased by 10% over the minimum guaranteed quota of corresponding first quarter of last Financial Year of the respective group/zone. Further, to allow retail licensees to lift liquor as per their requirement, the amount of additional fixed license fee has been increased, revealed the spokesperson.The ratio of Fixed and Open quota of PML shall be 30:70 as was prevalent during Financial Year 2021-22. In order to control the production and movement of liquor, IT based Track and Trace System would be implemented during the Financial Year 2022-23, added the spokesperson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-extends-excise-policy-for-three-months-till-june-30-382431
31-03-2022||Washington||Resolution introduced in US Congress to designate April 14 as National Sikh Day||More than a dozen lawmakers, including Indian-American Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi, have introduced a resolution in the House of Representatives to designate April 14 of each year as National Sikh Day.Observing that the Sikh community, which began immigrating into the United States over 100 years ago, has played an important role in developing the United States; the resolution supports the designation of ‘National Sikh Day’ to honour and celebrate the important role played by the Sikh community in strengthening and inspiring the people of the United States.Sponsored by Congresswoman Mary Gay Scanlon, the resolution introduced in the House on March 28 was co-sponsored by over a dozen lawmakers: Karen Bass, Paul Tonko, Brian K Fitzpatrick, Daniel Meuser, Eric Swalwell, Raja Krishnamoorthi, Donald Norcross, Andy Kim, John Garamendi, Richard E Neal, Brendan F Boyle and David G Valadao.Both John Garamendi and David Valadao are Co-Chairs of the Sikh Caucus.The resolution was welcomed by Sikh caucus committee, Sikh coordination committee and American Sikh Gurdwara Parbhandhak Committee. #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/diaspora/resolution-introduced-in-us-congress-to-designate-april-14-as-national-sikh-day-382371
31-03-2022||Gaurav Kanthwal||Three suspects confess to killing Youth Akali Dal leader Vicky Middukhera||Mohali, March 30The three suspects nabbed by the Delhi Police in the murder case of Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leader Vicky Middukhera have confessed to the killing of the 33-year-old in a cold-blooded manner outside the office of a property dealer at the parking lot of the market in Sector 71 in August 2021, sources said.An official of the Mohali police is in Delhi and is expected to contact the Delhi Police in the case shortly.The incidentOn August 7, 2021, four men came in a car in the parking lot of the Sector 71 market in Mohali where Vicky Middukhera had come to meet his friend, a realtor. Two of them fired at him as he was about to sit in his SUV. The police said two of three suspects, Jhajjar resident Sajjan, alias Bholu (37), and Delhi resident Anil Kumar, alias Latth (32), were also involved in the killing of Congress leader Vikas Choudhary in Faridabad in June 2021. Besides, the duo was also involved in a double murder in Ambala in 2021 and several murder cases in Gurugram. The role of the third suspect, Ajay, alias Sunny (20), a resident of Kurukshetra, in other crimes is being investigated. The identity of the fourth suspect, involved in the murder of Vicky Middukhera, is yet to be ascertained.All three suspects are active members of the Davinder Bambiha group.The sources said once the trio was brought to Mohali on a production warrant, more details were likely to come out in the case. The police said all suspects were active in Haryana, but their handler, Lucky Patial, lodged in an Armenia jail, was known to have made extortion calls in Mohali and Punjab.The arrests were part of an operation by the special cell of the Delhi Police in which it claimed to have arrested 12 hardcore criminals in a single day, wanted in several cases, with rewards ranging from Rs1 lakh to Rs50,000 on their head.They were operating as the Lucky Patial-Davinder Bambiha-Kaushal Chaudhary alliance, active in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, UP and Delhi.Patial is lodged in a jail in Armenia, Davinder Bambiha was eliminated in an encounter in 2016 and Kaushal Chaudhary is lodged in a Karnal jail.On August 7, 2021, four assailants came in a white car bearing a Mohali registration number in the parking lot of the Sector 71 market where Vicky Middukhera had come to meet his friend, a property dealer. Two of the four masked men chased him and fired at him around 20 rounds as he was about to sit in his SUV. Nine bullets hit the victim as he ran for cover, scaling the wall of the community centre nearby. The assailants fled the spot, but the sensational killing was caught on CCTV camera. #shiromani akali dal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-suspects-confess-to-killing-middukhera-382255
31-03-2022||Muktsar||Muktsar: Four booked for Rs 49L fraud||2 juveniles escape from centreFaridkot: Two inmates escaped from the Faridkot Juvenile Detention Centre on Tuesday night. The inmates belonging to Moga and Ferozepur districts can be seen saclling the boundary wall of the centre in CCTV footage. Investigating Officer Jaskarn Singh said they were lodged here for their alleged involvement in sexual molestation and drugs cases. TNSDrive against criminalsSriganganagar: Rajasthan IG Om Prakash held a review meet and directed that an action plan should be prepared to nab wanted criminals. Sriganganagar SP Anand Sharma said 123 cases have been registered under the NDPS Act and 147 peddlers have been arrested this year so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-four-booked-for-49l-fraud-382269
31-03-2022||Moga||Prepare own seed, farmers in Punjab told||The Agriculture Department has appealed to the farmers to prepare their own wheat seed for next cropping season instead of shelling out money to obtain it from government and private agencies. The appeal has come in wake of the Russian attack on Ukraine, which has not only escalated price of wheat across the globe, but has also led to the shortage of foodgrain.The market price of wheat has already increased to Rs 2,500 per quintal in Punjab even as the Union Government has fixed Rs 2,015 as minimum support price. — #farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prepare-own-seed-farmers-in-punjab-told-382268
31-03-2022||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: Another UP man held for kabaddi player Sandeep Nangal Ambian's murder||The police have arrested another accused, Yadwinder Singh, alias Yaad, of Madhopur village in Pilibhit (UP), in the murder of international kabaddi player Sandeep Nangal Ambian at Nakodar on March 14. Two pistols with around 70 live cartridges and an SUV have been seized.The police said Yadwinder allegedly helped Ambian’s shooters in conducting recce of the crime spot and arranged vehicles, weapons and rooms for their stay in Amritsar. The police said Simranjeet Singh, alias Jujhar Singh, a gangster of Madhopur village, who was arrested along with three other accused on March 19, had during his interrogation revealed about Yadwinder, said to be Jujhar’s brother-in-law. The police claimed Yadwinder allegedly helped the shooters escape. — #kabaddi #sandeep nangal ambian||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-another-up-man-held-for-kabaddi-players-murder-382263
31-03-2022||---||Finance Minister Harpal Cheema's raid finds naib tehsildar absent in Dirba||Sangrur, March 30Finance Minister Harpal Cheema on Wednesday inspected the Dirba tehsil office and found the naib tehsildar absent. He interacted with locals and asked them to file a complaint if any officer demanded money.“Our government has zero tolerance for corruption. If any officer demands money from anyone, kindly immediately inform at our helpline and we will take quick action. We need your support to end corruption,” said the minister.Several residents alleged that due to the sluggish attitude of the officers concerned, they had been facing problems. Others raised the issue of the lack of facilities in the tehsil complex, which catered to the needs of 34 villages.“I wrote several letters to the former Congress government, but to no avail. Now, I can assure that we will provide the required facilities here,” Cheema said.Meanwhile, Dirba SDM Rajesh Kumar Sharma said he had sent his report to the Sangrur DC. “During the inspection, Naib Tehsildar Gurnaib Singh was found absent. The FM has also issued directions to bring further improvement in other facilities,” the SDM added. #harpal cheema||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/finance-ministers-raid-finds-naib-tehsildar-absent-in-dirba-382256
31-03-2022||Muktsar||Muktsar: 4 booked after spat with Agriculture Department officials||The police have booked four farmers for allegedly creating obstruction in the duty of Agriculture Department officials here on Tuesday.In his complaint to the police, an Assistant Plant Protection Officer alleged that Charanjit Singh of Muktsar, Gurlal Singh, Yadwinder Singh and Jaspal Singh of Mangatker village created obstruction in his duty and also entered into a scuffle with him during the verification of agricultural implements for subsidy at the grain market here. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-4-booked-after-spat-with-agriculture-department-officials-382251
31-03-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||PSEB's diktat: Pay Rs 800 to get Class X, XII certificates||Jalandhar, March 30Students and parents of those children who have passed the Classes X and XII exams from the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) in the past two years and have not been provided any board certificates have been in panic mode since yesterday.There have been reports that the PSEB has given March 31 as a deadline to all students to get their DMCs physically or through the online mode from the portal on a payment of Rs800 per student, failing which they could face problems. As a result, several government and private schools have asked the students to deposit the amount and apply as quickly as possible. While many of them rushed to the PSEB Mohali office, others kept on trying via the portal which kept on crashing through the day.Finally, the PSEB authorities had to issue a clarification that there is no deadline as such and the students need not panic as the service would continue.PRO of PSEB Darshan Banur, however, said Rs 800 per student was a mandatory fee. Even the hefty amount being charged for downloading the certificate remained an issue, especially in the government schools where the teachers said the majority of students were not in a position to shell out such a huge amount and they were demanding an exemption to pay it. But the board did not agree.The issue of downloading certificates has cropped up now as Education Department officials had been saying that there was no need to download the certificates as they could simply take out printouts from DigiLocker any time free of cost and present these wherever needed.However, many students have claimed that some colleges as well as the passport offices are not accepting the DigiLocker printouts and are seeking a duly signed and attested certificate of the PSEB as a documentary proof.A government school teacher from Kartarpur area said, “Our students are from humble backgrounds and we cannot even ask them to pay Rs 800 for we know their actual economic position. It is wrong for the board to charge hefty fee from the students, especially for the time when no examinations were held and marks were given on the basis of previous assessments. The board must re-consider levying such a huge fee.”The principal of a Jalandhar city school said, “No such charges for issuing certificates had ever been taken by the board earlier. The board is setting such a wrong trend. Even if some fee is to be collected, it should be very nominal.” #PSEB||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/psebs-diktat-pay-rs-800-to-get-class-x-xii-certificates-382250
31-03-2022||Nitin JainLudhiana||Health, education top priorities of Atam Nagar MLA Kulwant Singh Sidhu||Another party hopper and new face of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Kulwant Singh Sidhu (57), breached the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) bastion Atam Nagar, which was represented by the LIP founder Simranjeet Singh Bains (52), since its inception in 2012.“We will ensure overall development and check illegal drug trade, which is rampant in the area. We will provide better health, education and infrastructure facilities in the segment,” said the Atam Nagar MLA.Sidhu said lawlessness, drugs and non-development of the area during the past 10 years forced people to bring about change this time. “We will change the system and nobody will be allowed to take law into their own hands,” the Atam Nagar legislator asserted, while adding that he would make sure that the common man faces no problem in getting their work done at any level.Sidhu won the Atam Nagar (urban seat) by polling 44,601 votes, which were 77.52 per cent of 57,534 votes that the four candidates of the traditional parties, including a two-time MLA and a former MLA, collectively polled.Except Congress candidate Kamaljit Singh Karwal, who managed to secure his security deposit by securing 28,247 votes, Bains, the SAD’s former MLA Harish Rai Dhanda, the BJP’s nominee Prem Mittal and the SSM candidate Harkirat Singh Rana lost their security deposits.Sidhu had quit as the Pradesh Congress Committee secretary to join the AAP in August last year. A law graduate from Shia College, Sidhu had joined the Congress in 1992.Running resorts and marriage palaces, Sidhu had taken up the cudgels against the two-time LIP MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains, while vowing to free Atam Nagar of widespread violence and drugs.Will curb illegal drug tradeWe will ensure overall development and check illegal drug trade, which is rampant in the area. We will provide better health, education and infrastructure. — Kulwant Singh Sidhu, Atam Nagar MLA #kulwant singh sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/health-education-top-priorities-of-atam-nagar-mla-382249
31-03-2022||Sanjeev Singh BarianaChandigarh||Here to clean system, says Bhoa MLA Lal Chand Kataruchak||The political journey of Lal Chand Kataruchak, first-time MLA from Bhoa in Pathankot district, has been one connected to the grassroots in true sense.Before getting elected to the Assembly on the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ticket, the 51-year-old served as sarpanch in his village for five terms since 1987. The post is now occupied by his wife. The AAP-led state government seems to have aptly rewarded Kataruchak by inducting him as the Cabinet minister with important portfolio of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs.Having studied till Class X, he had contested the 2019 General Election on the Revolutionary Marxist Party of India ticket from the Gurdaspur parliamentary constituency, from where Sunny Deol emerged winner.Known for raising issues concerning the people since the days when he was young, he went to jail twice during protests against the proposed privatisation of power in Punjab. “From my understanding of politics, the new government in Punjab is part of a big societal revolution. The people were fed up of alternately electing the Congress and the Akali Dal for the past several decades. They wanted change,” he says. The AAP has been given an opportunity to rule Punjab as the people wanted to get rid of “all ills in the system”, he asserts. “And we won’t let them down,” he asserts.Punjab has elected an Assembly that comprises people from diverse walks of life, he says. “We have doctors, officers, social workers, artists, young faces, committed women and a commoner like me. I am happy to be part of the movement that intends to clean the system,” he affirms.He claims change will be evident as soon. “I have spent my entire life on the roads among the common people. So, I am aware of their sufferings and what they want. We will fulfil all our promises,” Kataruchak says.Won’t let people downI am happy to be part of the movement that intends to clean the system. People have high expectation. We won't let them down. — Lal Chand Kataruchak, Bhoa MLA||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/here-to-clean-system-says-bhoa-legislator-382247
31-03-2022||Chandigarh||CBI files chargesheet against IAS officer||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a chargesheet against Director of the Punjab Roadways Paramjit Singh, who was arrested while allegedly accepting Rs 2 lakh bribe for recommending the name of an officer for promotion.Paramjit, an IAS officer, was arrested from his office in Sector 17, Chandigarh, by a CBI team on January 31. Special Public Prosecutor PK Dogra has filed the chargesheet before the CBI court.The CBI had registered a case against Paramjit on the complaint of Jaswinder Chahal, officiating general manager of the Punjab Roadways.The CBI has also attached the transcript of the alleged recorded conversation that took place between the complainant and the accused officer with the chargesheet and a list of the witnesses.The CBI had carried out a raid when the IAS officer was allegedly taking the bribe for recommending Jaswinder’s name to the Principal Secretary, Transport Department, for promotion. #CBI #punjab roadways||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cbi-files-chargesheet-against-ias-officer-382246
31-03-2022||Muktsar||Muktsar: Wheat procurement from tomorrow, but arrangements lacking||As wheat procurement is set to begin from Friday, preparations are still underway at the grain markets in Muktsar district. A visit to the grain market today revealed that workers were busy cleaning the yard while toilets were found to be locked. Stray cattle were seen roaming at the mandi.The officials said wheat arrival would start after a few days and by that time, all the arrangements would be done. Gaurav Garg, District Mandi Officer, Muktsar, said, “The preparations are underway for fresh procurement. There are 119 focal points and 22 temporary yards notified as of now for wheat procurement in the district. The preparations are likely to be completed before the onset of the season.”Himanshu Kukkar, District Food and Civil Supplies Controller, said, “There will be no shortage of gunny bags as we have already got 70 per cent of the allotted bags and remaining 30 per cent are in transit. We are expecting wheat arrival from April 1 at some focal points, but the peak season will start from April 7.”Gurpreet Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer, said, “The sudden rise in temperature will not decrease the yield. The wheat arrival is expected after a few days.” — #wheat procurement||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-wheat-procurement-from-tomorrow-but-arrangements-lacking-382242
31-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Tramadol used in 'large numbers' in Punjab & Haryana:  HC||Chandigarh, March 30Referring to drug menace, the Punjab and Haryana High Court asserted that tramadol tablets are in use in “large numbers” in both Punjab and Haryana and the source is required to be looked into. The assertion came as Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri of the High Court dismissed bail plea of an accused after observing that custodial interrogation was required to track down the source.Justice Puri observed the source from where the tablets emanated was required to be ascertained. “Therefore, the argument raised by the state counsel carries weight that for the purpose of elicitation of truth, the custodial interrogation of the petitioner is required in order to know the actual source of the intoxicant tablets,” Justice Puri added.Tramadol is synthetic opioid drug used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain. The matter was brought to Justice Puri’s notice after the accused filed a petition for anticipatory bail in an FIR registered on June 4, 2021, under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act at Barnala police station.Justice Puri’s Bench, during the course of arguments, was told that the police party apprehended a co-accused. It was added that the recovered quantity of 711.82 grams of tramadol fell under the category of commercial quantity.Taking up the matter, Justice Puri observed the petitioner’s name was nominated (as an accused) at the “fourth or the fifth level”. The sequence of events in the present case indicated that the first accused to be arrested “disclosed the source from three persons and this is how the name of the petitioner cropped up at fourth level”. It was true that the disclosure statement of a co-accused was not admissible in evidence. But the sequence and chain of events in the present case suggested that the basic source of tramadol tablets was required to be ascertained.Before parting with the order, Justice Puri asserted the counsel for the petitioner had not been able to make out any ground for making a departure from the bar contained under Section 37 of the NDPS Act.Section 37 makes it clear that severity or strictness in granting bail was applicable to offences involving commercial quantity. It indicates that no person accused of an offence punishable under this law “shall be released on bail or on his own bond unless — the public prosecutor has been given an opportunity to oppose the application for such release and where the public prosecutor opposes the application, the court is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such offence and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail.”Track source||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tramadol-used-in-large-numbers-in-punjab-haryana-hc-382240
31-03-2022||Ludhiana||NIA raids yield 'key evidence' in Ludhiana court blast case||A team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) today conducted searches at the two houses of dismissed Punjab Police Constable late Gagandeep Singh Gaggi at Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar and Professors Colony in Khanna in connection with the Ludhiana court blast case.In a statement, the NIA said it had seized incriminating documents, including digital evidence. A case was registered by the Ludhiana police on the day of the blast on December 23, 2021, and then re-registered by the NIA on January 13, 2022.Gagandeep was the lone suspect in the case and an alleged suicide bomber who died in the high-intensity explosion at the court complex. It is alleged that he was trying to plant the bomb when it accidentally went off. The house at Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar is the one where Gagandeep stayed with his family for years before shifting to Professors Colony.The NIA team along with Khanna cops started searches around 6 am and the raids continued for four hours. A senior police official said the NIA intimated them about the raid at the last minute. — TNSSearches at 2 places in Khanna #NIA||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-raids-yield-key-evidence-in-ludhiana-court-blast-case-382239
31-03-2022||Muktsar||Now, farmers go on indefinite strike in Muktsar||Farmers under the banner of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) today started an indefinite protest outside the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here, demanding action against the DC for allegedly ordering lathicharge on them, compensation for the crop lost due to pink bollworm and cancellation of the FIR against them for holding revenue officials captive in Lambi on Monday.On Tuesday, the police had booked nine farm leaders and nearly 150 unidentified persons in the Lambi case. Later, the farmers blocked the national highway at Lambi and lifted it in the evening after announcing they would start an indefinite protest outside the DAC on Wednesday.Gurpash Singh Pasha, an accused in the Lambi case, said, “We were upset with the naib tehsildar, not others. We told the rest of the staff to leave, but they insisted on staying. Later, the police used force on us after following the DC orders. We want the FIR cancelled, action against the DC and crop loss relief.”DC Harpreet Singh Sudan said farmers would get the compensation within a few days. Meanwhile, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan and other senior farm leaders met AAP’s Lambi MLA Gurmeet Khudian at Khudian village. — TNSBKU PROTEST TOMORROWREVENUE STAFF SUSPEND STIR #BKU #farmers #farmers protest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-farmers-go-on-indefinite-strike-in-muktsar-382237
31-03-2022||Faridkot||Rotation of treasury office staff in Punjab ordered||In the wake of alleged harassment of government employees at the district and sub-divisional treasury offices, the state government has issued directions for smooth functioning of these offices.In a letter issued to the district and sub-divisional treasury offices, the Finance Department has stated that to break monopoly of staff on public dealing seats, there should be rotation-wise duty so that every employee gets a wide experience and monopoly of some staffers can be done away with. It’s alleged that some employees enjoy near-monopoly on certain “lucrative” seats. Other than breeding corruption, there’s no movement of files if these employees go on a leave.The Finance Department’s letter states that the availability of stamp papers should be displayed prominently on the notice boards, complaint box of treasury offices should be placed at a common place and disposal of a complaint within one week was compulsory. If there’s any objection regarding any bill presented to the office, the employee concerned should enlist all the objections in one go, mentions the letter.Employees had a common grouse that they have to make repeated rounds of the treasury offices for getting the bills cleared. Most of the times, the objections were conveyed to the Drawing and Disbursement Officers (DDOs) after a delay of many days, it’s alleged.The department has conveyed the treasury offices that hardcopies of all raised objections should reach the DDOs without any delay and the objection list should be readily understandable and should have the reference under the Treasury Rules. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rotation-of-treasury-office-staff-in-punjab-ordered-382235
31-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann wants jails turned into reform centres||Emphasising on the need to bring sweeping reforms in the jail administration, Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann on Wednesday exhorted officers of the Prisons Department, to act cohesively.Chairing a meeting of the Prisons Department at Punjab Bhawan, Mann said our primarily goal should be to reform the inmates, including hardcore criminals, gangsters and drug addicts so as to bring them in the mainstream. He said jails should not be torture centres and focus should be laid to make them reformative houses by providing counselling to the inmates.Mann said all the inmates should be treated alike regardless of their social status or position and asked the jail officials to accord topmost priority for safeguarding human rights of the inmates.The Chief Minister also asked the officers to prevent illegal use of mobile phones in jails, besides stamping out corruption with a heavy hand.DK Tiwari, Principal Secretary, Jails, said there was huge shortage of staff and a high risk of prisoners with unique mix of organised crime criminals, gangsters, terrorists, fundamentalists, narco-terror accused, drug crime accused and drug addicts. He sought recruitment of specialist staff for IT/computers, legal matters, accounts and psychologists to ensure efficacious functioning of the Prisons Department. — TNSSafeguard rights of inmatesTopmost priority should be given to safeguarding human rights of the inmates. — Bhagwant Mann, Chief Minister #bhagwant mann||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-bhagwant-mann-wants-jails-turned-into-reform-centres-382233
31-03-2022||Ruchika M KhannaChandigarh||Finance panel seeks legal system to compensate PRIs in Punjab for revenue loss||Bereft of any financial muscle after the rollout of the Goods and Services Tax, local bodies and panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) in Punjab have been left at the mercy of the state government for funding.The Sixth Punjab Finance Commission, which submitted its final report to the Punjab Governor yesterday, has recommended that compensatory payment must be statutorily backed if local bodies suffered any loss of revenue.The report, which is to be sent to the state government by the Governor and later laid in the Vidhan Sabha for approval, mentioned that the government should have compensated these bodies for abolition of taxes and levies. The local bodies were getting 10 per cent of the total VAT collections in Punjab before the GST rollout in 2016-17. Other states, including Maharashtra, abolished local taxes only after statutorily compensating for the losses, it said.The recommendations are significant considering these will be effective till the 2025-26 fiscal. If accepted, the government will be bound to implement these. The record of implementing the recommendations of the previous five Finance Commissions, however, has been abysmal, said commission chairman KR Lakhanpal while talking to The Tribune.Lakhanpal, who retired as the Punjab Chief Secretary, said in the absence of statutory mechanism, the grants had been delayed or denied since 2016-17. He said the commission didn’t take a narrow approach of going only by the terms of reference of the Sixth Finance Commission. He said since local bodies varied in their financial strength, the grant-in-aid would be useful for helping the financially weaker bodies. He said he was hopeful the Punjab Government would emulate the path followed by growth-oriented states by accepting the recommendations.Allow share in taxesInstead of allotting fixed percentage of the state’s own tax revenue to the local bodies and PRIs (generally 4 per cent), we have recommended reassigning of certain taxes and a share in taxes and grants-in-aid. — KR Lakhanpal, Commission chairman||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/finance-panel-seeks-legal-system-to-compensate-pris-in-punjab-for-revenue-loss-382230
31-03-2022||Balwant Garg||Punjab Education Department eyes revenue from school land||Faridkot, March 30To generate more revenue from about 520 acres owned by 105 government schools across the state, the Education Department has asked all these school managements to invite more and more tillers during the open auctioning of land for annual lease.As per the department’s orders, the school managements have been asked to ensure there is a growth of minimum 5 per cent while giving the land on lease for the crop season from May 1, 2022, to April 30, 2023.While the department has directed the school authorities to deposit the lease money in its account without any delay, many of these schools want to use the money, as in most cases the land has been donated by the panchayats or religious institutions to these individual schools.While leasing out the land for agriculture purpose, the school managements have been asked to get an undertaking from the tillers that they would not burn the crop residue or stubble after the harvest.Most of this land is with senior secondary schools and it generates about Rs 2.5 crore as annual revenue.While many of these schools impart training to its student where they have agriculture as subject, but in where the posts of agriculture teacher are lying vacant, the land is leased out to private tillers.There are about 88 agriculture subject teachers in the state. In Faridkot, government senior secondary schools at Sandhwan, Dhudi, Sher Singh Wala, Matta, Hari Nau and Baja Khana have agriculture land, but there are only three subject teachers in the district, said Prem Chawla, a senior functionary of Punjab Government School Teachers’ Union said.Union president Surinder Kumar Puari said the income generated from the land of a school should be used for the development of that particular school, instead of depositing in the state coffer.Rs2.5 cr generated annually||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-education-department-eyes-revenue-from-school-land-382227
31-03-2022||Chandigarh||Online bus permits to end mafia raj, says Punjab Transport Minister||Announcing the strict implementation of “one bus, one permit” measure, Transport Minister Laljit Singh Bhullar on Wednesday said all bus permits would soon be put online to root out the transport mafia from the state.During a meeting with the general managers (GMs) of all bus depots at Punjab Bhawan here, the Transport Minister said the decision was taken to bring more transparency in the functioning of the department. He instructed Principal Secretary, Transport, K Siva Prasad to expedite the process of getting the permit online at the earliest.Instructing to tighten the noose around illegal private buses operating from outside the bus stands, the Transport Minister directed all depot general managers to seek the cooperation of the Secretary, RTA, and exercise their power to stop the plying of illegal buses within the ambit of 500 metres of the bus stands. The GMs can seize private buses carrying passengers from outside bus stands.Highlighting reports of fuel pilferage, he directed the GMs to ensure a minimum mileage of 4.8 km per litre from each bus. He also told them to take action for recovery against those drivers failing to achieve the mileage target.Stressing the pending cases of student passes should be resolved immediately, Bhullar said the such passes should be made in a hassle-free and time-bound manner.He also directed the GMs to pay utmost attention to the cleaning of toilets at the bus stands, treatment of driver-conductors with passengers and provision of potable water in the buses. “I will soon launch a checking campaign of bus stands and any negligence will invite strict action,” he added.Stop plying of illegal busesAll depot GMs must exercise their power to stop the plying of illegal buses within the ambit of 500 metres of their respective bus stands. Laljit Singh Bhullar, Transport Minister #laljit singh bhullar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/online-bus-permits-to-end-mafia-raj-says-punjab-transport-minister-382224
31-03-2022||Jalandhar||Will seek NRIs' help for projects in rural segments of Punjab, says NRI Affairs Minister Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal||Rural Development and Panchayats and NRI Affairs Minister Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal today held a meeting with the Block Development and Panchayat officials and asked them to create a database of the NRIs so that the department could get in touch with them to seek their support for projects in their native villages.He said they would be asked to adopt village schools, hospitals and dispensaries. “We will ask them to contribute whatever amount they can like Rs 5 lakh or so on. We can even put up a stone in memory of their parents or family members along with the work they have sponsored,” he said.The minister said the state government would establish four special courts in Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Bathinda for the cases pertaining to the NRIs. Dhaliwal asked the officials to start the exercise to get back the encroached panchayat land.On the freezing of grants, he said: “The previous government had announced huge grants for villages at the fag end to win over the voters. We are just checking if the right amount had been doled out. Once all verification is done, we will release the grant again.” — #kuldeep singh dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-seek-nris-help-for-projects-in-rural-segments-of-punjab-says-nri-affairs-minister-kuldeep-singh-dhaliwal-382221
31-03-2022||---||Cong-appointed heads of 29 improvement trusts in Punjab removed||Chandigarh, March 30The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government today replaced the Congress-appointed chairmen of 29 improvement trusts with the Deputy Commissioners of the respective districts.The orders were issued by Principal Secretary, Local Government, Ajoy Sinha. Sources in the state government said on a specific instruction from Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann, the Congress-appointed leaders in other board and corporations had also been asked to put in their papers.After Capt Amarinder Singh was dethroned as Chief Minister in September last year and Charanjit Singh Channi was given the reigns, former PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu replaced Dinesh Bassi, Chairman of Amritsar Improvement Trust, with his confidant Damadeep Singh Uppal. Similarly, former minister Tript Bajwa replaced Pawan Kumar Pamma, a confidant of Partap Bajwa, as Chairman of Batala Improvement Trust.The 29 improvement trusts includes major cities like Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala, Ludhiana and Bathinda. Raman Behl, a former Chairman of Punjab Subordinate Service Selection Board, who joined AAP ahead of the Assembly elections, said the political appointees should resign on their own with the change of the government.As many as nine non-official office-bearers of various boards and corporations have resigned. These include Mandi Board Chairman Lal Singh, Puncofed Chairman Avtar Singh and PRTC Chairman Satwinder Singh. Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) Director Harmesh Chandar, Infotech Vice-Chairman Kartik Wadhera, Directors Manjit Singh Saroya, Satish Kansal, Surjit Singh Bhoon and Naresh Pruthi have also resigned.Corporation, board chiefs told to resign||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-appointed-heads-of-29-improvement-trusts-in-punjab-removed-382219
31-03-2022||GS PaulAmritsar||Akal Takht moots own channel for live telecast of Gurbani||The Akal Takht has directed the SGPC to launch its own channel for the live telecast of Gurbani worldwide. SGPC says it needs at least Rs 200 cr to set up channel.The move comes following allegations of immoral activities during a beauty pageant aired by a private television channel having rights to telecast Gurbani live from the Golden Temple.Raising the issue during the budget session, SGPC members Kiranjot Kaur and Balwinder Bains urged Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh to take cognisance of the matter and order snapping of ties with the channel. Kiranjot Kaur, the granddaughter of Master Tara Singh, said an FIR was also lodged against the channel’s management. She stressed till the case reached its legal conclusion, the channel should be barred from relaying Gurbani as “it had hurt the sentiments of the Sikhs”.Former Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa had raised a similar demand in the past. The SGPC had entered into a pact with the channel for telecast rights till 2023.Giani Harpreet Singh directed the SGPC to initiate steps to launch the channel. He confirmed that the directions had been issued following complaints that were received against the channel.Following the directions from the Akal Takht, SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami said it would work on the modalities on priority. “We need a corpus of at least Rs 200 crore for establishing studios and requisite infrastructure. Since it is the Akal Takht’s order, we will definitely comply with it,” he added.Rs 200-cr projectFocus on BBMB, Sikh prisonersSGPC adopts resolution listing several demands... #akal takht #golden temple #gurbani #SGPC #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/takht-moots-own-channel-for-live-telecast-of-gurbani-382215
31-03-2022||---||SGPC passes Rs 988-cr budget||Amritsar, March 30The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) today tabled an annual budget of Rs 988.15 crore for 2022-23, it being higher than the anticipated income of Rs 958.45 crore from various sources.The SGPC alleged the state government’s non-cooperative policies towards its educational institutions had led to a deficit of nearly Rs 29.70 crore.SGPC chief Harjinder Singh Dhami said Rs 231.83 crore would be needed to run educational institutions, whereas the income was just Rs 203.60 crore. Similarly, nearly Rs 7.67 crore has to be spared for the printing presses against the income of Rs 6.20 crore.He slammed the state for not releasing the “genuine” funds meant for its aided staff and the SC students’ scholarships for the past few years. “Had these funds been cleared, the financial position of our educational institutions would have been better,” he said.According to the Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925, the SGPC can only take 38 per cent of the total revenue from gurdwaras, including the Golden Temple and other Takhts. “During the Covid crisis, the gurdwara income was miniscule, yet the SGPC never stepped back from providing free medical aid and vaccination, besides serving other humanitarian and social causes,” he said.The main thrust of the budget was on education and health sector, besides “dharam parchar” (propagation of the Sikh religion). Under social service, four special medical stores will be opened on the premises of Akal Takht (Amritsar), Takht Kesgarh Sahib (Anandpur Sahib), Takht Damdama Sahib (Talwandi Sabo) and Gurdwara Bir Baba Budha Sahib Thatha (Tarn Taran). The needy patients will get medicine at subsidised rates. Similarly, on the lines of Mata Sahib Kaur Girls College Talwandi Sabo, another batch of 200 Gursikh girls will be imparted free education, boarding and lodging at Sri Guru Granth Sahib World University, Fatehgarh Sahib.Besides, a budget of Rs 5.58 crore has been kept for supporting the poor and needy, Rs 3.69 crore for memorials, Rs 50 lakh for supporting Sikligar and Vanjara Sikhs, and Rs 96 lakh to meet natural disasters.Similarly, a special fund has been kept aside for gurdwaras in and outside Punjab, printing religious literature, supporting Dharmi Faujis and their families, pursuing cases of Sikh prisoners lodged in jails, for supporting the families affected by the Delhi Sikh genocide, and education of children.The first centenary of Shaheedi Saka (martyrdom massacre) of Gurdwara Sri Panja Sahib (now in Pakistan) will be observed with full grandeur on October 30 and a budget of Rs 1.75 crore has been earmarked for it.The meeting was attended by 101 SGPC members.FDs, bank interest lifelineThe government policies aren’t helpful. FDRs (fixed deposit receipts) or the bank interests on our deposits are the lifeline. Otherwise, there is no source to bridge the deficit as of now. — Harjinder S Dhami, SGPC prez #harjinder singh dhami #SGPC #Sikhs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-passes-988-cr-budget-382212
31-03-2022||Aman SoodPatiala||Private tennis academy at public park in Patiala, probe ordered||The Local Bodies Department has ordered a probe into the setting up of a private tennis academy at a public park in the Model Town area without permission of the authorities concerned. City Mayor said strict action would be taken against officials for connivance, if any.According to area residents, hoardings of the academy were put up at the park opposite the Community Health Centre almost a fortnight ago. The academy earmarked an area for tennis court and barred locals from entering it. Electricity too was being drawn illegally.A resident said initially they thought the government had opened the facility for locals at nominal rates. “The coach told us the charges range from Rs 1,500 to Rs 4,000. The academy owner who resides nearby wants to cover more area in connivance with land sharks,” he alleged.Coach Sonu Suniara claimed the academy was owned by a local resident and he had been appointed to train children. Groundsmen at the academy claimed the owner had the permission, but refused to divulge details. They claimed officials in the DC and municipal offices had knowledge about it.While calls to MC Commissioner Keshav Hingonia went unanswered, Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu confirmed no permission was given to set up any private academy in a public park. “We will fix the responsibility of officials concerned,” he said.Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said he would order a probe as it was a serious violation. Information suggests the market value of the land is over Rs 50 crore. Puneet Goyal, Director, Local Bodies, said he would seek a detailed report from the Municipal Commissioner and fix responsibility of those found guilty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/private-tennis-academy-at-public-park-in-patiala-probe-ordered-382193
31-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann bars private schools from raising fee; policy soon||Ahead of the commencement of the next academic session, Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann today ordered schools not to increase fee or compel children to buy books, uniform or stationery items from select shops.This will bring relief to hundreds of thousands of children and their parents in the state, many of whom are forced to either change schools because of high fee, or withdraw their wards from schools and force the children to work in the unorganised sector.In a video message, CM Mann said a comprehensive policy in this regard would be soon formulated, after taking into account views of all stakeholders — parents, schools, principals etc. The policy would be shared in coming days, he said. The CM also ordered that no school would force parents to buy books, stationery and uniform from a particular shop. The move is aimed at breaking the monopoly in the “education business”. The CM said private schools would have to ensure that shops in their city offer books, stationery and uniforms of their schools. #bhagwant mann #private schools||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-bars-private-schools-from-raising-fee-policy-soon-382192
31-03-2022||Muktsar||Former CM Parkash Singh Badal suffers knee injury||Former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal on Wednesday suffered knee injury after he lost his balance and slipped at his residence in Badal village here.The doctor has advised him to take a few days’ rest. He, however, visited four villages today to undertake his thanksgiving tour in the Lambi constituency. Badal addressed the gathering while sitting in his car. “I wanted to visit you today, but slipped in the morning and suffered a knee injury. Doctors have advised me to take rest. Since I had already announced my programme and you made all the arrangements, I could not cancel it. Now, you don’t worry that we lost the election. I will work more for you and visit again,” the former CM said.Later, Badal cancelled his programmes scheduled for the evening and tomorrow, too. #parkash singh badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-cm-parkash-singh-badal-suffers-knee-injury-382142
31-03-2022||Patiala||Mahesh Bhatt makes docudrama on Punjabi Varsity officer’s book on prominent Indian Sikhs||Punjabi University Patiala officer’s book on prominent Sikhs of India will now be turned into a 16-episode docudrama series and produced by Mumbai-based noted director, producer and screenwriter Mahesh Bhatt. The docudrama, much like the book’s contents, will feature interview sessions with prominent Sikh personalities including, Amritsar based Pingalwara charitable society president Dr Inderjit Kaur, environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal, Economist Montek Singh, Dubai based businessman SP Singh Oberoi and others. The series which is currently being produced will be launched on an OTT platform.Dr Prabhleen Singh, a class-A officer on Punjabi University campus said he wrote and published the book- Prominent Sikhs of India, in 2018. “The book carries motivational success stories of 50 prominent Sikh personalities including former PM Manmohan Singh, environmentalist Sant Seechewal, former SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal, Punjabi writer Surjit Pattar, and delivers a message for the youth. Mahesh Bhatt decided to adapt the book into a series- “Pehchaan- The unscripted show.”He said with the release of the series people “Will get a glimpse into the lives of real Indian heroes.”Mahesh Bhatt said, “I saw Sikhs step out during the pandemic (Covid-19) and help people when every institution had failed to help mankind through the dark times. That gave birth to the idea of talking to this brave community that has been serving humankind for more than 500 years. With this, people around the world will not only get a taste of faith but also a glimpse of their great history. I call them the warriors of the 21st century.”The show will be released on an OTT platform.  #balbir singh seechewal #dr prabhleen singh #mahesh bhatt #punjabi university #Sikhs #sps oberoi #surjit pattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mahesh-bhatt-makes-docudrama-on-punjabi-varsity-officers-book-on-prominent-indian-sikhs-382139
31-03-2022||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann congratulates Harnaaz Kaur Sandhu for bringing crown back to India after 21 years as Miss Universe meets Punjab CM||Miss Universe Harnaaz Kaur Sandhu met Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann at his official residence on Wednesday.Chief Minister congratulated Harnaaz Kaur for making the country proud by bringing the title of Miss Universe back to India after 21 years.Miss Universe @HarnaazKaur Sandhu called on CM @BhagwantMann today at his official residence. Chief Minister congratulated her for making the country proud by bringing the title of Miss Universe back to India after 21 years. pic.twitter.com/yy3RYfwDrGHarnaaz Kaur has been in news for her views over girls being targeted on the issue of hijab.Miss Universe 2021 Harnaaz Sandhu has appealed to the society to stop targeting girls, including on the issue of hijab, saying “Let them live the way they choose to.”In a clip that has gone viral on social media, a reporter asked Sandhu about her views on the issue around hijab.The video is part of an event held here on March 17 in the honour of the Miss Universe 2021's homecoming. #Bhagwantmann #harnaaz kaur sandhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-congratulates-harnaaz-kaur-for-bringing-crown-back-to-india-after-21-years-as-miss-universe-meets-punjab-cm-382097
