20-07-2021||Editorials||An attack on citizens||On Sunday evening, an international network of media organisations, assisted by a network of international civil society organisations, broke a story about State surveillance as a part of a series called The Pegasus Project. In India, The Wire reported that the phone numbers of 40 journalists (including three from this newspaper), two ministers (including the new minister for information technology, Ashwini Vaishnaw), three Opposition figures (including Rahul Gandhi), political consultant-turned-politician Prashant Kishor, officials (including former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa), a Supreme Court judge, and business figures were on a list of potential targets for surveillance at different points in the last four years. The phone devices of some individuals, subjected to forensic analysis, indicated the presence of an infection or an attempted hack. If the allegations of widespread surveillance are true, they represent an unacceptable and illegal invasion of the right to privacy, right to liberty, and the right to dignity of all those targeted; the series also throw up deeply disturbing questions about the source of the hack and represents a subversion of India’s constitutional democracy. Developed by the Israeli firm NSO, Pegasus is an extraordinarily sophisticated technology that can, once it infects a phone, gain access to calls (including on encrypted platforms), contacts, app passwords, browsing history, microphone and camera which can capture off-line conversations, and even plant evidence, as alleged in the Bhima Koregaon case. To be sure, the mere presence of a number does not indicate a hack. The list is only of potential targets. Forensic analysis has been limited, and also inconclusive in certain cases. The Government of India (GOI) has denied allegations of illegal surveillance, and claimed all interceptions are as per law and due process — though it does leave room open to ask if GOI has purchased Pegasus and deployed it. NSO, which maintains that it sells the software only to “vetted governments” for countering terror and crime, termed the allegation baseless, and claimed that the 50,000 listed numbers (internationally) may be for other purposes. But its chief executive, Shalev Hulio also said that allegations of misuse were concerning and if true, violate the relationship of trust with customers, ie governments.The gravity of the allegations and its implications for Indian democracy are enormous. If the Indian government has done this, it is a betrayal of the constitutional compact with citizens. If another government has done it, it is a cyber attack on India and its citizens. Either way, there must be a truly independent judicial enquiry to get to the truth and hold those responsible for this violation of fundamental rights accountable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/an-attack-on-citizens-101626706948470.html
20-07-2021||Editorials||Housing is critical for the environment||In Mumbai, on Sunday, 31 people died in a series of house collapses after a short burst of intense rain, a tell-tale sign of the climate crisis, triggered landslides. In Haryana’s Faridabad district, protests have continued at Khori Gaon since June 7 when the Supreme Court directed the municipal corporation to take “essential measures” to remove “encroachments” from forest lands. A common thread unites these events — housing poverty.Urban India has struggled with providing proper, adequate and legal housing to citizens that has electricity, water supply, sanitation, and sewage connections. In addition to the homeless, there is a slum population of roughly 65 million (or 17% of urban India). A 2020 Niti Aayog paper, titled Housing Conundrum, showed the housing market has a skewed demand–supply management. Housing backlogs coexist with stressed assets and vacant housing stock. The development of affordable housing is constrained by economic and spatial issues. Land use plans are unable to keep pace with rapid urban population increase and land development.A safe and climate-sensitive shelter can provide income, security and a future for inhabitants. For poor women in the informal sector, the home plays a critical role in their earning activities, making it a productive asset. In a post-Covid-19 and climate-crisis-hit world, it means better security and health, too, for occupants. Most importantly, legal rights to a house mean that the owner has an identity that the government recognises. To tackle the housing backlog, the Centre launched the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) in 2015 that promises to provide housing for all by 2022. To avoid a replay of Mumbai and Faridabad, this programme’s success is crucial in providing homes to all, including those devastated by environmental crises and those displaced to protect the environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/housing-is-critical-for-the-environment-101626706776384.html
