21-07-2021||Editorials||Covid-19: The battle ahead||The latest nationwide survey for Covid-19 antibodies suggests that two out of three Indians may have some form of protection from the coronavirus. The government’s senior experts said on Tuesday that the sample size of close to 29,000 people included people who did and did not receive a vaccine. Among the unvaccinated group, the prevalence of antibodies was 62%. Overall, including vaccine recipients, it was 67.6%. In contrast, in the last such study, from the same 70 districts, the prevalence rate was 24.1%. The jump is unsurprising since the earlier study was held prior to the devastating second wave of Covid-19 infections.Such studies, known as seroprevalence surveys, carry several important caveats. First, can the study be extrapolated to estimate the overall spread of the virus in India? Both Balram Bhargava, the head of the Indian Council of Medical Research, and Niti Aayog member VK Paul cautioned that these numbers cannot be taken to fit a particular city or village — the study, they said, gives mostly an overall picture across the country. Second, does simply testing positive for antibodies mean protection? The answer is yes; antibodies do mean protection. Third, the longevity of antibodies, especially among those who were infected, is likely to wane in the next few months.But there is another way of looking at the number. A rough extrapolation of the findings suggests 400 million people are still vulnerable — this number alone is higher than the population of the United States. The government rightly underlined this fact several times on Tuesday to appeal to people to remain careful and avoid any sort of gathering, whether social, religious or political. States that recently went ahead with allowing people to observe some festivities, or those that attempted to but were stopped by the Supreme Court, must pay particular attention. It is also crucial for authorities engaged in surveillance to keep a close watch on any changes in outbreak patterns. At present, many regions of the country are logging numbers last seen in February. That is when India became complacent. It must not make the same mistake again since this time, if it is able to drive up vaccination rates, the country may well be in the home stretch of the war against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid19-the-battle-ahead-101626876941920.html
21-07-2021||Editorials||Climate goals: India’s strides and challenges||India reduced support to the fossil fuel industry by 4% between 2015 and 2019 while countries in the G20 forum are failing to meet their commitments, a new report by BloombergNEF and Bloomberg Philanthropies released on Tuesday said. The G20 provided $636 billion in direct support for fossil fuels in 2019, which is 10% less than that in 2015. The report, however, also noted that India has 66 coal power plants in the pipeline, second only to China’s 247. The report is not a review of India’s official commitment (Nationally Determined Contributions), but what the country needs to do if it has to meet the net-zero target by (2050) and the 1.5 degree criteria under the Paris Climate Agreement. India has not committed to a net-zero target and, therefore, the metric doesn’t apply. But it is on course to meet the NDC pledges.While it is true that India is the world’s third-largest carbon emitter after China and the United States, the country needs cheap and reliable power to meet three development challenges: First, India has to provide clean cooking energy to 800 million people and electricity access to 200 million; second, it has to create jobs and that cannot happen without more and better power; and third, the urban transition will entail huge energy needs. In addition, the energy transition has to be just because of livelihood implications. While it is imperative to build domestic multi-level and multi-actor alliances to facilitate the transition, India needs and is entitled to financial and technological support from the developed world to increase the pace of changeover. Clean energy investments in emerging and developing economies need to be multiplied by more than seven — from less than $150 billion last year to over $1 trillion annually by 2030 to meet climate goals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/climate-goals-india-s-strides-and-challenges-101626876880535.html
21-07-2021||Editorials||The increasing threat of lightning strikes||In 2020, India recorded a nearly 23% increase in lightning episodes compared to 2019, says a report by Earth Networks, a private firm specialising in weather intelligence data. The report, released on Monday, shows its network detected 39.55 million lightning pulses in India. Nearly 13.03 million were dangerous “cloud-to-ground” strikes, which make lives and property vulnerable. Thunderstorms accompanied by lightning strikes (usually in the pre-monsoon and monsoon months) are the single largest killers among natural disasters in India, according to the National Disaster Management Authority. Lightning strikes have killed at least 2,000 people every year in India since 2004, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in June. The increasing number of lighting-related episodes is now being linked to the climate crisis. This is because surface temperature and moisture levels have increased significantly in recent years. The increasing moisture level provides favourable condition for the development of thunder clouds and collision of ice particles leads to charging and lightning strikes.It is crucial that states relay the benefits of improved forecasting to the people, and install lightning arresters in rural areas. Odisha has reduced lightning deaths by installing arresters. The early warning messages must be in local languages and all communication mediums must be used. States should undertake lightning micro-zoning for regions, depending on their geography, to handle disaster and death risks better. With temperatures rising due to global warming, India is certain to see a spike in lightning mortalities in the future, and so states must put in place adequate systems and channels that disseminate information effectively to save lives and property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-increasing-threat-of-lightning-strikes-101626791735278.html
21-07-2021||Editorials||The Congress in Punjab||To resolve the impasse in the Punjab Congress, where there was an outright battle between the chief minister (CM), Captain Amarinder Singh, and cricketer-turned-satirist-turned-Bharatiya Janata Party leader-turned-Congress minister-turned rebel, Navjot Singh Sidhu, the Congress high command has implemented a power-sharing formula. Mr Singh will remain the party’s face for the state assembly elections while Mr Sidhu has been appointed the state unit chief. Whether this formula cements party unity, paves the way for a smooth generational transition, and improves electoral prospects, or adds to internal factionalism, erodes its prospects, and even creates conditions for a splinter is the key question — and the answer to that question will determine more than just Punjab politics.The Congress high command is pleased at what it thinks is a reasonable solution and establishes the authority of the Gandhi family, for it is an open secret that Mr Sidhu’s sources of strength were Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. The CM is upset at the manner in which he has been treated, and now forced to deal with a state chief he doesn’t particularly like, despite having won the state elections and subsequent local elections over the past five years. Mr Sidhu is happy that he has been able to take on the CM and get away with it, becoming the chief of a party he joined four years age as a step towards his ambition of becoming CM. The rest of the Opposition in the state suddenly sees an opportunity due to the infighting in the ruling party. And the rest of the Congress rank and file is observing closely how the battle between the Delhi leadership and a regional satrap plays out.But while the implications will only become clear over time, the manner in which the Congress has dealt with Punjab, the one state in north India it is in power, may be a lesson on what not do. It has alienated a successful CM, primarily because he was autonomous, though, to be sure, questions were being raised on the CM’s governance. It made a public spectacle of internal differences. It imposed a formula which is laced with risks of infighting ahead of and during next year’s polls — which will be tested in the ticket distribution exercise. The outcome in Punjab may determine the power balance between Delhi leadership and regional units of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-congress-in-punjab-101626791257408.html
