27-07-2021||Editorials||Assam-Mizoram: A constitutional breakdown||On Monday, Assam and Mizoram clashed over a disputed boundary. Five policemen and one civilian (all from Assam) were killed and nearly 50 others were injured. The bloodiest-ever incident between the two states was the culmination of the discontent that had been simmering since October 2020 over incidents of violence and Assam’s residents blocking NH-306, the lifeline to Mizoram, for 12 days. While Assam claims Mizoram has encroached on its boundary, Mizoram maintains the area belongs to the state.Also Read | The lockdown and its economic costsMizoram has accused Assam police personnel of entering its territory, indulging in violence, and claimed that it only retaliated after tear gas canisters and grenades were hurled by Assam’s security forces. Assam has blamed Mizoram of breaching existing agreements and status quo on the border, and accused the Mizoram police of firing on its security forces and civilians using light machine guns. A violent clash of this nature between two Indian states represents a constitutional breakdown. And the fact that the clash played out on Twitter, with chief ministers (CMs) of both states sparring and urging home minister Amit Shah to intervene, represents a political and institutional failure. Incidentally, Mr Shah had met the CMs of all Northeastern states over the weekend in Shillong where long pending inter-state border disputes were discussed.Mizoram’s border dispute with Assam goes back to 1972 when the former was first carved out as a Union Territory (it became a state in 1987). Assam also has border disputes with Meghalaya, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. With states in the region either ruled by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) governments or, as in the case of Mizoram, by constituents of the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), a BJP-led political platform of anti-Congress parties, there were expectations that border issues would get resolved. Instead, the situation appears to have become worse. Monday must serve as a wake-up call for the Centre as well as states in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/assammizoram-a-constitutional-breakdown-101627389970643.html
27-07-2021||Editorials||The lockdown and its economic costs||The Indian economy experienced an unprecedented contraction of 24.4% in the quarter ending June 2020 due to the 68-day-long lockdown which was imposed on March 24 to curb the spread of the pandemic. That employment suffered during this period is a given. The urban unemployment rate increased from 8.9% in April-June 2019 to 20.9% in the same period in 2020, as per the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) for the April-June 2020 period released in March 2021. But since the quarterly PLFS numbers do not include rural areas, they did not reveal the entire employment story. The annual PLFS report for July 2019-June 2020, released last week, gives a better idea of the lockdown’s impact on employment, and corroborates anecdotal accounts of reverse migration to rural areas in distress. Urban jobs fell by 11.05 million between April-June 2019 and April-June 2020, while rural jobs increased by 14.67 million in the same period. The share of employment in agriculture increased in 2019-20. This is unprecedented. Real wages fell for most workers, the highest for the self-employed category during April-June 2020 period. Average number of hours worked fell across categories.Also Read | The vaccination drive is entering a challenging phase. Change strategiesIn short, the labour market faced a multi-pronged squeeze. It is easy to miss these nuances if one looks at the headline employment numbers for 2019-20. They show an improvement in labour force participation rate and a decline in unemployment rate, creating a misleading picture of labour markets. The latest PLFS findings have brought to fore the fact that vulnerabilities in Indian labour markets might not reflect themselves in the most commonly tracked statistic – the unemployment rate. In a country which has very little in terms of social security, staying unemployed is not an option. The pandemic pushed people from the more productive urban economy to the less productive rural sector. This is also reflected in the per worker output in agriculture in real terms which went down from ₹1.18 lakh in 2018-19 to ₹1.02 lakh in 2019-20 (July-June period). A rise in demand for work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme also tells the same story.PLFS numbers after the April-June 2020 period are not available. Even quarterly reports will not have information on rural labour markets. But PLFS numbers suggest what to expect. Restoring growth is not going to be enough to revive India’s economic fortunes. The pandemic’s distributive consequences are equally adverse. That the government has not offered much in terms of direct fiscal support and its tax burden has become more regressive will only worsen the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-lockdown-and-its-economic-costs-101627389310448.html
