28-07-2021||Editorials||The Supreme Court is right on begging||The Supreme Court (SC), on Tuesday, refused to ban begging and issued a notice to the Centre and Delhi government, seeking their responses within two weeks on a petition requesting Covid-19 vaccination and rehabilitation of beggars. The SC bench observed that it is a socio-economic problem and people are forced to beg to eke out their livelihood due to the absence of education and employment. The court’s observations are in line with past judicial observations. In 2018, the Delhi High Court struck down a law that made begging in the Capital a crime, saying that criminalising begging “violates the fundamental rights of some of the most vulnerable people”.India has no federal law on begging and destitution. About 20 states have adopted the Bombay Prevention of Begging Act, 1959, which carries a penalty of detention of three to 10 years in beggar homes. Activists argue that it is an oppressive law, and allows the police to detain or arrest anyone who is poor, including nomadic communities, street performers and migrant workers.While traditionally, seeking alms was an accepted way of life in India, a shift in mindset towards the criminalisation of begging occurred during colonial rule. To the Victorians, beggars represented laziness, moral degeneration and a threat to public health. Independent India absorbed this colonial attitude. This approach lacks empathy and absolves the welfare State of failing to provide citizens with their basic minimum requirements — food, housing, education and health. Let the SC’s observations mark a new conversation on begging, and how to improve the lives of India’s destitute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-supreme-court-is-right-on-begging-101627471711972.html
28-07-2021||Editorials||Time to break the stalemate||It has been eight working days since the monsoon session of Parliament began. It started out with the hope that both the treasury and Opposition benches have a common interest in a functional session. The government wanted to push through its legislative agenda and was prepared to address the issue of the management of the second wave of Covid-19 this summer. The Opposition saw an opportunity to hold the government accountable on public health, price rise and national security. But with the Pegasus revelations storming the Indian public sphere, the script changed. The Opposition has now demanded that unless there is a full discussion in both Houses on Pegasus and an enquiry, it won’t allow Parliament to run. The government has issued two perfunctory statements on the issue but doesn’t want a discussion. And so there is a stalemate.For the sake of India’s parliamentary democracy, it is crucial to break the stalemate. In principle, the Opposition is right. The fact that the numbers of key political figures, business executives, bureaucrats, activists and journalists were on a potential surveillance list, and some of their phone devices were found to be infected with Pegasus — a military-grade spyware — is cause for concern. It throws up questions about who was culpable, what it means for the right to privacy, liberty, dignity, and indeed, the very idea of democracy. Parliament is the best forum to discuss the issue — and it is indeed beyond the purview of just the information technology minister to address it.The government is in a bind. It cannot admit to procuring and using Pegasus — given that hacking is illegal in India and it will raise difficult questions about its democratic credentials. It cannot deny using Pegasus — given that this means a foreign government was possibly deploying it against Indian citizens. And so it has relied on a defence based on how all interception and surveillance in India has to be legally sanctioned. But the fact is that at some point, if not in the House, then in the courts where a bunch of petitions have been lined up, the government will have to give a detailed response. The government may think that the disruption is costing it little; it is still able to get legislative business through amid the din and is able to evade more uncomfortable electoral issues such as price rise. But the spirit of democracy dictates that the Opposition must be allowed its say, even if the government has its way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/time-to-break-the-stalemate-101627471351986.html
