01-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai university hints at another academic year online||With exams to most undergraduate and postgraduate courses in colleges affiliated with the University of Mumbai (MU) coming to an end, the varsity is now busy planning the new academic year. While an official statement is yet to be released, varsity officials have confirmed that the upcoming semester 2021-22 academic year will be conducted online.“We have put together a team of experts which also includes deans of all faculties to chalk out a detailed plan for the next academic year. Since Covid-19 cases are still being recorded across the state, the new academic year will have to commence online,” said a senior official from MU. He added that the university will release circular highlighting rules and regulations for the new semester within a week. Amidst confusion over the regular lectures last year, the university had released a notification in the last week of August, directing all colleges to start the 2020-21 academic year online from September 7, 2020, onwards. Many colleges struggled for a few weeks before getting used to the virtual classroom routine. This year colleges seem much more prepared for regular lectures as well as exams.“We have asked for suggestions from several stakeholders and are trying to incorporate the most efficient ideas in a way that both students and affiliated colleges ease into it. While we know that lectures will have to begin in online form only, there are suggestions for hybrid teaching module as well, which could be implemented once the Covid-19 situation in the city improves,” said another official from MU. He added that for now, colleges will be asked to continue the same virtual format that they followed throughout 2020-21 to ensure a smooth transition from one year to another.In December 2020, MU released a circular clarifying the academic timetable for the 2020-21 academic year which clearly stated that exams have to be completed by May end and the summer vacation dates are from June 1-13. “As per this circular, we are reopening our college for the new academic year on June 14 and have already started preparing for the semester online. Students and parents too are unsure about physical classes, especially with the fear of a third wave looming over us,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College, Bandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-hints-at-another-academic-year-online-101622572019507.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: PILs seeks relief for Covid-affected specially-abled and orphans||Two public interest litigations (PIL) have been moved in the Bombay high court (HC) seeking protection and various reliefs to over 1,450 children orphaned after their parents succumbed to the Covid-19 infection and setting up of special Covid wards in Covid care centres with specially trained medical staff to attend to visually-impaired patients and special vaccination facilities for them.The first PIL filed by Gayatri Patwardhan, a social worker from Pune through advocates Asim Sarode and Ajinkya Udane has claimed that while the state has announced various reliefs and gave assurances of taking care of children orphaned due to Covid, there was no guarantee of the authorities keeping their word, hence the PIL sought various directions for the benefit of such children.The petition has sought to increase the grant of ₹1,100 per month for children up to the age of 18 years under the Child Care Scheme and Foster Care Policy to ₹5,000 per month. The petition also seeks free education for orphaned children and to start and implement Education Sponsorship Programme (ESP) under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act and the Integrated Child Protection Scheme (ICPS) guidelines.The PIL also seeks directions to authorities to properly identify and prepare documents pertaining to caste certificate, birth certificate, property documents and identification records of orphaned children.The second PIL filed by Swagat Thorat, editor of a Braille Magazine, has raised concerns over the lack of healthcare facilities for visually impaired people and seeks reliefs including special Covid-19 wards, ‘barrier-free’ hospitals with specially trained medical staff to attend them and special vaccination facilities for them. The PIL also seeks direction to the state Disability Commissioner to provide data of visually impaired people who succumbed to Covid-19 infection, so that their families can be compensated through various government schemes. The PIL also demanded a scheme to support children and family members of visually impaired persons and increased economic support of ₹5,000 per month for blind persons under Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Yojana.The PILs are likely to be heard on Wednesday, June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-pils-seeks-relief-for-covid-affected-specially-abled-and-orphans-101622571960222.html
01-06-2021||Other||Govt extends interest waiver scheme for traders till September 2||The state government has extended the interest waiver scheme for traders, cable operators and other dealers for three months in view of the continuing pandemic.The one-time settlement scheme (OTS) sought to waive the interest on the tax liabilities created against dealers registered under the UP Sales Tax Act, the Central Sales Tax Act, the UP Entertainment Tax Act and the UP Cable Television Network Act up to December 2020 provided that defaulters could pay the full principal amount at one go.The scheme was launched for three months from March 3 to June 2. The government on Monday issued a fresh notification extending the same scheme till September 2 considering the fact that most traders could not avail the scheme due to the start of the second wave of the pandemic in March end.“The scheme will now remain in effect from March 3, 2021 to September 2, 2021 with all the terms and conditions being the same as laid down in the GO issued on March 3, 2021,” the notification issued by additional chief secretary, commercial tax, Sanjiv Mittal said.Earlier, commercial tax commissioner Ministhy S on May 25 wrote a letter to the government proposing the extension of the interest waiver scheme that covers tax liabilities only prior to the GST regime that came into effect on July 1, 2017. The scheme offers 100% waiver of interest component on the arrears up to ₹10 lakh, 90% on the arrears more than ₹10 lakh and up to ₹1 crore, 50% on the on the dues between ₹1 crore and 5 crore and only 10% on the arrears if they are above ₹5 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-extends-interest-waiver-scheme-for-traders-till-september-2-101622571959520.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 14,123 new Covid cases; Mumbai records 830||Maharashtra recorded 14,123 new Covid-19 cases and 477 deaths on Tuesday, while Mumbai reported 89 days lowest at 830 cases. The positivity rate of the state stands at 6.34%.The total number of tests conducted on Monday were 222,599 while the number of recoveries was 35,949. The state currently has 230,681 active cases while the total number of people affected by Covid-19 to date has reached 5,761,015. There are currently 230,681 active patients across the state, of which, Pune tops with 30,092 patients followed by Satara with 20,777 active patients. The death toll has now reached 96,198, with Mumbai leading with 14,849 deaths followed by Pune with 12,569.Mumbai on Tuesday witnessed 830 new cases and 23 deaths taking the case tally to 706,118 and deaths to 14,849. The last time the city reported below 900 cases was on March 2 when 849 cases were reported in the city. According to state health department data, the ​city’s recovery rate is 94% with 668,976 recoveries. The city’s fatality rate is 2.10% and there are 20,147 active cases. Dharavi- city’s former hot spot also recorded only three cases on Tuesday, taking the total to 6,828 and 6,449 discharges.Though the number of new Covid-19 cases reduced in May in the state compared to April, there was a higher number of deaths in May compared to April. There were 20,140 deaths in May compared to 13,835 in April.Subhash Salunke, advisor, Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management said the deaths in May are cumulative figures from April onwards. “The deaths which occurred in May are mainly of those who were affected by Covid-19 in April. The cases peaked in April and many of these deaths occurred in May. Hence, the number of deaths in May is higher than April,” said Salunke.Dr Jeevan Jain, physician from Lalbaug who has treated more than 15,000 patients said most of the patients struggled at least 20 days before succumbing to this virus. “Most of the patients take at least one week to get themselves admitted in the hospital. After that, the doctors try every method to revive them and even put them in ventilators to save them. This consumes a lot of days,” said Jain.There were 1,141,447 new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra in May compared to 1,794,406 in April.The decline was due to various factors like the total lockdown, ramping of testing as well as early diagnostic results, coupled with beefing of hospital infrastructure.The private hospitals in Nashik have decided not to admit any new Covid-19 patients. Their contention was since the Covid-19 cases have come down, the government hospitals can accommodate them. The Pune Municipal Corporation, which started the walk-in vaccination drive for students planning to study abroad, saw huge crowds. Aurangabad and Nashik market places witnessed huge crowds after lockdown rules were relaxed there on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-14-123-new-covid-cases-mumbai-records-830-101622571839472.html
01-06-2021||Other||Now, seers to motivate people against burying dead along riverbanks||After the recent reports of people burying their dead by thousands on riverbanks from various UP cities like Hamirpur, Unnao and Prayagraj, seers spread across the length and breadth of the country will soon be touring and convincing rural folk as well as poorly educated residents of cities located on the banks of rivers against doing so. They will motivate them to go for cremations using eco-friendly electric crematoriums instead. Following an in-principle agreement among various senior seers of different akharas on the issue, Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP)—the apex decision-making body of 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders—has decided to table a formal proposal in this regard in its next meeting. The date and venue of the meeting will be decided soon. Some claim it to be an age-old practice among residents of certain region while other blame it on locals being unable to afford proper cremations due to sudden spike in cost of wood during the pandemic.“The practice of burying dead bodies on riverbanks is an old tradition among many communities and sects of Hindus of some regions across the country. Also, death owing to some specific reasons like snakebites or certain skin ailments besides dead bodies of children also prompt many to follow this practice as per their own beliefs. However, the threat of pollution due to these graves on riverbanks that rivers like Ganga and the Yamuna face cannot be denied,” said ABAB chief Mahant Narendra Giri.“So even as the governments are doing their bit, we believe that the saints of the country also need to do their bit to save our sacred rivers, many of which are revered as goddesses, by millions in India,” he added. “We want to involve all over 2.3 million saints affiliated with our different akharas who have presence in thousands of mutts, ashrams and temples dotting the country in this nationwide mission aimed at protecting the sacred rivers of the nation from pollution due to dead bodies buried on their banks,” Giri said.“Following support shown by various saints in private discussions, we have now decided to table a formal proposal in our next meeting which we plan to hold soon depending upon the status of the pandemic,” said Giri who is also the secretary of Shri Panchayati Akhara Niranjan, one of the 13 recognised monastic orders.With an aim to bring down the burials by one third within a year and further cut it down to half in another six months, the plan of the ABAP is to have the saints, who are revered and respected by locals, convincing people in cities and villages located along the rivers like Ganga, Yamuna, Godavari, Narmada and Kaveri among others to cremate their dead thereby not just protecting the rivers but also countless trees that are chopped to provide wood for traditional cremation, Mahant Narendra Giri said.General secretary, ABAP, Mahant Hari Giri, who is also chief patron of the Shri Panchdashnaam Juna Akhada, said burying the dead on sandy riverbanks needed to be stopped as this caused the sand getting displaced with time due to water current and strong winds and the bodies going into the river thereby polluting it.“Even as saints strive to convince people to stop burying dead bodies on riverbanks, efforts also need to be made to provide some land near villages etc to enable Hindus to bury their dead keeping in with the tradition of ‘samadhis’ as this too would help curtail people from using riverbanks for the purpose,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-seers-to-motivate-people-against-burying-dead-along-riverbanks-101622571779464.html
01-06-2021||Other||FIR against bride for celebratory firing in Pratapgarh village||A first information report (FIR) was on Tuesday registered against a woman who indulged in celebratory firing during her marriage a couple of days ago, police said. In a video that went viral, the woman is seen firing a shot from a handgun before climbing up the stage where the groom is waiting.The incident took place at Laxman-Ka-Purwa village under Jethwara police station of Pratapgarh district on May 30. The bride had fired in the air from the licensed revolver of her uncle Ramvas Pandey shortly before the ‘jai maala’, Pratapgarh superintendent of police Akash Tomar said.Station house officer, Jethwara police station, Sanjay Pandey said the FIR was lodged against the woman under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Arms Act and the Epidemic Act. Further action into the matter will be taken soon, he added. (WITH PTI INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-against-bride-for-celebratory-firing-in-pratapgarh-village-101622571179489.html
01-06-2021||Jaipur||Kota teacher pledges support to over 2,000 students amid Covid-19 crisis||A coaching teacher has pledged to facilitate school and coaching fees of 2021 such students who either lost their earning family member to Covid-19 or have family members who lost employment amid the pandemic.36-year-old Shashi Prakash Singh hails from Baliya in Uttar Pradesh and teaches chemistry on an online coaching platform in Kota, Rajasthan. He was in complete disarray when his mother and elder brother tested positive for Covid-19 in April.Despite all efforts, Singh could not find a ventilator for his mother in the hospitals of Lucknow after which he sought help on Twitter. Several of his former students came to the rescue."Three of my students studying in medical colleges traced a ventilator bed for my mother in a hospital in Noida after which my mother could be saved," he said."The students' gesture prompted me to support those students who are severely hit by the second wave of Covid-19 either due to the death of their earning family member or due to the pandemic-induced unemployment of their kin," said Shashi."I decided to form a corpus fund of ₹11 from my pocket with the determination of arranging more funds for such financially distressed students," he said."I am providing financial assistance worth up to ₹25,000 for meeting the requirements of the annual school or coaching fees of such students," he added.Singh said he has already extended financial assistance to nearly 16 students who hail from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bengal and others.One of his students, on condition of anonymity, said that he lost his father to Covid-19 but Singh approached him with ₹25,000 assistance which helped him with his school fees.Shashi Prakash Singh, popularly known as SPS Sir, resides in Kota, Rajasthan and has been teaching for 14 years now in various coaching institutes, such as Aakash, Allen, Pathfinder Academy etc, to name a few. He is presently one of the top educators on the coaching portal Unacademy.Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Singh decided to support 2021 families by investing all his savings and assets.Shashi said that he strongly believes that the strongest pillar for the middle and the lower class people is education which is the only platform that can secure their future and provide more security to the entire family. "Financial instability, especially in current times of crisis, can strongly hinder their education which can put many families’ future in darkness," he said."It is my opinion that money should never be a limiting factor in anyone's success and bright future," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/kota-teacher-pledges-support-to-over-2-000-students-amid-covid-19-crisis-101622570680706.html
01-06-2021||Other||Six years later, runaway girl unites with family thanks to activists||Six years ago, an 11-year-old girl ran away from her Prayagraj home after her parents scolded her. The efforts of local activists have helped reunite the girl, now 17, with her family. With the maturity that six years can bring, the girl probably realised that she had erred in taking the rash step of running away from home. Till now, living in a children’s shelter home in Ghaziabad, the girl made a video explaining who and where she was, making a desperate appeal that her parents be traced in Prayagraj. In the video, she described how she had run off to Mumbai and was put in a children’s shelter there. A couple of years later, she was transferred to the shelter home in Ghaziabad. The rest, as they say, is history. The video went viral. Arshad Nawaz, a Prayagraj social activist received it around a week back. “In the video, the girl did not mention an address or a mobile number. She did mention the name of Mumfordganj locality. I tried to trace her parents but to no avail,” Nawaz said.Nawaz then approached his friend Anwar, who traced the girl’s parents to Myorabad locality nearby. They had since shifted from Mumfordganj.“The girl’s father, Saleem, had lodged a missing person’s complaint at the Colonelganj police station but even the police failed to locate Shaheen. Years passed and the family lost all hope of finding their lost daughter,” Nawaz said. Nawaz then took the help of juvenile court magistrate Saim Zaidi, who called his counterpart in Ghaziabad. The juvenile court magistrate in Ghaziabad, Madhu, traced Shaheen to the Grace Care Home child shelter. After tracing exactly where Shaheen was, he reached out to her family and informed them that their daughter had been found. Juvenile court magistrate Saim Zaidi said the reunion of Shaheen with her family required a lot of paper work. As the family was not financially strong, they were helped in documentation and were even provided with train fare to reach Gaziabad.Shaheen’s parents are now in Gaziabad and have met their darling daughter. The happy family is expected to return to Prayagraj on Wednesday after completing a few formalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/six-years-later-runaway-girl-unites-with-family-thanks-to-activists-101622571059503.html
01-06-2021||Gurugram||City reels from power cuts as officials grapple with damaged infrastructure||Several residential areas of the city witnessed long power cuts, up to 14 hours in some instances, since Sunday night after strong winds uprooted electricity poles and trees collapsing on electricity infrastructure.Officials of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) said that rain and thunderstorm on Sunday and Monday damaged a few distribution cables and more than 10 electric poles in the city.PK Chauhan, the superintending engineer of DHBVN, said they were aiming to repair the damaged electric poles, transformers and cables by Tuesday night, provided there is no disruption due to further rain or thunderstorm. “We face issues when the infrastructure is damaged. Our teams work around the clock in such times and we ensure people get an uninterrupted power supply. There have been issues due to thunderstorm but teams are repairing the poles and transformers,” he said. Power outages were mainly reported from Sushant Lok-1, South City-1, DLF Phase 3, sectors 31, 46, 56 and 57, and developing sectors. Residents alleged there was no electricity since 1am and despite repeated calls to DHBVN officials, there was no respite. In some areas, residents complained that the power supply was not restored till Tuesday evening. The city has been witnessing spells of heavy winds since Sunday night. On Sunday, an old tree next to the old MCG office in Civil Lines was uprooted due to the high-speed winds and slammed against the MCG building, damaging the office ceiling. As per the IMD’s forecast, a partly cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers may further be witnessed this week. AK Nagpal, former president, Sushant Lok-1 RWA, said that the power infrastructure in the city was poor, and even light spells of rain often led to frequent power outages. “Power went off around 12.30am on Tuesday and was restored only around 11am. The authorities should inform residents about such long hours of power cuts. There is no communication on part of the distribution company and people, including Covid patients, are being left to suffer,” he said. Residents also said that the power outage hampered their work routine. A resident of DLF Phase 3 said that his family members charged their phones and electronic gadgets at their friends’ place in other areas. “The invertor batteries also died out as there is no power since 1am on Monday. Senior citizens are living alone and managing on their own. It becomes very difficult to manage without electricity,” said Nitin Gaur. In many areas, the power supply was hampered due to faults in cables, said DHBVN officials, adding that the power was restored in the first half of the day. “During rains, the number of complaints increases because of snapping of trees which disrupt supply. All efforts are being made to restore power to affected areas at the earliest,” said Chauhan.The residents of Sector 46 complained that there was no power throughout Monday and Tuesday, barring for one hour of supply.“We suffered immensely due to the power cut that started around 1am on Monday. There was no water supply, as, without electricity, we could not even pump water,” said Rajkumar Yadav, RWA president. Residents also complained that despite DHBVN repeatedly asserting that it was upgrading infrastructure across the city, the situation on the ground had improved very little. Joginder Singh, former president, RWA Sushant Lok-3 said that there was a major fault in their area, which took almost 12 hours to be fixed. “There was no power all night and on Tuesday, we got very little power supply. The fall in temperature helped a bit though,” he said. Vijay K Kapoor, a resident of South City-1, said that the area was the worst hit as there is power disruption of at least four hours every day, coupled with low voltage. “The low voltage is a chronic problem, due to which most of the gadgets don’t work and also malfunction and get damaged often,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/city-reels-from-power-cuts-as-officials-grapple-with-damaged-infrastructure-101622570099325.html
01-06-2021||Other||Haryana power dept extends deadline for bill payment till June 14||The power department in Haryana has extended the deadline for payment of electricity bills from June 7 to June 14. Consumers, whose payment due dates fall between May 3 and June 7, can now pay their bills up without any additional charge till June 14, said a government spokesperson.Officials of Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) said that in case there’s a delay in bill payment, consumers have to pay 5% electricity surcharge.Earlier, the state government had announced that no surcharge would be charged on late payment of electricity bills during the lockdown.A DHBVN spokesperson, requesting anonymity, said, “The due date has been extended in view of the extension of the lockdown. All users, under any category, will get this benefit.”Last week, Haryana power minister Ranjit Singh had announced that the power utilities would not charge any additional surcharge on electricity bills during the lockdown. The government had earlier deferred the contentious move of collecting security deposit of four months from the consumers, which was opposed by people — especially industry owners​.About 5% electricity surcharge is taken from consumers if there is a delay in the bill payment, said the DHBVN officials.Earlier, the power department had announced the waiver in surcharge from May 3 to May 24, but the DHBVN extended it till June 3, but now it has been now extended till the lockdown is in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-power-dept-extends-deadline-for-bill-payment-till-june-14-101622570039386.html
01-06-2021||Gurugram||Thunderstorm pulls down trees, leaves properties damaged||A high-velocity thunderstorm during the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday damaged cars and two-wheelers, uprooted trees, electric poles and signboards, and led to a power outage lasting more than 14 hours in several parts of the city. As many as 30 cars were damaged in residential areas of sectors 56, 57, Sohna Road, Golf Course Extension Road, Manesar, Palam Vihar, Dundahera, Badhshahpur and sectors 17 and 14 on Monday night. Residents woke up to see uprooted trees lying on their cars on Tuesday morning.The police control room received 36 calls on Monday and 42 on Tuesday regarding damaged properties and electricity poles. Pankaj Parashar, the fire officer of Sector 29 station, said that they received several calls from residents about damaged cars due to uprooted trees. “We had sent vehicles to different areas to remove the trees and tried to pull up electric poles which fell on Monday night. We have cleared several roads which were blocked due to the falling of trees. Damages have been reported from many parts of the city,” he said on Tuesday. The city has been facing extreme weather conditions over the past two days, being hit with thunderstorms during the night. Clothes, chairs and other household goods were strewn across the floor due to the winds.As per a forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), there is a possibility of a partly cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers on Wednesday as well. Officials said the sky will remain cloudy and a thunderstorm could also be in the offing. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was recorded at 21°C, five degrees below the normal for this time of the year, and the maximum temperature was 33°C. However, data on wind speed was unavailable.Anoop Kumar, a resident of Sector 17, said that he was driving back home from Jaipur and took the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) road to drop his friend in Sector 71 when a tree landed on his car. “As soon as I took left towards SPR, a heavy tree fell on my car. We escaped unhurt but the roof of my Honda City and front bonnet were damaged. We called another friend to drop us home and called a crane to tow the car to the service centre,” he said. Many residents said they moved their cars to sheltered spots when winds started blowing in the night.Amit Jindal, the president of Vipul Greens residents’ welfare association (RWA) on Sohna Road, said that recent storms caused substantial damages to trees and at least five cars. “Every year, fully grown trees are uprooted due to thunderstorms that damage cars parked in open slots. In the last storm on Sunday night, at least four trees and four cars were damaged. As the storms rage, we see residents running to get their cars to safety. In the process, they risk their lives amid falling branches,” he said. Yashesh Yadav, a resident of Vatika India Next, a residential society in Sector 83, said that sudden extreme weather condition on Sunday and Monday night brought down many big trees in their township, which damaged vehicles parked in the society. “We were able to move a few of them in time, thanks to the alertness of the guards, but still, more than five vehicles were damaged. Fortunately, no one was hurt during the storm,” he said. In Sector 46, at least 10 vehicles were damaged on Sunday night due to a thunderstorm. “I had parked my car around 1am outside my house and around 5.30am, when I went to check my car, I saw a huge tree trunk had fallen on three cars including mine, and damaged them,” said Rahul Kumar, an executive working with an IT company in Udyog Vihar. Rajkumar Yadav, the president of Sector 46 RWA, said that more than 20 trees fell in the sector damaging properties on Monday night. “Trees even blocked the roads, leading to traffic issues in the internal sector roads. We hired people to remove the trees and sent all damaged vehicles to workstations for repair. Residents have suffered losses due to natural calamity, but authorities should have timely pruned the trees. No one even bothers to check independent residential areas,” he said. At least five cars were damaged in sectors 56 and 57 on Sunday and Monday night, said residents. Joginder Singh, a resident, said that water tanks were flung on the parked cars during the storm, causing severe damage. “Residents in these sectors park their vehicles on the road outside their houses which are prone to such calamities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/thunderstorm-pulls-down-trees-leaves-properties-damaged-101622570039992.html
01-06-2021||Bhopal||MP govt warns of action as junior doctors' strike enter 2nd day||Around 3,000 junior doctors from six medical colleges in Madhya Pradesh continued their strike for the second day on Tuesday to press for their various demands, including free treatment for them and their families if they contract Covid-19.However, the state government has warned of action if the strike continues.On Monday, the protesting doctors abstained from work at the Out Patient Departments (OPDs), the In-Patient Departments (IPDs) and other wards of various health care facilities.They also withdrew from Covid-19 duties on Tuesday, MP Junior Doctors Association president Arvind Meena told PTI.The association, comprising around 3,000 members from six medical colleges in the state, has demanded that beds for junior doctors serving Covid-19 patients be reserved in separate areas in case they contract the infection.It has also demanded that medical treatment should be free for such doctors as well as their family members.Meena said there has not been a hike in their stipend since the past couple of years, despite an assurance from the state government.Earlier, the junior doctors went on a strike on May 6, but resumed a few hours later after the state government assured them that their demands would be met.Meena claimed the state government had then promised that the association's demands would be met, but nothing has materialised so far.The association has now demanded that the government release a written order fulfilling their demands, he said.Meanwhile, state Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang said the government will take action if the protesting doctors do not resume work."It is unfortunate that when society needs them the most, the doctors are on strike. The government has accepted their demands. The state government is paying a stipend of ₹60,000 to ₹70,000 per month tothem," Sarang told reporters when asked about the matter.He said four out of six demands of the junor doctors have been accepted completely, but they are still maintaining a stubborn attitude."This is like blackmailing patients. It is an unfortunate situation, that when the time comes to fulfil the resolve with which they have become doctors, they have started blackmailing the patients," he claimed.Sarang said he has requested the doctors return to work as soon as possible."If they do not return to work, then we will definitely have to take action. It will be difficult for us to tolerate any injustice to patients," the minister added.However, MP Congress chief Kamal Nath said the state government should consider the demands of the junior doctors."They are on strike to press for their 6-point charter of demands. Health services are being affected by their strike in this period of pandemic. The government should immediately consider their demands sympathetically and take a decision in the public interest," Nath said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-govt-warns-of-action-as-junior-doctors-strike-enter-2nd-day-101622567979985.html
01-06-2021||Gurugram||Shop owners to get ownership on discounted collector rate||The Haryana government has decided to give ownership of shops to people who had taken those on lease or rent from the municipalities for over 20 years — on a discounted collector rate, and this is likely to help thousands of traders in Gurugram.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced on Sunday that traders and business owners have been renting shops in Sadar Bazar, Sabzi Mandi, Old Railway Road and other adjoining areas in the district over the years can now get ownership of the properties.Gurugram and Faridabad traders, who have rented shops from the civic authorities, welcomed the move and said that “this has been a long pending demand”.Bablu Gupta, president, Sadar Bazar Traders Association (SBTA), said that it was a beneficial announcement. “There are over 1,000 traders in Sadar Bazar, who will be benefitted by this scheme as everyone wants to get property ownership. The rebate announced by the CM will also ensure that reasonable amount of money has to be paid,” said Gupta, adding that this move will also generate a large amount of revenue for the state government.Sadar Bazar traders said that property ownership will allow them to redevelop these properties, and also make repairs and changes to the structures. “The state government should also make provision so that the payment could be collected in instalments over one year instead of two months,” said Kishan Sharma, a trader.Faridabad traders, led by Faridabad Vyapar Mandal, also said that the decision to grant freehold ownership of shops to traders will benefit them greatly.Madhu Azad, Gurugram mayor, said, “There are a number of such properties owned by the corporation in Sadar Bazar, Sabzi Mandi, Old Railway road near Bhim Nagar, and eligible traders can take advantage of this offer. This offer of ownership will also generate revenue for the corporation and the government.”Azad also said that the government notification in this regard was still to reach the MCG and the modalities of the offer of ownership would be clearer once the written directions reach them. As per the announcement made by the CM, an eligible person must have the possession of property for 20 years as of December 31, 2020, to avail the scheme.Khattar said that once the eligible persons apply, they will get relaxation in collector rate and those who have possession of the properties for over 50 years will get a rebate of 50% on the collector rate. Likewise, those having possession for 40 years will get a rebate of 40%, possession for 30 years to get 30% rebate, and possession for 20 years to get 20% rebate. At least 20 years is also the minimum period required to avail the benefit of this scheme.The beneficiary will have to deposit 25% of the amount within 15 days, and the remaining 75% of amount in 45 days — based on the collector rate, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/shop-owners-to-get-ownership-on-discounted-collector-rate-101622568599800.html
01-06-2021||Gurugram||Vaccination for 18-45 group on hold for second consecutive day as district awaits doses||The Covid-19 vaccination drive for the 18-45 age group will remain suspended for a second consecutive day on Wednesday at government health centres due to a shortage of vaccines. Vaccination for those aged above 45, however, continued at all 37 government facilities on Tuesday. “We have sufficient doses for people aged above 45 years. Therefore, vaccination for them will continue at all 37 government health centres. However, for adults below 45 years of age, we are yet to receive stock from the state health department,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation. Currently, Covishield doses are being given at all health centres except Tigra, Chauma, Manesar and Badshahpur, where Covaxin is being administered to those aged above 45 years. The district health department held a major vaccination for people in the 18-45 age bracket on Monday by allowing direct walk-in at health centres and administered over 8,200 doses in a single day. But due to lack of vaccine supply, the department suspended vaccination for 18 above on Tuesday. According to the health department data, 701,224 doses have been administered in the district till now, of which 9,584 doses were administered on Tuesday. Over 5,518 people in the 18-45 age group took their vaccine shots at private hospitals. Among those aged 45 and above, about 3,133 people took their doses at government health centres, and 479 were inoculated at private facilities. About 130 healthcare workers and 324 front-line workers and their family members also took the vaccine shot. Despite the shortage of vaccines, the health department has conducted multiple drives in May to cover high-risk population groups. On Wednesday, the health department will hold a special Covid-19 vaccination camp for widows at four government health centres. It will cover at least 400 women of all age groups, who are registered under the social welfare scheme. Officials said that women have been informed about the vaccination camps by the department of social welfare. “Camps for widows will be held at the community health centre in Farrukhnagar, subdivision hospital in Sohna and Pataudi block, and Polyclinic in Sector 31 under Gurugram block. The health department has been trying to reach out to people who should be prioritised for vaccination, like widows, having all the responsibilities of the household in the absence of the husband. It is important to keep them on priority so that they are not missed from getting vaccinated,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. On May 30, the health department held a special vaccination camp for the transgender population at Dundahera. They have also conducted camps for adults with special needs at Ambience Mall and differently abled people in Pataudi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vaccination-for-18-45-group-on-hold-for-second-consecutive-day-as-district-awaits-doses-101622568599245.html
01-06-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 case count falls below hundred, but deaths remain a concern||The district on Tuesday reported 86 new coronavirus infections, the first time it has dipped below hundred since March 17, when 97 cases were confirmed. The test positivity rate, the proportion of positives out of the samples tested, has now dipped to 1.9%, according to the district health department data. However, fatalities continued to remain high in the district, with over 10 deaths being reported every day since May 1. The highest number of deaths in a single day was reported on May 6, when 15 people had died of Covid.According to the health bulletin, the district on Tuesday confirmed eight Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 827. Among them, at least 558 had co-morbidities while 269 succumbed to Covid without having any previous illness. The number of cases per day has been steadily declining since May 21, when the case count fell below 1,000 (about 623) in a day after almost two months. The active case count reached 1,336, while the total tally of infected people is at 180,032. Officials and experts attribute the lockdown and aggressive testing in large outbreak areas as key reasons for the constant decline in transmission of infection. For the last one week, the positivity rate has been maintained at 2%, indicating that transmission has been under control in large outbreak areas, well below the 5% threshold set by the World Health Organisation, for the first time since May 23 (when it was nearly 3.5%). Before that, the positivity rate varied between 32% and 15%, with more than 4,000 new Covid-19 cases being reported every day. According to the district health department data, nearly 42% of Gurugram’s Covid-19 deaths were recorded in May. Of the 827 Covid-19 fatalities since the start of the outbreak, 343 were recorded in May alone.Health department officials attributed the high fatality rate to a large number of people contracting coronavirus from mid-April till mid-May.Officials said that infected persons, in several instances, died due to complications arising from the virus after undergoing treatment for two to three weeks. Hence, they said that the fatality figures in May were higher as it also included those who contracted the virus in mid-April.Between April 11 and May 16, when the cases were spiking, the district recorded 103,458 new Covid-19 cases, nearly 58% of the total Covid-19 cases recorded in the city since the start of the outbreak till June 1. Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer (CMO), health department, said that a significant number of people had contracted the virus in late April and early May that resulted in high fatality numbers.“Due to the city being under lockdown for the entirety of May as well as the intensive screening in large outbreak regions (LORs), and quarantining of suspected or confirmed Covid-19 cases, we were able to break the chain of transmission. The daily registering of cases has now reached two digits from the peak of 5,000 cases a day and the positivity rate has also come down below 2%. In June, the fatality numbers will see a major drop,” said Yadav.Patients who need intensive care or need to be out on ventilator support has also declined to 176. Until May 24, about 1,758 people were admitted to various private hospitals, which reduced to 509 on May 25, as per the health bulletin. Since then, it has been on a steady decline, reaching 227 on May 31. Yadav said, “Strict enforcement of norms on home isolated positive patients, effective contact tracing and increased testing will continue to control the transmission. Above all, people will have to follow appropriate Covid-19 behaviour by maintaining social distancing, wearing a face mask and avoiding unnecessary movement.” Despite the drop in the numbers, Yadav said that the health department will continue to monitor the situation closely. “The process of unlocking has started. Malls have reopened and people have started venturing outdoors. We are monitoring Covid-19 behaviour closely and ensuring norms are followed. Otherwise, coronavirus cases can once again surge in June,” said Yadav.In comparison to April, however, the city recorded marginally fewer cases in May.In April, the district recorded 59,921 new Covid-19 cases, while 57,012 new cases were recorded in May. However, the recoveries in May were much higher than in April, as 91,837 people recovered from Covid-19 in May, compared to 25,059 in April.“There is a considerable change in the Covid-19 situation at the start of May compared to its end. When the month started, Covid-19 was at its peak but now it is on the downward slope. We are hoping that the trend continues in June as well and all efforts would be spent in ensuring the virus remains at its minimal,” said Dr Yash Garg, deputy commissioner.On May 1, the city had 36,693 active Covid-19 cases, while on May 31, it decreased to 1,529.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-case-count-falls-below-hundred-but-deaths-remain-a-concern-101622568542281.html
01-06-2021||Dehradun||IMA to hold passing out parade on June 12 without parents of cadets due to Covid-19 pandemic||The passing out parade of the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun will be held on June 12.Lt Col Himani Pant, PRO, IMA said that the parents of the cadets will not be allowed to participate in the parade in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Last year, for the first time in its history, the IMA held a passing out parade without parents due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Meanwhile, Uttarakhand on Monday reported 1,156 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the overall tally to 3,29,494. The state's Covid-19 toll reached 6,452.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ima-to-hold-passing-out-parade-on-june-12-without-parents-of-cadets-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-101622567427158.html
01-06-2021||Other||297 horses abandoned in Mahabaleshwar-Panchgani; Sadhu Vaswani mission to the rescue||The horse-cart joyride has been a popular attraction in the Mahabaleshwar-Panchgani hill stations in Western Maharashtra. However, as the hill station’s tourism has been badly hit by the Covid- induced lockdown, many in the horse-ride business have started abandoning the horses. These animals are now being adopted by NGOs like the Sadhu Vaswani mission. As many as 297 horses abandoned by operators hit by restrictions, are now being provided fodder. According to Azeem Dange, who owns eight horses, their livelihood has been badly hit due to the pandemic after local authorities imposed a lockdown in April in Mahabaleshwar, which attracts a large number of tourists from Pune and Mumbai. For these tourists, the horse ride on the table-top of the hill station has been a major attraction. “In normal times, our entire family used to earn our livelihood by taking tourists on horse rides in the hill station. However, the pandemic has put brakes on all leisure activities here, making it difficult to manage fodder for our horses,” he said. He added that generally a horse needs 15 kg of fodder per day, which costs ₹500 to ₹600, and it has becoming difficult to provide adequate fodder to the starving horses. “It was me, who reached out to the Sadhu Vaswani mission informing them that the horses in Mahabaleshwar were starving as most of the owners were not able to provide fodder. The volunteers of the mission then came here, conducted a survey, and made arrangements for fodder by engaging with local suppliers,” he said. Sadhu Vaswani Mission recently adopted 150 starving horses from Panchgani. Earlier, the mission adopted 147 horses from Mahabaleshwar, facing a similar situation due to the second wave of the pandemic. “Once we adopted horses in Mahabaleshwar, we realised that the situation would be similar in other regions where tourism is the basic earning factor. Following a survey, we found that another 150 horses in Panchgani were undergoing the same plight, so we decided to add them into the mission family,” said a Vaswani mission spokesperson. According to the mission, there are total of 298 horses, including new-born foals, that are now being provided daily fodder by Sadhu Vaswani Mission. The fodder is sourced from a local provider. Each horse eats about 10kg of fodder per day. The cost of the fodder is ₹10 per kg. The daily cost for a feeding a horse is ₹100. The mission plans to continue serving the horses until the need is there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/297-horses-abandoned-in-mahabaleshwar-panchgani-sadhu-vaswani-mission-to-the-rescue-101622567879190.html
01-06-2021||Noida||No new Covid-19 deaths in Noida after 44 days, 3 patients succumb in Ghaziabad||Three more people succumbed to coronavirus in Ghaziabad, while there was no new death linked to Covid-19 in adjoining Gautam Buddh Nagar after 44 days, official data showed on Tuesday.The death toll in Ghaziabad escalated to 445, while it stood at 450 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, according to the state's Health Department data for a 24-hour period.Gautam Buddh Nagar, comprising Noida and Greater Noida, last had a zero-death day on April 17 when the western UP district's Covid-19 toll was 100, corresponding official data showed.Gautam Buddh Nagar on Tuesday recorded 68 new cases that pushed its overall tally to 62,424 with 947 active cases, while 194 patients recovered from the infection, the data showed.Ghaziabad's overall case tally surged to 55,099 with 35 new cases, while it had 1,025 active cases even as 695 patients recovered during the 24-hour period, it showed.The overall recoveries reached 61,027 in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 53,629 in Ghaziabad.Gautam Buddh Nagar's mortality rate stands at 0.72 per cent and recovery rate at 97.76 per cent, while the figures for Ghaziabad were recorded at 0.80 per cent and 97.33 per cent, respectively, according to the statistics.Meanwhile, the number of active Covid-19 cases in UP reached 32,465 from 37,044 on Monday, while the overall recoveries climbed to 16,59,572 and the death toll surged to 20,672 on Tuesday, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/no-new-covid-19-deaths-in-noida-after-44-days-3-patients-succumb-in-ghaziabad-101622566685453.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana cancels state board class 12 exams||The Haryana government has decided to cancel the Class 12 exams conducted by the state board, Education Minister Kanwar Pal said on Tuesday.The decision came shortly after the central government announced cancelling the CBSE Class 12 board exams amid the COVID-19 pandemic.Also Read | Centre cancels CBSE class 12 exams, CISCE announcement follows"We have also decided to cancel the Class 12 board exams in the state which were to be conducted by the Haryana Board of School Education," Pal told PTI over phone."We are going with the decision taken by the Centre and have decided to cancel the board exams," he said.The state Board will take steps to compile the results of Class 12 students and modalities for this will be worked out soon, he added.The decision to cancel the CBSE exams was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi."Government of India has decided to cancel the Class XII CBSE Board Exams. After extensive consultations, we have taken a decision that is student-friendly, one that safeguards the health as well as future of our youth," the prime minister tweeted after the meeting.Anxiety among students, parents and teachers must be put to an end, and students should not be forced to appear for exams in such a stressful situation, a government statement quoted the prime minister as saying.Earlier on April 15, the Haryana government had cancelled the Class 10 board exams which were to be conducted by the state board. It had then decided to postpone the exams of Class 12.The state board exams were earlier scheduled to start in April and continue till mid-May before these were cancelled for Class 10 and postponed for Class 12.Haryana saw a sharp increase in coronavirus cases over the past few weeks. However, infections have been on the decline in the last few days.To contain the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in Haryana, the state government had initially imposed a lockdown on May 3 for a week till May 10, which was later extended four times and is currently enforced till June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cancels-state-board-class-12-exams-101622566882123.html
01-06-2021||Other||As stocks dry up, HP likely to suspend vaccination drive for 18-plus group||With vaccine supply drying up, Himachal Pradesh may have to suspend its vaccination drive for the 18-45 age group in two days. On Tuesday, the health department was left with only 4,500 doses for this age group. According to the health department, there were only 170 doses left for the 18-plus age group in Bilaspur district, 330 in Chamba, 100 in Hamirpur and 1, 420 in Kangra—the most populous district in the state.Kull had 130 doses while the tribal district of Kinnaur had only 20 doses. Lahaul and Spiti had completely run out of its supply.Mandi, the second most populated district in the state, had 840 doses while Shimla had 400. There were 650 doses left in Sirmaur district, 370 in Solan and only 70 in Una.SVS Parimahal, RVS Dharamshala and RVS Mandi—the three centers set up by the government for vaccinating the youth have also exhausted their stock. “Right now, we have only 4,550 doses left. The drive will have to be suspended once the remaining stock is used up. We will receive a fresh batch of the vaccine in mid-June and initiate the drive then,” said Dr Gopal Berry, deputy director of the vaccination programme in Himachal.The state government had received 4, 77,080 Covisheild doses from the government of India in May. The government has so far administered doses to as many as 19,23,289 persons in the state, including those in the 18-45 age group.The youth, meanwhile, are struggling to even secure a slot on the Cowin portal. Rahul, a local resident who is a vaccine aspirant in the 18-45 category, said only 100 slots were opening up daily for this category. “With just 100 slots opening up every day, youngsters are finding it very difficult to book a slot,” he said. Yashwant Chauhan, another young vaccine aspirant, said a digital divide has also come into play. “Those belonging to rural areas are not getting any slots while tech-savvy people are quickly taking up all the slots on Cowin portal,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-stocks-dry-up-hp-likely-to-suspend-vaccination-drive-for-18-plus-group-101622566381973.html
01-06-2021||Other||J&K bureaucracy divided between outgoing chief secretary, others: Omar||Former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah on Tuesday said that in the UT, the bureaucracy is divided between outgoing chief secretary and others.Recently, BVR Subrahmanyam was shifted from J&K and AK Mehta was appointed as the new chief secretary of the UT.“Two chief secretaries in J&K, an administration split between loyalists of the outgoing CS and others who want to get on with their work but cannot figure out what’s going on. So much for good governance and accountability,” tweeted the NC vice-president.This is the second time in three days when Omar took potshots at the government on the issue of chief secretary. Earlier, Omar, in a tweet, had said that Subrahmanyam wasn’t keen to handover charge to the new chief secretary.“Very unusual order issued by the J&K government. If I didn’t know better, I’d read this order to mean the outgoing CS wasn’t too keen to hand over charge to his successor. Either way, I haven’t seen an order like this before,” he tweeted, while posting a government order about the new chief secretary.He blamed Subrahmanyam for trying to undermine the mainstream politicians in J&K.“A man who famously said no Kashmiris shed tears when mainstream politicians were detained in 2019. In 2021, it looks like no one can wait to show him the door. Be careful who you step on, on the way up, you will meet them on the way down,” Omar said in another tweet.Subrahmanyam was appointed as OSD in the Union commerce ministry. Senior IAS officer AK Mehta, who has served in J&K at different posts in last two decades, was appointed as the new chief secretary of the UT.Without taking the name of Subrahmanyam, People’s Conference chairman Sajjad Lone had said that the former chief secretary had hatred towards people of Kashmir.“Will be remembered as the darkest person in the darkest hours of Kashmir. A person consumed by self and also consumed by hatred for Kashmiris. Saw expression of naked hatred for Kashmiris and belittlement of Kashmiris as a means of upward mobility for his self,” Lone had said in a series of tweets.“Trespassed into a domain which belonged to the political class. Made statements which were unambiguously political nature. Made a trespass into the dividing line between politics and bureaucracy,” he said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-bureaucracy-divided-between-outgoing-chief-secretary-others-omar-101622566320188.html
01-06-2021||Other||Institutional quarantine compulsory for all Covid positive in PCMC||PUNE The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has decided to follow the directions of the state government by prioritising institutional quarantine over home quarantine.The positivity rate on June 1 in PCMC was 7.26%. It has remained between 7% and 8% since May 25. However, due to fewer tests on Sunday, the rate dropped to 4.88% on May 31.According to the the PCMC health department, 286 new positive cases were recorded on Tuesday, along with 28 deaths and 5,061 active cases.“We have agreed with the state government decision and from now on there will be no home isolation allowed for any Covid positive patient. S/he will have to go under institutional quarantine, even with mild symptoms or those who are asymptomatic,” said Rajesh Patil, PCMC commissioner.The civic administration has also stated that exceptions will be made for pregnant women, disabled people, bedridden patients and single parents. They will be permitted home isolation after a check-up by a medical officer.“All private hospitals must provide information about Covid-19 positive patients on the “me Jababadar” app. The login and password will be provided by the municipal corporation and it is the responsibility of the hospital administration that a patient, even with mild symptoms, should not be allowed home isolation, except for the given categories,” added Patil.PCMC is also setting up institutional quarantine centres, testing centres and war rooms at the zonal level. The civic administration has also formed 32 ward-level Covid vigilance committees to take steps to prevent the third wave.After the decision by the state government on May 25 to stop home quarantine, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol had opposed the move, citing challenges to set up centres and recruit medical staff for institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/institutional-quarantine-compulsory-for-all-covid-positive-in-pcmc-101622566199081.html
01-06-2021||Other||J&K forms 5-member panel for hand-holding families of Covid victims||In a bid to soothe the frayed nerves of families which lost their bread-earners to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has constituted a five-member panel.Social welfare department secretary Sheetal Nanda issued an order on Monday, which read: “Consequent upon the administrative council’s decision and a government order, a special cell for hand-holding the families of Covid victims and facilitating extension of benefits under different government schemes including financial assistance for self-employment is hereby constituted.”The panel comprises of director general of women and child development (J&K) as its chairperson, mission director of integrated child protection scheme, directors of social welfare department from J&K, representative of the finance department not below the rank of additional secretary as its members.The panel will coordinate with all departments of the UT for facilitating extension of benefits of all government schemes to Covid victims’ families, to coordinate with divisional commissioners and deputy commissioners in case of any issues faced by Covid victim families, any other issue confronting such families where government intervention is required and facilitating self employment to any willing member of the Covid victim family through J&K Bank.Apart from financial assistance to such families, the government has also approved scholarships to their children.Apart from financial assistance of ₹1,000 per month to such families, the government has also approved scholarship to their children.On Saturday, the administrative council (AC), which met here under the chairmanship of L-G Manoj Sinha had approved the grant of financial relief through the Special Assistance Scheme for Covid Moralities (SASCM/Saksham) to families of Covid victims.Under the scheme, the surviving spouse and one eldest surviving member of the affected families will receive a special monthly pension of ₹1,000 through direct bank transfer (DBT), provided that they are not otherwise receiving any pension under other schemes.Additionally, the scheme will also provide special scholarships to children who lost their earning parent(s), sibling(s), guardian(s) to Covid. The special scholarship will be paid annually at the rate of ₹20,000 and ₹40,000 through DBT to children studying up to Class 12 and higher education, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-forms-5-member-panel-for-hand-holding-families-of-covid-victims-101622566139828.html
01-06-2021||Other||1,895 Covid cases, 32 deaths in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday reported 32 Covid-19 related deaths and 1,895 fresh cases taking the overall cases to 2,92,360 and total fatalities to 3,939.Of the deaths in the UT, 17 were reported in the Jammu division and 15 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 1,262 are from Kashmir while 633 are from Jammu, besides 28 travellers.The number of patients who were cured in the UT on Tuesday was 3,682 including 2,234 from Kashmir and 1,448 from Jammu. The active cases dropped to 33,276 from the highest ever active cases of 52,848 on May 13.The overall number of people who recovered reached 2,55,145, improving the recovery rate to 87.27%. Officials said 38,114 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours in the UT with overall number of tests reaching 8.60 million.Officials said that with 304 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new cases, followed by 218 in Jammu, 185 in Pulwama, 181 in Budgam, and 141 in Kupwara.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.16 lakh cases and 1,853 deaths. Jammu has the highest number of 1,076 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 777 deaths.Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole on Tuesday called for 100% utilisation of Covid management resources across all districts in Kashmir.“The bed capacity should be put to use even at panchayat level. All facilities including ventilators at all health facilities are made functional for patient care,” he said.Stating that the positivity rate is still above 5% in most districts, the DCs were instructed to focus on Covid management instead of economical activities unless cases come down to a comfortable level.He emphasised on bringing down the positivity rate to below 5% by next week and below 2% in a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1895-covid-cases-32-deaths-in-jk-101622566084252.html
01-06-2021||Jaipur||Tennis coach booked for raping teenaged player in Rajasthan||A lawn tennis coach at a sports training centre in Jaipur allegedly raped a 17-year-old player on the pretext of selecting her for a domestic tournament, police said on Tuesday.According to a complaint filed by the girl, coach Gaurang Nalwaya would call her to the Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Stadium in the Rajasthan capital for training and sexually assault her.On the latest instance, the coach allegedly raped her on the pretext of selecting her for a tournament in Udaipur, the police said."A case has been lodged against the coach. Investigation into the complaint has been initiated and a search is on for the accused," Jyoti Nagar police station SHO Saroj Dhayal said.Nalwaya has been serving at the state government-run facility since 2012. The girl began training there in 2019 and has participated in several tournaments outside Jaipur, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/tennis-coach-booked-for-raping-teenaged-player-in-rajasthan-101622565846308.html
01-06-2021||Other||Malls report multi-crore losses in second wave as shop owners shut down for good||Shopping malls in the city, which have only operated at full capacity for four months since March 2020, have suffered crores of rupees of losses in the second wave. Shop owners have had to close down for good jobs due to the situation.December 2020- April 3, 2021, is the period when malls across Pune functioned at full capacity. The had opened partially from August 2020.The government has now relaxed restrictions for standalone non-essential shops, though curbs continue for establishments within malls. Mukesh Kumar, chairman, Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI), said that the number of shops that have had to close down is still very small. Most brands can sustain losses. Only in a few cases, owners have completely shut their business. In malls, most of the time, old brands exit and new ones arrive.”Shops in malls get financing under a LRD scheme (lease, rental discounting), which allows them to repay loans.“Generally shop owners get a space on lease in malls for 59 months (five years). Those whose contract is over, unfortunately during Covid, and s/he doesn’t want to renew, then the mall can do nothing. In a few cases small shop owners whoses business completely depends on footfall are winding up. The same owner will return when business peaks. This happened last year when an owner returned to set up shop in December,” said Arun Arora, centre director, Pheonix Market City.Raj K is a travel agent who had set up a shop in a mall near Kharadi. He said, “I was getting no booking since people avoided travelling, so I shut down my shop. The mall owner handled the situation very well.”“Due to lockdown many international brands have completely shut their operations in India, so these shops are closed now and replaced by others,” added Arora. Most restaurants in malls have survived and are continuing to do deliveries.SCAI is hoping that malls will soon be given permission by the government to restart operations.“Crowds gathering in malls is a myth. Everything is sanitised at the malls and well organised. We monitor how many people are entering the shops, washrooms, and track social distancing – these are few characteristics that make malls safer places. We are also figuring out how to vaccinate all the employees of malls,” said Kumar.Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO, Retailers Association of India (RAI), said, “While it is imperative to get the last-mile workers in retail vaccinated on priority, it is equally important to ensure that the entire cost of the shutdown is not borne by the business alone. We do believe that the state government, the central government, the Reserve Bank of India and the banks also have to chip in to soften the blow of the pandemic to businesses and the economy.”Facts of the matterNumber of malls in Pune: 20Total loss incurred (second wave): Rs1,300 croreTotal number of malls in Maharashtra: 75Source: Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/malls-report-multi-crore-losses-in-second-wave-as-shop-owners-shut-down-for-good-101622565178973.html
01-06-2021||Pune||Pune rural police collect ₹2.5 lakh from 500 violators in Lonavla||The Pune rural police have collected over ₹2.5 lakh from over 500 violators in the past three days from Lonavla city police station jurisdiction.The number of violators jumped from 78 on May 28 to 225 on May 29 and 217 on Sunday, according to the police. The cases, however, reduced to 60 on Monday again.“This action will continue for days to come and the citizens roaming for no reason should take note of that,” said Senior police inspector Dilip Pawar of Lonavla city polcie station,The weekend saw tourists from surrounding areas throng the hill station as rains marked their presence.Along with Saturday, Sunday, and Monday, the Pune rural police collected ₹2,71,000 from 502 cases.In the month of May, the Lonavla division of Pune rural police - Lonavla city, Lonavla rural, Vadgaon Maval, and Kamshet - collected ₹16,41,100 in fine from 3,094 cases.Among the 3,094 cases, 963 cases were of no use of mask in Lonavla rural which led to collection of ₹4,81,500. The secind highest number of cases were of people roaming without a valid reason - 664 people who paid ₹3,31,500. The third highest collection was from Vadgaon Maval area with 216 cases that led to collection of ₹3,29,000, according to information provided by Amrut Deshmukh, Deputy superintendent of Admin with additional charge of Lonavla division of Pune rural police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rural-police-collect-rs-2-5-lakh-from-500-violators-in-lonavla-101622565059031.html
01-06-2021||Pune||SPPU tweaks online system after result glitch||In a major relief to students who have received an ‘NA’ or ‘fail’ remark in their mark sheet, the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is making changes to its online system to allow these students to complete their online application form for the second semester exams. The university began declaring results of its first semester exams for various courses, but several students panicked after they realised that their internal marks given by the college and practical marks were not listed. The marks of the written examination were shown, however, as most of the affiliated colleges didn’t send the internal and practical marks to SPPU, confusion arose. “We are going to make necessary changes in the form filling online system for the second semester where students are currently facing a major issue. Students who have got these remarks of NA or fail should again download the form, make exam fees payment online and then proceed. There will be changes made as per backlog or fresher students’ category in this system, accordingly students will pay the fees,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU examination and evaluation department head. Currently, the first semester exams are underway where more than 10.5 lakh students are appearing for 3,700 subjects in online mode. The exam which began on April 10 is being conducted of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) method in online mode. The university’s SPPU Edutech Foundation is conducting the exam. It was instructed to all affiliated colleges of SPPU that they should conduct practical and internal tests before June 15 and start submitting their marks to SPPU. The results which are declared by SPPU are only showing marks of the written online exams, and before the subjects having practical marks are either showing as NA or a fail remark. As the colleges were closed due to the Covid pandemic, no practical sessions were held for students and majority of the colleges have not yet sent their internal marks to the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-tweaks-online-system-after-result-glitch-101622564999005.html
01-06-2021||Other||Pre-monsoon showers hamper completion of PMC civic works||PUNE As the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) undertook civic work in April officials believed they would utilise the lockdown period to complete it in a month. Their plans have gone awry as the pre-monsoon rains have posed a major hurdle, with work, mostly related to laying water pipelines, has remained half-done.Laxmi road, Bajirao road and other key streets have been facing an inconvenience, aggravated over the past week due to rains lashing the city every day. According to officials, the Pune civic body started civic works such as a laying new water and drainage lines in many parts of the city. Now with state government partially lifting the lockdown, traffic is back on these streets since Tuesday. Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We will complete the work by June 10. We have given instructions to all contractors to speed up work and complete it as early as possible. Last week, traders met us and requested us to complete the work. However, we are facing a problem due to the pre-monsoon showers.” Sanjay Gaikwad, a resident of Kasba peth, said, “Most of the peth areas have been dug up. There is no space to walk properly or ride a bike. Due to incomplete civic work, we cannot visit the markets. It is a very difficult condition.’ Fatechand Ranka, president of the Federation of Traders Association, said, “Corporation is doing their best to complete work. We requested them to complete work as unlocking starts. The work cannot hamper our business and they are doing well.” Khemnar accepted that people and shopkeepers are facing problems due to the incomplete work. “We are trying our best. We are continuously monitoring work. We have given instructions to carry out work at night also,” he said. V G Kulkarni, chief superintendent engineer of the road department, said, “Work of laying new pipe lines is going on in the heart of the city. At present, 85 per cent of the reinstatement work has been completed. We have issued instructions for contractors to complete the works.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/premonsoon-showers-hamper-completion-of-pmc-civic-works-101622564758975.html
01-06-2021||Pune||64-year-old dog lover’s house attacked for feeding strays||A group of 15-20 residents of Shivnerinagar area of Kondhwa Khurd were booked by Pune police on Monday for attacking the house of a 64-year-old woman on Sunday afternoon for feeding dogs after a stray dog bit another senior citizen in the locality. The mob attacked the woman’s house around 12:30pm on Sunday from the backyard where she had built a tin compound wall. The people broke down the tin compound wall by hitting it with bamboos and stones. The woman had adopted multiple dogs who lived inside the compound wall. Once the compound wall was down, the mob started throwing stones at her house and at the dogs. Some of the dogs were injured in the attack, according to the police. A case under Sections for rioting, 452 (house trespass with preparation of hurt), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 11 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960; and Section 119 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Kondhwa police station. Assistant police inspector Chetan More is investigating the case. BOX: Fire brigade officials save stray dog from choking on plastic The officials of fire brigade found a stray dog stuck inside a plastic net used on compound walls in Market yard area on Tuesday morning. The dog was found whimpering near the Shivaji Maharaj statue in Market yard as the net had fastened around the dog. The fire brigade officials cut the net open while trying to save the moving dog from getting hurt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/64yearold-dog-lover-s-house-attacked-for-feeding-strays-101622563558891.html
01-06-2021||Pune||Minor among four held for attempted murder||The Pune rural police have arrested three people and apprehended one minor on Tuesday in the case of attempted murder of an activist of National congress party (NCP) by firing at him on Monday night. The injured man was identified as Raviraj Taware, husband of Pune Zilla Parisad member Rohini Taware of NCP. The three arrested were identified as Rahul alias Rebel Yadav, Prashant More, Vinod alias Tom More. “There was a gram panchayat in Malegaon Budrukh which was cancelled and a nagar parishad was formed. The nagar parishad election was scheduled. The ward-wise rivalry from the gram panchayat system between Prashant More and Taware had led to a cross-complaint of attempted murder, three months ago,” said assistant police inspector (API) Mahesh Vidhate. The firing was done due to the same rivalry, according to the police. Prashant More has previous cases of violence against him. A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 3(25),(27) of Arms Act was registered at Baramati taluka police station. API Mahesh Dhawan of Talegaon taluka police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minor-among-four-held-for-attempted-murder-101622563498928.html
01-06-2021||Pune||Depositors of Shivajirao Bhosale bank appeal for fast-tracked refunds||Investors and depositors of Shivajirao Bhosale Co-operative bank are worried about the refund of their money as they want their finances protected and reimbursed to them at the earliest after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) cancelled the license of the bank on Monday. Drawing parallel with previous financial scams and loss of investor confidence in getting back their money, the depositors appealed to the RBI to fast track their reimbursements. The RBI cancelled the license claiming that the bank does not have adequate capital and earning prospects. In its order dated May 28, 2021, the RBI stated “Consequently, the bank ceases to carry on banking business, with effect from the close of business on May 31, 2021. The registrar of cooperative societies, Maharashtra has also been requested to issue an order for winding up the bank and appoint a liquidator for the bank.” Consequent to the cancellation of its licence the Shivajirao Bhosale Sahakari bank Ltd., Pune, Maharashtra is prohibited from conducting the business of ‘banking’ which includes acceptance of deposits and repayment of deposits as defined in Section 5(b) read with Section 56 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 with immediate effect, the order stated. Pravin Walvekar, one of the members of Shivajirao Bhosale Bank Kruti Samiti said “In the past , the refund would take a long time and it was a long-drawn process but as per the new legislation the clarity has been brought. There is an insurance cover insured against each depositor to the extent of liability of ₹5 lakh and this amount must be given within three months. We hope that the insurance companies pay the amount to the depositors at the earliest.” “Initially, the auditor was unwilling to lodge a police complaint and we told him we will complain to the Institute of Chartered Accountants seeking debarring his license and after the complaint was lodged. Then EOW took over and kept on delaying for some time. Unscrupulous methods were used to manipulate the banks and siphoned off the money belonging to depositors and investors. The scam took place because of the interference of the political machinery, and we want justice to be done,” Walvekar said. Sangeeta Thombare, a teacher said “We have seen that during previous financial fraud cases in the city, the refund has still not come even after 10 years following the arrest of the fraudsters. This time the RBI must carry out special work and ensure that all the depositors are given back their dues. The law enforcement including RBI and other government department has been very slow in investigating the case.” Macchindra Talpe, a depositor of the bank said “I had deposited ₹10 lakh for the scheme but lost the entire money which I needed to fund the education of my children. Today, I am living in debt and afflicted by disease due to fraud played on us by Anil Bhosale and his associates. We don’t have any hopes left as refund seems to be a distant possibility.” As many as 71,000 investors have invested a fixed deposit of ₹5 lakh, while 8,000 investors invested more than ₹5 lakh in the form of various deposits. In January 2020, the Pune police registered a case against Maharashtra State Legislative Council (MLC) and bank chairman Anil Bhosale, bank director Suryaji Jadhav, chief accountant Shailesh Bhosale and chief executive officer Tanaji Padwal. A case has also been registered against Bhosale’s wife Reshma Bhosale who is also an accused in the case. The case was registered under sections 406, 408, 468, 471 and 34 of IPC and relevant sections of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/depositors-of-shivajirao-bhosale-bank-appeal-for-fast-tracked-refunds-101622563438825.html
01-06-2021||Pune||Army jawan arrested for molesting, throwing minor off running train||A serving jawan of the Indian Army was arrested for allegedly throwing an eight-year-old child, daughter of a retired Indian Navy sailor, off the moving express train after she raised an alarm about his sexual advances in the small hours of Tuesday. The arrested person Prabhu Malappa Uphar (33) posted in Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh is a native of Sugmadhur village in Belgaum, Karnataka. He was caught by the railway police in Bhusawal area of Jalgaon district in Maharashtra on Tuesday afternoon after the injured child found on the tracks passing through Lonand, Satara, recounted her experience. The train passes through Salpa at 1:59am and passes through Lonand at 2:11am - the route on which the girl was found - as per the schedule of the train by Indian Railways. The train reaches Bhusawal junction around 12:55pm, as per the same schedule. “We set up a search on the train starting in Ahmednagar and around 300 constables were boarded on the train from various stops. We zeroed down on the bogie and searched between seats 21 and 40 and asked the people in the area about suspects. There were four suspects. After preliminary inquiry, we were able to identify this man,” said Dilip Vayse-Patil, superintendent, Government railway police (GRP), Pune. The GRP officials claimed that after detaining and interrogating four suspects, the Uphar has confessed to have committed the crime. As per the girl’s statement to the doctors and the police, the man picked the child up while she was asleep near her parents and took her to the toilet. The girl woke up when he tried to undress her and raised an alarm, according to the police. The man then promised to take her back to her parents but instead, threw her out of the train, as per a statement issued by GRP Pune. The child was found by Lonand villagers who alerted the station master, who in turn informed the police. The girl was found around 6am after which the railway authorities circulated a message across nearby stations and on-board ticket-collectors to check if a child was missing from their trains, according to GRP Miraj officials. The train had reached around Ahmednagar around 7am when the TC on the Goa Hazrat Nizamuddin Express woke up all the parents on board the train to check if any of their children were missing. It was then that the child’s parents realised that she is missing from the upper berth where she was sleeping. “The villagers in Lonand living near the new track, where she was lying, found her and informed the station master who called us. We took the girl to Lonand government hospital, and the doctors referred her to Satara Civil hospital. The doctors at Satara civil hospital started speaking to the girl and she started revealing the details,” said police sub inspector Namdev Tarde of GRP Miraj police station. The girl has suffered a fractured leg, sustained multiple scratches on her torso and abdomen, and a deep gash on her chin. The girl was travelling with her parents, and two sisters -one younger and one elder. After retiring from Goa, the man was taking his family back to his wife’s native place, according to the police. A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, 2012 is getting registered at a GRP police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/army-jawan-arrested-for-molesting-throwing-minor-off-running-train-101622563378864.html
01-06-2021||Pune||Two arrested for attack and sexual assault on transwomen||Two transwomen from Mumbai were arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for attacking two transwomen from Pimpri-Chinchwad and forcing one of the victims to perform unnatural intercourse with a man. The two arrested were identified as Anam Ahmed Shaikh (21) and Sonu Shaikh Mohammad (24) both residents of Mumbai and both identify as transwomen, according to the police. The incident happened around 2:30pm in the house where the victims lived in Thergaon area. “We have taken the complainant and the arrested for a medical test. We detained them last night and after verification, arrested them at 4am. We are on the lookout for the others booked in the case along with the man who allegedly performed the unnatural act,” said police inspector Sunil Tonpe. The other accused were identified as Ruksar alias Irfan Insaf Jhan, Azam Shaikh, Simran alias Pavan all residents of Benganwadi area of Govandi East in Mumbai, along with two unidentified others. While Azam Shaikh identifies as a man, the rest identify as transwomen. In the family structure among transgendered women who collect alms for a living, an older transwoman acts as the head of a group, guru, who identifies as a family. The man is the husband of Ruksar alias Irfan who is the head of the family in Mumbai which the two victims had left. “The complainant and her friend had left the group in which Ruksar was the head and come here. That was the reason for the attack,” said senior police inspector Vivek Muglikar of Wakad police station. The assailants arrived with chopper blades and attacked the two transwomen with the back of the blade before stealing ₹30,000 cash given to them by their current family head and three mobile phones. The husband of Ruksar then forced the complainant’s friend into unnatural intercourse. A case under Sections 397 (dacoit or robbery with attempt to cause death), 377 (unnatural intercourse), 506 (criminal intimidation), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace) of Indian Penal Code was registered at the Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-for-attack-and-sexual-assault-on-transwomen-101622563258843.html
01-06-2021||Pune||Crime branch official’s relative arrested for attacking doctor, cop on the run||An official of unit 3 of Pune police crime branch is on the run while his relative has been remanded to judicial custody for attacking a 25-year-old doctor at the dedicated Covid hospital (DCH) in Baner on Monday afternoon. The arrested man was identified as Sagar Siddheshwar Gaikwad (35), a resident of DP road area of Aundh. The doctor who was attacked was identified as Ajay Shrimaskar (25) who was treating the maternal uncle of the arrested man. “He has been sent to Yerawada central jail and we are looking for the policeman. Gaikwad’s uncle is admitted in the hospital and their family got a call from the hospital that their patient was serious and had to be taken into ICU. Around 1:30pm when they tried to call the doctor, he did not answer the call. It resulted in a fight and when the two parties were in the police station to lodge a complaint, the policeman attacked the doctor again,” said assistant police inspector Rajesh Malegave of Chaturshringi police station who is investigating the case. Dr Shrimaskar was attending a meeting at the hospital around 1:45pm when Gaikwad forcefully entered his office and attacked him while asking the reason for not answering his family’s calls. When the doctor and the complainant went to the police station to report the issue, an argument broke out between the two parties and the crime branch official attacked the doctor. A case under Sections 353, 332, 323, 504, 506, 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 3 of Maharashtra Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage or Loss to Property) Act, 2010 was registered at Chaturshringi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/crime-branch-official-s-relative-arrested-for-attacking-doctor-cop-on-the-run-101622563198889.html
01-06-2021||Jaipur||Parts of Rajasthan receive rains||Several parts of Rajasthan received rains on Tuesday due to an active western disturbance, an official of the meteorological department here said.Pilani received the maximum rainfall at 19.6 mm, the official said.Many places in districts of Bikaner, Sri Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Churu, Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Jaipur, Ajmer, Nagaur, Bharatpur, Jaipur and Kota divisions also received rainfall.Churu recorded 19.2 mm of rainfall, Sri Ganganagar 3.3 mm, Sikar 1 mm and Kota 0.2 mm.Due to the rains, the mercury fell by two to three notches. Pali was the hottest place in the state with a maximum temperature of 43.7 degrees Celsius.Rains and dust storms are likely to continue in Jodhpur and Bikaner divisions for the next three to four days, according to the weather department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/parts-of-rajasthan-receive-rains-101622560785398.html
01-06-2021||Other||After petrol and diesel, CNG price rise in Pune||PUNE The City Gas Distribution (CGD) company of Maharashtra Natural Gas Ltd (MNGL) has hiked the retail price of compressed natural gas (CNG) in Pune city with effect from Tuesday midnight. The CNG price has been increased by ₹1.10/- per kg from ₹55.50/ per kg, to ₹56.60/- per kg, a notification from MNGL said. MNGL has been supplying CNG in the Pune city through its network of more than 80 CNG stations. MNGL officials said, MNGL’s CNG still offers attractive savings of about 60% as compared to petrol and about 40% as compared to diesel at current price levels in Pune city.This price hike is due to rising operating expenses, manpower and fixed costs experienced during the pandemic caused by Covid-19. However, there would be a marginal impact on per km running cost of CNG vehicles.It is applicable in authorised areas of MNGL namely Pune city, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Chakan, Talegaon, and Hinjewadi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-petrol-and-diesel-cng-price-rise-in-pune-101622561158679.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi hospitals ramping up paediatric care infrastructure for a possible Covid-19 third wave||Hospitals across Delhi have started ramping up infrastructure to ensure availability of essential equipment, drugs and ICU beds for children as part of their plan to tackle a possible third wave of the coronavirus.The Delhi government has set up a task force to suggest measures to protect children from the third wave. Most of the hospitals are focussing on ramping up their ICU beds and facilities for children, amid fears that the third wave might be fatal for them.Dr P K Bhardwaj, Chief Executive Director of Saroj Super Specialty Hospital in Rohini, said the plan is to improve the infrastructure in the paediatric ICU and neonatal ICU.The hospital has been preparing infrastructure keeping in mind that an attendant will have to be kept with their Covid-positive child, he said."So, there will be two partitions in a room for the parent and the kid,” Dr Bhardwaj said.The number of beds in neonatal unit will be increased from 10 at present to around 20.The capacity of the paediatric ICU and high-dependency unit will be tripled, he added.The hospital has already started procuring oxygen masks, high-flow nasal cannulas, special ventilators and BIPAP machines for children, he said."The facility will also hire more neonatologists and paediatric intensivists. We have one intensivist at present, we have to have minimum three,” Dr Bhardwaj said.Dr Chandrashekhar, the head of the paediatric intensive care at Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital in Malviya Nagar, said the number of paediatric ICU beds at the facility can be increased to 30 from 25 at present, if need arises.In case a child aged below one month gets infected, he/she can be accommodated in the 40-bed neonatal ICU at the hospital.However, there has hardly been any case of child that age getting infected."We expect more cases of multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children and are ramping up our technical and manpower support and taking steps to ensure enough quantity of essential drugs and oxygen," he said.The hospital is likely to create oxygen storage capacity on its premises and can also tie up with neighbouring hospitals having oxygen plants, he said.Sources from Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals said that the hospital has existing arrangements with two vendors who would meet any increased requirement for liquid medical oxygen in future.Moreover, the hospital has installed an oxygen generator plant to meet its requirements of cylinders through the support of the French government. The hospital is also exploring the creation of an LMO generation plant in keeping with the directions of the Delhi High Court and the Delhi government, sources told PTI.The Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital had recorded around 40 cases of "severe" coronavirus infection among children during the second wave and around 15 of them were aged below one year.Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of LNJP, said the hospital is making more ICU beds for children and a special ICU for them."All the 1500 bed will have piped oxygen. Currently, 1100 beds have piped oxygen and for the rest, we rely on cylinders. But we will do away with the cylinders," he said.Dr Rajiv Sherwal, medical director of the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital and Chacha Nehru Bal Shikitsalaya, said the Rajiv Gandhi Hospital is likely to have its own oxygen generation plant within a week. Beds are being kept aside of children and procurement of medical equipment for children is also being done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hospitals-ramping-up-paediatric-care-infrastructure-for-a-possible-covid-19-third-wave-101622559235959.html
01-06-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,504 new Covid cases, 24 deaths||Pune: On Tuesday, the state health department reported 1,504 new Covid-19 cases in the district in the last 24 hours. With 24 more deaths the toll in the district went up to 12,630 and progressive cases up to 1.018 million Covid cases of which 0.975 million have recovered and 30,092 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. On Tuesday, Pune rural reported 827 new cases which took the progressive counts to 289,806 and with 15 more deaths the death toll went to 4,060. Pune city reported 401 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 484,908 and with nine more deaths the toll went up to 6,784 while PCMC reported 276 new cases and the progressive count went up to 243,944. With no more deaths the toll went stood at 1,725 The state reported that 35,949 patients have been discharged on Tuesday and a total of 5,431,319 Covid patients have been discharged after full recovery. The recovery rate in the state is 94.28%. Also, 14,123 new cases in the state on Tuesday and 477 Covid deaths have been reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.67%. Of 35,277,653 laboratory samples 5,761,015 have been tested positive (16.33%) for Covid until Tuesday. Currently, 1,768,119 people are in home quarantine and 9,315 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-504-new-covid-cases-24-deaths-101622560078467.html
01-06-2021||Ranchi||2016 Rajya Sabha horse trading case: Police approaches court to book former CM for corruption||In a new development in the 2016 Rajya Sabha horse trading case, Ranchi police on Tuesday moved court to invoke charges under Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act against former chief minister and BJP leader Raghubar Das, who has been made another accused in the case.Filing an application with the court in this regard, police stated evidence collected in the horse trading case prima facie indicated involvement of Das who committed offences under PC Act. “Informing the court about new developments in the case is a legal process that has to be followed. The investigating officer of the case, therefore, filed the application,” said Ranchi’s senior superintendent of police Surendra Jha. Controversy gripped the 2016 Rajya Sabha biennial polls after BJP candidates Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and Mahesh Poddar made it to the upper house on two vacant seats from Jharkhand, election for which was held on June 11 that year.The election of BJP’s second candidate, Poddar, came as a surprise, as the party didn’t have sufficient number of votes.Soon after the elections, Jharkhand Vikas Morcha (Prajatantrik) chief Babulal Marandi introduced horse trading charges against the then ruling BJP, alleging that some people at the helm of power adopted corrupt practices to influence the legislators to secure their votes in favour of BJP candidates.Marandi, who is now BJP’s leader of opposition, filed a complaint at the time before the Election Commission of India (ECI), annexing with it a compact disc (CD) containing telephonic conversations between the then additional director general, CID, Anurag Gupta, the then chief minister Rahubar Das’ political advisor Ajay Kumar and a former Congress minister Yogendra Sao, whose wife Nirmala Devi was then a sitting legislator.It was alleged that Gupta and Kumar coerced Sao to convince his wife Devi not to vote in the polls. They allegedly offered ₹5 crore to Sao and assured him to withdraw several criminal cases pending against him.Finding the allegations prima facie true, the ECI on June 13, 2017, issued a letter to the state chief secretary, asking him to initiate legal action in the matter. An FIR was then registered in March 2018 against Gupta and Kumar under Sections 171 (E) ( punishment for bribery) and 171 (F) (punishment for undue influence or personation at an elec­tion) of the IPC. The case was currently under investigation.After the change of guard in the state, the incumbent Hemant Soren government in February last year suspended Gupta and initiated departmental inquiry against him. Besides, corruption charges were also invoked against him.The case has now taken a new turn, after the home department gave its nod to arraign Das, who was not named in the FIR, as accused and asked police to invoke corruption charges against him. The charges, if proved in a court of law, prescribe a minimum of one year sentence which can be extended up to a maximum of seven years.Reacting to the move, Das said, “The police have thoroughly failed in last four years to collect any evidence in this case. In order to keep this case alive, some competent officers following the government’s diktat are trying to include new offences in this case. It’s the beginning of vendetta politics in the state. But, one should not forget that nothing is permanent here.”Police made Das as an accused on the basis of statements of former Congress minister Yogendra Sao and his wife Nirmala Devi. The duo earlier informed the police that Das allegedly offered them ₹5 crore to abstain from voting process and assured them to withdraw all pending cases against them. They also informed that a day before the election on June 10, 2016, Das visited Sao at their house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/2016-rajya-sabha-horse-trading-case-police-approaches-court-to-book-former-cm-for-corruption-101622559898511.html
01-06-2021||Other||Bihar clears ordinance to run local rural bodies till next panchayat polls||PATNAThe Bihar cabinet on Tuesday approved an ordinance to amend certain sections of the Bihar Panchayati Raj Act, 2006, to empower the state government to constitute advisory committees to run three-tier rural local bodies beyond the expiry of their five-year term until fresh elections. The term of all elected functionaries of panchayat raj institutions (PRIs), like gram panchayat, zila parishad and gram kutcheries, ends on June 15. As panchayat polls have been deferred in view of the deadly second Covid wave, the advisory committees would take charge of PRIs until the fresh panchayat elections once the ordinance gets the Governor’s nod. The state government had to approve the amendments to the act via an ordinance, as it has no alternative arrangement under the Act to allow operations the PRIs beyond their five-year term, as stipulated by the 73rd amendments to the Constitution. The state panchayati raj act would stand amended once the Governor gives his nod to the proposed ordinance. Officials familiar with the development said that structure and powers of the advisory committees and remunerations for its members would be decided by the cabinet once the ordinance is approved. They said reputed members of previously elected PRIs might be inducted in the advisory committees. This was among 18 proposals discussed and approved by the cabinet at its meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday. The cabinet also gave its nod for release of ₹656 crore as advance to gram panchayats in accordance with recommendations of the sixth state commission for the current fiscal. The social welfare department’s proposal to give monthly monetary assistance of ₹1500 to the children whose parents fell victim to the pandemic was also approved. The CM had announced this scheme, Bal Sahayata Yojna, a few days ago. The state government also okayed the bilateral agreement between Bihar State Hydroelectric Power Corporation (BSHPC) and National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC), a government of India, for setting up 130 MW multi-purpose hydel power plant at Dagmara village of Supaul district for a period of 40 years. A sum of ₹700 crore has also been sanctioned for the construction of the project for the next five years. The cabinet granted its nod for construction of a high-level RCC bridge to create additional waterways in the existing Pipraghat bridge on the river Kamla on Rajnagar-Babu Barahi-Khutauna stretch of the state highways in Madhubani district. A sum of ₹37.58 crore would be spent on its construction. The Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation has been named as executing agency to build an integrated drainage network for rain water in Katihar at the cost of ₹220.50 crore. Other decisionsRules to regulate operation of web media approved  ₹90.38 crore released for assistance to farmers for usage of quality seeds  ₹36.13 crore sanctioned for setting up optical telescope at Patna’s Indira Gandhi Planetarium Posts of auxiliary nurses midwiferies sanctioned in various jails to tone of medical facility||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-clears-ordinance-to-run-local-rural-bodies-till-next-panchayat-polls-101622559779266.html
01-06-2021||Other||Ex- minister alleges scam in ambulance purchase||PATNAFormer minister Vikram Kunwar on Tuesday shot off a letter to chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday alleging a scam in the purchase of ambulances in Siwan.Kunwar, in his letter, alleged ambulances were purchased at three times the market price. “Each ambulance worth ₹7 lakh was purchased for around ₹22 lakh in Siwan district. Instead of procuring these through Government E-Market place portal (GEM), ambulances were purchased from another place,” Kunwar alleged in his letter and requested the CM to get the matter investigated.The former MLA further said 10 ambulances have been purchased from funds provided by BJP MLC Tunna Pandey and former MLAs Ramesh Singh Kushwaha and Vyasdev Prasad. Meanwhile, acting on a complaint from Kunwar, Siwan district magistrate Amit Pandey has ordered a probe. “A committee has been constituted to probe the matter. Ambulances also carry a few special types of equipment for Covid, which is why their rates were higher than normal,” the DM told ANI.MLC Tunna Pandey feigned ignorance about the cost of the ambulances. “We don’t know at what price the ambulances were bought. The DM has constituted a committee for investigation into the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ex-minister-alleges-scam-in-ambulance-purchase-101622559778500.html
01-06-2021||Other||How ready for 3rd wave, HC asks state govt||PATNAThe Patna High Court on Tuesday sought to know how well the state prepared learning from the past in view of the anticipated third wave of Covid-19 pandemic and its likely impact on children.“Our focus is on the rural areas and that we have made clear from day one. All that we say that the Centre’s digital programme for death registration be put in place, as it will help the state in forward planning, be it in terms of infrastructure, testing in rural areas, oxygen requirement or extending social welfare schemes. If correct and up-to-date data is not there, how can the state plan?” the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar asked advocate general Lalit Kishore.The AG earlier said the valuable time of the court should go into strengthening the infrastructure of the district hospitals, as there was good connectivity in rural areas to help the needy reach there from blocks and panchayats within one or one and half hours. He also cited the improved Covid situation, with less than 2% positivity rate and over 97% recovery rate and underlined that vaccination and well-equipped district hospitals would hold the key in tackling the anticipated third wave.However, the bench cited reports from states like Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Delhi etc. where virus had already started affecting children. “Is the state prepared for that situation?. If children start getting affected, it is matter of serious concern,” the bench said.The AG said the state had made provisions of ICU for children in 27 districts. However, the bench said the pattern of the affidavits filed by the officers “nothing but promised, promises”.“Despite clear order for digitally uploading all death figures, there is nothing in the affidavits to suggest it has been complied with. This is what raises suspicion in our mind,” the bench said.Admitting that the uploading death figures on the website was still not done, the AG said the chief secretary has directed officials to expedite the matter. “I agree that registration of deaths needs to be expedited and I will pass on the court’s directions,” he said.The bench was also particular about the figures of testing in the rural areas and if that was reflected through the overall increase in the number of tests being carried out in the state. “The affidavit says the government plans to set up RTPCR testing facilities at the district level. It is good, but what we are interested in is the timeline. When will the facilities be available for the people? The affidavit talks about mobile vans. We want to know how many of them are actually in service. We are only expediting the matter. The government says rapid antigen tests are being done down to the block level in Buxar. It is a big statement. If it is so, this model must be replicated everywhere and the people must be aware of the facilities available,” the bench said.To a court’s query on supply of liquified medical oxygen, the AG said the requirement had come down significantly and the state was also in the process of setting up its own generation plants and involving private parties. However, the bench asked if the oxygen situation in the state was good enough to handle the anticipated third wave.There was another application filed with regard to decongestion of prisons in the state. However, the court said it should be filed as an independent petition and before that the petitioner, Sameer Kumar, should draw the attention of the authorities towards the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/how-ready-for-3rd-wave-hc-asks-state-govt-101622559718531.html
01-06-2021||Other||Covaxin trials on children begin at AIIMS-Patna||PATNAPatna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Tuesday began the phase II/III clinical trials of the indigenous Covaxin (Covid vaccine), developed by the Bharat Biotech International Limited, Hyderabad, on children in the age group of 2 to 18 years. “We began the children’s trials by administering the vaccine on three volunteers in the 12-18 years age group,” said Dr Lokesh Tiwari, additional professor and head, department of paediatrics, also one of the investigators in the trials at AIIMS-Patna. As many as 54 children had registered at the institute for the trials of which 16 were in the 12-18 years age group. “We are commencing the trials today in the reverse order of age from today. Children in the 12 to 18 years age group will be given the shots first. We will then proceed with the 6 to 12 years age category before inoculating children in the 2 to 6 years age bracket,” said Dr CM Singh, professor of community and family medicine, also the principal investigator of the trial at AIIMS-Patna and medical superintendent. “Besides physical examination of the child, we will conduct real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR) to check them for Covid antibody and test them for any pre-existing diseases before administering the vaccine,” he said. The two doses of the whole virion, inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, will be administered at an interval of 28 days through intramuscular shots. The trials will be carried out on 525 healthy volunteers. “There is no specific target on number of volunteers given to any centre participating in the research. We hope to enrol 100 child volunteers for the trial,” said Dr Singh. Those participating in the trials would be given a flat conveyance reimbursement of ₹1,000 per visit to the institute, he added. The AIIMS-Patna had undertaken Covaxin trial on 1,306 adults last year before the national regulator, the Drugs Controller General of India, approved the vaccine for emergency use. The first phase trial, which was of 194 days duration, on 46 volunteers was completed on February 3 and the second phase on 44 volunteers got over on April 7. The 208-day third phase trial, initiated in December 2020 on 1,216 volunteers, would end in September this year. AIIMS-Patna is one of the research sites for the Covaxin’s clinical trials in children. The others are AIIMS-Delhi; ESI Hospital, Basaidarapur (Delhi); Prakhar Hospital, Kanpur; Mysore Medical College and Research Institute, Mysuru, Pranaam Hospital, Hyderabad; and Meditrinia Institute of Medical Sciences, Nagpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covaxin-trials-on-children-begin-at-aiimspatna-101622559658408.html
01-06-2021||Other||Sacked Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender all set to join BJP||Senior Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) lawmaker and former state health minister Eatala Rajender, who was sacked from the state cabinet on May 2 following allegations of land encroachments, is all set to join the Bharatiya Janata Party in a day or two, party leaders said. Rajender, who left for New Delhi on Sunday evening, met BJP national president JP Nadda on Monday night along with state BJP president Bandi Sanjay and party in charge of Telangana affairs Tarun Chugh.He held discussions with Nadda for over an hour over the recent developments in the state. “Rajender raised certain clarifications from the BJP chief and the latter assured him that he would get the due respect and recognition in the BJP. Nadda asked him to take an early decision on joining the party,” a senior BJP leader familiar with the development said.Rajender reportedly expressed doubts over the possibility of the BJP adopting a soft corner towards the TRS, in the wake of TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s friendly relations with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“However, Nadda told Rajender that the BJP would go all out against the TRS in the state as it had done in West Bengal. Our aim is to capture power in Telangana in the next elections and there is no doubt about it,” the BJP leader said.Rajender is expected to return to Hyderabad on Tuesday evening or Wednesday morning and would announce his decision to join the BJP. Before that, he would resign from the primary membership of the TRS and also his assembly seat. Along with him, another senior leader and ex-MLA Enugu Ravinder Reddy, who also accompanied Rajender to Delhi, would join the BJP.Rajender, who represents Huzurabad assembly constituency in northern Telangana, had been associated with the party since 2003 and held several positions including party floor leader in the assembly, besides being the first finance minister of Telangana state. During the second term of the TRS, Rajender was given the medical and health portfolio.Though Rajender had been loyal to the party for the last 18 years, there had been reports of serious differences between him and the party leadership on several issues. On many occasions, he expressed his displeasure over the alleged humiliation meted out to him and other ministers by the chief minister.The cold war between Rajender and the TRS leadership culminated in stripping of his medical and health portfolio on May 1, when reports of his alleged land grabbing in Medak district surfaced in a section of vernacular media. A day later, Rajender was sacked from the cabinet, following a report submitted by Medak collector confirming the allegations of land grabbing.Rajender alleged that the TRS leadership unleashed a smear campaign against him and resorted to his character assassination. He said he was ready to face a probe even by a sitting judge or the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).In the last few weeks, Rajender met several leaders including Pradesh Congress Committee working president A Revanth Reddy and Congress Legislature Party floor leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, besides ex-MP Konda Vishweshwar Reddy and Telangana Jana Samithi leader M Kodandaram, seeking their support to his fight against the KCR government.He also met state BJP president Bandi Sanjay, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy and others to discuss his future course of action. Finally, he decided to join the BJP to continue his fight with the TRS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sacked-telangana-health-minister-eatala-rajender-all-set-to-join-bjp-101622559540696.html
01-06-2021||Other||‘Two Maoists killed in encounter in Kondagaon jungles of Bastar’: Chhattisgarh police||Chhattisgarh police claimed to have gunned down two Maoists in an encounter with Maoists in Kondagaon district of Bastar region on Tuesday. “On Monday, based on information about presence of North Kanker-Mainpur Division Coordination Committee (CPI Maoist) cadres along the Rajpur-Bhandarpal-Timnar jungles, a search operation was launched along Kondagaon-Kanker inter-district border region. On Tuesday afternoon, an exchange of fire took place between Maoist cadres and Kondagaon police near Bhandarpal jungle,” said Bastar’s Inspector General of Police Sunderaj P.The IG further said that the exchange of fire lasted about an hour and later during search operation two uniformed Maoist dead bodies, including a woman cadre, were recovered from the spot. Police also recovered one SLR rifle, one .303 rifle and three 12 bore rifles along with huge quantities of camping and explosive materials from the encounter spot. Superintendent of Police, Kondagaon, Siddharth Tiwari claimed that few more Maoist cadres could have been injured in the action. “A search in the nearby area is being conducted to apprehend the Maoist who fled from the spot during the action,” said Tiwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-maoists-killed-in-encounter-in-kondagaon-jungles-of-bastar-chhattisgarh-police-101622559179057.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Nearly half of Haryana's total Covid-19 deaths recorded in May||Nearly half of the number of Covid-linked fatalities in Haryana were recorded in May as the state also registered a sharp spike in the cases last month, state health department data showed.On April 30, 2021, Haryana had a total 4,216 Covid-19 deaths, which climbed to 8,303, as on May 31.During the same period, the virus count rose from 4,87,978 to 7,56,635.Gurugram, Faridabad and Hisar remained the districts hardest hit by the pandemic.Between April 30 and May 31, coronavirus-related fatalities in Gurugram increased from 476 to 813, while the number of cases in the district, which falls in the National Capital Region, rose from 1,22,948 to 1,79,960.In Faridabad district, the death toll from Covid-19 climbed from 512 to 708, while the infection count jumped from 72,768 to 98,945.In Hisar district, fatalities doubled from 440 to 870 while the infection tally went up from 29,755 to 52,966 between April 30 and May 31.The cumulative Covid positivity rate in the state went up from 6.63 per cent to 8.39 per cent while the fatality rate increased from 0.86 per cent to 1.10 per cent during the past one month.As on May 31, Nuh district had the lowest number of fatalities and Covid-19 cases in the state with 93 deaths and 4,862 infections, followed by Charkhi Dadri with 110 deaths and 4,915 cases.The number of active cases, which was around one lakh a month ago, has now come down to nearly 18,000 at present.The Covid recovery rate improved from 79.14 per cent, as on April 30, to 96.45 per cent on May 31.The tests per million population increased from 2,91,694 to 3,57,014 while the vaccination coverage also increased during the period from April 30 to May 31 from 38,13274 doses to 57,12,100 doses being administered.To contain the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in Haryana, the state government had initially imposed a lockdown on May 3 for a week till May 10, which was later extended four times and is currently enforced till June 7.The state government has termed the lockdown "Mahamari Alert/Surkshit Haryana (Epidemic Alert/Safe Haryana)".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nearly-half-of-haryana-s-total-covid-19-deaths-recorded-in-may-101622558742682.html
01-06-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Karnataka deputy CM hints at phased unlock after June 7||Amid speculation about extension of the lockdown, Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister on Tuesday said it is a "guarantee" that the state will start the unlock process after June 7, as he hinted that it will be phased lifting of curbs."Let's see, whether unlocking should be done at once or in a phased manner is the question.Unlock is guarantee, after June 7...how to do it is the question, there are no plans of doing it at once, it may be in a phased manner," Narayan said in response to a question on the future of lockdown in the current situation.Speaking to reporters here, he said the government is gathering opinion from experts and others and a decision will be taken after considering all aspects.However, Health Minister K Sudhakar too, while hinting about phased unlocking, said that the state's Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee has suggested that the strict restrictions can be relaxed once daily cases come down below 5,000 mark."They (TAC) have said the (positivity) rate has to come below 5 per cent and number of cases (fresh) should be below 5,000, only then the restrictions can be relaxed and until then the strict measures that are in place should be continued," he said.The Health Minister said that he has submitted the TAC's report to the Chief Minister and discussed it. "The CM has said that whenever we go for unlocking, it should also be in a staggered manner.""If unlocking is done it should be in a phased manner and it cannot be done at once, because the decline is not to the level of our expectations or to that of the TAC, though cases have come down, it is still not below 5 per cent. In several districts as the numbers are still a bit more, we will have to be cautious," he added.The Karnataka government had initially announced 14 days "closedown" from April 27, but subsequently imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24, as the Covid cases continued to spike.Citing lockdown yielding results and experts advice, it was further extended till June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-karnataka-deputy-cm-hints-at-phased-unlock-after-june-7-101622555061634.html
01-06-2021||City||Aligarh hooch tragedy: 13 more arrested in police raids||Thirteen more people, including the owner of a chemical factory, were arrested here for their alleged involvement in illicit liquor trade as police continued raids in connection with the Aligarh hooch tragedy, which has claimed at least 36 lives so far, officials said on Tuesday.With this, the number of people arrested for their alleged involvement in illicit liquor trade has risen to 33, they said.In a major breakthrough, the owner of a chemical factory was arrested from his plant at the Talanagri industrial estate and a large amount of methyl alcohol seized from the premises on Monday night, Aligarh Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Kalanidhi Naithani told reporters.This methyl alcohol was being supplied to manufacturers of illicit liquor, he said.The SSP said the factory owner was arrested on the basis of leads gathered during the interrogation of one of the main accused in the hooch tragedy case.Nine more people were arrested in separate raids across the district last night. Three others were arrested on Tuesday and pouches of spurious country-made liquor recovered from them, the police said.Since the first deaths in the hooch tragedy were reported on May 28, the police have been carrying out raids across the district to seize illegal liquor.The district authorities have been sending teams to villages to urge people not to consume liquor bought a week ago.The police said efforts have also been intensified to trace Rishi Sharma, one of the main accused in the hooch tragedy case. A reward of ₹50,000 has already been announced for his arrest.Sharma, who allegedly has strong political connections, has managed to evade the police for days.Late on Monday evening, the Uttar Pradesh government suspended Excise Commissioner P Guruprasad and two other senior officials in connection with the hooch tragedy.Several police officials have also been suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aligarh-hooch-tragedy-13-more-arrested-in-police-raids-101622558200157.html
01-06-2021||Noida||Noida starts special vaccine drive from Jun 1 for parents with kids aged below 12||A special anti-Covid vaccination campaign will begin from Tuesday in Noida and Greater Noida for inoculating parents or guardians of children aged 12 or below, officials said on Monday.The special campaign begins from two centres – JP International School in Greater Noida and the Primary Health Centre Bisrakh – where covishield would be administered to beneficiaries, the officials said.“The campaign has been started on instructions of District Magistrate Suhas L Y so that common people can benefit from the programmes run by the government,” District Immunisation Officer Neeraj Tyagi said.“All such parents or guardians will have to book their slots through CoWIN portal. They must select the special centres allotted for them before reaching the vaccination centre at scheduled time and date,” he said.The beneficiaries will have to produce an identification document along with a proof of being parent or guardian of a child or children below 12 years of age, Tyagi said.The Gautam Buddh Nagar administration had recently resolved to become the first “fully vaccinated” district in the country.Over 6.20 lakh vaccine doses, including more than one lakh second doses, have been administered to people in Gautam Buddh Nagar, which is next only to state capital Lucknow in absolute numbers, official statistics showed on Monday.Gautam Buddh Nagar's targeted vaccination population is 15 lakh to 16 lakh, according to the administration's estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-starts-special-vaccine-drive-from-jun-1-for-parents-with-kids-aged-below-12-101622555861888.html
01-06-2021||Other||Himachal’s Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases in May||Even as the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic wreaked havoc across Himachal, recoveries outnumbered the fresh infections recorded in May. A rundown of the data available with the health department shows that the state recorded 91,043 infections in May, which was the highest ever in a single month since the outbreak last year. Compared to April, when the state recorded 35,682 infections, there had been a 155% spike in the new cases in May. The highest single-day spike was recorded on May 8 with 5,424 infections while the active cases had peaked by May 13, touching the 40,008-mark. The hill-state registered 1,643 fatalities, highest in 15 months of the pandemic; 200% higher than the first wave and 22% (1,194) more than April when 449 people had died due to the virus. However, May also turned out to be the month with the highest recoveries (94,250). In April, the state had recorded 19,868 recoveries. Kangra, Mandi, Shimla worst hit Though the entire state was grappling with the highly contagious and virulent second wave, Kangra, Mandi and Shimla were the worst-hit districts. With 25,628 new cases, Kangra topped the infection chart in May followed by Mandi with 11,033 cases and Shimla with 9,053 cases. With a cumulative caseload of 92,625, these three districts account for 48.7% disease burden of the state. Solan and Sirmaur, which share borders with Punjab and Haryana, recorded 8,166 and 7,660 cases respectively during the month. Kangra also saw the highest 559 deaths during May followed by 211 fatalities in Shimla and 179 in Solan. All-time high positivity rate As the cases peaked, the state authorities also ramped up testing. During May, 4,12,643 Covid tests were conducted, which was around 1.63 lakh more than April’s count of 2,49,056. The overall positivity rate was 22% and touched the grim peak of 28.9% from May 10 to 16. The positivity rate was 14% in April. In the week (May 24-30), the positivity rate again slipped to 12.9%. The positivity rate was at its lowest 0.67% in month of February. In 3 weeks, daily cases fall by 80%National Health Mission director Dr Nipun Jindal said the state saw its peak between May 10 and 16 with 28,817 cases recorded in seven days. Since then, there has been a steady decline in the cases. “From touching the single-day peak of 5,424 cases on May 8 to 861 cases on May 30, the daily new cases have fallen by 80% in just three weeks,” he said. He said weekly cases dipped to 10,431 in the last week of May as compared to 18,794 in the penultimate week. “Fatalities have also declined by more than 75% from 78 on May 18 to 19 on May 31,” said Dr Jindal. Given the decline, curbs have been eased in the state but people must continue following Covid-appropriate behaviour, said Dr Jindal, adding that the state is also gearing up for the anticipated third wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachals-covid-recoveries-outnumbered-fresh-cases-in-may-101622555459122.html
01-06-2021||Indore||Covid-19: Drive-in vaccination centres launched in Indore for 45+ group||To give a boost to the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination programme, the administration in Indore in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday launched a drive-in facility for people above 45 years of age."Dhanvantri drive-in" vaccination centres have been opened at the Nehru Stadium, Dalal Bagh and Kankeshwari Devi Ground in the city, officials said.Officials said the people above 45 years can get the jabs at these facilities by sitting in their cars or on two-wheelers.The facility of on-the-spot registration is also made available at these spots.The administration is also planning to launch the drive-in vaccination facility at three other places in the city, they said.Indore, with a population of over 35 lakh, is the worst affected district in Madhya Pradesh by the pandemic.Since March 24, 2020, the district recorded 1,50,178 coronavirus positive cases and 1,343 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/covid19-drive-in-vaccination-centres-launched-in-indore-for-45-group-101622554167906.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||Hospitals in Delhi record lowest Covid admissions in nearly two months||Delhi recorded less than 200 hospital admissions of Covid-19 patients on Monday, the lowest in nearly two months, according to government data.The number of people discharged from hospitals on a daily basis after recovering from Covid-19 has outnumbered the number of those getting admitted since May 14, the data showed.The decline in hospital admissions can be attributed to the drop in the number of positive cases, officials said.According to the government data, Delhi witnessed 182 hospital admissions as against 333 discharges on Monday.On Saturday and Sunday, the hospital admission figures stood at 228 and 237 respectively, while 619 and 425 patients were discharged on those days.The hospital admissions have dropped below the 1,000-mark since May 16.The admissions on a single day had risen to 1,993 on April 29, it showed.Between April 1 and April 5, when the daily cases were below 5,000, the admissions were more than the discharges on a daily basis, according to the data.On May 14, 1,256 new Covid patients were admitted as against 1,331 discharged, it stated.The next day, 1,052 patients came to hospitals while 1,379 were discharged.Between May 16 and May 20, the hospital admissions recorded were 952, 914, 806, 731 and 560 respectively while the discharges in the same period were 1,079, 895, 1,326, 1,090 and 978 respectively.Since May 22, the hospital admissions have remained below the 500-mark. The hospital admissions recorded on May 22 stood at 482 and the subsequent days figures were 412, 382, 388, 300, 368 and 229 respectively.Between April 1 and April 5, the hospital admission figures stood at 294, 356, 353, 305 and 406 while the number of patients discharged were 139, 163, 166, 131 and 141 respectively.On April 11, the daily cases crossed the 10,000-mark for the first time. Last year on November 11 last year, the national capital had recorded 8,593 cases, the highest figure before that date.There were 953 hospital admissions on April 11 followed by 932 the next day.On April 13, the hospital admissions crossed the 1,000-mark with 1,218 patients, followed by 1,361, 1812, 1426, 1519 on April 14, 15, 16, 17 respectively.Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of LNJP Hospital, the Delhi government's biggest Covid facility, said, "The hospital admissions have shown a huge decline. When the cases were at a peak in April, we were seeing 190-200 admissions on a daily basis while now we see eight, nine or 10 admissions in a day."Echoing similar sentiments, Dr BL Sherwal, medical director of the Delhi-government run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, said there are now only one or two admissions and during the time the cases were on a spike, 30-40 patients were admitted daily.Hospitals had to turn away patients at that time owing to shortage of beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hospitals-in-delhi-record-lowest-covid-admissions-in-nearly-two-months-101622551369729.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Ganga Ram hospital begins monoclonal antibody cocktail therapy for Covid-19||Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on Tuesday started administering monoclonal antibody cocktail therapy, which is thought to prevent high risk patients from progressing to severe infection. The therapy uses a cocktail of two monoclonal antibodies -- laboratory-made proteins that mimic the body’s immune cells -- called casirivimab and imdevimab marketed by Roche. The monoclonal antibodies attach themselves to the spike protein of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 and prevent the entry of the virus into the human cell. The therapy is administered to those at high risk of developing severe infection before the disease progresses from mild or moderate category with no need for oxygen support. Those with cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes and are obese, or those who have chronic kidney disease, chronic liver disease, chronic lung disease, or are immunocompromised because of cancer, HIV, or an organ transplant are considered to be at high risk of developing severe Covid-19. Also Read | God won’t help if we don’t help ourselves: Delhi HC on govt’s vaccination policyIndia’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation approved the therapy for all those who have tested positive for the viral infection, have mild to moderate disease (not on oxygen support), and 12 years or above, and weigh at least 40 kgs. The therapy was approved in early May when the cases of Covid-19 were soaring across the country; US Food and Drug Administration had approved the use of the therapy last year in November. The monoclonal antibodies are given either intravenously or through a subcutaneous (under the skin) injection. Once the injection is given, the person is kept under observation for four to five hours before being sent home. “We have started offering the therapy from today; the patients who come to the hospital for Covid-19 treatment will be offered the option if they fit the criteria. If they agree, they will be given the injection,” said Ajoy Sehgal, public relations officer, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. Dr DS Rana, chairman (board of management), Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said, “As per the claims of the company, we hope that the therapy will be a major factor in fight against Covid-19 to prevent disease from progressing to further severity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-ganga-ram-hospital-begins-monoclonal-antibody-cocktail-therapy-for-covid19-101622551738129.html
01-06-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: #GenerationRestoration to give Pune’s ecosystems a new breath of life||Pune folks are lucky to live amidst a variety of ecosystems – streams, lakes, rivers, grasslands, forests patches, and even quarries that have become unique habitats. We benefit in many ways from these ecosystems. Indeed, they are the basis of what makes the city liveable. Human-made infrastructure is but a layer on natural endowments.Ecosystem benefitsThe city is just at the edge of the Sahyadri mountains, and we enjoy their natural beauty. Walks and treks on hills in and around Pune are among the most popular recreational activities. An invaluable ecosystem the Pune urban region draws from the Sahyadri mountains is high quality, unpolluted water from Mutha, Pavana and Bhima rivers. Pune has grasslands too. Recent research shows that the hills in Pune have naturally harboured grasslands and scrub vegetation, and not forests as many think. The western regions of Pune, such as Aundh, Baner, Balewadi, used to have orchards of guava, ber, ramphal and sitaphal. These are mostly converted into built-up spaces and only a few fruit trees remain. These diverse ecosystems and habitats harbour many different types of plants and animals, including birds, butterflies and moths, spiders and other arthropods, skinks, lizards, snakes, insects and small mammals. All of them are a part of the complex webs of life and ecosystems in our city. These ecosystems help to balance our microclimate, cleanse the air, provide us shade and moisture, help percolate groundwater, and convey floodwaters.They are spaces to connect with nature, and they make our city beautiful. They give us flowers, fruits and medicinal plants too, since the bees, birds and butterflies that help in pollination are also part of the complex web. The conversion of dead plants and animals to compost, humus and soil matter is also an ecosystem service. Under threatUnfortunately, often civic infrastructure projects end up destroying hills, grasslands, rivers and streams. Worse, ecosystems and habitats are just viewed as urban land to be traded for profit, covered with buildings; or waterbodies to be put into storm water drains and sewage pipes. With degradation and destruction of ecosystems, our city is likely to become less resilient, subjecting people to more risks and ill-health. We may recall that lives have been lost in the flash floods in Pune in recent years, especially due to narrowing of nallah courses and encroachment. Abuse and cutting of hill sides has also caused compound walls to crash and kill people in adjoining huts.Towards conservationThe theme for World Environment Day on June 5 is “Join #GenerationRestoration to revive and protect our ecosystems”. In addition, the UN has declared 2021 to 2030 as the Decade of Ecosystem Restoration, recognising that “there has never been a more urgent need to revive damaged ecosystems than now”. It can help to end poverty, combat climate change and prevent mass extinction. It will only succeed if everyone plays a part.Pune has many wonderful initiatives for biodiversity conservation taken up voluntarily by people and NGOs: action projects of greening, home gardens, cleaning up and composting, adopting river bank stretches, to biodiversity studies and being vigilant about debris dumping. Such efforts need support and strengthening, and lots more volunteers. Pune’s public also needs to ask elected representatives to ensure that the city takes up ecosystem restoration and biodiversity protection in earnest. Government roleIn fact, protection of nature is one of the mandatory functions of municipal corporations. City governments are expected to Set up Biodiversity Management Committees at the city and ward levels and prepare Biodiversity Registers according to the Biodiversity Act, 2002. Just making the committees is not enough. Their actual work should be to support extensive participatory processes that help to understand, document, protect and conserve biodiversity and ecosystems. They need to ensure that city development and civic projects are conceived with an understanding about biodiversity and sensitivity to conservation. For example, riverfront development or beautification is likely to destroy the ecosystem, and it should not be confused with river restoration. It is imperative that biodiversity conservation and ecosystem restoration are taken up in Pune with scientific guidance and participatory processes. The City Biodiversity Indicators framework developed under the UN Convention on Biological Diversity is a useful guide. It suggests focusing on conserving native biodiversity and ecosystems and enhancing ecosystems services. It also suggests the creation of suitable governance mechanisms for local biodiversity conservation. It can be adapted for local situations, understanding and safeguarding the dependence of local communities on ecosystems.Such as for fuel wood, grazing, and cultural needs. Let’s get active!As the World Environment Day 2021 message goes: We are the generation that can make peace with nature. We need to get active, not anxious. Let’s be bold, not timid. Let’s join #GenerationRestorationSanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-generationrestoration-to-give-pune-s-ecosystems-a-new-breath-of-life-101622551559075.html
01-06-2021||Pune||Maharashtra: BJP MLA, 60 others booked for violating Covid-19 norms||A BJP MLA and 60 others were booked for allegedly violating Covid rules during the pre-wedding ceremony of the MLA's daughter in Bhosari near Pune on Tuesday.A video of the MLA from Pimpri-Chinchwad, Mahesh Landge has gone viral on social media where he is seen dancing with others.Cases have been registered against 60 people and Landge at the Bhosari police station for violating the Covid rules under Section 188, 269 and Section 37(1)(3) of the Maharashtra Police Act.According to police, people present at the gathering violated the Covid curfew rules and did not even wear masks. The action was taken on the instruction of Police Commissioner Krishna Prakash.A statewide lockdown in Maharashtra has been extended till June 15 in order to contain the Covid-19 pandemic."Lockdown is being extended for 15 days, shall be in place till June 15 now. Depending on the case tally of districts, certain relaxations and restrictions will be enforced," Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had said on Sunday.Maharashtra reported 15,077 fresh Covid cases and 184 deaths on Monday, according to the state health department.As many as 33,000 people recovered from the disease in the state on Monday. Meanwhile, the active number of Covid cases in Maharashtra stands at 2,53,367.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-bjp-mla-60-others-booked-for-violating-covid-19-norms-101622548884216.html
01-06-2021||Jaipur||Media report alleging vaccine wastage in Rajasthan 'false': State govt to Centre||A day after the Centre flagged a media report on Covid-19 vaccine wastage in Rajasthan, Health Minister Raghu Sharma on Tuesday said the wastage in the state is less than 2 per cent, well below the "national average of 6 per cent".The state minister termed the media report cited by the Centre in its letter "false".In the letter to Sharma on Monday, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said a media report has highlighted that more than 500 vials of Covid-19 vaccines were found dumped in the waste bins at 35 vaccination centres in the state, which is "not acceptable" and must be investigated.In almost all districts of Rajasthan, vaccine wastage is more than the national average, which is less than 1 per cent, Vardhan had said.In a video message, Sharma said, "The vaccine wastage in Rajasthan is less than 2 per cent, which is well within the 10 per cent limit set by the government of India. The average national wastage is 6 per cent."There is zero vaccine wastage in the 18-44 age group, he said.So far, Rajasthan has administered 1.70 crore Covid vaccine doses and the state has remained a front runner in vaccinating people since the beginning of the inoculation drive, he added.In a letter to Vardhan, Sharma said the data given in the news report is "not correct"."... I would like to inform you that the matter has been thoroughly enquired by our officers and it has been established that the news mentioned in your letter is misleading, false and not based on facts," Sharma said."The statements recorded from all the concerned medical staff involved in vaccination in the health institutions mentioned in the news (report) clearly show that the facts are totally contrary to the news report and similar modus operandi was adopted to collect vaccine vials by misrepresentation," he said.At the health institutions, Sharma said, the media persons introduced themselves as officials from the state directorate of medical and health and as WHO representatives, he claimed."They managed to get the vaccine vials from the concerned health institutions by coercing the staff. The media persons took the vaccine vials from the used vials collected at the institution for disposal as per GoI guidelines for biomedical waste disposal," he said.Sharma further claimed that not a single vial was found in waste bins as mentioned by the media persons in their story."The act by the media persons is against the Central Pollution Control Board Guidelines for biological waste disposal, which state that the used/partially used vaccine vials can't be taken out of the concerned health institution without properly disinfecting them for disposal," he said.A Covid-19 vaccine vial has to be discarded after four hours of opening. Sometimes, after opening a vial, the required number of beneficiaries do not turn up for vaccination and it has to be discarded in accordance with the government of India's operational guidelines, Sharma said."It leads to some amount of wastage," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/media-report-alleging-vaccine-wastage-in-rajasthan-false-state-govt-to-centre-101622549144377.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police arrest 3 for ₹4.95cr fraud in the name of Covid immunity powder||The Mumbai police arrested three men on Monday for cheating people of nearly ₹5 crores by making false promises to deliver Ayurveda powder and herbs to cure Covid -19 and boost immunity. Police said the arrested accused also claimed to have received assistance from Nigerian nationals Jerry Sunday and Edward for the fraud. Mohammed Hussain Shaikh (51), Trijugilal Kurmi (43) and Salim Shaikh (39) used to rent flats, office spaces for two to three months and open bank accounts apart from obtaining some documents to make their ‘fake’ business look real, police said.Their elaborate fraud came to light when one Nafis Khan lodged a complaint with the police alleging one woman named Archana Kumar introduced him to Shaikh claiming he could deliver the Ayurveda powder Khan was looking for. Shaikh asked Khan to transfer ₹1.39 lakhs to his account. Khan says he did not get any promised powder after making the payment. The police arrested the three accused from various locations after tracking their mobile phones and following clues from the bank transactions they had made.“The three had opened 16 accounts in various banks with the help of rent documents and cheated people to the tune of ₹4.95 crores. We have frozen the bank accounts containing ₹8.25 lakhs,” said an officer from Chembur police station.On further investigation, the police learnt that the trio had also cheated people in Kolhapur and Solapur in Maharashtra apart from Karnataka, West Bengal, Haryana and Gujarat using similar modus operandi.Police are looking for seven absconding accomplices of the three accused including three Nigerians, Archana Kumar and three others-- Venkatesh Nadar, Arizona Shaikh and Lalji, who are believed to have helped them in conning people in Mumbai and other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-arrest-3-for-rs-4-95cr-fraud-in-the-name-of-covid-immunity-powder-101622548917946.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Antibody cocktail treatment begins at Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital||The Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on Tuesday started administering monoclonal antibody cocktail (MAC) to coronavirus patients, the medical facility said in a statement.The hospital is administering a combination of casirivimab and imdevimab to consenting patients with mild and moderate Covid-19 symptoms at high risk of developing serious illness, it added.The MRP of one MAC dose for a patient is ₹59,750, the statement said.According to the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), selection of patients will entail that they have Covid positive test report, mild to moderate Covid disease, are in the age group of 12 and above and weighing at least 40 kg, and are at high risk of Covid-19.Dr DS Rana, Chairman (BOM), Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said, "As per the claims of the company Roche/ Cipla, we hope MAC will be a major factor in the fight against Covid-19 to prevent disease from progressing to further severity."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-antibody-cocktail-treatment-begins-at-delhi-s-sir-ganga-ram-hospital-101622547093524.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Cong’s priorities have nothing to do with people in Punjab: Harsimrat||Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Tuesday attacked the ruling Congress in Punjab, saying its government and leaders, instead of focusing on preventing deaths due to Covid-19, are trying to sort out differences in the party’s state unit. The Congress has formed a three-member committee to resolve the infighting in its Punjab unit, and legislators and ministers are meeting the panel led by Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge in Delhi since Monday. Also read: Punjab Congress MLA Navjot Sidhu sticks to his guns over rift with Capt“Instead of holding meetings in Delhi to sort out differences within @INCPunjab, focus should have been on preventing more #COVID deaths in the state! Shame that the Congress party’s priorities have nothing to do with people,” opposition Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Harsimrat Badal tweeted. Slamming the Capt Amarinder Singh government over the number of Covid deaths, she also questioned Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over the state government’s “dismal performance”. “For 34 days continuously, the Covid toll in Punjab has remained at more than 100/day and mortality rate is double the national average. Has @capt_amarinder taken a single step to mitigate the crisis? Why is @RahulGandhi quiet on his govt’s dismal performance?” the SAD’s Bathinda MP said in another tweet. The committee, formed by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, also has AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former MP JP Aggarwal as its members. On Monday, it had met around 25 party leaders from Punjab, including state chief Sunil Jakhar and ministers. The panel has been tasked with addressing differences between Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu. Sidhu, who represents Amritsar East constituency in the Punjab assembly, has been attacking his party’s government in the state for failing to act against those involved in the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib in 2015 and subsequent firing incidents in Kotkapura in Faridkot. On Monday, the opposition in Punjab had slammed the Congress government, saying ministers and MLAs have abandoned the state’s people in the midst of the Covid pandemic and gone to Delhi “to save their chairs”. Punjab has so far registered 5.67 lakh infections and 14,550 fatalities due to the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congs-priorities-have-nothing-to-do-with-people-in-punjab-harsimrat-101622546333572.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||God won’t help if we don't help ourselves: Delhi HC on govt’s vaccination policy||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday questioned the government’s vaccination policy against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and suggested that the younger people should be saved as they are the future of the country. “These are not a satisfactory system. You initially started the vaccination of 45-60. And now you have introduced it for 18-year-olds. We only find you are not vaccinating them. There is no vaccine. Why did you announce vaccination for them? Why did you have to make such a wrong declaration? We have to invest in the future, not rest in the future. We are sidelining the youth of our country and preferring the older people,” it said.“So many young people have lost their lives. It is the younger lot which is the future. We are on our way out. We need to protect our future, we need to save our youth,” it saidThe bench of justice Vipin Sanghi and justice Jasmeet Singh said it the duty of the government to lay down the way forward as it cited the example of Italy, which it said apologised for picking the young over the old when there was a shortage of hospitals beds in that country.“We don't have beds for old patients. Your 80-year old has lived your life... But when we are in times of crisis... Ideally, you should save everyone and if you don't have the resources then chose to think about the younger,” it said. “God will also not help us if we don't help ourselves. You have all the figures,” the court added.Amit Mahajan, representing the Centre, said the issue is under consideration. “We discussed all these points. How are doctors giving prescriptions to patients? When medicines are with the hospitals? They have alternate medicine,” he said.On Monday, the Delhi High Court asked the Centre and state government to put before it a policy on who should be given priority amid an acute shortage of Amphotericin-B, the only last-line drug used to treat mucormycosis. Justice Sanghi and Justice Singh said authorities will have to take the “cruel decision” of excluding certain age groups or classes till supplies of the drug are short.The bench said that if there are two patients who need the drug — one who is 80-year-old and another who is 35 — and there is only one dose of medicine, one will have to be excluded. “If we have to make that cruel choice, we have to make it. We are faced with that situation. We will have to cross this bridge. Will you give it to the 80-year-old or to the 35-year-old who has two children to support?The court asked the central and Delhi governments to return on Tuesday with instructions on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/god-won-t-help-if-we-don-t-help-ourselves-delhi-hc-on-govt-s-vaccination-policy-101622545367879.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 623 new Covid-19 cases as positivity rate dips to 0.88%, daily deaths fall to 62||The trend of declining cases of Covid-19 continued in Delhi on Tuesday as the national capital recorded 623 new cases of the infection in the last 24 hours, according to state government's health bulletin. This took the total number of cases in Delhi to 14,26,863. Sixty-two fatalities were also reported in the said period, after which the death toll reached 24,299, the bulletin futher showed.The positivity rate in the national capital stood at 0.88 per cent - the second consecutive day when it stayed below 1%.The daily tally of cases has been steadily declining in the national capital - 946 cases had been reported on Sunday, and 648 on Monday, the lowest since March 19.A total of 70,813 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Tuesday, according to state government's data. This also marks an increase in the number of samples tested, with only 65,240 samples being tested on Monday. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that the positivity rate should remain below 5% for at least two weeks before an outbreak can be considered to be under control. Delhi’s positivity rate has remained below this mark for 12 days now.Tuesday also witnessed a further decrease in hospitalisation for the second time in 53 days as it dropped below the 5,000-mark. Currently 4,405 beds are occupied at hospitals across Delhi and 20,347 beds remain vacant. Out of the 6,332 beds at Covid care centres only 176 are occupied by recuperating patients, according to the state’s health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-623-new-covid-19-cases-as-positivity-rate-dips-to-0-88-daily-deaths-fall-to-62-101622544830609.html
01-06-2021||Other||Kashi: 2 workers dead, 8 injured as building near Vishwanath Corridor caves in||Two labourers died while eight others were injured when a portion of a building close to Vishwanath Corridor area caved in during the early hours of Tuesday, police said. The building had already been acquired for the corridor project. One of the injured labourers, Arif Momin, said they all were sleeping under the shed of a portion of the building when it collapsed on them, trapping them under the debris. Also Read | After Varanasi, Ganga water turns green in PrayagrajPolice said they rescued all the labourers and rushed them to the divisional hospital where two of them were pronounced dead. All the labourers belong to Shershahi village in Malda, West Bengal. The deceased have been identified as Ebadul Momin (25) and Aminul Momin (45) and their kin have been informed. Dashashwamedh staion officer Rajesh Singh said seven labourers, Imran, Arif Momin, Shahid Akhtar, Sakiul Momin, Hakim Khan, and Arif Momin suffered minor injuries and were discharged after primary treatment. Abdul Jabbar is under treatment at the Kabir Chaura divisional hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kashi-2-workers-dead-8-injured-as-building-near-vishwanath-corridor-caves-in-101622543693714.html
01-06-2021||Bangalore||First case of Black fungus detected in children from Karnataka; condition critical||Two cases of Mucormycosis have been reported among children in Karnataka on Monday -- an 11-year-old girl from Ballari district and a 14-year-old boy from Chitradurga district -- making it the first-of-its-kind in the state.Both the children were suffering from ‘acute juvenile diabetes’ and had contracted Covid-19, which came to light when they were taken to a hospital following contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The children were undergoing treatment at Government Bowring and Lady Curzon hospitals and their condition are stated to be critical.“Two children are undergoing treatment for the black fungus infection at Government Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospitals. They are suffering from Acute Juvenile Diabetes (AJD),” a senior health official told PTI.Karnataka was battling a resurgent second wave of Covid-19 when cases of Mucormycosis also started to rise. The state has reported more than 1,370 cases of Mucormycosis so far, of which as many as 51 people have lost their lives to the fungal infection. Bengaluru Urban reported 557 cases so far, the maximum in the state.The state’s health minister K Sudhakar said they have received around 10,000 vials of Amphotericin-B, the drug used for the treatment of the fungal infection, from the Centre.The state has also set up a task force specifically to look into the growing number of black fungus cases. Last month, it had declared Mucormycosis a notified disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/first-case-of-black-fungus-detected-in-children-from-karnataka-condition-critical-101622541502446.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||Covid curbs eased, Mumbai shopkeepers confused about left, right side||On Day 1 of reopening of non-essential shops in Mumbai on Tuesday, there was confusion over shops on which side were to open, left, or right. As part of state government’s “Break the Chain” initiative, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday allowed reopening of non-essential shops in the city on alternate days but as per the circular, shops on the right hand are to open on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Shops on the left are allowed to remain open on Tuesdays and Thursdays.This rule will be applicable on rotational basis, and the local wards are expected to issue list of roads specifying left and right side, said the circular. Also Read | Man murders Jharkhand girl in Mumbai’s Bandra, dumps body at Mount Mary ChurchHowever, there was mixed response to reopening of non-essential shops on Tuesday as the local wards of the BMC were yet to specify left and right hand side of all areas.Viren Shah from the Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association said, “In many areas, non-essential shops were opened but police asked them to shut. The orders were issued late night and the message did not reach everyone. Even shopkeepers are confused as to the left and right side.”Shah added, “We have also appealed to the state government to revise the timing from 7am to 2pm to 10am to 5pm. We are also asking BMC to allow reopening of shops on all days considering once we open shops, we have to pay salary to employees, rent to landlords.”Paras Bamboli, Chembur Merchants’ Association, said, “In Chembur also, there is confusion among shopkeepers. If I stand facing Kurla, my shop is on the left, and if I stand facing Govandi, my shops falls on right hand. Hence, the BMC should specifically mention left and right.”Though non-essential shops have been allowed to remain open, salon, beauty parlour, gym, restaurant and bars have to remain shut until further orders, civic officials said.Meanwhile, Javed Juneja Congress, corporator from Nagapada area, said, “There is confusion among shopkeepers about opening on rotation basis. The same thing happened last year as well, and we hope this confusion might be over by tomorrow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-curbs-eased-mumbai-shopkeepers-confused-about-left-right-side-101622540993330.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai hotelier faked robbery to avoid paying salaries,arrested||A 43-year-old hotelier was arrested by the Mumbai crime branch on Monday for faking a robbery in 2019 with the intention to not pay salary to his employees. Kritesh Piplani, owner of well-known hotels located in Mumbai’s Chandivali and Powai area, was arrested on the basis of his phone call records, said police.Piplani told police that he was kidnapped on November 28, 2019 when on the way to withdraw money from an ATM kiosk at Powai to pay his staff. He claimed two men in a Maruti Eco car pulled him in, and when he regained consciousness on the roadside at Aarey Milk Colony, he found the ₹60,000 he was carrying was gone.The crime branch officials said they began investigating after finding his story suspicious. The CCTV recordings near the ATM kiosk in Powai and at Aarey Milk Colony, along with Piplani’s call data records, suggested the alleged incident never happened; making the police charge him with faking the robbery.“Piplani then confessed that he wanted to escape paying salaries to his hotel employees and had come up with this plan to fake the robbery,” said a crime branch officer from unit 10. Piplani has now been handed over to Powai police for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-hotelier-faked-robbery-to-avoid-paying-salariesarrested-101622540813831.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai weather: Partly cloudy skies, little chance of rain rest of this week​||Despite a five-day severe weather warning issued for Maharashtra on May 31, Mumbai woke up to a drier, sunnier morning on Tuesday, with only light rains or drizzles expected to prevail for the rest of the day. The city received 48.3mm of rain since 8.30am on Monday, of which 48mm had fallen by 5.30pm, indicating that only trace amounts of rain fell early Tuesday.About a third of Maharashtra’s 36 districts (including Mumbai, Thane and Palghar) have been placed under green alert for Tuesday by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) -- indicating less chance of severe weather -- while the rest of Maharashtra has been placed under yellow alert. In fact, as per IMD’s seven-day forecast for its weather stations in Santacruz, only “partly cloudy skies” are expected to prevail from Wednesday, with little chance of rain.According to a spokesperson with IMD’s regional meteorological centre in Mumbai, “There is a chance of very intense pre-monsoon showers over a 48 hour period on the coming weekend. But for now, rains will remain very sporadic over the Konkan coast. Heavier rains will be felt in Marathwada and north madhya Maharashtra.” Conditions in Mumbai, meanwhile, are likely to get muggier with relative humidity levels having gone up to 77% as of this morning (as against 61% on Sunday evening). This is especially since daytime temperature is expected to rise in the absence of moderate showers like Monday, touching near normal levels (about 34 degrees Celsius) today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-weather-partly-cloudy-skies-little-chance-of-rain-rest-of-this-week-101622540093635.html
01-06-2021||Lucknow||Five devotees to be allowed to pray at makeshift temple in Ayodhya at a time||Only five devotees will be allowed to pay obeisance at a time with Covid-19 protocols in place at the makeshift Ram Temple in Ayodhya as the Uttar Pradesh government relaxed the Covid-19 curfew in six more districts from Tuesday. Ayodhya is among the districts where restrictions imposed in view of the second phase of the pandemic have been eased.Acharya Satyendra Das, the head priest of makeshift Ram Mandir, announced the upper limit on the devotees to be allowed at the temple at a given point in time and said they will ensure that all protocols of Covid-19 are followed.The Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, which is overseeing the Ram Temple construction, separately tweeted on Monday that the filling work of the foundation of the temple has been expedited. In May, the Ram Mandir Construction Committee started the filling with the target of completing it by September end. The Trust has said Larsen and Toubro has named Balaji Construction Company as its assisting partner to complete the foundation work as soon as possible.Also Read | Ram Mandir Trust to also construct a Ganesha temple in AyodhyaLarsen and Toubro has also increased working hours from eight to 12 to expedite the construction work. The temple’s foundation, which will be 107 feet above sea level, is being made of layers of stones.“We want to complete maximum work of Ram Mandir’s foundation before the onset of monsoon [this month],” said a member of the trust.The temple construction began on August 5 last year after Prime Minister Narendra Modi presided over its ground-breaking ceremony.The Supreme Court in 2019 ruled in favour of the Ram Temple on a disputed 2.77-acre plot in Ayodhya at the place several Hindus believe is the birthplace of Lord Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/five-devotees-to-be-allowed-to-pray-at-makeshift-temple-in-ayodhya-at-a-time-101622539853288.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||Man murders Jharkhand girl in Mumbai’s Bandra, dumps body at Mount Mary Church||The Mumbai police’s crime branch arrested a 25-year-old man on Tuesday for allegedly killing his girlfriend and dumping her body near Mount Mary church in Bandra.Police officers said the 25-year-old victim Kushita Punjar was killed after she threatened the accused, Bipin Kandulana, a police case if he did not return her money and married her. Officers said the victim and her boyfriend were involved in a big fight on Sunday night, when Kushita threatened to file a rape case against Kandulana if didn’t marry her and return the ₹1.5 lakh, she had loaned him. Following the fight, Kandulana assaulted her, resulting in her death.Police found her body near the church in Bandra west. Fresh injuries on her body suggested she was assaulted just before the murder, police said. Crime branch officials were able to identify her as a Bandra resident after making local inquiries with the help of her photo.The accused was held within 24 hours while planning to flee to his home state of Jharkhand and booked under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for murder. Police claim Kandulana confessed to his crime and told them that Kushita was also a resident of Jharkhand. Kandulana was later handed over to Bandra police for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-murders-jharkhand-girl-in-mumbai-s-bandra-dumps-body-at-mount-mary-church-101622539013255.html
01-06-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19 curfew relaxed in 3 more districts of Uttar Pradesh||Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday relaxed the Covid-19 curfew in Lakhimpur, Ghazipur and Jaunpur, taking the number of districts where restrictions have been eased outside containment zones to 64. The decision was taken during a meeting chaired by chief minister Yogi Adityanath with senior state government officials.The government has relaxed the Covid-19 curfew in districts where the number of active Covid-19 caseload is less than 600. On Sunday, the Uttar Pradesh government announced lifting of restrictions in 55 such districts and on Monday, Sonbhadra, Deoria, Baghpat, Prayagraj, Bijnore and Moradabad were added to the list.Also read | UP CM orders 'sero survey' to assess prevalence of Covid-19"The relaxations from corona curfew were announced on Sunday in 55 districts which has now been increased to 64. As with the latest report, active cases have come down below 600 in three more districts Lakhimpur, Ghazipur and Jaunpur and they will also be given relaxations from Wednesday 7am," additional chief secretary (information) Navneet Sehgal said, according to news agency PTI.There will be no relaxation in Meerut, Lucknow, Saharanpur, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarnagar, Bareilly, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr and Jhansi districts which have more than 600 active Covid-19 cases.The announcement of relaxations have come for the first time since the partial curfew was introduced on April 30. It was extended several times thereafter with the last extension on May 31.Also read | Stage set for launch of major vaccination drive in LucknowThe weekend curfew on Saturdays and Sundays and the night curfew from 7pm to 7am will continue statewide as before and there will be no easing of the curbs in any of the containment zones in the state. All markets and shops outside containment zones will be allowed to open from Monday to Friday from 7am to 7pm in all these districts.Shopping malls, cinema halls, coaching institutes, swimming pools and bars will stay closed across the state till further orders. But restaurants can operate for home deliveries across the state. All districts have been allowed to roadside eateries on highways and expressways, carts and kiosks to function, according to the government statement.The number of active cases of the coronavirus disease stands at 37,044 in the state, according to an official statement on Monday. Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 caseload stands at 1,691,488 and its death toll at 20,497.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-curfew-relaxed-in-3-more-districts-of-uttar-pradesh-101622536952275.html
01-06-2021||Dehradun||'Death of humanity': Stray dogs eat human corpses at riverbank in Uttarakhand||Grisly videos have emerged showing stray dogs eating human corpses at Kedar Ghat on the banks of river Bhagirathi in Uttarkashi in Uttrakhand.Local residents said parts of bodies, some of them half burnt, had drifted onto the bank after a rise in the water level of the Bhagirathi due to rainfall over the past few days."I was doing some painting here yesterday and I saw these half burnt bodies and stray dogs gnawing and feeding on them. The District administration and Municipal Corporation should take cognizance of this and do something immediately. It is a matter of concern and I feel that it is death of humanity," said a local.Another local said that there is a possibility that the bodies are of Covid-19 infected people who have been cremated and civic body authorities should take immediate action so as to avoid the spread of infection."I request to administration to take proper care of this," adding that despite local resident putting in complaints to the municipality and the district administration, no arrangements were made to dispose of the bodies after conducting last rites.Meanwhile, Municipality president Ramesh Semwal said that after receiving complaints from locals, they had assigned a person at Kedar Ghat to cremate the half-burnt bodies, washed up on the riverbank."During the last few days, number of deaths has been increased in our area. I also came to know that bodies are not burnt properly so I have directed the administration to arrange at Kedar Ghat for the cremation of half-burnt bodies," said Ramesh Semwal.Previously there have been incidents reported from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, where large number of bodies were found floating in the river Ganga.Authorities believe the relatives of those who succumbed to the Covid-19 virus, may not have been able to find space or afford the last rites.The Centre had last month directed authorities in these states to prevent the disposal of bodies in the river.Meanwhile, Uttrakhand on Monday reported 1,156 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the overall tally to 3,29,494. The state's Covid-19 toll reached 6,452. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/death-of-humanity-stray-dogs-eat-human-corpses-at-riverbank-in-uttarakhand-101622536424774.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||Reduce gap for vaccination of students travelling abroad: Sena MP||Shiv Sena parliamentarian Priyanka Chaturvedi has urged the Centre to reduce the mandated gap between two Covid-19 vaccine doses for students travelling overseas for further studies.“Maharashtra has initiated the vaccination [drive] for students travelling overseas for further studies, however, the 12-15 week mandated gap by ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) has led to [an] apprehension [among students] about [not] receiving the 2nd dose on time (sic),” Chaturvedi said in a tweet and shared the letter she wrote to union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan.In May this year, Centre increased the mandatory gap between the two doses of Covishield vaccine from 4-8 weeks to 12-16 weeks while retaining the 4- 6 weeks gap between the two doses of Covaxin. It argued that the dosing interval extension was recommended after a careful study without pressure from anyone and in consultation with the World Health Organisation (WHO).After appeals from several quarters, the Maharashtra government is now vaccinating students, scheduled to fly abroad, in Mumbai, the Mumbai metropolitan region and in Pune. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had announced free walk-in vaccination for students with confirmed admissions to foreign universities at Cooper, Rajawadi and Kasturba hospitals.“Some states like Maharashtra have understood the concern and opened up vaccination for these students to get their first dose on priority but the problem of getting the 2nd dose on time before July end to enable them to travel on time [remains]. Most of the students have to report to their campuses by mid-August which implies that they would have to board their flight from India by end July or latest by [the] first week of August. The health department of the BMC has also approached the ministry and [I am] hoping [that] you will expedite this crucial decision,” Chaturvedi’s letter says.The Sena MP sought a “humanitarian response” on the matter from the union health secretary’s office so as not to put students’ “futures at risk”. Last week, Sena minister Aaditya Thackeray asked municipal commissioners of Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur among others to vaccinate students flying abroad on priority. Thackeray, who heads the protocol department, added that his department will consult with the envoys of destination countries to ensure students from Maharashtra can fly safely and smoothly to universities abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sena-mp-seeks-2nd-vaccine-dose-at-shorter-interval-for-students-heading-abroad-101622536433327.html
01-06-2021||Ranchi||Centre's Covid-19 vaccine procurement policy stands against federalism: Jharkhand CM||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday said the procurement of Covid-19 vaccines by states on their own during the ongoing pandemic "stands against the principle of cooperative federalism" and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide free vaccines to States for beneficiaries of all age groups."The State of Jharkhand like other States has always received vaccines free of cost from the central government for all other programs such as Pulse Polio and Routine Immunisation. This is probably for the first instance in the history of Independent India that the States have been mandated to procure vaccines on their own. Such a mandate under the ongoing challenging and unprecedented circumstances where the entire nation is struggling for over a year stands against the principle of cooperative federalism," wrote chief minister Soren in his letter to the Prime Minister."In this regard, it is pertinent to note that the rates specified by the central government for procurement of vaccines by the State for the age cohort of 18 to 44 years are significantly higher than the rates at which vaccine is being procured by the central government for the beneficiaries in the age cohort of 45 years and above. This dichotomy will not stand the scrutiny of reasonable classification under the fundamental principles of the Constitution of India," he said.The chief minister said the financial burden on the State for vaccination of the age cohort of 18-44 years is likely to be more than ₹1,100 crore considering 1.57 crore eligible beneficiaries. With the vaccine being available for the age cohort of 12-18 years and below, the mentioned financial burden will further increase by around ₹1,000 crore. It will be "extremely difficult" to spare as many resources from the resource pool of the State which is already stressed during Covid-19 times.According to Soren, the inherent diversity of India creates various peculiarities specific to the concerned states. Every state has its own high-risk groups depending on geographical, cultural, and traditional heterogeneity. As such, a common framework defined by the central government with regard to prioritizing beneficiaries across the country is not desirable."It is requested to provide to the State free vaccine for beneficiaries of all age groups and also give us the freedom to define priorities for vaccination coverage. This would help us in achieving the target of full vaccination in a timely manner which would go a long way in ensuring effective tackling of the anticipated third wave. The State and the people of Jharkhand shall be ever grateful for your kind support under such difficult times," urged the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/centres-covid-19-vaccine-procurement-policy-stands-against-federalism-jharkhand-cm-101622533014028.html
01-06-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan eases lockdown guidelines from tomorrow, conditions apply||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has issued guidelines to start the "unlock" process and eased certain restrictions from Wednesday as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have come down in the state. However, exemption for various activities will be given only in areas where the positivity rate is less than 10 per cent or the use of oxygen, intensive care unit (ICU) and ventilator beds is less than 60 per cent, Ashok Gehlot has said.“The rate of infection has come down in the state but is not completely eradicated yet. Keeping this in mind, in the new guideline, people of the state are expected to ensure effective compliance of the Covid protocols,” Ashok Gehlot said in a tweet in Hindi on Monday.“In order to ensure the convenience of the general public and the availability of essential services and goods, limited relaxation has been given for various activities. As and when the number of active cases will come down, the scope of exemption will increase further,” he added.राज्य सरकार ने अधिकतर जिलों में कोविड संक्रमण के प्रसार में कमी तथा पॉजिटिविटी दर में गिरावट के दृष्टिगत व्यावसायिक एवं अन्य गतिविधियों में राहत देने के लिए 2 जून से आगामी आदेशों तक त्रि-स्तरीय जन अनुशासन मॉडिफाइड लॉकडाउन लागू किए जाने का निर्णय लिया है।1/4Also read | Bikaner’s oxygen mitra model gets PM Narendra Modi’s praiseGram panchayats and districts have been divided into three categories—green, yellow and red—according to the number of positive case of the coronavirus disease in the new guidelines. Gram panchayats which will not have a single positive case will be in the green category, those with less than five active cases will be under yellow and those with more than five active cases will be kept in the red category.Under the the “three-tier public discipline modified lockdown”, all government offices of the state will open from 9:30am to 4pm with the presence of 25 per cent employees till June 7, and after that with 50 per cent employees. Private offices can be opened up to 2pm with 25 per cent of they employees.Those travelling from within a district in their personal vehicles have been allowed from 5am to 12pm and after June 8, traffic will be allowed in the entire state from 5am to 12pm.Also read | Rajasthan woman claims receiving two jabs of vaccine on same day, doctors denyThe weekend curfew will remain in force every Friday afternoon from 12pm to 5am Tuesday till the number of active cases in the state reduces to 10,000. A “public discipline curfew" will continue on the rest of the days from 12pm to 5am the next day. All educational, coaching institutions, libraries etc. will remain closed. No public, social, political, sports-related entertainment, educational, cultural and religious functions, processions, festivals, fairs or market will be allowed. Cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, auditoriums, swimming pools, amusement parks, picnic spots, all types of sports grounds and public parks and similar places will remain closed. Fully air-conditioned shopping complexes, malls will not be allowed to open at present.Also read | Harsh Vardhan writes to Rajasthan health minister over ‘wastage’ of vaccine jabsRajasthan recorded 68 Covid-19 fatalities and 1498 new cases on Monday, taking the states death toll and case tally to 8385 and 9,39,958 respectively, a health bulletin showed. Jaipur reported the highest number of deaths at 18 followed by Udaipur with eight, Bikaner and Sriganganagar five each, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-eases-lockdown-guidelines-from-tomorrow-conditions-apply-101622530385168.html
01-06-2021||Bhopal||Senior Madhya Pradesh BJP leader dies of Covid-19||Former Madhya Pradesh higher education minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Laxmikant Sharma, 60, died of Covid-19 on Monday.He was admitted to a private hospital on May 12 after testing positive a day earlier. He died on May 31 due to bilateral Covid pneumonia, doctors said. Several Covid-19 patients end up getting infected with bilateral pneumonia, a serious disease that affects both lungs.MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted to say, “Received sad news of demise of former minister and senior leader Laxmikant Sharmaji. I pray to God to give peace to [the] departed soul and strength to the family to bear the loss.”Ex-MLA from Sironj, Sharma was away from active politics for the past few years after he was booked in the multi-layered Vyapam scam. He was arrested and sent to jail too in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/senior-madhya-pradesh-bjp-leader-dies-of-covid19-101622532052753.html
01-06-2021||Gurugram||International Sex Workers’ Day: This vaccination camp in Gurugram is a hit||From singing to dancing, the Covid vaccination camp, set-up for approximately a fortnight, for sex workers and transgenders at Gurugram has it all. And those turning up here are unable curtail their happiness for being brought into focus alongside the mainstream, and given a provision to get vaccinated for Covid-19. The camp not only diminished apprehensions of many on getting the jab, but also helped in eliminating the difficulties for them to avail a slot. And on International Sex Workers Day, as we speak to the sex workers about this initiative, they say that it is everything that they could have asked for! “Maine bahut jaga try kiya, par slot book nahi ho paa raha tha,” says Suman Gupta, a sex worker from Gurugram, who turned up at this camp and feels, “It was very important for us to have a set-up like this where we could get ourselves vaccinated. We are the ones who come in contact with people the most. Hum logon ko bahar nikalna hi padta hai, aur hum dusre logo ke sabse zyada sampark mein aate hain. Gurugram ke swasthya vibhag ne humare baare mein socha, hume bahut acha laga. Ye vyavashtha hone ki wajah se hume kahin dur nahin jana pada. Ek local area mein hi suvidha mil gayi. And this benefitted a lot of people who were earlier sceptical to get themselves vaccinated. Now, they are motivating us, too... Jaise yeh Gurugram mein hua hai aise pure desh mein hona chahiye.” “Har koi transgender ki respect nahi karta. Ek alag nazariye se dekhte hain hume (People don’t respect us; we are looked with a different gaze) says a transgender and a sex worker Naira Tanwar, who too was facing difficulties in getting a slot since a month. “Wahan I felt ki hum log bhi aapke jaise hain. We were either trying vaccination free of cost or with money, but we weren’t getting it anywhere.”Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, district administration of Gurugram, says, “ Ek idea tha ki in logon ke liye kuch karna chahiye. They were deprived. Some even booked slots for themselves and still didn’t get the vaccine. Yeh wahan par jaate, ya toh shy the ya wahan par kaise jaye kis tarah se karwaye is soch mein...I thought inhi ki locality mein we should make some arrangement. Taaki inko dur nahi jaana pade. There are around 750 (sex workers and transgenders) in Gurugram. We’ll try to vaccinate them in a span of two weeks.” “This is the respect we need,” says a trans woman Kiran Sakhi, adding, “This facility was a privilege for us and it made me happy from the bottom of my heart. We even got sanitisers, disposable gloves. And it took hardly two to five minutes for the whole process to complete. There weren’t any long queues or a risk factor for us, as one would expect in centres that have big crowds. We in fact enjoyed the whole experience, and even danced to express our joy!” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/international-sex-workers-day-this-vaccination-camp-in-gurugram-is-a-hit-101622530914540.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panipat MC’s chief sanitary inspector caught taking bribe||Sudheer Kumar, the chief sanitary inspector of Panipat Municipal Corporation, has been arrested by the state vigilance bureau for taking a bribe of ₹13.7 lakh from a private company to clear its pending dues. According to vigilance bureau officials, Sudheer Kumar had demanded 10% commission as bribe to clear the pending bills of ₹1.37 crore of private company IND Sanitation Solutions, which has been given the contract of cleaning roads in Panipat town. Also read: Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank admitted to AIIMS due to post Covid complicationsNarsingh Ahlawat, the deputy superintendent of the vigilance bureau’s Rohtak range who led the raiding team, said that the complainant was given the tender to ensure that roads in Panipat’s MC limits were clean. An employee of the company, however, approached the bureau to complain against Sudheer Kumar. The complainant brought along audio call recordings in which Kumar was heard demanding the bribe to clear the dues from the accounts branch of the Panipat MC. The Rohtak division of the vigilance bureau constituted a team that caught Sudheer Kumar red-handed in Panipat on Monday night in the presence of duty magistrate Krishan Kumar. A case was registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Panipat mayor Avneet Kaur said, “This should not have happened. We have zero tolerance for corruption. We will not tolerate any such act by any employee.” It is learnt that the accused had been given extension after retirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panipat-mc-s-chief-sanitary-inspector-caught-taking-bribe-101622530612626.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||At 17.9°C, Delhi records lowest ever minimum temperature in June||Following late night rain, Delhi’s minimum temperature on Tuesday was recorded at 17.9 degrees Celsius (°C) as per the Safdarjung observatory, the lowest minimum temperature ever recorded in the month of June. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) data, the previous lowest minimum temperature record for Delhi stood at 18°C, recorded on June 17, 2006. Late Monday night, between 1-2 am, thunder squall with moderate to heavy intensity rain and gusty winds with speed of 50-70 km per hour occurred over and Delhi and NCR, bringing the temperature down. The minimum temperature on Monday was 25°C and the maximum temperature was 39.6°C. Also Read | Delhi govt allows home delivery of liquor through websites, appLight intensity rain or drizzle would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of Delhi on Tuesday as well. Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain and gusty winds with a speed of 30-50 km/h would occur over and adjoining areas in parts of Haryana and Rajasthan during the next two hours. HT had earlier reported that every month since August 2020, Delhi has broken at least one weather record, IMD data shows. IMD officials said while these extreme weather recordings are the immediate result of temporary atmospheric events over (and in and around) the national capital, the larger role of the climate crisis in the overall shifting of weather patterns is evident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-17-9-c-delhi-records-lowest-ever-minimum-temperature-in-june-101622529952958.html
01-06-2021||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath orders 'sero survey' to assess prevalence of Covid-19||In a bid to understand the prevalence of Covid-19 in the urban and remote areas of Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed to conduct a "sero survey" in the state.The serological survey will be launched on June 4 to help find the volume of immunity against the coronavirus being developed in the state's people, an official spokesperson said here on Tuesday."The samples will be collected from June 4 and will enable an assessment of the updated status of the infection at different scales, including gender and age," the chief minister said.The survey involves testing the blood serum of a group of individuals to determine the presence of antibodies against the coronavirus.The report of the survey is expected to be released by the end of June.There are people who did not undergo RT-PCR tests and could be asymptomatic. In this situation, the sero survey could be a significant step, the spokesperson said.With a recovery rate of around 97% and a positivity rate of below 1% in the state, the government has taken the initiative to run a vaccination campaign that will target one crore people in June.The campaign that started on Tuesday will focus on the beneficiaries of both age groups -- 18-44 as well as those above 45 years of age -- and will be conducted in all 75 districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-orders-sero-survey-to-assess-prevalence-of-covid19-101622527711635.html
01-06-2021||Kolkata||Bengal Guv calls Mamata’s reasons for skipping PM’s review a ‘false narrative’||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who shares a strained relation with the state government, on Tuesday accused chief minister Mamata Banerjee of giving a ‘false narrative’ on why she recently skipped the review meeting on cyclone Yaas chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.In a tweet early on Tuesday, Dhankhar claimed that Banerjee had messaged him on Thursday, on the eve of the meeting, and hinted that she may boycott it if Suvendu Adhikari was also going to be present.“Constrained by false narrative to put record straight: On May 27 at 2316 hrs CM @MamataOfficial messaged “may i talk? urgent”. Thereafter on phone indicated boycott by her & officials of PM Review Meet #CycloneYaas if LOP @SuvenduWB attends it. Ego prevailed over Public service,” the Governor tweeted.Even though the chief minister skipped the Prime Minsiter’s review meeting on May 28 at Kalaikunda in West Midnapore district, she met him for a few minutes to hand over a report on the damage caused by cyclone Yaas in the state.Also Read | Mamata Banerjee urges PM Modi to cancel bureaucrat’s Central deputation“I wanted to have a quiet word with you, a meeting between the PM and CM as usual. You however revised the structure of the meeting to include a local MLA from your party and I am of the view that he had no locus to be present in a PM-CM meeting. You had invited the Governor and some Union ministers, which I had not objected to. But an individual MLA having no locus attending the meeting was unacceptable,” Banerjee wrote in a five-page letter to the Prime Minister on Monday.Even though the TMC swept the recently ended assembly polls by winning 213 seats out of the 292 constituencies where polls were held and returned to power for the third consecutive term, Banerjee was defeated by her protege-turned-adversary Suven Adhikari who joined the BJP in December 2020 and contested from Nandigram in East Midnapore.She also alleged that the state’s chief secretary continuously sent messages to a senior official accompanying the Prime Minister to sort out issues or arrange a meeting between the PM and CM, but to no avail.The issue of CM skipping the PM’s review meeting triggered a political storm with the BJP’s top leadership, including the party’s national president JP Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah, slamming Banerjee.Banerjee, however, said she had already met the PM and left with his permission as she had scheduled meetings to attend.She told mediapersons on Saturday that her flight from Sagar to Kalaikunda (where the PM was scheduled to hold the meeting) was delayed by at least 20 minutes for security reasons. At Kalaikunda, her flight had to hover for 10 – 15 minutes. When she reached the Kalaikunda air base, the PM’s meeting had started and the SPG made her wait.Responding to the Governor’s tweet, TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said, “Why isn’t the Governor tweeting anything about the Centre not supplying adequate supply of medicine, oxygen and vaccine to the state? Did he raise any questions on why the Opposition leaders are not called to attend a Prime Minister’s meeting in a state ruled by the BJP? He just wants to create confrontation and confusion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-guv-calls-mamata-s-reasons-for-skipping-pm-s-review-a-false-narrative-101622526172650.html
01-06-2021||Kolkata||Mamata uses Sholay dialogue to attack Centre, urge other CMs to unite||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee used a dialogue from Sholay, the iconic Bollywood film from the 70s, to urge opposition CMs to raise their voice against an “autocratic Centre” as her tussle with the central government over her refusal to release chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay boiled over.Mamata told reporters at a press conference on Monday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah were trying to bulldoze the federal structure of the country and creating problems for the state as they were unable to digest the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJPs) defeat in the recently-concluded assembly elections.Also read | ‘Part of Didi’s core team’: Man at centre of face-off“Jo darte hain woh marte hain (death is certain for those who are afraid),” Banerjee said. “They are behaving like autocrats, just like Adolf Hitler and (Joseph) Stalin. The Centre cannot force one to join it without the consent of the state government. I will appeal to all state governments of India, all opposition leaders, IAS, IPS officers, NGOs to be together to fight the battle," she was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Also watch | ‘Those who are scared..’: Mamata Banerjee quotes Sholay dialogue; slams PM ModiBanerjee was referring to the controversy  that erupted after the Centre’s order recalling Alapan Bandyopadhyay. The senior officer retired as Bengal’s chief secretary on Monday and chose not to accept the deputation even as he was given a three-month extension just days ago. The Centre’s deputation order came after Mamata skipped a review meeting chaired by PM Modi last Friday to take stock of the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas in her state.Also read | The battle in Bengal persistsBanerjee refused to release him on Saturday and urged the Centre to reconsider its decision. On Monday, she wrote a five-page letter to PM Modi, saying she was “shocked and stunned" by the “unilateral order" asking Bandyopadhyay to report to the Centre. She also questioned the legality of the transfer order and asked if it was linked to Friday’s meeting.“The government of Bengal cannot release, and is not releasing, its Chief Secretary at this critical hour, on the basis of our understanding that the earlier order of extension, issued after lawful consultation in accordance with applicable laws, remains operational and valid," Mamata wrote in her letter.Alapan Bandyopadhyay, a 1987-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of West Bengal cadre, was scheduled to retire on Monday after completion of 60 years of age. However, he was granted a three-month extension by the Centre after a request by the state in view of his experience and work in managing the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. He has now been appointed by Mamata Banerjee as her chief adviser.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-uses-sholay-dialogue-to-attack-centre-urge-other-cms-to-unite-101622522551955.html
01-06-2021||Kolkata||Covid-19 cases drop by 50% in Bengal after 2 weeks, mucormycosis count rising||The number of Covid-19 cases in West Bengal dropped by half after two weeks of restrictions, prompting the Mamata Banerjee administration to allow some relaxations on Monday.Data shared by the state government revealed that on May 31, at least 10,137 new cases were registered, less than half of the 20,846 new cases recorded on May 14—a single day record.On Saturday chief minister Mamata Banerjee said the test positivity rate, defined as the percentage of positive people among all tested, had come down to less than 20% from a high of 33%. On Monday, the rate was at 17%.Following the developments, the government on Monday announced some relaxations including allowing stand-alone shops, including those selling liquor, to operate for three hours between 12pm to 3pm from Tuesday.“The daily count of Covid-19 cases and the positivity rate has dropped following restrictions imposed by the government from May 16. We shouldn’t let our guards down. Restrictions are still in place even though some relaxations have been given,” said a senior official of the state government.On May 16, the state government imposed several restrictions effective till May 30. All conveyances – trains, buses and Kolkata Metro – were shut down, government and private offices were closed, and markets and retail shops timings were restricted for three hours in the morning. Night activities between 9 pm and 5 am were prohibited.Later, the state extended the near-lockdown restrictions to June 15, providing some relaxations to the jute and construction sector.While on one hand the daily cases of Covid-19 have dropped, cases of mucormycosis or black fungus are gradually rising across the state, officials said.While on May 21, the state had information of only around four cases of mucormycosis with one death, the total number of cases, including suspected cases, has now shot up to 60.“Till Monday, the state has recorded 24 confirmed cases and 36 suspected cases [of black fungus]. While three patients with confirmed disease have died, at least eight [others] with suspected infection have died too, taking the total death toll to 11,” said a senior health official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid-19-cases-drop-by-50-in-bengal-after-2-weeks-mucormycosis-count-rising-101622523112350.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 29 dengue cases due to rains in May||Delhi has reported 29 cases of the mosquito-borne disease dengue between January and May, the highest in this period in the four years, according to the municipal corporations of Delhi. Of this, 10 cases were reported in April and 12 in May, which is slightly higher than usual.Experts said the cases reported early in the year are not indicative of whether there is likely to be an outbreak.As many as 40 dengue cases were reported in May 2017, which was not an outbreak year for dengue. The year ended with just over 4,700 cases and 10 deaths. Only 11 cases were reported till May 2015, when Delhi had one of its worst dengue outbreaks that affected nearly 16,000 and killed 60.Also Read | India records 127,510 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in nearly two monthsExperts said spells of rainfall, which creates breeding grounds for the aedes aegypti mosquito that spreads the infection, could be a reason for the higher dengue cases this year so far. The dengue-causing mosquito breeds in cleaner, stagnant water, and its number explodes when there are spells of rain followed by warm days.The Delhi government after the dengue outbreak in 2015 started training schoolchildren to check the breeding of mosquitoes in their homes and neighbourhoods.So far, the city has also reported 29 malaria and four chikungunya cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-29-dengue-cases-due-to-rains-in-may-101622522460435.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiites can now get Indian, foreign liquor at home, orders govt||The Delhi government on Tuesday paved the way for home delivery of Indian and foreign brands of liquor in the national capital allowing people to place their order through a mobile application or online web portal but with certain conditions.The legal provision has been included in the Delhi Excise (Amendment) Rules, 2021, which was notified on Monday. The move comes a week after changes to the Delhi Excise Policy, 2021, had received the approval of Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal.Officials said not every liquor retailer will be allowed to carry out home delivery of alcohol under the new rules. “Only a particular kind of license holder will be allowed to home deliver liquor. In Delhi, we have now allowed home delivery of liquor only to L-13 license holders," an official told HT.Also read: Rush at liquor stores as Delhi lockdown sparks fears"This is not a new license category that has been created. L-13 permits existed in the previous excise rules as well, but hardly any such license was issued till now because of complexities in the clause which stated that liquor can be delivered to residences only through fax or emails,” said a senior excise official who did not wish to be named.Additionally, the new excise rules state that the delivery will not be made to any hostel, office, and institution. The order will only be completed by the liquor licensee at a residential address if the order is received through a mobile app or online web portal.The Delhi government is yet to issue an official statement on the order.The move comes more than a month after liquor manufacturers asked the Aam Aadmi Party-led government to allow home delivery of alcoholic beverages in the wake of lockdowns which saw mass crowding at the shops.Also read | 42 shops, 3 owners: Tip of iceberg of Delhi liquor cartels, say officialsOfficials said last year that the Delhi government was working on setting up a web page—and deliberating on creating a mobile phone application—to enable the home delivery of liquor in the Capital, as a measure to reduce the massive crowds outside the limited number of open liquor shops. With the scaling down of the lockdown measures after the first wave ebbed in the national capital, people started thronging the few liquor shops open for business. A similar trend continued in the following three waves of the coronavirus pandemic that Delhi witnessed.The Supreme Court also observed last year that states should consider the indirect sale of liquor, either online or through the home delivery mechanism to ensure social distancing norms are not violated.So far, several states including Punjab, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal, have initiated the process of enabling the home delivery of liquor.Also read: Delhi reduces age bar in major liquor reformMaharashtra is another state where home delivery has been allowed by the state government after it faced a severe wave of Covid-19 infections this year. The state has imposed tough restrictions and shops are closed in cities like Mumbai to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiites-can-now-get-indian-foreign-liquor-via-home-delivery-orders-govt-101622520496812.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Rain, thunderstorm expected today, says IMD||Delhi is likely to witness rain and thunderstorm on Tuesday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. Light intensity rain or drizzle would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of Delhi. Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain and gusty winds with a speed of 30-50 km/h would occur over and adjoining areas in parts of Haryana and Rajasthan during the next two hours. Late Monday night, between 1 and 2am, thunder squall with moderate to heavy intensity rain and gusty winds with speed of 50-70km/h occurred over and adjoining areas of entire Delhi and NCR. The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be 25 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 38°C. The minimum temperature on Monday was 25°C and the maximum temperature was 39.6°C. Also Read | Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity rate below 1% after 74 daysDelhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Tuesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 137. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 135 in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to improve but remain in the moderate to satisfactory category today. The air quality is likely to remain in the satisfactory category on Wednesday. The predominant pollutant will be PM10. Although strong winds may uplift dust but rain will be favourable for better air quality for the next three to four days. Subsequently, the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate to satisfactory category over the next five days.On Monday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air is in the moderate category as forecasted. Surface winds are strong and easterly. Isolated thunderstorms with gusty winds are likely in Delhi for the next three days and local dust uplifting is likely. The short-lived dust spike is likely to improve by following the rain and the washing out process. AQI is forecasted to stay in the moderate to satisfactory category with PM10 as the lead pollutant for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-rain-thunderstorm-expected-todayimd-101622518012168.html
01-06-2021||Lucknow||UP is facing wheat storage problem ahead of Monsoon||Uttar Pradesh is running short of space to store wheat during the current procurement season, which is due to last two more weeks, people aware of the issue disclosed.The government has purchased close to 40 lakh MT (metric tonnes) of wheat so far this season at the minimum support price (MSP) and the final procurement is expected to close at around 55 lakh MT, since around 1 lakh MT wheat is being purchased from farmers every day.“Despite the tough situation arising from the second wave of Covid pandemic, we have already purchased around 40 lakh MT wheat, worth more than ₹7,817 crore from 828,697 farmers. Less than 24 lakh MT wheat was purchased during the corresponding period of the previous year,” a senior official said.The aggressive purchasing of wheat after record procurement of paddy in winters amid farmer bodies’ protests against the Centre’s three agriculture laws, however, has led to the problem of lack of safe storage space before the monsoon arrives.“As of now, we are able to overcome the problem because around 15 lakh MT of wheat is lifted from our godowns every month for regular distribution under the National Food Security Mission and free distribution under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana that has been announced for two months. This PDS (public distribution system) off-take of wheat creates space for intake from procurement centres,” the official explained.He said the problem was expected to get more acute in the days to come as wheat procurement was expected to be 55 lakh MT by the time purchase season ends in 15 days.Earlier in March this year, UP food commissioner Manish Chauhan had indicated that the state was planning to create extra storage spaces in case it got more wheat than last year by setting temporary sheds at government factories and sugar mill complexes. Last year, the actual purchase of wheat amounted to 35.76 lakh MT against the procurement target of 55 lakh MT.The procurement started this year from April 1 on the fixed minimum support price (MSP) of ₹1,975 per quintal, an increase of ₹50 per quintal than last year. To keep middlemen out of the procurement process, the government has made registration mandatory for farmers on the portal of the food and civil supplies and also arranged for biometric authentication through e-PoS machines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-is-facing-wheat-storage-problem-ahead-of-monsoon-101622517832057.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress MLA Navjot Sidhu sticks to his guns over rift with Capt||Punjab Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has been carrying out no-holds-barred attacks on chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on social media for six weeks, on Tuesday stuck to his guns before the three-member committee set up by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to resolve factionalism in the Punjab Congress. Without naming Capt Amarinder Singh, the former minister said that he has conveyed the truth and voice of the people of Punjab. “Truth can be punished but not defeated. On top of it, my stand is the same, was the same and will be the same that the democratic power of people of Punjab which goes to the government in the form of taxes has to be returned to them,” he said after the meeting, announcing that all anti-Punjab forces have to be defeated. Also read: Rumbling in ruling Cong: Kharge panel meets 25 Punjab Cong leadersThe Amritsar East MLA said that he had come to bring to the Congress high command the voice of the people from the grassroots and had apprised them of the ground situation. “Each citizen of Punjab has to be made a partner,” he said in a brief statement to reporters outside the Congress war room in the national capital. He, however, did not take any questions from the media.The committee, led by Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge, met 25 Punjab Congress leaders, including state unit chief Sunil Jakhar, during the first round of talks on Monday. Virtual slugfest that escalated to real faceoff The committee is seeking to resolve differences between chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and his former cabinet colleague Sidhu and to tackle factionalism in the state unit ahead of next year’s assembly elections. Sidhu had on May 21 targeted the chief minister over the 2015 sacrilege incidents involving Guru Granth Sahib and the killing of two people in police firing. “To know what is right and not to do it is the worst cowardice,” he had tweeted. On April 27, Capt Amarinder had challenged Sidhu to contest the elections against him from Patiala. The chief minister had said that indiscipline would not be tolerated in the party at any cost and that if Sidhu wanted to contest against him then he is free to do so, but that would only lead to Sidhu meeting the fate of General JJ Singh (retd) who lost his security deposit in the election as the Shiromani Akali Dal candidate in 2017. He also asked Sidhu to clearly spell out whether he is a member of the Congress or not. Responding to Amarinder Singh’s remarks, Sidhu said that he was only “fighting for justice. Efforts to derail Punjab’s conscience will fail ... my soul is Punjab, and Punjab’s soul is Guru Granth Sahib Ji. Our fight is for justice and punishing the guilty. An assembly seat is not even worth discussion in the same breath!” Sidhu said in a tweet. It’s not about an individual: Jakhar On Monday, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said that the meeting was for “manthan (brainstorming session)”. “It’s not about an individual but Punjab and the Congress. Meetings will take for at least three days. MLAs, MPs and senior leaders will meet during this time and see how to strengthen the party,” Jakhar said. He said the issue will be resolved soon and that everyone has expressed their opinion in the meeting. “A few people try to find opportunities among hardships, they shall also be exposed. Those who had backstabbed that will be accounted for also so that the party can benefit and contest the elections unitedly.” Panel member JP Aggarwal on Monday said there were no differences. “We have talked to 25 MLAs. There are no differences. There was no talk on the leadership of Captain Amarinder Singh. Everyone has said their point. There are small issues to be resolved. We will give our report. On June 1, Navjot Singh Sidhu will come,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-mla-navjot-sidhu-meets-panel-today-over-rift-with-capt-101622516632202.html
01-06-2021||Lucknow||UP targets 30 crore saplings in this year’s plantation drive||The Uttar Pradesh government aims to plant 30 crore saplings in this year’s plantation drive beginning the first week of July and has asked district magistrates (DMs) to identify land and supply saplings for the purpose to the district forest officers (DFOs) by June 15, said a senior government official.UP chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari directed the officials in a virtual meeting on Monday to immediately convene the meetings of plantation committees and ensure that the target is met. He also directed DMs and commissioners to hold weekly and fortnightly meetings respectively to review preparations and progress.Tiwari told officials to ensure saplings were also planted at cow shelters across the state and requested them to issue a detailed plantation guideline for maintaining consistency in the drive.Another virtual meeting will be held with DMs next Monday to review the preparations for the drive.Last year on July 6, chief minister Yogi Adityanath oversaw the planting of 26.75 crore saplings of 201 types in a single day under Mission Vriksharopan 2020 and the Van Mahotsav campaign. The saplings were planted outside 30 lakh houses built under the PM Awas Yojana and another 1.50 crore saplings along rivers. The CM then claimed that of the 22 crore saplings planted and geo-tagged in the state in 2019, 95% had survived. The government claims to have planted 5 crore, 11 crore and 22 crore saplings in 2017, 2018 and 2019 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-targets-30-crore-saplings-in-this-year-s-plantation-drive-101622515552144.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||‘Dissolve civic bodies, hold polls’: AAP slams BJP after rap from HC||Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Durgesh Pathak on Monday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has no right to rule civic bodies in the city, after the Delhi high court threatened to attach the North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s assets over the non-payment of its staff.“The BJP no longer has any right to remain in MCD. The MCDs should be dissolved and fresh elections should be held,” Pathak said in a statement on Monday.Also read| 'We are going to start attaching your assets’: HC warns North MCD to pay staffPathak also said, “The BJP of Delhi has looted the MCD for 15 years such that today there is no money to pay salaries to the employees, and now the MCD’s plots have to be auctioned to pay salaries to the court.”The HC on Monday asked the North body to disclose its list of assets and bank balance, to examine the issue of non-payment of salaries and told the corporation it will attach its properties to recover money.Responding to the development, North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash said he had not received any such order from the court. He said the civic body is making efforts to pay their staff’s salaries on time, and added that doctors, nurses and paramedic staff were released earlier in May.“We cleared the salaries of doctors, nurses, paramedic staff and sanitation employees till April... it is not that we don’t want to pay, but such an adverse situation has emerged because of revenue losses due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dissolve-civic-bodies-hold-polls-aap-slams-bjp-after-rap-from-hc-101622513494162.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab police arrest close aide of gangster wanted for murder of two cops||A close aide of gangster Jaipal Bhullar, who is wanted in connection with the killing of two assistant sub-inspectors in Ludhiana, has been arrested, the Punjab police said on Monday.Two ASIs -- Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh -- were shot dead at the new grain market at Jagraon in Ludhiana on May 15.The police had booked gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar of Ferozepur, Baljinder Singh alias Babbu of Moga, Jaspreet Singh of Kharar, and Darshan Singh of Ludhiana district for the murder of the two policemen.Lucky Rajput alias Lucky, a resident of Ludhiana, who had allegedly actively assisted the killers of the two ASIs has been arrested, police said on Monday.The police have also recovered a .32 bore country-made pistol, along with three live cartridges, two motorcycles, and a car from his possession.His arrest came just two days after the police arrested Darshan Singh and Baljinder Singh from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh.A spokesperson of the Punjab police said in an intelligence-led operation, Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana, Rakesh Agrawal deputed a police team that arrested Lucky from Khanpur canal bridge.Lucky has a criminal past and was convicted in a murder case in 2008.He is also wanted by the police in a car snatching case in November 2020.Lucky has disclosed that he, along with Jaipal Bhullar, Darshan Singh, and Baljinder Singh had snatched a car at gunpoint from Malerkotla road in November 2020.The spokesperson said while lodged at Central Jail in Ludhiana, Lucky had come in contact with Darshan and Baljinder, who later introduced him to the gangster-turned-drug smuggler, Jaipal Bhullar.Whenever Jaipal used to pass through Ludhiana, Lucky and Darshan would escort his vehicle in their car to give advance information about police checkpoints, he added.Lucky was also wanted in several other criminal cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-arrest-close-aide-of-gangster-wanted-for-murder-of-two-cops-101622513154768.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||'We are going to start attaching your assets’: HC warns North MCD to pay staff||The Delhi high court on Monday directed the North Delhi Municipal Corporation to disclose its list of assets and bank balance, to examine the issue of non-payment of salaries to employees and pensions for those retired, and told the civic body it would attach its properties to recover the money.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the right to receive dues was the employees’ fundamental right, and asked the North MCD commissioner to file the affidavit disclosing assets and bank balance by July 4. The matter has been listed for hearing on July 8.“We have already said that the right to receive salaries and pensions constitutes a fundamental right, and we have already directed the corporations to ensure timely payment of salaries and pensions of their employees and pensioners,” the bench said, adding that, “now we are going to attach your assets”.Also read: CM inaugurates walk-in vaccine centre at ITO for journalists, their familiesThe court said either the corporation shall retrench some of its staff or increase its revenue, but must pay its employees on time. The North MCD counsel told the high court that apart from teachers and pensioners, all other civic body employees have been paid their salaries till April this year.On being asked how much more money they require to clear the dues, advocate Divya Prakash Pande, representing North MCD, said with ₹300 crores, they will be able to clear the present dues, and employees and pensioners will be paid till date.“But, with this you will be able to clear only arrears, what about the future?” the high court asked.North MCD counsel Pande also said they have given a representation to the Lieutenant Governor to merge the finances of the three corporations while they may continue to operate separately, as it will help the North MCD to tide over the funds shortage.The court was informed that South MCD and East MCD have paid salaries and pensions to all classes of employees till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/we-are-going-to-start-attaching-your-assets-hc-warns-north-mcd-to-pay-staff-101622513191465.html
01-06-2021||Lucknow||Aligarh hooch tragedy: Death toll mounts to 36, top excise officials sacked||The Aligarh hooch tragedy toll rose to 36 on Monday with authorities confirming 11 more deaths amid fears that it may rise further, even as the Uttar Pradesh government cracked the whip on UP excise commissioner P Guruprasad, and suspended two other senior officials.Confirming the development, additional chief secretary (Appointment) Mukul Singhal said Guruprasad has been removed and replaced by Rigzian Sampheal (currently on waiting).In another statement issued in Lucknow, the state government said circle officer Gabhana Karamveer Singh has been suspended, while a clarification has been sought about the incident from circle officer Khair Shiv Pratap Singh and circle officer (City-3) Vishal Chaudhary within three days.Viscera samples of 35 other people, who are suspected to have died after consuming spurious liquor, have been sent for examination to confirm the cause of death, chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Bhanu Pratap Kalyani said.Meanwhile, 10 persons allegedly involved directly and indirectly in the trade of illicit liquor were arrested on Monday as raids continued for the third successive day all over the district.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kalanidhi Naithani told the media that with Monday's arrests, the total number of persons arrested since Friday has reached 30.This includes 11 persons who had been booked on Friday. Of the 12 persons who had been named in three different reports on Friday, now only one person is still eluding the police. Questioning of those arrested is also going on which could lead to more arrests.Among those arrested on Monday are some persons, who were involved in the manufacture of alcohol-based products.A large number of vehicles owned by persons involved in the illicit liquor trade have also been seized. Police parties are checking roadside eateries to ensure that no illicit liquor is sold through such outlets.The SSP said the process of confiscating the properties of those found to be involved in the illicit liquor trade has also started.Former Samajwadi Party (SP) MLA from Aligarh Zameerullah Khan produced before the media the families of 12 people who he claimed died over the past three days after consuming the spurious liquor and whose post-mortem was not conducted. He demanded that the state government provide compensation to all such families.CMO Kalyani said, "A total of 71 bodies have arrived at the post-mortem house from Friday to Monday forenoon. Liquor poisoning has been confirmed as the cause of death for 36 of these people." The post-mortem of the remaining 35 bodies has also been conducted.Though these people are also suspected to have died of liquor poisoning, the cause of death will be confirmed once the viscera report comes, he said.BJP Lok Sabha MP from Aligarh Satish Gautam accused the district authorities of "protecting some corrupt officials in the excise department and attempting to implicate some innocent businessmen". He said he would raise the issue with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.The MP, who had claimed on Sunday that the death toll in the hooch tragedy had crossed 35, said the district magistrate cannot "escape responsibility" of identifying and listing the names of those who have lost their lives in this tragedy.Gautam also denied reports that he is "using his influence to protect some businessmen who are close to him"."Let the police investigate such cases with a free hand and catch the real culprits. But I will not allow any official to cover up his lapses by diverting attention and framing innocent people," he said, adding that he will meet the CM shortly to apprise him of the situation.District magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh did not comment on the MP's allegations.SP leader Zameerullah Khan demanded that compensation be given to all such families. In one case, Khan claimed, a woman whose husband was among the hooch tragedy victims who were cremated without a post-mortem has been running from pillar to post with her four-day-old child to seek compensation."Can such victims be denied ex-gratia relief on vague technical grounds?" he asked.The SP leader further claimed there are similar cases in several other villages and they should be investigated immediately to prevent further agony for the bereaved families.Other opposition parties also alleged discrepancies in the official death toll.President of the Bahujan Samaj Party's Aligarh unit Ratandeep Singh said he has also written to the district magistrate regarding the 12 cases from Lodha, Rait, and Sujaapur villages in which the alleged hooch tragedy victims' last rites were conducted "without a post-mortem examination".He claimed there are several such cases that can only be traced by conducting a detailed survey of the affected villages.Congress leader Pradeep Mathur alleged that the local administration is hiding facts and the number of deaths is "much higher". He also accused the state government of "patronising" the liquor mafia.In a statement, SSP Naithani said two inspectors under the Tappal police station were suspended on Sunday after reports were received that liquor shops are operating freely in their area.Similarly, the station house officer of Akrabad police station and another inspector were suspended after it came to light that a factory manufacturing spurious liquor had been operating in their area for the past six months, he said.UP additional chief secretary (Excise) Sanjay Bhoosreddy said the joint excise commissioner of the Agra zone, Ravi Shankar Pathak, has been suspended along with the joint excise commissioner of Lucknow, Dheeraj Singh, given the additional charge of the Agra zone.Deputy excise commissioner, Aligarh, OP Singh, has also been suspended. Deputy excise commissioner Vijay Kumar Mishra has been given the additional charge of Aligarh. Action has also been initiated against five other officials, he said.Commissioner of the Aligarh division, Gaurav Dayal, held a high-level meeting to review the situation and instructed officials to continue raids and take stern action against the liquor mafia.Meanwhile, three people in Chandana locality under the Kuwarsi police station area here fell ill early this morning after consuming liquor. They were rushed to the hospital in a serious condition, the police sources said.As of Sunday, 11 of the 12 people, including kingpin Anil Chaudhary, booked in connection with the hooch tragedy had been arrested, according to police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aligarh-hooch-tragedy-death-toll-mounts-to-36-top-excise-officials-sacked-101622512385510.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||CM inaugurates walk-in vaccine centre at ITO for journalists, their families||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday inaugurated a free walk-in vaccination centre for journalists and their families at Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg, ITO.The newly launched facility will vaccinate journalists and their families in both age classifications eligible -- in the 18-45 years category as well as those above 45 years old.“This vaccination centre has been specially started to vaccinate journalists and their families. I am happy that this facility has been launched and the demands of the journalists have been met. This facility will vaccinate journalists and their families of both age groups, 18-45 years and 45+ years. Vaccination is the need of the hour, to protect yourself from coronavirus. I appeal to all the journalists to come here and get themselves vaccinated for free,” Kejriwal told reporters after inaugurating the vaccination centre.The chief minister said some teething issues in a few centres will be resolved soon.“We will rectify whatever issues the people are facing. I observed that the portal was facing some issues today. We are working towards resolving those and all the other issues, based on the feedback we receive from the people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cm-inaugurates-walk-in-vaccine-centre-at-ito-for-journalists-their-families-101622512241568.html
01-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand seeks free Covid-19 vaccine for 18-44 age group||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday and sought free Covid-19 jabs for the 18-44 age group, saying the state was unable to incur nearly ₹1,100 crore on it due to stressed resources.Soren said the state was battling a deadly second wave of Covid-19 with its limited resources."The financial burden on the state for vaccination of the age cohort of 18-44 years is likely to be more than ₹1,100 crore considering 1.57 crore eligible beneficiaries. With the vaccine being available for the age cohort of 12-18 years and below, the mentioned financial burden will further increase by around ₹1,000 crore. It will be extremely difficult to spare as many resources from the resource pool of the state which is already stressed during Covid-19 times," the letter mentioned.He said the abysmal supply of vaccines as compared to the state's requirement is the foremost impediment to the ongoing vaccination drive.Terming the mandate for states to procure medicines against cooperative federalism, Soren said, "This is probably for the first instance in the history of independent India that the states have been mandated to procure vaccines on their own."Such a mandate, under the challenging and unprecedented circumstances where the entire nation is struggling for over a year, stands against the principle of cooperative federalism, he said.Soren said with the emergence of the second wave of Covid-19 in the country, the state experienced an unexpected outbreak of the pandemic, and the existing medical infrastructure of the state was put under unparalleled strain.He mentioned that it is now well established that timely and full vaccination of all the eligible beneficiaries is the only sustainable measure against the spread of Covid-19 infection and to control mortality on account of it."Better preparedness and response to a possible third wave in the near future will hinge on the extent of vaccination coverage across the country. The State of Jharkhand is taking all possible measures to ensure maximum coverage in the least possible time frame," he said.Stating difficulties in procuring vaccines, the chief minister said as mandated by the central government, Jharkhand is putting all efforts to procure Covid-19 vaccine directly from the available manufacturers for the age cohort of 18 to 44 years."However, the supplies against the orders placed continue to remain extremely limited and it ultimately depends on the allocations made by the central government. On account of scarce supplies, the overall pace of vaccination is not as desired and defeats the very purpose of vaccination drive for this age cohort," he stressed.Further, Soren mentioned that Jharkhand like other states has always received vaccines free of cost from the central government for pulse polio and routine immunisation.Also, he said that rates specified by the central government for procurement of vaccines by the state for the age cohort of 18 to 44 years are significantly higher than the rates at which vaccine is being procured by the central government for the beneficiaries in the age cohort of 45 years and above."This dichotomy will not stand the scrutiny of reasonable classification under the fundamental principles of the Constitution of India," Soren who earlier hit out at PM Modi for "launching vaccination drive without preparedness," said."Further, the inherent diversity in our country creates various peculiarities specific to the states concerned. Every state has its own high-risk groups depending on geographical, cultural, and traditional heterogeneity. As such, a common framework defined by the central government with regard to prioritizing of beneficiaries across the country is not desirable," the letter mentions.Urging the Prime Minister to provide to the State free vaccine for beneficiaries of all age groups and also give freedom to define priorities for vaccination coverage, Soren said this would help the state in achieving the target of full vaccination in a timely manner which would go a long way in ensuring effective tackling of the anticipated third wave.He said the State and the people of Jharkhand shall be ever grateful for support under such difficult times.Facing delays in vaccine supplies, Jharkhand which could not launch a vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group on May 1 ultimately launched a free drive on May 14 but has been stressing on constraints in supply.Hitting out at the Centre on vaccine distribution, the CM in an interview to PTI on Sunday had said a state like Jharkhand has almost exhausted doses for people in the 18-44 years age group.Accusing the Centre of "no transparency in vaccine allocation", Soren said under the circumstance he was left with no other option than to appeal to the companies operating in the state to come forward for vaccination of communities in their areas.Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally soared to 3,36,943 on Monday as 703 more people tested positive for the infection, while 19 fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 4,977.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-seeks-free-covid-19-vaccine-for-18-44-age-group-101622511933988.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||Father of child activist from Manipur arrested||The father of a child environment activist from Manipur was arrested from Delhi in connection with a few cheating cases registered against him in Manipur, Delhi Police said on Monday.Kanarjit Kangujam, father of a nine-year-old green activist, was arrested by the Delhi Police’s special cell on receiving a request from the Manipur Police.The suspect was wanted in three cases of cheating and was carrying a reward of ₹1 lakh on his arrest, said Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police spokesperson.“We received a request from Manipur Police seeking our assistance in arresting Kangujam, who was suspected of being in the National Capital Region (NCR). We arrested him on Sunday night and handed him over to the Manipur Police,” said the officer.Kangujam was allegedly staying in Noida Extension, and was on his way to the Delhi airport when he was arrested from South Delhi’s Maharani Bagh on Sunday night.It is learnt that the charges against Kangujam range from cheating to forgery. He is accused of opening an NGO using forged documents and taking money from people in the name of the NGO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/father-of-child-activist-from-manipur-arrested-101622508450326.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Letters to the beloved||She’s always been a writer, maintaining a private diary. But after losing her husband to Covid about a month ago, Dr Shivani Rawat Adhikari, 37, took up her writing in a more urgent way. “It essentially became a series of letters to my husband... I had so many things in my head... so much to tell him,” she says, at her home in Noida. She is a dentist, and so was Dr Gautam Adhikari, her husband. They were married for 10 years, and have a son who is in third grade.Dr Adhikari agreed to share excerpts from her journal.Day 15It has been 15 days since you passed away. Since then I often question myself. Was I not enough for you to share your pain with? Why did you not share it then! Now I am filled with immense grief, the grief of losing a partner, a friend whom I was meant to share my life with, till we would age and all our teeth would fall off. But can we possibly fix a plan for life? Finalise the course of it in advance? All I have are questions that will mess up my mind for a lifetime. Every night I rest my head praying for you to come visiting me in my dreams and tell me about everything that was left untold.Also read: Centre panel to study mixing doses, Covishield single shotDay 20My dreams are scant, but my sleep is uneasy and disturbed, as though some deep dreams are looming in me! My life with you was such a myriad of emotions. It occurs to me now that we would often push the boundaries for each other, so as to learn and feel a little bit more. Friends and family check up on me every now and then, hoping to hear a voice a little stronger... but I don’t think they can hear that yet!Day 28Most days are now alike, old ruins making way for newer debris. It all appears to be in shambles, and it’s scary… for the future that lies ahead, and for the people that remain! But with each of us fighting their own losses, all we can do is gather the shambles and veil them in cling film so that no flaws no pain show.Of all the things I miss, I miss you the most.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-letters-to-the-beloved-101622496665539.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||Wrestler murder: Cops take Sushil to Haridwar||The Delhi Police’s crime branch on Monday took two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, arrested in connection with the murder of a wrester at the Chhatrasal Stadium, to Haridwar, where he had allegedly fled to following the incident, officials said.Kumar was taken to Haridwar to ascertain the sequence of events following the incident, they said.Kumar and his associate Ajay were earlier taken to Bathinda and Chandigarh to ascertain the sequence of events that unfolded after they fled the city following the wrestler’s death.Sushil Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar on the intervening night of May 4 and 5.Sagar succumbed to the injuries later.Also read: Clip appears to show Sushil Kumar attacking wrestlerThe international wrestler was arrested, along with co-accused Ajay Kumar, on May 23 from outer Delhi’s Mundka area.Police said a total of nine people, including Kumar, have been arrested so far in connection with the incident.Police earlier said that Kumar has been evasive, and has not been cooperating with the investigators during questioning.On Thursday, a video surfaced on the social media purportedly showing Kumar and his associates allegedly attacks another man with sticks.In the video, Kumar and his associates were ostensibly carrying the sticks in their hands while the injured man was lying on the ground.On Wednesday morning, police said four associates of Kumar, who were involved in the alleged property dispute case that led to the death of the 23-year-old Sagar, were arrested.Several teams, including the from the crime branch and four teams of the Special cell, conducted raids in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana and Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wrestler-murder-cops-take-sushil-to-haridwar-101622496323113.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity rate below 1% after 74 days||With just 648 new Covid-19 cases, Delhi’s positivity rate on Monday dipped below 1% for the first time in 74 days, as the city stayed on the recovery path after a brutal wave of infections between April and May.The positivity rate stood at 0.99% on Monday, a dip from 1.25% the previous day, even as the number of tests fell during the weekend.The city conducted 65,240 tests, the state health bulletin issued on Monday said, down from 75,440 on Sunday.The test positivity rate is a crucial metric as experts say it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when a dropping positivity rate is coupled with decreasing new cases, it indicates that the spread of the virus is reducing within the community.The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends a positivity rate at or below 5% for at least two weeks before an outbreak can be considered under control. In Delhi, this number has been below the threshold for 11 days now.Also read: Virus curve bends in Haryana, active cases nosediveDelhi maintained a positivity rate of less than 5% for 124 consecutive days between December-end and early April. In this period, the positivity rate stayed below 1% for 82 straight days, data shared by the Delhi government shows.At the peak of the fourth wave of cases on April 22, the positivity rate increased to over 36%.The city also reported 86 deaths due to the infection, recording less than 100 deaths for two consecutive days. As the fourth wave swept through the city, overwhelming health care systems, over 400 people died of Covid-19 on three consecutive days, with 448 dying on May 3 — the most in the city on a single day.In another positive sign on Monday for the city’s fight against Covid-19, the number of hospitalisations dropped below the 5,000 mark for the first time in 53 days since April beginning. Only 17% of the total beds earmarked for Covid-19 treatment in Delhi and nearly 40% of the ICU beds were occupied as on Monday evening, according to the government’s Delhi Corona app. At the peak, there were days when no ICU beds were available in the city.Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior pulmonologist at Indraprastha Apollo hospital, said, “We are 15 to 20 consultants in the department, but we are not seeing any new cases. In the last five days, I have seen only one Covid-19 case and the patient was not from Delhi. It looks like the majority of the people have had the infection and it is unlikely to surge for now. The picture will become clear in the first 10 days after the lockdown is lifted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-19-positivity-rate-below-1-after-74-days-101622495200267.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Congress panel meets Punjab leaders to resolve infighting||Twenty-five Punjab ministers and legislators, and state unit chief Sunil Jakhar on Monday met the three-member committee, constituted by party chief Sonia Gandhi to resolve factionalism in the state unit, people familiar with the matter said.The committee headed by Rajya Sabha MP Mallikarjun Kharge had one-on-one meetings with the leaders to hear their grievances and suggestions to find a solution to infighting and present a united face in the state assembly polls due early next year.“We are battling perception of a government that has failed to deliver on these [action on reports against drug dealers and cancellation of power purchase agreements] important poll promises. If decisive action is not taken now, it will diminish the party’s credibility in the eyes of people,” one of them said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-panel-meets-punjab-leaders-to-resolve-infighting-101622494835181.html
01-06-2021||Dehradun||‘Respect allopathy, its doctors’: Ramdev’s new line ahead of ‘black day’ protest||Yoga guru Ramdev on Monday lauded the contribution of allopathic doctors to society and insisted that “his drive” was not against them but big pharmas. Ramdev’s new toned-down line, which came after a week of hurling allegations and running down the allopathic system of treatment, was timed a day before doctors were to observe Tuesday, June 1, as a black day, to protest his remarks.“I respect allopathy and allopathic doctors, their contribution is immense to the medical field and society. Our drive is not against them but those who sell medicines at exorbitant prices and treat patients as revenue-earning customers. We are against those who unnecessarily recommend medical tests, operations and costly drugs while the patient doesn’t require them at all,” said Ramdev.Claiming that some of his recent statements were twisted and misunderstood, Ramdev said he wants to end this dispute. “An integrated approach was needed where both ayurveda and allopathic medical therapy should be co-developed for the betterment of the whole world”, he said.He, however, called for action and drive against what he called was a drug mafia which has been raking in money in the name of medicine and cure from hapless patients hurting the credibility of allopathy.“I want to end this so-called ayurveda-allopathy superiority episode. We respect allopathy and expect the same for ayurveda and it should not be seen as pseudo-science or alternative therapy. It is an ancient medical science practiced honed and has been curing people for ages,” said Swami Ramdev.Indian Medical Association, Uttarakhand chapter general secretary Dr Ajay Khanna said that they will only be able to say on this when a written or verified communique is made from Patanjali Yogpeeth.“It is a good move that both allopathy and ayurveda should go hand in hand. Ancient practice and modern medical science paves way for rational medical therapy which is the need of the hour,” said Dr Sanjay Shah, vice president of Uttarakhand chapter of Association of Physicians of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/respect-allopathy-its-doctors-ramdev-s-new-line-ahead-of-black-day-protest-101622494490782.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura police firing: SIT grills Punjab ex-DGP Saini for 4 hours||The newly formed special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 Kotkapura firing incident questioned the former director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini for at least four hours here on Monday. “As Saini evaded replies to the queries posed by the team, he will be called again for questioning soon,” said a senior police officer who did not wish to be named. The SIT, headed by additional director general of police LK Yadav, had on Sunday pasted a notice on the outer wall of Saini’s Chandigarh home for questioning. The Kotkapura incident had taken place during the tenure of the SAD-BJP government. Saini was the state police chief at that time. Other top officers of state police who were questioned included IPS Sahota and Rohit Chaudhary who holds the charge of special director general police. Suspended IPS officer Paramraj Singh Umranangal was also called for questioning. While Sahota and Chaudhary were quizzed during the earlier part of the day, Umranangal could not be questioned due to shortage of time. Sahota was head of a bureau of investigation constituted by the then SAD-BJP government to give report on the turn of events that unfolded and Chaudhary was in the crime branch of the state police. Last week, the SIT was in Kotkapura to quiz the senior police officials who were present on the spot during the firing incident. A section of Punjab Congress leaders on Monday told the party’s central leadership that the SIT should take the sacrilege and police firing cases to a logical end. They said the delay was hitting the party hard as it was losing ground in the battle of public ahead of the 2022 assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-police-firing-sit-grills-punjab-ex-dgp-saini-for-4-hours-101622492870854.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sacrilege: Two dera followers sent to 2-day police custody||FaridkotThe special investigation team (SIT) probing 2015 sacrilege incidents on Monday brought two dera followers, accused of pasting of derogatory posters near the Bargari gurdwara, on production warrants from the Mansa jail. The court of judicial magistrate sent them to two-day police custody. The SIT led by inspector general of police, border range, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar had on May 17 arrested the duo along with Nishan Singh, Ranjit Singh, Pardeep Kumar and Shakti Singh in a case registered in connection with a sacrilege incident wherein torn pages of “bir” (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) were found scattered at Bargari village in Faridkot district in 2015. The court had sent them to police custody till May 21.However, Sukhjinder, Baljit and Nishan tested positive for Covid on May 19 after which they were admitted to the Faridkot hospital. The court had sent them to judicial custody till June 1 and directed SIT to get their Covid tests conducted and produce the results on the fixed date.Defence had filed a complaint in the court on Saturday alleging that the SIT has violated the court orders by wrongfully confining Sukhjinder and Baljit from Covid care ward of GGSMCH on Friday and keeping them at the Bajakhana police station.Debunking the allegations, the SIT told the court that both the accused were kept in safe custody at the Bajakhana police station due to security reasons while shifting them to Mansa jail from Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) at Faridkot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sacrilege-two-dera-followers-sent-to-2-day-police-custody-101622491370615.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Patti double murder was contract killing, say police||Tarn TaranInvestigation into the Patti shootout case has indicated that an Akali worker and his accomplice were killed for “supari” that was given to notorious criminal Daya Singh, alias Preet Sekhon.Amandeep Singh, alias Aman Fauji, Akali worker with a criminal taint, and his accomplice Prabhjit Singh of Patti city, were shot dead by two car-borne men when they were returning after paying obeisance at a tomb in Patti on May 27. Aman and Prabhjit’s third accomplice Samsher Singh, alias Shera, received a bullet injury in his stomach.Two Facebook posts claiming responsibility for the killings had surfaced soon after the crime. One of these was posted from an account named after Preet Sekhon Amritsaria. The second one was posted from the account of one who claimed himself an associate of gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria.“Investigations proved that the crime was executed by Preet Sekhon. But it has emerged that it was a supari (contract) killing. A suspect had contacted Sekhon for executing the crime. Why the suspect had contacted is yet to be ascertained,” said a senior police official, who didn’t wish to be named.Sekhon’s aide held in Hoshiarpur“On Monday, Hoshiarpur police arrested Preet Sekhon’s aide Gurjinder Singh, alias Sonu Ror Majra, and recovered seven illegal pistols from his possession. Our counterparts in Hoshiarpur have made it clear that Sonu was not with Sekhon at the time of Patti shootout. Sonu and Sekhon were involved in Amritsar bouncer’s murder case,” said the police official. Meanwhile, one more Facebook post has surfaced from Preet Sekhon Amritsaria’s account. The new post reads: “I am posting this for humanity. Don’t give political colour to the Patti murders. I had a personal enmity with him (Aman Fauji) and it will be disclosed once the time comes……I have a request to the administration that the punishment should be given to me as the crime was committed by me. I don’t want any innocent one to get punished.”Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said: “All FB posts are being analysed by our expert teams. Investigation to ascertain the links behind the killings is still on. We are hopeful of cracking the case soon.”Shera, who was injured in the attack, was taken to a “secluded place” from a private hospital. “Shera was undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Amritsar. His family members have got him discharged from the hospital without informing the police. “Shera’s questioning is important in the case. Even the family members have not been providing us the victims’ mobile phones. The car which had received bullet shots is also still in possession of the families,” said another senior police official.DSP (investigation) Kamaljeet Singh said they had not deployed any policeman for Shera’s security as he was not a criminal, but a victim.Shera was facing a case under NDPS Act while Aman Fauji was facing five criminal cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patti-double-murder-was-contract-killing-say-police-101622491190516.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda hospital barred from admitting Covid patients for 2 months over violation||A Bathinda-based super-specialty private hospital was barred on Monday from admitting any Cocvid-19 patients for the next two months after it was found attending to four times more cases than the official sanction.Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said Global Healthcare, Mall Road, had authorisation to admit seven Covid-19 patients with level-3 complications or those who are critically ill. During an inspection by a team of health department on May 18 found that the hospital had 33 level-3 category patients. Also, it had not prominently displayed rates of treatment for the virus infection, he added.It is the first case in southern Punjab when disciplinary action has been taken against a Covid care facility for flouting guidelines.The healthcare facility also failed to take measures to ensure Covid protocol on the hospital premises, it was found. “Action was taken after the hospital management submitted its reply to a show-cause notice. The hospital will continue treating already admitted patients,” he added.Police have been asked to initiate action against the hospital management under the Disaster Management Act and section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-hospital-barred-from-admitting-covid-patients-for-2-months-over-violation-101622491016477.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers of 5 border villages in Punjab harried as BSF ‘restricts’ access along fence||The farmers of five villages situated along the India-Pakistan border in Amritsar district’s Ajnala sub-division are a worried lot these days as they are still to till their land ahead of the paddy-sowing season. They alleged that the Border Security Force (BSF) has restricted their access to the causeways along the barbed fence on both sides, making it difficult for them to visit their fields.Scores of farmers of Kakkar, Manjh, Lodhi Gujjar, Hetampur and Tanjurai villages said due to the closure of the causeways, they were forced to carry their agricultural equipment, including tractor-trailers, to their fields through fields of others. Nearly 1,500 acres of land belonging to the residents of these villages is situated on both sides of the fence. While the causeway on this side of the fence is 22-foot wide, the one on the other side has a width of 14 feet. “The BSF has installed a new small fence ahead of the barbed fence. The new fence is around 2 km long, restricting the farmers’ entry to their fields through the causeway. The BSF officials told us to pave our way through the fields if we want to till our land. How will we take fertilisers and agriculture equipment to fields if the causeways are closed for us?” asked Rajbir Singh, 45, of Kakkar village, who owns 7 acres across the barbed fence.Sakattar Singh, (42), who owns 15-acre land across the barbed fence, said, “We were asked not to use the two ways after we harvested our wheat crops. We faced difficulty managing the crop residue. If the issue is not resolved, we will not sow paddy this year. We are already facing a tough time due to the pandemic.”Kabal Singh Muhawa, district president of the Punjab Border Kisan Union said the BSF’s 22-battalion was behind the move. “No such restriction has been imposed in other border villages of the state. We met the company commander several times, but to no avail. We also approached senior BSF officials, but no one is listening to us,” he said.“Even the farmers of Kakkar village are not allowed to use gate number 89. They are forced to reach their fields across the barbed wire fence through gate numbers 90 and 91, which are more than 3 km away,” Muhawa added.BSF public relations officer (PRO) deputy inspector general (DIG) Kuldeep Singh said the matter was not brought to his attention and he will get it checked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-of-5-border-villages-in-punjab-harried-as-bsf-restricts-access-along-fence-101622491015177.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||2015 sacrilege anniversary: Six years on, probe into ‘bir’ theft case hangs fire||FaridkotIt has been six years since a “bir” (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village in Faridkot, but the probe into the case is yet to see the light of day as the special investigation team (SIT) has shifted focus on two other interlinked sacrilege cases. The probe team is yet to file a supplementary chargesheet in the case.The “bir” was stolen on June 1, 2015, and a case was registered at the Bajakhana police station in the district the next day on the complaint of granthi Gora Singh. The SIT led by inspector general of police (IGP) Surinder Pal Singh Parmar is probing the “bir” theft case and two other interlinked cases wherein derogatory posters were put up at Bargari on September 24, 2015, night and torn pages of a “bir” were found scattered near Bargari gurdwara on October 12, 2015. With the recent arrest of six Dera Sacha Sauda followers, the Parmar-led SIT is focusing on two other cases, while the probe into the bir theft case has come to a standstill. The Akali-BJP government, led by Parkash Singh Badal, had handed over the probe into the three sacrilege incidents to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on October 26, 2015. In July 2019, the CBI filed a closure report, but withdrew it later to reinvestigate the matter.The Captain Amarinder Singh government challenged the CBI move of reinvestigation and handed over the probe to the SIT led by DIG Ranbir Singh Khatra on April 22, 2019. In July last year, the SIT named jailed dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and national committee members Sandeep Bretta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri, as accused in the “bir” theft case. The probe team also filed a chargesheet against seven dera men in the case.In January this year, the Punjab and Haryana high court asked the state government to replace the head of the SIT probing sacrilege cases, after which IG Parmar was appointed as the new chief. The HC had also directed CBI to handover all the case files and asked the SIT to file a supplementary chargesheet in “bir” theft case after taking into account of the evidence filed by the CBI.Though the central agency handed over the case files to Punjab Police on February 4, the SIT is yet to file a supplementary chargesheet. Officials said the probe team is finding it difficult to negate the facts stated by the CBI in its closure report. 2 events to mark sacrilege anniv Shiromani Akali Dal (Samyukat) leaders Ranjit Singh Brahmpura and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa will reach Burj Jawahar Singh Wala, while members of Sikh outfits, including SAD (Amritsar), will go to Bargari to mark the sixth anniversary of sacrilege incident on Tuesday. SAD (Amritsar) leader Jaskaran Singh Kahan Singh Wala said that Brahmpura and Dhindsa are working against the Sikh community by holding a separate event. “We observe the sacrilege anniversary every year at Bargari in protest, so why they are going to Burj Jawahar Singh Wala? They should have joined us,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-sacrilege-anniversary-six-years-on-probe-into-bir-theft-case-hangs-fire-101622491011503.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||ED officer Niranjan Singh ‘chargesheeted’ over Diljit Dosanjh show at daughter’s wedding||Enforcement Directorate (ED) deputy director Niranjan Singh, who investigated the ₹6,000 crore synthetic Bhola drug case, has been ‘chargesheeted’ in a departmental inquiry in connection with Punjabi singer and actor Diljit Dosanjh’s performance at his daughter’s wedding in 2016.Singh retired from service on Monday. An ED official privy to the development said Singh asked Dosanjh to perform at his daughter’s wedding even as he investigated a Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) violations case against the singer-actor. “Singh purportedly made a payment of ₹2 lakh to Diljit for the performance which is considerably lower than the amount he charges for such shows. By doing this, Niranjan Singh, the then assistant director, did not maintain integrity and misused his position,” he added.When contacted, Singh admitted that the ED had begun an inquiry in the matter. “I had paid ₹2 lakh to Dosanjh for the performance from my bank account,” he said. On the timing of the probe, he said, “The ED chargesheeted me since I had approached the Punjab and Haryana high court against the agency in several cases. The Dosanjh case was transferred from me a year before my daughter’s marriage. Why should I book Diljit for a marriage function if his case was with me?” he questioned, rejecting the allegations of any quid pro quo in the case. In 2017, the ED had issued a show-cause notice to Dosanjh for an alleged violation of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). In 2018, Niranjan Singh was cross examined in the Bhola drug case where the defence counsel also questioned over the expenditure incurred on his daughter’s marriage in 2016. Singh had said in a Mohali court that he had also probed complaints against singers Gippy Grewal and Jazzy B. “I am the only earning member of my family and in 2018 I had a monthly income of Rs. 1.5 lakh. He (Diljit) sang some songs probably on the demand of those present at the function. I do not remember how much I paid him. But I did make him some payment,” he had said. The defence counsel had said that Diljit charged ₹40 lakh for a performance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ed-officer-niranjan-singh-chargesheeted-over-diljit-dosanjh-show-at-daughter-s-wedding-101622491010329.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Rumbling in ruling Cong: Kharge panel meets 25 Punjab Cong leaders||Amid an attempt by the Congress leadership to resolve factionalism in the state unit, several ministers and MLAs from Punjab on Monday conveyed to the three-member committee headed by Rajya Sabha MP Mallikarjun Kharge their concern over the state government losing ground in the battle of public perception on sacrilege and police firing cases. The committee constituted by Congress president Sonia Gandhi had one-on-one meetings with Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and 25 cabinet ministers and MLAs in Delhi to hear their grievances and suggestions to find a solution to infighting and present a united face in the state assembly polls due early next year. Cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Singh Badal, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Charanjit Singh Channi, Aruna Chaudhary, OP Soni, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sunder Sham Arora and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, and MLAs Sangat Singh Gilzian, Raj Kumar Verka, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Raj Kumar Chabbewal and Arun Dogra were among the prominent state leaders who met the panel. At least four of them, including two senior ministers, confirmed pressing for prompt action in these sensitive cases before the state elections, besides raising other poll promises such as action on reports against drug dealers and cancellation of power purchase agreements, in their separate meetings with the committee. “We are battling perception of a government that has failed to deliver on these important poll promises. If decisive action is not taken now, it will diminish the party’s credibility in the eyes of people,” one of them told HT on the condition of anonymity after the meeting with the committee that also includes All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former MP Jai Prakash Agarwal. Randhawa and Channi, who have been critical of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh lately, are learnt to have raised the unfulfilled promises and vindictive action towards some party leaders, according to sources. Channi told reporters that their fight was on issues and not against any particular individual. Though most ministers and legislators were guarded and declined to disclose details of their interaction, they said there was no discussion on leadership change. Jakhar said there were differences of opinion in the party on action against those who were behind or involved in sacrilege and police firing on protesters, but the government was determined to act in these cases. “The perpetrators in these cases will be caught and the issue will be resolved. However, those who have been backstabbing their own party by seeking the ED and CBI probes into illicit liquor seizures in the state have been totally exposed. Why are they silent on an illicit liquor racket busted at Badal village?” he asked, hitting out at Rajya Sabha MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo. The Punjab Congress president was the first to meet the committee at 15, Gurdwara Rakabganj Road office, which is also the party’s “war room”, and then others were called one by one. The ministers and MLAs were asked to give their suggestions and allowed as much time as they wanted with Kharge and his team noting down their suggestions. Dalit CM demand, OBC representation Amritsar West legislator Raj Kumar Verka raised the demand for a Dalit CM face in the state. “It is time someone from the community heads the Congress government in the state,” he said, expressing confidence that they would get some good news soon. Urmar MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian also made a pitch for representation for OBCs in the state cabinet, stating there was not even a minister from the community. Besides raising issues related to development works in their constituencies, several members also spoke to the committee on the adverse consequences of infighting on poll prospects. Though a senior minister is said to have sought action against former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu for his public statements criticising the state government and the chief minister, he did not respond to calls. Agarwal, while confirming that most members were concerned about the political fallout of the high court order in the Kotkapura police firing case, said there was no crisis or groupism in the state Congress. “Their concerns are not something that cannot be addressed,” he said, after the exercise that lasted close to seven hours. Sidhu and Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh are among the next batch of 25 ministers and MLAs scheduled to meet the committee on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rumbling-in-ruling-cong-kharge-panel-meets-25-punjab-cong-leaders-101622490832381.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 117 deaths, 2,221 fresh infections||ChandigarhPunjab on Monday recorded 2,221 fresh Covid-19 cases, which took the tally to 5,67,607, while 117 more fatalities pushed the toll to 14,550 in the state, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases has declined to 36,433 from 39,263 on Sunday, it said.Twelve deaths were reported from Patiala, 11 from Bathinda and nine each from Mohali and Muktsar districts, among the fatalities which took place in the last 24-hours, according to the bulletin.Of the fresh cases, Jalandhar reported 241 cases, followed by 223 in Ludhiana, 184 in Bathinda and 164 in Amritsar.The state’s positivity rate is at 3.93 per cent, the bulletin stated.With 4,904 recoveries, the number of cured persons in the state has reached 5,16,624, it said.There are 314 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 825 other critical patients and 4,440 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 92,56,146 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. Chandigarh registered 124 cases, taking the infection tally to 60,046 in the union territory, according to a medical bulletin.Eight more people succumbed to Covid-19, taking the toll to 753, in the city.The number of active cases declined to 1,767 from 2,134 the day before, according to the bulletin.With 483 people recovering from the disease, the number of cured persons has reached 57,526, it stated.A total of 5,08,469 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 4,47,211 tested negative while reports of 20 samples are awaited, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-117-deaths-2-221-fresh-infections-101622490650652.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab housing dept reduces non-construction fee by 50%||Mohali In a relief to allottees who could not start construction over their plots in the stipulated time, the department of housing and urban development, Punjab, has halved the non-construction fee. Besides, the earlier provision of calculating penalty half yearly in such cases has been replaced with monthly mode. The decision is applicable to properties, including residential, commercial, institutional, industrial, housing societies, private builders etc under Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA), Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) and other special development authorities. The reduced non-construction charges have come into effect from April 16, 2021, and for period before April 16, 2021, old charges will be applicable. An amendment to this effect has been made in the Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Act, 1995. A spokesperson of the department said it was deliberated that the non-construction fee being charged from the allottees was high and due to this, those who were not able to start construction, were compelled to resale the property.In case of residential and other allotted properties except commercial sites, the allottees would be required to pay the non-construction fee on the prevalent reserved price of plots or sites in the vicinity and no interest will be charged, the spokesperson said. However, in case of commercial sites, the fee would be calculated on auctioned or allotment price. Delayed payment in such cases, would attract compounded interest at the rate of 7% per annum, the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-housing-dept-reduces-non-construction-fee-by-50-101622490530392.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||May added half of total Covid deaths in Haryana||A month back when the skyrocketing medical oxygen demand had set the alarm bells ringing, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had described as “tsunami” the second Covid-19 wave which in May has left behind a trail of death and devastation.“One can expect a deluge in the rainy season and prepare accordingly, but what has hit us is nothing short of a tsunami,” Khattar had said in a news conference as the public in the streets panicked and even high-heeled people struggled to get a bed in the hospitals. And what followed was the scarcity of medical oxygen and the unnerving scale of the body bags that poured out of the homes and hospitals in May when almost 50% (4,005) of the total (8,221) deaths due to coronavirus took place in a month in Haryana. According to the analysis of the daily health bulletin data up to May 30, 2021, May has been the deadliest ever since the Wuhan virus was detected in Haryana in February 2020. In April this year, Haryana recorded the second highest 1,061 fatalities, 107 in March, 30 in February and 113 in January. On the other hand, till May 31, 2020, the death toll in Haryana due to Covid-19 was 20 and it began mounting after that. For example, the virus claimed 216 lives in June, 185 in July, 268 in August, 693 in September, 407 in October, 639 in November and 477 in December. Hisar has been the worst affected district where 860 people (420 in May alone) have died. The infection has claimed 328 lives in May in Gurugram out of total 804 fatalities. Faridabad is another district with high fatalities where 707 people (195 in May) have died. In May, Rohtak recorded 277 deaths followed by Bhiwani 268, Jind 262, Karnal 252, Panipat 242 and Ambala 233. The size and scale of this “tsunami” of death can be gauged from the fact that 268 people had died across 22 districts of Haryana in August last year and eight months later the disease killed 268 people in Bhiwani district alone in May. The fatality rate from 0.86% on April 30 has risen to 1.09% on May 30. More cases in may than total of last year Haryana had detected 2.62 lakh total positive cases till December 31, 2020. But in May the state recorded over 2.67 lakh Covid-19 positive cases, a clear indicator of how and why everybody including the health institutions were overburdened. While over 16.26 lakh samples were taken in May, Haryana had barely crossed the 16 lakh mark of total sample collected till September 17-18, 2020. Over 3.39 lakh people also recovered during the month and the recovery rate saw 16.98% jump. As per the data, in April, over 11.38 lakh samples were collected and over 1.97 lakh new infections were detected in the state while over 1 lakh patients had recovered. However, the recovery rate in April dipped by 16.43% as the recovery rate which was 95.57% on March 31 came down to 79.14% on April 30. The recovery rate 96.12% in May is almost close to what it was in January. Khattar updates PM Under mounting pressure to deliver and control the Covid surge, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who crisscrossed the state during medical oxygen crisis and took a series of steps to control the spread, on Monday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and apprised him how Haryana dealt with the second Covid-19 wave. Khattar said Prime Minister has expressed satisfaction over the arrangements Haryana government made to control the infection. Khattar also apprised the PM of the present and the future requirements of Haryana to combat Covid-19. The chief minister said that in view of the possibility of third wave, the PM has asked to be alert in the coming times as well. He said that the Prime Minister was also informed about the requirements for vaccine stock and black fungus medicine.The black fungus, as per official data, has claimed 61 lives in Haryana. There were 821 cases in the state till May 30 out of which 692 were under treatment and 68 people have been cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/may-added-half-of-total-covid-deaths-in-haryana-101622490410744.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||ASIs’ murder in Ludhiana: Man who helped shooters flee Punjab nabbed||Punjab Police have arrested a close aide of gangster Jaipal Bhullar, wanted for the sensational killing of CIA assistant sub inspectors (ASIs) Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh who were gunned down in Jagraon grain market on May 15. Police said Lucky Rajput, alias Lucky, a resident of New Pratap Nagar, Ludhiana, had actively assisted the killers of the two ASIs in fleeing from the state. Police have recovered a .32-bore country-made pistol, three live cartridges, two motorcycles and a Fiat Punto car from his possession.The development comes just two days after the Punjab Police arrested two of the main accused of the dual murders, Darshan Singh and Baljinder Singh, alias Babbi, from Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh. They were carrying a cash of ₹2 lakh each on their head.ALSO READ: ₹10 lakh reward for info on gangster JaipalInvestigators said Ludhiana police arrested Lucky near Khanpur Canal bridge following an input.A spokesperson of Punjab Police said Lucky was lodged at Ludhiana Central Jail when he came in contact with Darshan and Babbi, who later introduced him to Jaipal. Whenever Jaipal would pass through Ludhiana, Lucky and Darshan would escort his vehicle in their Fiat Punto to give advance information about police presence en route, he added.Carjacking case crackedA history-sheeter with several cases against him, Lucky was convicted in a murder case in 2008 and also wanted by Dehlon police in a carjacking case from November 2020. During questioning, Lucky disclosed that he, along with Jaipal, Darshan, Baljinder and one Babbi had snatched a Hyundai i10 (PB10-EU-0110) at gunpoint from Malerkotla road in November 2020. Police suspect that Jaipal and his accomplices used the same car to flee after killing the two ASIs.Also involved in Mohali resident’s kidnappingWith Lucky’s arrest, police have also cracked a December 2020 case where he and his accomplices had kidnapped a Mohali resident and demanded a ransom of ₹1.5 crore.Lucky, Jaipal, Babbi and another aide, Jaspreet Singh, had thrashed the victim, Pritpal Singh, alias Bobby. But, after his condition deteriorated, they left him with his car after snatching ₹86,000. In another case, Lucky, Darshan, Jaspreet and one Gagandeep Singh, alias Nona, had threatened the prime witnesses in the 2017 Banur cash van robbery case against testifying against Jaipal and his associates in court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/asis-murder-in-ludhiana-man-who-helped-shooters-flee-punjab-nabbed-101622489990831.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||45 confiscated vehicles gutted outside police station in Ludhiana||As many as 45 vehicles, including two cars, confiscated by police in different cases, were damaged after a fire broke out in front of Basti Jodhewal police station on Monday morning.According to police, the fire was caused after a stubble-laden tractor-trolley crashed into a nearby electricity transformer after being hit by a speeding bus.According to eyewitnesses, the speeding bus collided with the tractor-trolley in an attempt to overtake it. The trolley’s driver lost control over the vehicle that rammed into the electricity transformer. The impact led to an explosion, which caused fire in the stubble and the flames soon engulfed the vehicles parked outside the police station.The fire department was alerted and police personnel with the help of locals also tried to douse the flames meanwhile. As two fire trucks from Sundar Nagar and fire brigade Headquarters arrived at the scene, it took firefighters an hour to put out the blaze.Meanwhile, onlookers managed to nab the bus driver, who was found ferrying passengers at full capacity, in violation of government guidelines.Inspector Mohammad Jamil, station house officer, Jodhewal police station, said around 45 vehicles, including two-wheelers and four-wheelers, were gutted. He added that investigation was underway into the accident and appropriate action will be taken against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/45-confiscated-vehicles-gutted-outside-police-station-in-ludhiana-101622489637476.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||At 8, Ludhiana’s daily Covid deaths drop to lowest in 38 days||Having recorded the worst-ever spike in Covid-19 cases and deaths, the month of May ended with a further drop on both counts, as 223 people tested positive and eight died.Monday’s cases were higher only than the 197 recorded on March 14, 78 days ago, while the deaths were lowest in 38 days since April 23, which had also seen eight casualties.The latest fatalities, that included five men and three women, pushed the district’s toll to 1,999, while the caseload reached 84,115.The youngest among those who died was a 45-year-old female from Mundian and the oldest was a 75-year-old woman from Baazigar Basti. Two other deceased were in their 40s, two more in their 50s and the remaining two were aged 70 and 63.On the bright side, with more people recovering than those testing positive on Monday, the active caseload dipped to 4,276 from 4,740 a day ago. Among them, 29 patients are on ventilator support at various health facilities.The total number of patients getting cured has reached 77,840, a recovery rate of 92.54%.35% of all infections came in MayAs the second wave climbed vigorously in the beginning of May, the month witnessed 624 deaths, which account for 31% of the 1,999 fatalities in Ludhiana till date. At 29,529, May’s case tally also makes for 35% of the district’s caseload, an average of 952 positive cases a day.Among the 624 deaths, 541 were reported in Ludhiana city, and the remaining 83 in the towns of Jagraon, Raikot, Khanna, Samrala and Payal.While the administration has relaxed the curfew further, allowing businesses to remain open from 5am to 5pm, health experts have cautioned residents against going complacent in view of the receding cases, as increase in public movement may spur a deadlier third wave.Five more cases of mucormycosis crop upFive fresh cases of mucormycosis or black fungus were reported in Ludhiana on Monday. The fungal infection has claimed eight lives in Ludhiana so far, including six from other districts.As many as 78 patients, including 45 from other districts, are still recovering from the disease in various hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-8-ludhiana-s-daily-covid-deaths-drop-to-lowest-in-38-days-101622489571715.html
01-06-2021||Other||Stage set for launch of major vaccination drive in Lucknow, over 10,500 jabs to be given at three camps daily||The Uttar Pradesh capital’s biggest Covid-19 vaccination drive is set to start on Tuesday with the target of inoculating over 10,500 people in a day at three major camps at the Bharat Ratna Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Cricket Stadium, the iconic Chhota Imambara and the KD Singh Babu Stadium. The mega camps have been set up as part of the UP government’s aggressive vaccination drive that aims to administer around one crore doses in June.In addition to the mega camps, vaccination will be done at 76 existing centres across the city which can administer over 19,000 doses in a day, according to the health department. District magistrate Abhishek Prakash reviewed the last-minute preparations at the newly-established mega vaccination centres on Monday.“We have set up three mega Covid 19 vaccination centres— Chhota Imambara, KD Singh Babu Stadium and Bharat Ratna Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Cricket Stadium to carry out Covid 19 vaccination on a mass level,” Prakash said. The vaccination centres would operate between 10am and 4pm, he said.The Ekana Cricket Stadium would be the biggest vaccination centre.“The centre would have 20 booths — 10 for people between 18 and 45 years of age and the remaining for those above 45 years of age”, said Dr MK Singh, additional chief medical officer/district immunisation officer (DIO). The Chhota Imambara and KD Singh Babu Stadium centres would have eight booths each — four each for the 18- 45 age group and the 45- plus category.So far, around 6,000 people, including those in the 18-45 age group, have got themselves registered on the mobile application for vaccination at the three mega centres.“For those who are 45 plus and are technically challenged, we have also created an on-spot registration desk. They can get the registration done by showing their Aadhaar cards,” said officials with the health department.The health department has set a target of vaccinating over 10,500 people per day. The health department has deployed a team of over 200 officials, including doctors, paramedical staff and Ashas (accredited social health activists) to ensure smooth vaccination at the three mega centres.“Three doctors, including the nodal officer, will take care of the entire vaccination exercise. Besides, there will be four doctors each at all the three mega vaccination centres and over 70 vaccinators. This is double the requirement. Around 40 data entry personnel will upload the data on the portal. We have also deployed ambulances at all the vaccination centres in case of any emergency situation,” he added.The KD Singh Babu and Ekana stadium vaccination centres would have parents’ special booths where parents of children up to 12 years of age can get themselves vaccinated on priority after showing the valid age proof of their children.Dr Singh said unlike regular centres where people have to reach on their own, the administration has made transportation arrangements for women and senior citizens.“The aim is to enable them to get to the vaccination centres,” said Dr Singh.“Be it potable water facilities, seating arrangements, clean toilets, well-furnished observation area and transportation, all these facilities would give altogether a different experience to people,” he said.The health department has also made special arrangements at all three centres for the safe handling of the vaccines and to check wastage. Officials said the department had arranged heavy duty vaccine carriers to maintain the cold chain and to keep the vaccine temperature between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius. These vaccine carriers are designed to maintain the cold chain for a longer period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stage-set-for-launch-of-major-vaccination-drive-in-lucknow-over-10-500-jabs-to-be-given-at-three-camps-daily-101622489389733.html
01-06-2021||Other||43% vaccination target for 45+ age group, 83% for 18+ met in Meerut district||Only 43% of the target of 7.44 lakh people in the 45-plus age group and 83% of 1.22 lakh people in the 18-45 age group have been vaccinated in Meerut district in western Uttar Pradesh, according to health department data. Health department officials said misconceptions about vaccines among villagers were holding many people back.The state government had set a target of vaccinating 7,44,572 people in the age group of 45 years and above in the district. A total of 3,20,690 people in this age group were vaccinated till May 29. In percentage terms, this is 43.1, according to official data.The district, however, has performed better in the 18-45 years’ age group for whom vaccination had started on May 1. In 29 days, 1,02,322 people in the 18-45 age group were vaccinated against a target of 1,22,700. This number is 83.4% of the target. The total number of vaccines administered in the district till May 29 was 4,68,815 (first dose) and 94,554 ( second dose). These numbers include beneficiaries in the age groups of 18-45 years, 45 to 60 years and above, along with healthcare and frontline workers. The health department had established 63 centres across the district for vaccination of people in the age group of 45 years and above and 39 centres for beneficiaries in the age group of 18 to 45 years, said district immunisation officer (Meerut) Dr Praveen Gautam.He also said that 4200 Covishield, 1100 Covaxin and 2210 booster Covaxin doses would be available every day between May 31 and June 5. Vaccines were to be administered to different target groups as per the guidelines of the state government, he added. Besides regular vaccination centres, two parents’ special vaccination booths have been established in the city area for inoculation of parents who have children below the age of 12 years. These vaccination centres would be functional from June 1 and the parents can book their slots after registration either on CoWin or Aarogya Setu. “Three hundred parents would be vaccinated daily at these centres,” said Dr Gautam. In addition, frontline workers would be administered vaccines at their workplace. “Every day, 1000 such people (500 each in the 18-plus and 45-plus age groups) would be vaccinated,” said Dr Gautam. A special drive for Bar Association and judicial services members, mediapersons, teachers (basic and intermediate), power corporation and roadways employees has also been launched at their workplace and every day 100 persons are being vaccinated in each category, he said.Chief medical officer (Meerut) Dr Akhilesh Mohan expressed satisfaction with 43.1% vaccination in the 45-plus age group.“We are in third position in vaccination in the state,” he said, while admitting, “We need to work more to bring a bigger percentage to the vaccination centres.” He mentioned reluctance among Muslims and large rural population as reasons for the vaccination percentage being below the target. “We are seeking help of some NGOs and influential people. Health officials also had called on (Samajwadi Party) city MLA Rafeeq Ansari in this regard who has assured his help,” said CMO. He added, “ Despite non- cooperation from some sections of the society, we have done fair enough.” For his part, Dr Gautam said, “Convincing the rural population is also a herculean task.” He said a majority of villagers believed that the coronavirus could not infect them as they worked hard in the fields and, therefore, their immunity was stronger than others. City’s nayab shahar qazi and Jamial-e-Ulema Hind city president Zainus Rasheedin said Muslims had suspicions about the vaccines. “Many of them ask why only two vaccines are being administered? It brings fever and other sufferings. And Adar Poonawala’s (chief executive officer of Serum Institute of India) decision to go to UK has also raised suspicions about his vaccine,” Rasheedin said. “I have made an appeal to people to come forward and get vaccinated because it is safe,” he said.About why and his elder brother shahar qazi Zainus Sajeedin had not taken the vaccines yet, the nayab qazi said, “We are heart patients and also have other problems because of old age. That is why we have not taken the vaccine yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/43-vaccination-target-for-45-age-group-83-for-18-met-in-meerut-district-101622489269666.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana teen bludgeoned to death by four brothers, aide over cricket game quarrel||Four brothers and their accomplice bludgeoned a 19-year-old man to death with a baseball bat after a cricket game went awry at Sanjay Gandhi Colony on Sunday night.None of the brothers – Amit Kumar, Ravi, Arvind and Subash – or their accomplice has been arrested yet. The victim, Karan Yadav, a resident of Sanjay Gandhi Colony, worked at a hosiery factory. His brother Ravi Kumar told the police that Karan used to play cricket with the colony youths. On Sunday, he had an altercation with two brothers, Amit and Ravi, over a game before returning home.Around 9pm, Karan stepped out for a walk, when he was waylaid by Amit, Ravi and their accomplice, who arrived in a Maruti Suzuki Esteem near Gopal Mandir.The complainant, who saw the men arrive in the car, alleged that the trio started hurling abuses at Karan in connection with the cricket game earlier.Ravi suddenly pinioned Karan and Amit hit him repeatedly with a baseball ball. Leaving Karan bleeding on the road, the trio fled in the car, Ravi alleged.Ravi rushed Karan to a private hospital, where doctors referred him to Christian Medical College and Hospital, but he succumbed to his injuries.Fourth born of five siblings, including three brothers and a younger sister, the deceased is also survived by his parents.Police let accused go scot-free, allege kinRavi alleged that after his brother died, Arvind came to his house, warning them against filing a police complaint. He and his family nabbed him and tied him to a tree, before handing him over to the police. However, the police let him leave after some time, Ravi alleged.Soon, their family also found a video that showed Arvind and Subhash also at the crime scene, while their accomplice turned out to be Arvind’s brother-in-law. Ravi claimed that they produced the video before the police for adding three more names in the FIR. But the police did not pay heed.On Monday afternoon, the victim’s family members blocked traffic at Tajpur Chowk for at least one hour. It was only after police named the other accused in the FIR and pacified the protesters that they lifted the demonstration, allowing traffic to resume.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, East) Davinder Chaudhary said a murder case was earlier registered against Amit Kumar, his brother Ravi and their unidentified accomplice. Later, after the complainant alleged that two more accused were involved in the crime, they were also named in the FIR.The official refuted the allegation of setting one of the accused free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-teen-bludgeoned-to-death-by-four-brothers-aide-over-cricket-game-quarrel-101622489150321.html
01-06-2021||Other||30-year-old civic employee murdered by 2 in Mumbai’s Wadala||A 30-year-old civic employee was murdered by two men at Wadala in Mumbai on Sunday night, said police. The victim, identified as Vasanth Devendra, was sitting in the premises of his building at Kokri depot along with his wife and neighbours around 10.30pm on Sunday when two men attacked him from behind on his head with a sickle, killing him instantly. According to Wadala TT police, the victim knew the accused. The police said that the witnesses identified the accused as Bala Nadar and his accomplice. Devendra worked for a political party and the police are trying to establish if the case has a political angle. Police recovered the CCTV footage of the building gate, which shows the assailants entering the premises and fleeing after the murder. “Prima facie, the victim was murdered over an old enmity. Devendra’s wife, the main eyewitness of the crime, is still in shock. We have registered a case and are trying to trace the accused,” said an officer from Wadala TT police station. Devendra’s friends and neighbours said he used to do social work in his locality. “Since the lockdown began, Devendra has been feeding over 500 families in Sion,” one of his friends said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/30yearold-civic-employee-murdered-by-2-in-mumbai-s-wadala-101622488729709.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||6 million doses in June: Maharashtra to focus on 45+ age group||With Maharashtra expected to get six million vaccine doses in June, the state’s focus is administering second doses to beneficiaries and covering maximum people for first dose in the 45+ age category. The state is awaiting enough stock to resume inoculation of beneficiaries in the 18-45 age category, senior health department officials said.According to officials, Maharashtra is set to get four million vaccine doses from the Centre throughout June and it has placed a purchase order for two million doses, mainly for the 18-45 category. However, the 2 million doses could be diverted for inoculation of above 45, if there is a delay in supply from the Centre.DN Patil, state immunisation officer, said that the distribution of the expected vaccine doses will be done on the basis of active patients, positivity rate, etc. He said the department will push vaccine doses in districts that are lagging behind in immunisation. “We will push the doses in areas that have high positivity. It is a combination of giving priority to second dose and pushing first dose to cover all areas. Besides, districts that have low vaccination percentage are given more doses to boost their numbers,” Patil said.On Monday, Maharashtra administered 256,827 doses till 9pm, taking the tally to 22,582,329 doses. So far, 4,569,247 beneficiaries are fully inoculated, as per the data on CoWin portal.Meanwhile, a formal decision is yet to be taken on when the drive for people in the 18-45 age group. The inoculation for the category was temporarily suspended since May 13 due to lack of adequate vaccine stock for second doses for those over 45 years. “We will see how the stock comes in—both from the Centre and what we purchase—depending on that, we will take a decision. We have not set a date for resumption for the drive for 18-45, but we hope to resume it in the near future,” added Patil.Maharashtra has over 9,000 vaccination centres, including sub-centres, which cover 4-5 villages each.From its share, the Central government allocates vaccines to states and union territories based on criteria such as number of active cases, speed of vaccination and wastage. “We have been following the same guidelines. Besides, we also look at the size of the population that is eligible for vaccine,” said an official.The Centre had directed state governments and union territories to form a state steering committee, state task force and state control room. Similar committees and task forces have been formed down to the block level to plan and execute the vaccination drive, the official added. “We have implemented the organisational set up to form task force and committees under the chief secretary as directed by the Centre. Besides, we have enough experience to tackle large scale vaccination drives,” the official added.Overall, the distribution of vaccines in the state depends on the population eligible for inoculation. Every district has cold chain, which gets supply from the cold chain at the divisional level. The districts get the supply based on the number of vaccination centres, which are finalised on the number of beneficiaries based on the population. A centralised system gets real-time data of the usage of the vials and on the basis of the potential number of eligible citizens, further stock is provided. The distribution of the stock is also done on the basis of the available stock, state officials said.The stock is supplied to the divisional/district/city level cold chains on the basis of availability at the state level and the requirement at lower level. The supply chain works in pyramid system. State level centre is at the apex, while the sub-centre level is at the bottom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/6-million-doses-in-june-maharashtra-to-focus-on-45-age-group-101622488610433.html
01-06-2021||Other||Engage CDRI for genome sequencing in UP, Yogi tells officials||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday asked the officials concerned to engage the Lucknow-based Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI) for genome sequencing of the coronavirus in UP in order to study mutations.“Doing a deep study and tracking any coronavirus mutation is important. Several institutes in the country have been studying the virus. Under the circumstances, rope in the Central Drug Research Institute for doing genome sequencing of the coronavirus in UP. Such scientific research would certainly help in protection from the pandemic in the future,” he said at a Covid-19 review meeting.CDRI is a premier drug research institute under the CSIR (Council of Scientific and Industrial Research).He also discussed the state’s preparations for tackling the speculated third wave of the pandemic.It was important to have proper training of the personnel who would be engaged in pandemic control and treatment, he said.“Such training would begin in Noida and Lucknow today (Monday). Similarly, paediatric training would start on June 1 (Tuesday). Accomplish the training as soon as possible,” he said.He also said UP’s Covid recovery rate was now 96.6%. In the last 24 hours, the positivity rate (the number of positive cases against the total number of tests) was 0.5%, he added.“In the last 24 hours, the state did 3.12 lakh tests. Since March last year, a total of 4.94 crore tests were conducted in the state. No other state did as many tests,” he claimed.Experts had predicted over one lakh fresh positive cases each day in UP in May, but the state had merely 1,497 cases in the last 24 hours, he said. In the same period, a total of 5,491 Covid patients recovered, he added. So far, a total of 16.37 lakh people had recovered from Covid-19 in the state, the chief minister noted.After a steady decline in the intensity of Covid infection in the state, the oxygen demand and supply were now balanced in the state, he said, adding that oxygen audit helped to cut wastage significantly.Sero-survey in state from June 4Chief minister Yogi Adityanath also announced that a sero- survey will begin in the state from June 4 and the results were likely to come by the month-end.Sero-survey or seroprevalence studies are based on analysis of antibodies through blood sample collection. Periodic sero-surveillance to monitor the Covid-19 trend has been going on in the country, including UP.“It’s important to do a sero-survey. Sample collection for it will begin on June 4. Results and analysis of the survey are likely to come by June-end,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/engage-cdri-for-genome-sequencing-in-up-yogi-tells-officials-101622488609820.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||Marathas now EWS; 6K youths to get govt jobs||Weeks after the Supreme Court quashed the reservation to Maratha community, the state government put them in the 10% Economically Weak Section (EWS) quota to accommodate over 6,000 youth from the community into government service. The Maharashtra government on Monday issued a resolution announcing that community members with an annual family income of less than ₹8 lakh can take advantage of the quota. The resolution has also clarified that the community can avail the benefits for the quota with retrospective effect, helping those who had received the benefits during the period of interim stay by the Bombay High Court on September 9, 2020 and Supreme Court quashing the quota on May 5, 2021.The 6,000 youth were selected under the erstwhile Maratha quota, but they were not formally recruited as the quota was scrapped before the process could be completed. The government has now included Marathas in the EWS with retrospective effect which means they will be accommodated in government service. The EWS is available for all candidates in the open category who fulfil the criteria of being economically weak. Candidates from castes that have reservation do not get the benefit of EWS. As Marathas no longer have a quota, the government has now scrapped the previous order and issued a fresh one saying they are eligible for the EWS. “There are about 6,000 youth who had completed various stages of recruitment in government jobs of various departments before September 9, 2020, but were not given appointment letters. The SC order does not give protection to the employees not recruited before September 9 last year. Although the state government had taken the decision of accommodating the community in EWS on September 22, the order was issued only on December 23 because of the resistance of the community. People were recruited during this period. With the help of this order, we can now consider accommodating such youth in EWS quota. Some of the candidates from EWS quota may get thrown out of reservation, but we are considering accommodating them by creating extra posts,” said an official from Mantralaya. The Supreme Court on May 5, scrapped 13 and 12% quota in jobs and education to Marathas under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, 2018. The SC, however, protected the jobs given before September 9, 2020. The state has appointed a high-level committee under retired high court judge Dilip Bhosale to study the court order and recommend the way forward till May 31. The committee has given seven more days submit its report till June 7. “Besides the legal recourse to find a way out to get the reservation back, the committee is also expected to recommend alternatives to safeguard the jobs of youth who could not be recruited in due time. The decision will be taken in days after the submission of the report,” the official said. Maratha community leaders have expressed their unhappiness over the government decision. “We will not get even 4% share of the EWS quota as many other communities from open category are getting these benefits,” said Rajendra Kondhare, general secretary, Akhil Bharatiya Maratha Mahasangh. Meanwhile, BJP MP and Maratha leader Sambhajhiraje Chhatrapati stirred controversy on Monday by saying that government was spying on him. In a tweet in the evening, he said that he was surprised to learn that government was spying on him with the help of police personnel in his security squad. However, hours after, he tweeted it was a misunderstanding. “State home minister Dilip Walse Patil spoke to me and clarified that there was not such intention. The additional police force was given to prevent any nuisance. I am satisfied with it,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/marathas-now-ews-6k-youths-to-get-govt-jobs-101622488491869.html
01-06-2021||Other||Non-essential shops in Mumbai to open in rotation||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday allowed the reopening of non-essential shops between 7am and 2pm from Monday to Friday on a rotation, based on the alternate-day formula. Non-essential shops will remain closed on Saturday and Sunday. The new guidelines will be applicable from Tuesday. BMC issued the order under the state government’s ‘Break the Chain’ initiative, under which non-essential shops are allowed to reopen in districts where the positivity rate is below 10% and the oxygen bed occupancy is less than 40%. As Mumbai fulfils both the criteria, some restrictions have been curbed. An order issued by civic commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Monday stated that e-commerce websites will be allowed to deliver non-essential items. However, gyms, salons and beauty parlours will continue to remain shut. Restaurants and bars will also continue to remain shut. However, home delivery is allowed on all days of the week.According to Chahal’s order, on the first week, non-essential shops on the right side of the road will be allowed to open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday between 7am and 2pm, while those on the left side can operate on Tuesday and Thursday. The left-side shops will remain open the next week for three days. Thus, on a rotational basis, both the sides will get to operate the shops thrice every alternate week. BMC officials said that the local wards will provide clarity on which sides of the road will be considered left and right sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nonessential-shops-in-mumbai-to-open-in-rotation-101622488489616.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||456 cops retire from Mumbai Police, 27 felicitated in low-key affair||As many as 456 cops and ministerial clerical staff working with Mumbai Police retired on Monday. Most of these police personnel, from constables to assistant commissioners of police (ACPs) rank, have June 1 as their birth date and on retire on May 31, on the eve of the completion of 58 years.A police officer said that as the new academic sessions used to begin on June 1, children born in the 1960s and 1970s were often given that date as their date of birth, especially if their parents were unsure about the exact dates. Because of this, hundreds of government sector employees have their birth dates on June 1 and retire on May 31.Among those who retired from the police department on Monday include investigators who played a key role in some of the most sensational and high-profile cases, including several terror probes, in the past.“In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, official farewell functions for retiring cops have been cancelled since last March. However, seeing the decline trend in the cases of Covid-19 infection in the city, the department has restarted the felicitation ceremony again from this month,” said a police officer. Considering Covid-19 protocols, senior officers have instructed to keep low-key farewell functions on the respective police stations or other units.“To ensure social distancing and avoid mass gathering, commissioner of police Hemant Nagrale felicitated a group of only 27 retired police personnel selected on the basis of their seniority. The function was held at JS Bharucha Hall at the police headquarters on Monday morning,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Chaitanya Siriprolu.The family members of the police personnel were not invited for the retirement day function as part of the Covid-19 protocol.Those felicitated on their last day in the service include assistant commissioners of police (ACPs) Dattatray Bhadgude, Sukhlal Varpe, Rajendra Patil, Vijay Dhopawkar, Pandit Thorat, Pandharinath Waval, Kundalik Nigade, Vilas Kanade and senior inspectors Pandit Thackerey, Vinod Gadankush and Vidyasagar Kalkundre.The retired cops were presented with wrist watches, a new identity card and a memento, among other gifts. The souvenirs for the other retired police personnel were sent to their homes.The special branch-1 organised a farewell function for its department’s retired personnel at Prerna Hall in Fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/456-cops-retire-from-mumbai-police-27-felicitated-in-low-key-affair-101622488490257.html
01-06-2021||Other||Bombay HC: Act against ambulance services for overcharging||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) directed the district collectors to take cognisance of complaints received by aggrieved persons against overcharging by ambulance service providers under the Disaster Management Act. The court’s directions came after it was informed that the ambulances provided for the rural population and the needy, as per its instructions, had turned into profiteering by the service providers, though there was a cap on the charges that they could collect from Covid-19 patients.The directions were given on May 28, when the division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and Balchandra Debadwar was hearing the criminal suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) based on news reports of issues pertaining to the shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir, treatment of Mucormycosis, bed management and other Covid-related issues. During the hearing, the bench was informed by amicus curiae Satyajit Bora that new reports pointed to profiteering by ambulance service providers. Bora added that while the state and civic authorities had complied with the court’s directions to provide ambulance services in far-flung rural areas, the ambulances were demanding exorbitant amounts. During the May 13 hearing, the bench had been informed that ambulances belonging to the state and some non-governmental organisations (NGOs) had been deployed to ferry patients to Covid-19 facilities, the rates for which were fixed. The bench had accepted the submission but observed that errant drivers of state ambulances should be dealt with strictly, and slip-ups by drivers of ambulances of NGOs would result in deregistration of the organisations themselves. The court had sought an update of the issue in every hearing. In the next hearing on May 19, the state informed the bench that it was complying with the court orders and providing ambulance services in rural areas as well as for the needy. However on May 28, Bora drew the attention of the bench to a news report wherein a journalist had interacted with an ambulance driver who was demanding an exorbitant amount to ferry a patient to a Covid Care Centre. The report also pointed out that though rates had been capped, the ambulance driver refused to abide by it and the regional transport authority had not taken cognisance of the reporter’s complaint. After hearing the submission the bench said, “We are of the view that since the collector of every district is the authority under the Disaster Management Act, all aggrieved patients/their relatives would be at liberty to complain to the district collector if they have suffered such overcharging of ambulance fare. The district collector would deal with such complaints in accordance with the procedure as is laid down.” The next hearing has been scheduled for June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-act-against-ambulance-services-for-overcharging-101622488429642.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||SEC nod for BMC elections in February 2022||The state election commission (SEC) on Monday gave a go-ahead to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to hold the civic polls in February 2022. Amid Covid-19 wave, the BMC had last week sought clarification on the schedule. The city has 227 wards and the civic polls were last conducted in February 2017. The Shiv Sena has a majority of corporators (97), followed by BJP (82), Congress (30) and other smaller parties. The civic body will now study the models and patterns of five states – Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry – where Assembly elections were conducted recently. Civic officials will also study the gram panchayat elections conducted in Maharashtra earlier this year. The preparations will be undertaken considering the 2011 census, as the 2021 census is delayed due to the pandemic. UPS Madan, state election commissioner, told HT, “As of now BMC polls are as per schedule.” According to SEC officials, a lottery for reserving wards for women and SC/STs will be undertaken later this year. Reservation for OBCs will be affected by the Supreme Court order which rejected the state government’s review petition concerning reservation to Marathas. The SEC has also asked the BMC to begin work on delimitation of electoral wards or rectification of wards, which were redrawn in 2017. However, since no new census data after 2011 is currently available to carry out a full-fledged delimitation exercise, it is likely that only a rectification process will be carried out. The SEC has also asked the BMC to prepare new voter lists, based on the voter lists for 2019 state Assembly elections. Sangeeta Hasnale, assistant municipal commissioner, said, “We have been informed that the elections for BMC will take place as per schedule in February 2022. Accordingly, we are starting our preparations for the paperwork. We will have to consider 2011 census for the upcoming polls. We will definitely have to consider Covid-19 while planning, considering it may remain till that time. However, the situation might have changed with vaccination, but we will have to factor it in our planning.” Meanwhile, Rais Shaikh, Samajwadi Party (SP) corporator, said, “I will not comment on whether it is okay to conduct elections. But the BMC can approach the state Covid task force to get an understanding of the ground situation.” Ravi Raja, Congress corporator and leader of opposition in the BMC, said, “It is good that permission has been given by the SEC, but Covid-related factors should be considered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/secnod-for-bmc-elections-in-february-2022-101622488430196.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Govt should brace itself for possible third wave: Hooda||Sounding an alarm bell, leader of opposition in Haryana Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday said the state government should start preparing for the possible third wave of coronavirus infection. Hooda said emphasis should be now on strengthening the health services infrastructure in Haryana. At a press briefing on Monday, the former chief minister said a lot of planning will have to be done to handle the post-corona conditions such as inflation, recession, poverty and unemployment. “The unemployment rate in Haryana has reached 35.1% and every third person of the state is unemployed. The government should lend a helping hand to those whose business has been affected during the pandemic,” he said. Hooda demanded that government should give ₹5 lakh each to the families of the people who lost their lives due to Covid. “Pension should also be announced for families with no bread-earner left in their family. But for this, the government must first collect the correct figures of those who died. It is clear that the number of people who died from the pandemic is much higher than the numbers put out by the government,” he said. Hooda said he did not agree with the statement of chief minister ML Khattar who said the government had slowed down the pace of vaccination. “Instead of decreasing the pace of vaccination, it needs to be increased,” he said. Hooda said the government had failed in containing the pandemic and the state health minister himself issued a statement saying that the situation has become so bad that the army will have to be called. The BJP MP from Bhiwani-Mahendragarh had also spoken about the collapse of the health system, Hooda said. Responding to Khattar’s remarks that a letter written by Hooda to him did not deserve a reply, the former chief minister said that as the leader of Opposition, it was his duty to raise people’s problems before the government. “What I had asked were not personal questions but concerns of the people who were battling the virus without beds, medicines and oxygen. But the chief minister did not answer any of them because the government does not have any answers. The CM instead is resorting to political commentary to hide the government’s failure,” Hooda said. “In this hour of crisis, we are ready to cooperate with the government for the welfare of the people. But the CM refused to even call an all-party meeting and is now resorting to passing personal remarks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-should-brace-itself-for-possible-third-wave-hooda-101622488313494.html
01-06-2021||Other||All shops can open from 7am to 2pm in Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli||With the Maharashtra government permitting some relaxations for districts with positivity rate below 10%, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has released its own notification on the extension of the lockdown till June 15. As on Monday, Thane’s positivity rate stands at 7.86%. TMC has permitted all shops to remain open from 7am to 2pm. Non-essential shops, however, will have to remain closed during weekends. TMC also directed non-essential shops in malls and shopping complexes to remain closed.The civic body will continue to impose stricter norms at the eight containment zones in the city. The norms for these zones will be decided depending on the situation. A civic official said, “We have not permitted shops in malls or shopping centres to open, to avoid crowding at these places. Non-essential shops in markets can remain open till 2pm, except on weekends.” Restaurants are also permitted to carry on with home deliveries. Meanwhile, the Kalyan Dombivli civic body also announced relaxations and allowed shops selling agricultural products to remain open from 7am to 7pm. However, no counter delivery will be allowed after 2pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-shops-can-open-from-7am-to-2pm-in-thane-and-kalyandombivli-101622488249601.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||More than 50% Covid beds in main hospitals vacant||Rohtak With a steady decline in the daily infections, the Covid bed availability in all main health institutes in the region has improved immensely. Now, over 50% beds dedicated to Covid patients are vacant at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, Bhagat Phool Singh (BPS) Medical College at Khanpur Kalan in Sonepat, Maharaja Agrasen Medical College (MAMC), Agroha, and other healthcare institutes in the region. As per official data, only 110 Covid -19 patients against the bed capacity of 566 are undergoing treatment at PGIMS, which means 81% beds are available. Similarly, MAMC has 200 Covid beds, of which only 98 are occupied, while 270 of the 350 beds are vacant at BPSMC, Khanpur. Director of MAMC Dr Geetika Duggal said only critically ill patients are coming for the treatment now and most of them need either oxygen or ventilator. “There are many patients who were admitted during the peak time and are undergoing treatment. The numbers have started coming down for the last one week. The demand for the ICU beds is still on the higher side, but the oxygen beds are easily available,” she said. PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said the number of Covid-19 patients has been continuously decreasing and they were relieved. “The critical patients have to stay for longer duration in hospital. Those who are on ventilator support take up to a month to recover. The casualties are also decreasing. Our doctors and other medical staff have worked tirelessly. The people should continue to wear face masks and take all precautions because the virus can take ugly turn anytime,” she added. Doctors at two private hospitals in Rohtak said there is demand for ventilators and most of the patients are from rural areas. “These are the patients who didn’t get tested on time and assumed that they are suffering from viral fever not from covid,” said a doctor, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/more-than-50-covid-beds-in-main-hospitals-vacant-101622488196719.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||‘Class 10, 12 exams like apple and cheese, can’t be compared’||Class 12 (higher secondary certificate) is a relatively important milestone in students’ career than Class 10 (secondary school certificate), said the state in its affidavit in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Bombay high court on Monday, justifying its decision to postpone Class 12 exams and scrap Class 10 exams. The government said while an assessment formula has been issued for Class 10, Class 12 exams have been postponed, adding that taking the same decision for the two would be “like comparing apple and cheese, just because both are edible”. The next hearing is likely on June 1. The state on May 28 announced Class 10 students would be evaluated through internal assessment and results of Class 9 for 2020-21. The affidavit, filed through Rajendra Pawar, deputy secretary, state school education department in response to the PIL by Pune resident and retired professor Dhananjay Kulkarni through advocate Uday Warunjikar, said SSC exams were cancelled considering the safety of students, teachers, parents and stakeholders amid second wave. Kulkarni in his petition claimed there was no justification behind cancelling SSC exams, which nearly 16 lakh students were to appear for, while postponing HSC exams, which are attempted by nearly 14 lakh students. The state said final decisions pertaining to Class 12 exams would be based on consultation, discussion and guidance of stakeholders along with the Centre’s decision on national level. “It was thought fit that Class 12 board examinations were relatively more important milestones in the education of students as their future careers depend upon the same, as compared to 10th standard examinations…There would not be any debate that a Class 12 student would be more mature, independent, socially aware, bodily and mentally fit as compared to Class 10 student…it cannot be said that a decision that is taken in regard to holding or not, of any of these two examinations, must be uniformly made applicable to both these examinations. It is like comparing an apple with cheese only because both are edible.” The affidavit said as there is a threat of a third wave in July or August, which experts say would affect those between 10 and 18 years of age, decisions pertaining to exams will have to be taken after due consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/class-10-12-exams-like-apple-and-cheese-can-t-be-compared-101622488129600.html
01-06-2021||Other||Bombay HC rejects plea for trade union polls||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has refused to allow elections of a trade union in Jalgaon during the lockdown period in light of the ‘Break the Chain’ notification issued by the state government in April. The court observed that though the blame game for Covid-related issues will continue, recovery of lives lost to the virus will not be possible. The bench held that as three members of the trade union succumbed to Covid-19, while two others were in home quarantine, “the heavens would not come down” if elections to the union were not held. The division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Balchandra Debadwar, while hearing a petition filed by the trade union members, was informed by advocate PV Barde that the deputy registrar of the trade unions and Nashik district collector had refused permission to conduct elections on May 12 and 18, respectively. As the term of elected officials would come to an end on May 25, the union wanted to conduct the elections but the members were opposing it. Government pleader DR Kale informed the bench that as per the ‘Break the Chain’ notification of the state government, an assembly of people was not allowed, and if the elections were to be conducted, it would result in violation of the notification and hence, must not be allowed. The union, however, informed the bench through advocate SR Patil that initially the deputy district collector had allowed the election, provided six conditions were complied with. Patil submitted that the poll should be allowed as the union and its members were willing to comply with the conditions. In light of this, he sought HC’s directions for the district collector and deputy registrar to permit the elections.After hearing the submissions, the bench observed, “These are unprecedented situations and this country is facing a health challenge. It is the responsibility of every citizen to take care of health and safeguard the health of all others too. If the elections are permitted, and if for any reason, a few voters report [Covid-] positive post elections and leads to loss of life, the entire blame would be on those office-bearers of the union, who are desirous of holding the elections despite such a challenging situation. In such an unfortunate situation, the blame game may continue, but the loss of human life can never be recovered.” The bench refused to issue any direction to authorities to allow the elections and disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-rejects-plea-for-trade-union-polls-101622487949614.html
01-06-2021||Other||Piling work of priority corridor of Agra metro rail project completed: UPMRC||The first metro station of the Taj city has started coming into shape as Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) has completed the piling work of Taj East Gate and Basai stations in less than six months time period, stated a press statement issued by UPMRC on Monday.It stated that the entire piling work of the first two stations of the priority corridor of Agra Metro Project namely Taj East Gate and Basai metro station (also known as the P3 section) has been completed in less than 6 months since the project was inaugurated. The construction work of the Agra Metro Project is being carried out with full momentum and owing to the sustained efforts of the UPMRC team the entire piling work of the first two stations has been completed in this short time frame.The construction work is on for the 3 kilometres elevated section of the priority stretch, which runs from Taj East Gate to Jama Masjid. This is no less of achievement by UPMRC, considering the ongoing corona pandemic situation.The first corridor of the Agra Metro Project runs from Taj East Gate to Sikandara. As of now, the construction work is on for the 3km elevated section of the priority corridor. The total 6km priority stretch comprises 3 elevated and 3 underground stations, stated the press statement issued by the public relations department of UP Metro Rail Corporation.The managing director of UPMRC Shri Kumar Keshav said, “The structure of the first station of the priority section is also shaping along smoothly and it will soon be ready. I would like to congratulate the Agra Metro Project team for defying all odds and carrying out the construction with full dedication and following all safety measures.”It is to be noted that civil construction work for Agra Metro Project was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 7, 2020. Since then, the construction work is being carried out with sustained momentum and to date, 448 pile, 59 pile caps and 26 piers have been completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/piling-work-of-priority-corridor-of-agra-metro-rail-project-completed-upmrc-101622487829676.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh saw 175% increase in Covid deaths in May||Seeing a record number of infections and deaths, May turned out to be the worst month ever since the pandemic broke out in the city last year.Though the cases have started to come down now, the number gradually increased to 895 single-day cases recorded on May 9. During this month, the city also witnessed overwhelming of the health-care infrastructure as the ICU beds with ventilators remained occupied, leaving the patients scrambling for critical care beds. For seven days in a row, there was scarcity of critical beds in the city.In absolute numbers, the deaths went up from 99 in April to 275 in May, an increase of around 175%. “The surge that was witnessed in the month of April resulted in high number of fatalities in May. The situation is expected to come down in the next three weeks,” said Dr Jagat Ram, the director of PGIMER.In the last one week, the number of new infections grew by an average of 0.3% every day. The positivity rate also reached 3.6%, with a constant decline in the cases from 11%.Dr Amandeep Kang, the director of health services, stated that the doubling rate in the city is now 242 days. She also mentioned that the recovery rate was 95.2% and 3,43,300 Covishield vaccine doses had been administered to the residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-witnessed-175-increase-in-deaths-in-may-101622487650688.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||May alone accounted for 39% Covid deaths in Mohali||Though there was a dip in the number of Covid-19 cases reported after May 10, the month still contributed to 30% of the total cases so far.Out of a total 66,495 cases, 19,924 cases were reported in May, which is the highest ever number since the outbreak. As for death count, the month contributed to 39% of all fatalities: of the total 968 deaths, 373 were reported in May alone, which is the highest number in the last 14 months.Of the 373 people who died in May, 224 persons were above the age of 60, while 101 were between the age group of 46-60 years; 36 persons were between the age of 36-45 years, and 12 were between the age group of 16-35 years.On May 10, 1,382 cases were reported in the city, and thereafter, the cases started decreasing from May 20: on May 31, only 88 cases were reported in the district. Even the recovery rate went up from 80% on May 19 to 94% on May 31.During the first wave, the highest ever number of cases, 6,000, and 122 deaths were reported in September last year. With around 19,406 Covid cases, April contributed to 42% of the total case tally since the outbreak.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said, “The sampling in the district has not decreased and we have ensured round-the-clock availability of the sampling team at the district hospital, with two dedicated mobile sampling teams also available.”Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “This is the result of lockdown and night curfew, and now we are hoping the downward trend will continue as the second wave has achieved its peak. I urge the people to follow Covid-19 guidelines by wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/may-alone-accounted-for-39-covid-deaths-in-mohali-101622487590250.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||Environment group flags reclamation of CRZ areas for waterfront projects||Environmentalists have once again raised red flags over the reclamation of mangroves, mudflats and other ecologically sensitive intertidal areas along Thane Creek in Navi Mumbai. They alleged reclamation continues unabated despite multiple letters to authorities flagging violation of coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) rules in the area.The latest location to be affected by such reclamation — which has been carried in out in patches since 2017 when construction work on the Thane Waterfront Project began — is the creek front near Saket Ground and Biodiversity Park, a kilometre of which has been buried under rubble and debris, according to city-based environment group Vanashakti.“The entire stretch of the creek has been reclaimed and a wall has been made inside creeklets... On the other side of the road, huge stretches of mangroves and intertidal areas have been reclaimed and dead transplanted tree trunks are visible. Reclamation and dumping of debris and waste is seen on both sides of the road. Dumping of debris and work is going on in CRZ-1 areas, within 50 metres of mangroves and on mangroves at many places,” Vanashakti wrote in a letter dated May 29 to the environment department, mangrove cell and revenue department.In a separate letter titled Objection to reclamation of mudflats and inter tidal areas for waterfront and beautification projects, addressed to the environment department and Cidoco, Vanashakti clarified they “have no intention of preventing the use of waterfront areas for recreation, but the constructions and reclamation cannot happen inside high tide line”. “We have objected to the violations and time and again, but the local bodies say Maritime Board has given permission,” the letter read.The letter was prompted by legislator Manda Mhatre’s announcement on May 20 that work on a marina waterfront in Navi Mumbai’s Belapur area is soon to commence. Together with a jetty, the marina project is expected to boost tourism along a network of waterfront destinations in Mumbai, Raigad and Thane including Bhaucha Dhakka and Elephanta Caves, among others. The Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) had given CRZ clearance for the project in March 2019.“We have observed that MCZMA gives permissions for constructions in CRZ with a general rider in general conditions that states that work should be in accordance with the provisions of the CRZ notification. Beyond that there is no specific directions given. We also find a condition that mangroves will not be destroyed and that permission of the Bombay high court must be obtained to destroy mangroves,” wrote Vanashakti. However, despite these clauses, which were also present in the clearance for Thane waterfront development, rampant reclamation of intertidal areas within the high tide line still continues, pointed out Stalin D, director of Vanashakti.The problem, experts said, is that simply curbing mangrove destruction is not enough to protect mudflats and associated intertidal ecosystems.“We request you to specify that no reclamation or construction will be done inside the approved high tide line. The loss of intertidal areas in such projects means that entire stretches of biologically active mudflats are permanently buried... The destruction that has happened in Thane must not be repeated in Navi Mumbai,” Vanashakti wrote. The group also called upon the Maharashtra Maritime Board to exercise restraint and ensure that they do not permit projects that need extensive reclamation and destruction of intertidal biodiversity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/environment-group-flags-reclamation-of-crz-areas-for-waterfront-projects-101622487290345.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||Woman fights off two thieves in Nallasopara flat||A 35-year-old trichologist fought off two thieves who entered her flat in Nallasopara (West) on Sunday. The thieves broke into her flat on the fourth floor of the building in dawn by sliding the grill-less aluminium windows, when she was sleeping on the sofa in her living room. One of the thieves, Hussain Kader Shaikh, 30, lived on the first floor of the same building and has been arrested in the case, said senior inspector Vasant Labde of Nallasopara police station. Dr Sheetal Alhat said she had shifted to the flat, which belongs to her friend, a fortnight ago as her own flat is under renovation. “As the bedroom of my friend’s flat is full of her belongings, I would sleep in the living room. Around 4.15am on Sunday, the two thieves entered the flat and Shaikh covered my mouth, held a knife and threatened to kill me. But I fought back, bit his hand and freed myself. The other thief opened the main door, and both ran away with my mobile phone and a purse containing ₹5,000 and other documents,” said the medico. She then screamed for help and alerted the neighbours. Police registered a case under sections 380 (theft), 458 (house trespass) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested Shaikh after the victim identified him. The other accomplice is absconding. “Shaikh has been remanded in police custody by the Vasai court and we are investigating further,” said Labde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-fights-off-two-thieves-in-nallasopara-flat-101622487230830.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||Curbs eased in Mumbai, Maharashtra cities from today||Most of Maharashtra’s 10 major cities, such as Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Pune, Aurangbad and Nagpur, will see a slight relaxation in lockdown curbs from Tuesday after the state government’s notification issued on Sunday. Besides these cities, around 20 districts will see curbs relaxed as their positivity rate and occupancy of oxygen beds has improved over the past few days. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, while taking a serious note of the traffic jams on arterial roads in Mumbai, however, warned of imposing curbs again if the congestion on the city’s roads continued.Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Monday recorded 15,077 Covid-19 cases. bringing the total in May to 1,141,447. April saw 1,794,406 cases. After the stricter curbs of more than four weeks, the state issued a notification on Sunday, announcing a few relaxations in districts that have a Covid-19 testing positivity rate of less than 10% and the occupancy of oxygen beds is less than 40%. A total of 22 districts have their positivity rate at less than 10%, but five to six of them account for over 40%, with respect to oxygen-bed occupancy. As a result, 20 districts would be able to implement the relaxations announced on Sunday. The state government has classified 10 cities with more than 1 million population as a unit to ensure that the high positivity and oxygen bed occupancy of the district does not affect them. This means if the Pune district’s positivity rate is more than 10%, it would not prohibit Pune city from rolling out relaxations if the city fit the criterion.“Most of the 10 cities enlisted will be eligible for relaxations and they have issued their orders accordingly. The idea was to safeguard the urban areas, which have less positivity rate from the rural parts of districts, with high rate. But in smaller cities, the district’s rate is applicable, because of the high mobility from city to rural parties and vice versa. In big cities, municipal corporations have mechanisms to contain the spread from rural areas,” said an official from Mantralaya.He said that barring Panvel, all other eight municipal corporations in MMR are eligible for the relaxations. Sindhudurg in Konkan is the only district which will have stricter curbs and would not be able to allow inter-district travel.State government has allowed to extend the timings of operation of the essential sector establishments to 7 to 2pm, from existing 7 to 11am. The shops and establishments in non-essential sectors have been allowed to operate in the same time, but the powers to decide it have been given to local authorities. The attendance in the government offices has been increased to 25% from 15%. The new orders will come into force from Tuesday morning and will remain in force till 7 am on June 15.Rajesh Narvekar, collector, Thane, said that the district’s positivity rate is below 10% and the oxygen bed occupancy is 22%. “Entire district is eligible for the relaxations but the three municipal corporations (Thane, KDMC and Navi Mumbai) will issue their orders, while our order for relaxation will be applicable to two smaller municipal corporations - Mira-Bhayander, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, rural areas, two municipal councils,” he said.Panvel municipal commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh said that though their positivity rate is less than 10% , the oxygen bed occupancy is little more than 40% because of patients coming from rural areas. “That is the reason we would not be able to relax the curbs,” he said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, however, on Monday warned the people from Mumbai to brace for stricter curbs if the crowding on roads continues. “Corona has not gone yet. The threat of the pandemic is not over. The lockdown restrictions have not been lifted because of it, but there are traffic jams on arterial roads and it is critical. If this continues, we would not even continue with the relaxations which have been given now. We will be left with no other option to go for re-imposing stricter norms,” he said at a function at the international airport.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said he was surprised by the traffic jams on Monday morning. “As I was arriving for this programme, I faced traffic jams. The Covid-19 is still there,” said Pawar.Meanwhile, according to Subhash Salunke, adviser to the government of Maharashtra on Covid-19 management, various factors contributed to the decline. “The lockdown played an important role in the decline and even the urban population was careful,” said Salunke. He attributed the rise in rural areas to the casual attitude of the people. “The rural population is still not adhering to Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, like wearing masks or maintaining social distance. The enforcement of lockdown is poor,” said Salunke.Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, blamed the administration for the neglect in the rural belt. “The local administration in places like Amravati, Konkan, Satara and Sangli focussed on only urban areas. In these places, there were hardly any proper testing or counselling facilities for patients. The administration was caught unawares as they felt like the first wave, it will hardly impact the rural areas,” said Gilada.There were 184 deaths on Monday, which took the toll to 95,344. The total number of tests conducted on Monday were 1,93,446, while the number of recoveries were 33,000. He credited the government for their efforts to bring down the numbers especially in urban pockets.Mumbai recorded 666 cases with 29 deaths. The state currently has 2,53,367 active cases, while the total number of people affected by Covid-19 till date has reached 57,46,892. There are currently 2,53,367 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 36,563 patients, followed by Mumbai with 24,850 active patients.The toll has now reached 95,344 with Mumbai leading with 14,826 deaths, followed by Pune with 12,507. On Sunday, BJP legislator Mahesh Landge was said to have celebrated his daughter’s wedding, disregarding Covid-19 norms The police has registered a case against him for violating the norms. The Vasai-Virar administration in order to control the virus has now ramped up its testing by setting camps in places like outside the railway stations and randomly testing the citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/curbs-eased-in-mumbai-maharashtra-cities-from-today-101622487230178.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula witnessed all-time high fatality, positivity rates in May||The month of May has proven to be a deadly one for Panchkula in terms of the number of lives lost due to Covid-19.As many as 142 fatalities were reported in May, which is 37 times more than those in April and makes for an all time high fatality rate of 1.5% since the beginning of the pandemic.A total of 8,922 new cases were reported taking the positivity rate to 14.6%, an all time high this year. At 96%, the recovery rate, however, showed some improvement from 86% in April.In February this year, Panchkula witnessed a slight decline in the positivity rate from 2.5% to 1.5%, and the fatality rate had come down from 0.9% to 0.6%. From 538 cases and five deaths reported in January, the numbers had reduced to 313 cases and two deaths in February.However, the situation started worsening from March onwards: 2,193 new cases took the positivity rate to 6.2%. With five deaths, however, the month witnessed a decline in fatality rate, which was 0.2%.The number of cases and deaths shot up over the next two months. As many as 53 deaths were reported in April and 142 in May. The fatality rate increased from 0.6% to 1.5%.As the crematoriums were running out of space, the Haryana government had imposed a lockdown in May. The movement restrictions did help in controlling the pace at which new cases were being reported, however, the number of deaths continued to rise.During the first wave, a peak was recorded in September 2020, when the highest number of deaths (66) were reported along with 3,762 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-witnessed-all-time-high-fatality-positivity-rates-in-may-101622487170423.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||Anti-crash barrier to be put up along vulnerable route of Matheran toy train||In a move to increase safety of passengers travelling by popular toy train between Neral and Matheran, anti-crash barriers will be installed on the route.The anti-crash barriers will be installed on the 1.5-km railway track stretch of the 21-km route between Neral and Matheran railway stations. The 1.5-km stretch where the barriers will be installed include the track stretch with open valley near it. Work on the installation of the same will begin post monsoon. In addition, construction of retaining wall and strengthening of the entire railway track between Neral and Matheran stations will also be undertaken. “Work on strengthening the tracks is presently going on. The anti-crash barriers will be introduced as safety barriers for the toy train,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway.The zonal railway recently floated a tender for the provision of anti-crash barriers and gabion wall for strengthening of track embankment and other track protection work in critical locations in the railway section. Presently, only shuttle services between Aman Lodge and Matheran railway stations are operational due to the damage caused by Cyclone Nisarga in 2020. Toy train tracks and retaining walls were washed away due to heavy rainfall caused by the severe cyclonic storm in Matheran.Earlier, after a series of derailments during operations on the Neral-Matheran toy train route, Central Railway had introduced a new inter-railway communications system. The optical fibre communication system was introduced on the entire 21-km stretch and placed parallel to the tracks in order to improve communication between motorman, guard of the toy train and railway station masters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anticrash-barrier-to-be-put-up-along-vulnerable-route-of-matheran-toy-train-101622487170894.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||Two vital links between Thane and Kalyan partially open for commuters||In a major relief to citizens in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) region, especially in cities such as Thane, Bhiwandi and Kalyan, one arm of the Rajnouli flyover and two lanes of the six-lane Durgadi flyover on Bhiwandi-Kalyan Road was inaugurated by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday. The two bridges will reduce the travel time by around 30 to 40 minutes along the Thane-Kalyan route. “The existing two-lane bridge cannot handle the increasing vehicular traffic movement on the busy NH-222. To overcome this situation, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) proposed to construct a new six-lane bridge parallel to the existing bridge so that a total of eight lanes will be available for motorists. Today we opened two new lanes; so along with the existing two lanes, commuters can now access four lanes,” said an MMRDA official. MMRDA granted administrative approval to extend works during its meeting held on June 27, 2014 for a budget of ₹85 crore. After the commencement of work, the original contractor carried out preliminary survey and made a design of the bridge. As per the revised no objection certificate dated May 9, 2017 of the Maharashtra Maritime Board, the length of the navigational span had to be increased and the proposed structural design of the bridge had to be changed. Therefore, an extension was sanctioned till May 2019 to complete the work of the parallel bridge. However, the machinery and manpower required for the construction could not be provided by the contractor. The contract of the contractor was terminated on October 25, 2018 after a show-cause notice was issued on September 5, 2018 due to no progress of work. Around 20% of the work was completed over a 32-month period. A new contractor was then appointed on March 8, 2019 for an estimated expense of ₹101.70 crore. “By overcoming the hurdles encountered due to heavy rains during the monsoon of 2019 and 2020 and lockdown, two of the six lanes were open to vehicular traffic. The decongestion of road traffic on both sides of Durgadi bridge is expected,” added the official. The bridge is 820.60-metre long and 25.30-metre wide. “Both the bridges play a vital role in traffic movement between Thane, Bhiwandi, Kalyan, Mumbai and Nashik. Now we have additional lanes to divert the traffic and this will definitely help reduce the traffic jam,” said Balasaheb Patil, deputy commissioner of traffic police, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-vital-links-between-thane-and-kalyan-partially-open-for-commuters-101622487109583.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC House passes resolution for rolling back water tariff hike||The municipal corporation (MC) general House on Monday once again passed a resolution seeking the cancellation of the UT administration notification passed in September 2020, under which water tariff had been hiked by 200%. The civic body also sought that payments made over the last ten months be adjusted in the future bills of residents and reduction in sewage cess. Congress councillor and city Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Arun Sood, said, “After the September resolution is cancelled and the pandemic ends, a fresh look will be taken at the water tariff.” Notably, the administration had issued an order on May 25, deferring the implementation of the September notification till March 31, 2022. But, the order was prospective in nature ie the stay on the hiked bills was only for the next six months, and not for the previous ten months for which residents have already paid. The administration had also stated that there will be no adjustment.However, municipal commissioner KK Yadav had opposed the MC’s resolution on rollback of the hiked tariffs, citing major losses to the financially-struggling civic body. The MC is likely to suffer a loss of at least ₹68 crore in the wake of the deferment.House calls for 25% slash in sewage cessThe House has also sought immediate reduction in sewage cess from the current 30% to 5%. The cess is imposed on the water bill charges and it was hiked in 2018. The cess came under severe criticism after the water tariff hike after which residents had to pay nearly double. The MC house also decided to constitute a committee to suggest relief measures like reduction in property tax in the wake of hardships caused due to the pandemic. Garbage collection charges revisedThe MC General House revised the monthly garbage collection charges, reducing them in most categories. It also changed the measurement unit for calculation of user charges in urban residential properties from square metre to marla/kanal. The charges are ₹50 for less than 2 marla, ₹100 for 2-10 marla, ₹200 for 10 marla-1 kanal, ₹250 for 1-2 kanal and ₹350 for above 2 kanal. Street vendors have to pay ₹50 and traders have to pay between ₹200 and ₹800. Depending upon the seating capacity, restaurants and hotels have to pay ₹2,000- ₹5,000. The rate for community centres and marriage palaces is ₹1,000 per event.In rural areas, rates for houses range between ₹50 and ₹200, while shops have to pay ₹100 and eateries ₹200. New tenders to be invited for sanitation of southern sectorsIt was also decided that fresh tenders will be invited for the cleaning of southern sectors.Currently, Delhi-based Lions Services Limited has been carrying out mechanised sweeping in southern sectors at a cost of ₹5 crore per month. The project had been outsourced to the firm in 2016 for five years.MC had tabled the agenda for extension of the current contract, but the House decided to call fresh tenders, for which the same contractor can apply again.Notably, the MC had constituted a committee under its chief engineer, to examine whether to continue with existing company or call allot a fresh contract. The committee, in its meeting on May 13, unanimously resolved that the contract period of the Lion Service Limited should not be extended and the contract be allotted afresh.Plans for garbage processing plant’s upgrade in limbo The House failed to take a final decision on the technology to be adopted to upgrade the garbage processing plant in Dadumajra. It was decided that councillors will now visit sites of waste processing plants where different technologies are being used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-house-passes-resolution-for-rollback-of-water-tariff-hike-101622487055247.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai got 304mm pre-monsoon rain against average 20mm between March and May||The city has recorded 1105% excess rain during the pre-monsoon period between March 1 and May 31 this year, thanks to Cyclone Tauktae. On May 17, Mumbai recorded 214mm of rain — the highest-ever for a single day in May. The city saw a total of 304mm of rain this pre-monsoon, as against the season normal of 20.2 mm. A total of 24 districts in the state saw “large excess” rainfall for the pre-monsoon period, while five saw “excess” rainfall.With monsoon around the corner, moderate showers were witnessed in parts of Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Palghar on Monday morning which continued till afternoon. While the official monsoon onset date for the city, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), is June 15, pre-monsoon showers are going to be seen more frequently in the next two weeks.Monday saw partly cloudy skies which will continue with chance of light to moderate rain for at least the next two days, said IMD officials. Santacruz weather station recorded 48mm rain from 8.30am to 5.30pm. The maximum temperature in Mumbai dropped to 32 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal. “There was a dip in daytime temperatures across North Madhya Maharashtra and Marathwada,” said an IMD spokesperson.Rougher weather is expected in interior Maharashtra with Pune slated to get moderate to heavy thunderstorms till June 2. Other districts where thunderstorm development and lightning is expected include Ratnagari, Pune, Sangli, Satara, Jalna, Aurangabad, Solapur, Parbhani, Beed, Osmanabad, Latur, Nanded, and Hingoli.“A severe weather warning has been sounded by IMD for the next five days in Maharashtra. Thunderstorms associated with lightning, light to moderate rains and gusty winds at isolated places are possible in most districts,” said KS Hosalikar, scientist with IMD in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-got-304mm-pre-monsoon-rain-against-average-20mm-between-march-and-may-101622487049565.html
01-06-2021||Mumbai||Woman tries to stop thief, falls off train||A 35-year-old woman died after falling off a moving local train between Kalwa and Mumbra stations when a 31-year-old man tried to snatch her mobile phone on Sunday evening. The Government Railway Police (GRP) arrested the thief from Mumbra on Monday. The deceased, Vidya Patil, is a resident of Dombivli and had boarded the train from Kurla towards Dombivli around 7pm.A GRP officer said, “Patil was sitting in a corner seat near the door. The accused, Faisal Shaikh, entered the compartment at 7.15pm at Kalwa station when the train started moving. He tried to snatch Patil’s phone and get off the train, but she resisted and held the accused. Shaikh, a habitual offender, got down despite the train gaining speed and pushed Patil when she tried to get off.” Patil fell just when the platform ended and came under the train and died on the spot. Other commuters pulled the emergency chain and the motorman informed the railway officials. The GRP officer added, “We checked the CCTV footage and the accused was immediately identified as he was wanted in several other chain snatching incidents. A team of eight officers, after receiving information about his whereabouts, laid a trap and arrested him from Mumbra.” A case has been registered against the accused and he has been remanded in police custody for five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-tries-to-stop-thief-falls-off-train-101622486990741.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University postpones PG entrance test||Panjab University on Monday postponed its common entrance test for postgraduate courses, which was scheduled on June 12 and 13.The decision to postpone CET (PG) was taken in view of the present Covid-19 situation, said the varsity, adding that the new dates will be updated on its website in near future. Also, an opportunity will be given to those candidates who have not been able to apply or complete the application process.Over 17,000 candidates have registered for the test, and around 11,000 have already deposited the fee. Meanwhile, PU-LLB (3 years) is scheduled to be held on June 20 and PU-CET (UG) on June 27, followed by other entrance exams.Last year, PU had scrapped entrance exams, for both UG and PG courses, and admissions were conducted on merit basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-postpones-pg-entrance-test-101622486990251.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Mohali district logs less than 100 cases after 83 days||The number of daily Covid-19 cases dropped below 100 for the first time in 83 days in Mohali district, as only 88 people tested positive for the virus on Monday, even as nine patients succumbed to it.While the infection count has climbed to 66,494, death toll stands at 963. In the past 31 days, 373 people have died and 19,924 have contracted the virus, the highest in a month since the outbreak last March. Amid a receding second wave, May accounts for 30% of the total cases and 39% of the deaths reported so far.It was on March 9 that the district recorded 64 cases, after which the number remained above 100, and peaked at 1,382 on May 10.Of the 88 cases reported on Monday, 26 surfaced in Mohali city, followed by 22 in Zirakpur’s Dhakoli, 16 in Gharuan, 11 in Dera Bassi and nine in Kharar. Meanwhile, 322 patients were discharged, taking the total of those recovered to 62,629 and bringing down the active case load to 2,902.276 test +ve, 19 die in tricityEven the tricity as a whole saw a significant drop in the number of cases, as 276 people tested positive, including 124 in Chandigarh and 64 in Panchkula. The number had peaked at 2,612 on May 10 and stood at 412 on Sunday.However, at 19, the death toll still remains worrisome. While Chandigarh recorded eight casualties, two patients succumbed in Panchkula. According to experts, it will take some time before the numbers come down.In Chandigarh, 60,046 people have tested positive so far, of whom 57,526 have been cured, 753 have died and 1,767 are still to recover. Panchkula has recorded 29,965 cases, of which 813 remain active. While 28,803 patients have been cured and discharged, 349 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-mohali-district-logs-less-than-100-cases-after-83-days-101622486930124.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Foundation stone laid for govt school in Mohali’s Sector 65||The foundation stone of Government Senior Secondary School, Sector 65, was laid jointly by Punjab rural development minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa, education minister Vijay Inder Singla and health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday.Bajwa, who also holds the charge of higher education department, said that an ultra-modern triple storey school with ample open space would be constructed on around 85,900 square feet area. It will house 32 classrooms, two libraries and ample laboratories for students of science stream. The school is for students of Classes 6 to 12. “The project cost is ₹13 crore and construction will be completed in a year,” said Bajwa.Singla said tendering for the construction of school had been done with the mandatory clause for completion of building in a year.Sidhu, who is also the local MLA, said that the existing school catering to the area had a small building and could not handle the pressure of growing student strength. “The new spacious campus was the people’s demand been appropriately met,” he said.Talking to the media, Sdhu said that Mohali was being developed as a medical hub. The construction of the medical college has been put on fast track while the proposal of a new civil hospital in Sector 66 had been prepared. Two urban primary health centres in Sectors 69 and 79 and a primary health centre at Saneta village will be completed in 4-6 months, while a community health centre being constructed in Phase 3B1 will also be completed by coming October, said he.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/foundation-stone-laid-for-govt-school-in-mohali-s-sector-65-101622486810728.html
01-06-2021||Other||Three men bury Covid-19 positive father’s body in UP village field, probe ordered||The police ordered an inquiry after a video clip showed three men burying the body of their Covid-19 positive father in an open field in eastern Uttar Pradesh’s Sant Kabirnagar district, 235 kilometres east of Lucknow, an official said on Monday. The video went “viral” on Sunday. Superintendent of police (Sant Kabirnagar) Dr Kaustubh said after taking cognizance of the video, an inquiry had been ordered into the incident. In the video, the trio was seen carrying the body to the field in an excavator along with the cot on which their father had died. They used the excavator to dig up field to bury the body and the cot. The station house officer (SHO) of Dharamsinghwa police station has been directed to submit a report. Action will be taken against those who flouted the state government’s order to cremate or bury the bodies of Covid -19 patients according to the Covid protocol, the SP said. A district administration officer said Ram Lalit, 62, resident of Parsa Shukla village, complained of breathing difficulty on May 22. His sons took him to a private hospital in Gorakhpur. The hospital admitted him and he tested positive for Covid-19. Nevertheless, the sons got their father discharged from the hospital on May 23 to take him to their village. Ram Lalit died after reaching the village. Instead of using a hearse, the sons hired an excavator to transport the body and the cot on which their father died. The three sons, Buddhi Ram, Anil and Mohan, said when the villagers and neighbours came to know that their father was Covid positive, they closed their doors. “With no support from the villagers or the family members, we decided to hire a JCB machine to bury the body,” they said. Countering the sons’ statement, the village pradhan’s representative Triyuga Nand Gautam said the village panchayat members offered assistance to Ram Lalit’s sons in cremating of the body, but they turned down the offer. A medical practitioner Dr AK Singh said the district administration should ensure that the body of a Covid-19 patient was buried or cremated according to the protocol in order to check the spread of infection. Dumping a body in a field was in violation of the protocol, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-men-bury-covid-19-positive-father-s-body-in-up-village-field-probe-ordered-101622486809557.html
01-06-2021||Other||UP again extends deadline for submission of vaccine bids||Uttar Pradesh may have to wait for some more days to procure Covid vaccines from foreign or Indian companies as the state cabinet on Monday approved a proposal to further extend by 10 days the last date for the submission of bids in response to a global tender floated to get 40 million doses for the state. June 10 is now the last date for the bids.“Yes, we are extending the last date for the submission of bids by 10 days,” said additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad.This is the second such extension. It comes a day before the launch of vaccination for all above 18 years of age in all 75 districts of the state. A senior officer of the state government said sufficient quantity of vaccine was available in Uttar Pradesh. The officer also said the state government proposed to administer one crore doses in June following the directives of chief minister Yogi Adityanath in this regard.The state government had earlier fixed May 21 as the last date and then extended it by 10 days to May 31 on the request of the vaccine manufacturers.A decision to further extend the last date was taken after briefing the state cabinet (by circulation method) about the demand and the availability of the vaccine for the 18-45 year age group.Prasad said the last date was extended again on the request of the vaccine manufacturing companies that were keen to participate in the global tender. The representatives of the various companies again sought the extension on the same issues as earlier, including regulatory approval from the central government, Prasad said. Others said that they needed time to maintain the vaccine stock as, according to the bid conditions, the companies would have to supply the second dose after the first one, he added. The representative of another company said that they needed time for obtaining approval for the vaccine rate, the additional chief secretary said.Even as foreign vaccine manufacturing companies Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson have said that they have a policy to enter into agreements only with national governments, Uttar Pradesh government spokesperson and cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh said the UP government had opened channels with the foreign companies. In the pre-bid meeting held on May 13, top vaccine manufacturing companies — Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Zydus Cadila, Pfizer, Serum Institute of India (SII), Bharat Biotech and a Korean company — had raised the issues of storage and transportation of the vaccines and bid security. The state government on May 17 had revised the supply conditions, bid security and eligibility terms for the bidders to pave the way for the participation of maximum companies. In the revised tender, the state government stated that the manufacturers of vaccines requiring storage or transportation at temperatures like -20 degrees Celsius, -70 degrees Celsius or -80 degrees Celsius can participate in the tender, thereby paving the way for the entry of foreign vaccine manufacturers like Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson and Johnson in the global tender.The vaccines manufactured by Moderna and Pfizer are stored at low temperatures, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-again-extends-deadline-for-submission-of-vaccine-bids-101622486569569.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||HC pulls up Chandigarh admn for ‘undue hurry’ in power privatisation||The Punjab and Haryana high court has come down heavily on the Chandigarh administration for showing “undue hurry” in pushing for power privatisation amid a raging pandemic. “... we are unable to reconcile with the fact that when the whole world is grappling with the deadly virus, when there is no oxygen, no ICUs, a long queue at the cremation grounds and no place in the hospitals, the undue hurry on the part of the administration to hand over the profit-making department to a private entity at this stage of the history and in this situation of crisis faced by the entire mankind, seems to be misplaced,” the bench of justice Jitendra Chauhan and justice Vivek Puri recorded. Justice Chauhan retired on Friday, the day the bench stayed the UT’s move to privatise the power department. The order, which came on a plea of the UT Powermen Union, was released on Monday. Earlier, on December 1 too, the HC had applied brakes on the process. However, the UT approached the Supreme Court, which had stayed the HC order but also remanded back the case to it.‘A profit-making entity’ The bench said that it is not clear as to what was the intended purpose of setting up the engineering wing — the power distributor in the city — and whether it has failed to achieve the same. The court also wondered that when the department is a profit-making entity, how it is covered under Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self -Reliant India Mission). “If the argument on behalf of the respondents is to make India ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, we are at a loss to understand that what can be more ‘Atmanirbhar’ than an institution made in India, by Indians, operationalised by Indians, creating jobs for Indians and enriching the Indian State with its profits,” it remarked. ‘Protect such institutions’The bench further said that such institutions (departments) should be protected, as they provide a security net for the society to fall back upon, for the poorest of the poor to dream of a better future and for the person at the end of the line to be aspirational, so that he too can be part of the Indian dream. “The proposed action of privatisation is in direct conflict with the nation’s agenda ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’,” the bench asserted. The bench said that at a time when the functioning of the courts is curtailed and the petition could not be decided, the cause of “justice and humanity” will be better served by putting the process in abeyance. “We feel that privatisation is not a panacea for all the ills and privatisation with blind motive of so-called efficiency falls flat as this department is not only a profitable one but also time and again matched the high standards of customer satisfaction and has a big role in maintaining the City Beautiful,” it recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-pulls-up-chandigarh-admn-for-undue-hurry-in-power-privatisation-101622486270663.html
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown extended in Chandigarh; salons to reopen||After nearly a month, salons and hairdresser shops will open in Chandigarh, but only for hair grooming. No other service will be allowed. Spa and massage centres, where physical contact is involved, will continue to remain closed.Deciding to continue with lockdown restrictions imposed on May 4, the Chandigarh administration on Monday also provided a further one-hour relaxation to non-essential shops. They can now remain open from 9am to 4pm, while essential shops will continue to operate till 5pm.Shopping malls and multiplexes will have to wait to begin operations. Dine-in remains banned at restaurants, which can provide only takeway orders till 5pm and home delivery till 10pm.The lockdown will continue till 6am on June 9, with night curfew from 6pm and 5am daily. The decision on weekend curfew will be taken later. In the Covid review meeting held on Monday, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore also decided that all sports facilities will be opened for sportspersons, who will have follow strict Covid protocol. However, swimming pools and gyms will remain closed.“The decreasing number of cases and adequate availability of Covid beds were major considerations besides livelihood of traders and daily wagers for deciding on giving relaxations,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.Policy for children who lost parents to Covid Badnore expressed concern over the plight of children who have lost their parents to the pandemic. He directed that school fees of all such children be exempted. Also, if any child needs accommodation in the administration’s welfare home, it should be provided for free, he said. He also directed Nitika Pawar, secretary, social welfare, to prepare a comprehensive scheme in consultation with the sub-committee of administrator’s advisory council so that the affected children could be fully rehabilitated.Last week, the UT education department had asked all cluster heads to collect information of students in government schools who have lost at least one parent to Covid. Over 40 such cases have been identified. Senior officials of the department confirmed that these details have been sought from private schools as well.Mini Covid centres to continue till June endThe administrator expressed satisfaction over the availability of oxygen and medicines at all medical facilities. He directed that the civil hospital in Sector 45 be converted into an exclusive paediatric hospital for children who suffer from Covid.Also, mini Covid care centres have been allowed to continue till June end. Badnore appreciated the good work and commitment of people and organisations running these centres.Meanwhile, he directed director general of police Sanjay Baniwal to ensure that proper security is available at all medical institutions, so that health officials feel protected and can work without fear. He also directed him to ensure that Covid protocol is strictly followed in the city.He directed Vinod P Kavle, secretary, food and supply, to ensure that ration being distributed under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana reaches the beneficiaries, while strictly following Covid protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-extended-in-chandigarh-salons-to-reopen-101622486030064.html
01-06-2021||Other||‘Patients sleeping near toilets’: Video of Odisha’s Covid-19 hospital goes viral||A video of a Covid-19 hospital in tribal-dominated Mayurbhanj district in Odisha has gone viral on social. In the video, a Covid-19 patient is seen lying under a washbasin, near the toilet while another is lying naked on the floor.The video was allegedly shared by the attendant of a Covid-19 patient who died at the hospital on May 23.Bibhudutta Dash, who lives in Baripada town of Myurbhanj, said he admitted his relative to the Covid-19 hospital in Baripada on May 22.“As his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to another Covid hospital at Bankisole, about 10 kilometres from Baripada town. On May 23 at noon, I was informed about the death of my relative,” said Dash, who got the video clip on Saturday.“In the video, I saw my relative sitting on the bed on which there was no bed sheet and pillow. He was wearing just a towel. Some of them are also seen sleeping in front of the toilet. There were some oxygen cylinders in the ward. But there was no one to operate them. There are no staff nurses and doctors to attend to the patients. The government is spending a huge amount on the treatment of the Covid patients but where is all the money going and to whom?” he asked.BJP MLA from Baripada, Prakash Soren, also alleged negligence in the treatment of patients at the Covid hospital at Bankisole. “Several patients are dying in the facility in the absence of oxygen support. The doctors do not understand what the patients want and the nurses do not come close to them fearing infection. The situation is such that patients do not even get food on time,” he alleged.Mayurbhanj district collector Vineet Bhardwaj said efforts are on to install CCTVs in the hospital to monitor the activities and fill the gaps.The hospital was set up last year after the Mayurbhanj administration signed an MoU with the Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS). It was closed in March after cases of Covid-19 dipped in the district.This month, the National Human Rights Commission issued summons to the Odisha health secretary to appear before it on June 30 over the death of a Covid-19 patient at the verandah of the district headquarters hospital of Dhenkanal due to the alleged negligence of medical staff.In the second wave of Covid, at least 830 patients in Odisha have succumbed to the disease since April 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patients-sleeping-near-toilets-video-of-odisha-s-covid-19-hospital-goes-viral-101622485850036.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi likely to get Sputnik shots only after June 20, says Kejriwal||The Capital is likely to receive its first consignment of Russia’s Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccines after June 20, said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday, even as the Capital’s government-run vaccination centres for the 18-45 age group continue to remain shut after having run out of the two India-made vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, the doses of which will only be available by June 10, according to health officials.“Sputnik will probably offer vaccines only after June 20. They (Indian manufacturer of Sputnik) will start vaccine production in August. As of now, Sputnik V vaccines are being imported to our country. A portion of these imported vaccines will also be allotted to the Delhi government,” Kejriwal told reporters after opening a vaccine centre for journalists and their families at ITO.The chief minister reiterated that the central government should procure vaccines through a single global tender and distribute them to states. “It has become apparent that states are not able to procure vaccines on their own and the Centre has to do it. States should be held responsible if and when they are not able to make proper arrangements to administer the vaccines after the Centre has procured, produced and supplied vaccines to us,” Kejriwal said.Also read: Covid orphaned 1,700 children, another 7,400 lost one parent, Supreme Court toldThe government vaccination centres for those between the ages of 18 and 45 years have been closed for over a week after Delhi ran out of its allocated vaccine doses for the month. Next month, the city will receive even fewer doses. Only 550,000 vaccine doses will be available in June as compared to over 817,000 doses that it got in the month of May.“In Delhi, government vaccination centres have been completely closed for the 18-plus age group for more than a week. Only private hospitals are vaccinating the young, but at expensive rates. We urge the central government to make available vaccines for the youth soon because the lockdown in Delhi will slowly be eased and youngsters will move out of homes once the process begins,” said AAP MLA Atishi.Although vaccine doses were available with only three major hospital chains in Delhi – Max, Fortis, and Apollo – at the beginning of the month, at least 14 others have started inoculating people between the ages of 18 and 45 years.The vaccine doses have been procured by individual hospitals. Of the 14 hospitals, with several branches and sites, Covaxin is being administered at five and Covishield at the rest, according to Co-WIN portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-likely-to-get-sputnik-vaccines-only-after-june-20-kejriwal-101622485609452.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||BJP trying to stop CM efforts to give Covid jabs to all: Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday accused Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and ministers of criticising chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for his “relentless efforts” towards vaccinating every adult in the national Capital, instead of extending their support.“It is the prerogative of the Delhi government to ensure each and every citizen gets vaccinated at once. Every time CM Kejriwal begins his work towards helping people and managing the Covid crisis, BJP leaders, instead of following his lead, start attacking him and try to stop his efforts,” Sisodia said in a digital press conference.Delhi BJP leaders dismissed the charges, and said the turnout at vaccinations centres in Delhi was low.Sisodia’s statement came hours after Haryana CM ML Khattar accused Kejriwal of playing politics over Covid vaccines, saying Delhi is exhausting its supply too soon while his state is stretching it over a longer period.Kejriwal also responded to this through a tweet in Hindi: “Khattar sahab, it is only with vaccines that we can save the lives of people. The sooner vaccines are administered, more people will be protected (from the virus). My goal is not to save vaccines, but to save people’s lives.”At the press conference, Sisodia reiterated that “the mission of the Delhi government is to save people, not vaccines”.Also read| Delhi likely to get Sputnik vaccines only after June 20: KejriwalKhattar’s comment was also criticised by the Congress. “Deliberate delay in administering vaccines is also being termed as a strategy. He (CM) says the government has vaccines, but these will be administered to people in small numbers over several days. This is the reason why the people of Haryana are not able to get the vaccines...,” said Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala in a tweet in Hindi.On Sunday, BJP national president JP Nadda, ostensibly alluding to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), had said it was creating “hindrances” in Delhi.Sisodia, on Monday, said BJP leaders make false statements to “hide their own failures”. “When the nation was reeling under Covid cases and needed immediate help, BJP government was more interested in managing their image and conducting elections. It seems like the only mission is to sell and save vaccines by playing dirty politics,” he said.In response, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta accused the AAP of resorting to politics over the issue.“Nobody is stopping them from demanding vaccines for Delhi... When it was time to talk to Indian vaccine manufacturers, AAP leaders were busy criticising the Centre and now when they failed to arrange vaccine, they are playing politics of confrontation with private hospitals by questioning their vaccine quota,” he said.The Delhi BJP further said there is low turnout in government vaccination centres.“It should be noted that Delhi has 180 vaccination centres where Covishield is being administered to people above 45 years of age. In all these places, the footfall is significantly dismal. In Rohini’s Sector 9 on May 30, the centre had 400 Covishield doses available, and only 55 people took the dose. Today (May 31), only 70 people visited the centre, while it had 400 Covishield doses available for 45+ group. At Prashant Vihar centre on May 29, 100 doses of Covishield were available and only one person got the jab,” claimed Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta.Speaking to reporters on Monday, chief minister Kejriwal said, “Procurement and distribution is the responsibility of the Centre, and administering the vaccines is the responsibility of the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-leaders-trying-to-stop-cm-s-efforts-to-vaccine-at-delhi-residents-sisodia-101622485549526.html
01-06-2021||Delhi||Slight uptick in traffic as factories restart work, cops step up watch||There was a marginal increase in movement on Delhi’s roads and the police deployed additional personnel at pickets on Monday as factories and construction sites opened amid the first relaxations in lockdown curbs. Police said they kept watch to ensure unexempted businesses and individuals do not open up or move around.Amid a sharp fall in Covid-19 cases in the city, the Delhi government started easing the lockdown that has been in place in Delhi since April 20, and allowed construction and manufacturing units in approved industrial areas to function from Monday.“The movement on the city’s roads increased marginally. So we pressed more police staff at the pickets as there was a possibility of some taking undue advantage,” said Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police spokesperson.Also read| Covid-19: ICMR plans 4th nationwide sero surveyWhile the guidelines mandate workers to show ID cards, police said they were given instructions to verify those who didn’t have adequate papers as well. “We sent out our personnel with a briefing that there could be many genuine factory and construction workers who do not have identity cards. The police were instructed to use their experience to distinguish genuine workers the rest,” said RP Meena, DCP(south-east), an area which has hundreds of factories in its jurisdiction.While police officers estimated a 5-10% increase in movement on the roads on Monday, not too many factories opened on the first day. “There were also factories that didn’t open due to lack of raw materials, or because opening up wouldn’t be profitable to them without most of their workers,” said Meena.As for compliance with the guidelines at workplaces, police said they held meetings with associations and owners of these factories and construction sites. “They were counselled and sensitised about the guidelines... We didn’t receive complaints of violations,” said Rajeev Ranjan, DCP (outer-north).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/marginal-increase-in-movement-as-delhi-eases-curbs-more-cops-deployed-101622485550104.html
