02-06-2021||Noida||GB Nagar inches closer towards lifting partial curfew||Noida: With 843 active cases on Wednesday, Gautam Budh Nagar is inching closer to lifting of the partial curfew imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. As per the Uttar Pradesh government’s recent order, partial corona curfew is to stay in district with over 600 active cases. When the order was announced on May 30, GB Nagar had 1,184 active cases.However, three days later, 341 patients have recovered from Covid-19, taking the active caseload to 843. On Wednesday, the district reported 79 new cases while 183 patients recovered, according to the state’s daily health bulletin.Almost a week earlier, on May 28, active cases were 2,398 and thus in the past six days, 1551 patients have recovered from the viral infection.As per officials, out of the total active cases, 480 are under home isolation while the remaining 363 are admitted to Covid-dedicated medical facilities in the district.“In the past one week, around 50 home isolated patients on an average are getting cured every day. The trained operators at the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) are making calls to all these patients at least three times a day, to know their complaints and other details,” said Dr Lalit Kumar, district’s additional chief medical officer who is also the nodal officer for the home isolation.He further said that the calls being received at the command centre have reduced in the past 15 days as well. “Till two weeks ago, we were getting over 5,000 calls a day. Most of the queries were regarding beds, oxygen and medicines like remdesivir and tocilizumab. However, now, the calls have reduced to about 500 a day and the queries are mostly about post-covid complications and vaccination centres,” said Kumar. On being asked whether GB Nagar can expect to have lower than 600 active cases in the next 2-3 days, district magistrate Suhas LY said, “That is yet to be seen, but we are hopeful that the downward trend of active cases will continue. Surveillance, containment and vaccination are the vital steps taken by the district health department that is helping control the spread of Covid-19.”However, medical experts feel that while the active cases going down may end up lifting of restrictions, people need to keep following proper Covid protocols.“The data provided by the government can often be misleading and we cannot completely rely on it. While data may say that active cases are down, the reality on the ground is very different. No matter whether the restrictions are lifted or not, we need to keep following Covid protocols like sanitisation and social distancing,” said Dr NK Sharma, president, Indian Medical Association (Noida chapter).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-inches-closer-towards-lifting-partial-curfew-101622658546710.html
02-06-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Parents succumb to Covid-19, children face testing times ahead||Ghaziabad: Nalin, 23, is wondering how to break the news to his uncle’s daughters -- seven and 10 years old -- that they are now orphans.“Their father died an hour after talking to them over video on May 3 in hospital,” he said who had arrived in Noida recently from Hyderabad after he heard the news that Covid-19 had gripped the family. “They lost their mother four days later.”The girls lived with their parents and grandparents in a high-rise in Ghaziabad. They don’t know that they had lost their grandparents too to the disease. All four deaths happened in a span of 10 days. HT is not revealing the family details to protect their identity.“We had sent both girls to our hometown in Bareilly when the family showed symptoms,” said Nalin. “Both keep asking us when their parents and grandparents will return from hospital. What can we tell them other than ‘soon’? I had got them to speak to their father over video to motivate him and help in his recovery. How will I break the news?”The girls’ neighbours are trying to help them with the death certificates.“We have never seen such a tragedy before, and we are extending all possible help- with the cremation and arranging documents. It was difficult. More difficult was dealing with the deaths,” said neighbour Raj Kumar.The Ghaziabad administration has identified 17 minor children (including seven girls) from eight families who had been orphaned in the second wave of infections.But there are other “children” too, some of them who are yet to start off their lives.In Vaishali, 22-year-old Akshansh lost both his parents in two days at hospital.“My father died on April 22 and the next day, my mother,” he said. “Life has completely changed. I am now responsible for my 16-year-old sister. All four of had been infected but they died. Our relatives performed the cremation while we both were in hospital. They told us two days after we both recovered on April 26. I still cannot accept we are orphans.”Akshansh, A BTech graduate, now hopes to get a job soon in an economy that is trying to find stable ground. Ayush Kumar, 23, lost his mother and father in a week.“My mother tested positive for Covid, and she succumbed at a hospital in Delhi on April 22. On April 29, my 66-year-old father died of shock when he was told of the news. He did not have the infection. I performed all the cremation rituals one after the other. I don’t have many relatives. My life has been shattered,” said Kumar who is pursuing chartered accountancy.Then there are the stories of minors without an earning member. “My husband tested positive for Covid-19 on May 3 and two days later he died at home. He was the only earning member,” said Richa Sharma. “The education of our children (one nine and the other six years old) is under a cloud. I have also my aged in-laws to look after.” Govt responseThe officials said that they are paying more attention to minor children and their relatives and trying to extend all possible help.“As of now, the government has announced for helping out in continuing education of minor children and also helping them out financially. We are waiting for the government order to arrive. As of now it is only for children of deceased parents suffering from Covid and not for suspected cases. All the affected minors are with their relatives and in trauma. We are also taking up online counselling and our officers are in touch with their families,” said Vikas Chandra, district probation officer.Non-governmental organisations are also offering assistance.“We are providing ration to affected families and also tying up with schools where minor children can continue their education. We have been given assurance by seven schools that they will take up free education of such children. Till the other member find some job, we will also continue to provide monthly ration to the family,” said Ajay Sharma, founder member of ‘Hamara Pariwar,’ a charitable organisation which is supporting family of Richa Sharma.Anuj Tyagi, the state vice-president of Uttar Pradeshiya Prathmik Shikshak Sangh, association of basic education teachers, said that they have given a list of 11 dead teachers to the basic education department.“We have requested the government to intervene and announce our deceased teachers as Corona warriors as many of them got infected during the election duties. The government has announced ₹30 lakh compensation. In case they are termed as Corona warriors, the compensation will increase to ₹50 lakh which will be more beneficial for survival of the children of the deceased,” he added.Overall, the second wave of the pandemic which peaked after mid of April has claimed 343 lives in Ghaziabad this year with an overall tally of 445 as per control room figures till June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-parents-succumb-to-covid-19-children-face-testing-times-ahead-101622658546061.html
02-06-2021||Other||Agra brothers lose parents to Covid within five days||Fate shattered the world of two Agra brothers, aged 13 and seven, as they lost their parents to Covid-19 within five days in May. The younger of the two boys is finding it especially hard to come to terms with the loss. It has become difficult for him to reside in the same house in the village where his parents lived as their memories haunt him and the tears are impossible to fight back. Helplessness is writ large on the face of the 71-year-old grandfather as he deals with the enormity of the responsibility of bringing up the two boys at Gudhi Rampuri Chandrasaini village in Bah tehsil of Agra district. His wife, 69, is a cancer patient and he underlines the need for government aid for the boys. The younger child, aged seven years, is a student of class 5 and the elder, aged 13 years, is a student of class 9 at a school in a nearby village. “I will leave no stone unturned to have my grandsons educated although there are financial constraints. Both my son and daughter-in-law were earning before they breathed their last,” says the grandfather. Till Covid turned their world upside down, all of them had been staying together. “I lost my son and daughter-in-law within a span of five days because of Covid-19. I have little choice but to live for my grandsons now,” he says. The grandfather is employed as security man in Delhi, but visits his village from time to time. He has no land to his name, nor any pension. He worked in the private sector all his life. “My daughter-in-law aged 37 was a shiksha mitra (para teacher). She died after being infected by the coronavirus on May 10 despite receiving treatment at a hospital in Agra,” he says. “Within a span of five days, I also lost my son, aged 41, to Covid. He was employed with a construction company. With his death, my grandsons lost both their parents and the responsibility of raising them has fallen on me,” he says. “I have to go to Delhi to report for work. My grandsons are taken care of by my wife, who is 69 years’ old and a cancer patient,” he says. “A sub divisional magistrate was in the village recently and talked to me. But we are yet to get any financial aid from the government. Till then, I have to carry out the responsibility of taking care of my grandsons so that they do not feel orphaned,” he says. “However, we need government help as both my wife and I are old. We may not live long enough to see my grandsons settled. The government should ensure a government job for my grandsons (when they grow up),” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-brothers-lose-parents-to-covid-within-five-days-101622658366099.html
02-06-2021||Other||Day temp, humidity to spike over weekend||Lucknow: The day temperature across Uttar Pradesh is expected to go up with possibility of heat wave in many parts over the weekend, as per the weather forecast issued by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday. The weather will turn sultry again, following a fortnight of rain and cloudy sky. “Coming days will be warmer with maximum temperature crossing 40 degree Celsius in several places across the state. The heat will be accompanied with humidity in some regions that experienced good rainfall in the past few days,” said state MeT director JP Gupta. While regions with above average rainfall will experience spike in humidity, the dry regions, including Bundelkhand and Prayagraj, will experience heat wave in coming days. “District authorities across the state have been alerted about the shift in weather conditions for further action,” said Gupta. In the state capital the mercury is expected to rise around four degrees over the weekend with clear sky on most days. These conditions lead to spike in average temperatures. The maximum day temperature is also expected to cross the 40-degree mark during daytime. The change was reflected on Wednesday when the mercury reached 39 degrees in the afternoon. Beside the state capital, Banda, Jhansi, Prayagraj and Varanasi recorded the hottest day on Wednesday with the mercury hovering around 40 degrees Celsius. This weather condition will prevail for the next four to five days before another brief spell of rainfall around the middle of next week, according to the IMD forecast. According to experts, the spike in temperature will provide a much needed respite to mango farmers of the state. “High temperature, accompanied with high humidity accelerates natural ripening of fruits. This will help mango growers to harvest the remaining crop and sell it in the market before another spell of adverse weather hits,” said Shailendra Rajan, director of Lucknow-based Central Institute of Subtropical Horticulture(CISH)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/day-temp-humidity-to-spike-over-weekend-101622657886029.html
02-06-2021||Other||DPRs for setting up solid waste processing plants in 20 towns cleared||Lucknow: The state’s high-level empowered committee of Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban) on Wednesday gave approval to the proposal seeking an expenditure of ₹143 crore to set up solid waste processing plants in 20 urban local bodies. According to chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari who chaired the meeting, the detailed project report cost of setting up solid waste processing plants in the state’s 37 local urban bodies had been worked out at ₹257 crore. “Of this, projects worth ₹143 crore for 20 cities were cleared in today’s meeting,” he said, adding “Land has already been made available for the establishment of plants in all the 20 cities.” The towns of which the DPR was approved are Khurja, Sikandarabad, Nageena, Gangaghat, Bareilly, Kushinagar, Hathras, Etah, Unnao, Kairana, Lakhimpur, Farrukhabad, Shamli, Deoria, Khora Manakpur, Hardoi, Pilibhit, Bhadhi and Lalitpur. The CS directed the DMs concerned to make land available in the remaining 17 towns so that the solid waste processing plants could be set up there at the earliest. The committee also approved the proposal for setting up of the plants for the evacuation of around 84 lakh tonnes of legacy wastes in 72 big urban local bodies the cost of which has been pegged at ₹433 crore. The CS said the executing bodies must submit the DPRs for each city concerned to that funding of the projects could be arranged. Earlier, it was told in the meeting that state had achieved the toilet construction target for 2020-21 in cities with all the 651 urban local bodies having been declared ODF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dprs-for-setting-up-solid-waste-processing-plants-in-20-towns-cleared-101622657705944.html
02-06-2021||Other||Begin regular session as per govt guidelines:Guv to VCs||Lucknow : In an online review meeting of six state universities, Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel directed their vice chancellors to begin the next academic session following examination in coming days. The meeting was attended by vice chancellors of Pandit Dean Dayal Upadhyay University Gorakhpur, Chaudhary Charan Singh University Meerut, Harcourt Butler Technical University Kanpur, Prof Rajendra Singh University, Prayagraj, Dr Ambedkar University, Agra and Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti Language University, Lucknow. The governor directed the VCs to hold exams as per guidelines issued by the state government and promote students to the next academic session. She asked the VCs to also begin hiring of staff on vacant posts in a timely manner. Regarding implementation of New Education Policy (NEP)-2020 in state universities, the governor asked the VCs to submit the response and suggestion of their respective universities by June 15 so that the matter could be discussed properly before implementation. Regarding convocations, the governor asked the VC to ensure that students were handed over their degrees soon after convocation. She suggested making a database of names, phone numbers and addresses of the students so that the degrees could be sent to them by post. The governor asked the VC to make arrangements for celebration of Yoga Day on June 21 on campus and participate in plantation drives planned by the state government. Stating that universities should expand their roles, she suggested that every state university must involve itself in social work. “The universities should help women in nearby economically backward areas to form self help groups and try to train them in different skills,” the governor told the VCs as per a press statement issued by the Raj Bhawan. “The university should also adopt specially abled children living in residential areas near universities and help them to pursue their education,” she said. ,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/begin-regular-session-as-per-govt-guidelines-guv-to-vcs-101622657526040.html
02-06-2021||Other||Process to elect zila, kshetra panchayat chiefs to be completed by July 12: UP govt||LUCKNOW The UP government has informed the high court that the process for the indirect elections to the posts of zila panchayat and the kshetra panchayat chiefs will be completed by July 12, people aware of the issue disclosed. In the first phase, the election to the posts of zila panchayat chairpersons will be held around June 20 while voting for the post of kshetra panchayat/block heads will take place in the second week of July, as per the plan chalked out by the state government.“In an affidavit filed with the Allahabad high court last week, the state government had said that indirect elections to elect new zila panchayat and kshetra panchayat chairpersons will be held and completed by July 12,” said a senior official. “The notification for the polls to the post of zila panchayat chiefs may be issued by the end of next week and the poll process will take 15 days to complete after issuance of the notification by the State Election Commission (SEC),” he added. In an order passed on February 4, the high court had directed the government and the State Election Commission to complete direct elections to all the panchayats by April 30 and complete indirect elections thereafter within 15 days, that is, by May 15, 2021. Though the direct elections to the posts of pradhans, village ward members, kshetra panchayat members and zila panchayat members were held within the deadline set by the court, the government sought to delay the indirect polls supposedly due to the devastating second wave of the Covid pandemic. “As the high court had set the deadline for holding indirect polls too, we had to file an affidavit in the court, informing it about the reasons why it was not possible to hold polls by May 15,” the official said. Panchayati raj minister Bhupendra Singh said the government was ready to hold indirect panchayat elections now when the pandemic had subsided. “We hope to complete the exercise for the indirect polls electing new zila panchayat and kshetra panchayat chairpersons by June-end or early July,” he hinted. Now, 75,852 kshetra panchayat members and 3,050 zila panchayat members elected in the recent direct polls will vote to elect 75 zila panchayat and 826 kshetra panchayat chiefs, respectively, in the final round of three-tier panchayat polls. Political parties have high stakes in the indirect elections and they are busy setting their electoral arithmetic right to ensure victory of candidates to be backed by them. “Hectic campaigning involving efforts for horse trading and use of money and muscle power to win the support of independents and others is already on in villages these days,” said an official of the panchayati raj department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/process-to-elect-zila-kshetra-panchayat-chiefs-to-be-completed-by-july-12-up-govt-101622656625934.html
02-06-2021||Other||11 more black fungus patients admitted to Lucknow’s KGMU||LUCKNOW Eleven more patients of black fungus (mucormycosis) were admitted to the King George’s Medical University on Wednesday while 200 more amphotericin B injections were distributed for such patients in private hospitals. Till now, 250 black fungus patients have been admitted to the KGMU while at least 50 patients were under treatment at different private hospitals. While those at government hospitals were getting amphotericin B injections, patients admitted to private hospitals had to purchase these injections from Red Cross Society in Lucknow. “We operated upon six patients during the past 24 hours,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson, KGMU. The fresh stock of injections was of a different company than the stock distributed earlier by the Red Cross, hence a few attendants called up their doctors before procuring the injections for patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11-more-black-fungus-patients-admitted-to-lucknow-s-kgmu-101622656445982.html
02-06-2021||Other||20,409 inoculated in Lucknow – maximum in a day so far||LUCKNOW The state capital saw 20,409 people taking the jabs ion Wednesday – the highest single-day number since the vaccination drive began on January 16. Besides, the number of beneficiaries in the 18-45 years age group also crossed the two lakh mark here, said officials. The campaign began on January 16 with the inoculation of health workers. The drive gradually was then opened for frontline workers, people above 60 years and then for people above 45 years of age. The last segment, which started on May 1, was for people between 18 and 45 years of age. Till now, 2,07,047 beneficiaries between 18 and 45 years have taken their first dose and about 1,200 the second dose. The number of beneficiaries in the 45-plus category also crossed the two lakh mark (2,22,543 have taken their first dose). Full fledged vaccination for them started on April 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/20409-inoculated-in-lucknow-maximum-in-a-day-so-far-101622656325880.html
02-06-2021||Gurugram||Collection agent robbed of ₹4.5 lakh at gunpoint||A collection agent of a chain of retail stores was robbed at gunpoint by three armed persons in Sector 52, outside the Ardee City gate, on Wednesday, as per a complaint filed with the police. The robbers made away with ₹4.5 lakh, the police said. The police said that the complainant was on the way to the bank after collecting cash from multiple outlets. The incident took place around 3.20pm, when the employee, identified as Jeetu Kumar, reached outside Gate 4 of Ardee City. The suspects allegedly followed him, intercepted his motorcycle and snatched the bag. When the agent tried to raise the alarm, they threatened to kill him and threw red chilli powder in his eyes before making off with the bag on a motorcycle, which had a fake number plate, the police said.A case under sections 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 53 police station. Jasveer Singh, station house officer of Sector 53 police station, said that they have recovered CCTV footage from two spots to identify the suspects. “We are also probing all angles and role of an insider is yet not ruled out,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/collection-agent-robbed-of-4-5-lakh-at-gunpoint-101622655725837.html
02-06-2021||Other||Illicit liquor seized from govt vends, licences cancelled in Kannauj, Mirzapur||Illicit liquor is being seized during the 15-day special enforcement drive launched after the Aligarh hooch tragedy in which over 80 lives have been lost so far. In Kannauj, joint raids by excise and police department teams unearthed stocks of illicit liquor, fake QR codes from a government-licensed country-liquor vend. The licence of the shop has been cancelled.During road checking in Hardoi district, 1,200 bottles of tincture was seized from a jeep after which an FIR has been registered at Baghauli police station, officials said. On Tuesday, during inspection of two liquor vends in Mirzapur district, illicit liquor and material used to produce it was recovered. “Cases were registered against the licensees and salesmen and licences of the vends have been suspended,” additional chief secretary, excise, Sanjay Bhoosreddy said.In areas under Aligarh’s Harduaganj police station, 40,600 litres of spirit/chemical stored in 203 drums was seized. In another raid, 1,000 litres of rectified spirit, 1,481 litres of illicit country liquor, large numbers of fake wrappers, QR codes and other equipment for manufacturing illicit liquor were recovered. Three persons were arrested and an FIR registered at Akrabad police station. In Gautam Buddha Nagar, 399 cases of illegal foreign liquor meant for sale in Haryana were recovered, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/illicit-liquor-seized-from-govt-vends-licences-cancelled-in-kannauj-mirzapur-101622655669624.html
02-06-2021||Gurugram||35 under-construction shops near Khandsa Road demolished||At least 35 shops that were being constructed on a 600 square yard plot along Khandsa Road in violation of rules were demolished by a team of the Town and Country Planning Department (DTCP) on Wednesday. DTCP officials said that no licence or permission was taken by the owner for construction of the commercial complex and despite an FIR being registered in the matter, construction was being carried in gross violation of laws. The demolition drive started around 11am by the enforcement team of DTCP, comprising 25 officials, which was protected by a police contingent of around 150 personnel that was deployed to maintain law and order. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that it was a joint demolition drive in which around 35 shops constructed in violation of rules were demolished. “A shopping mall-like structure was being constructed and it took us four earth moving machines and a heavy Pokland machine, which had to be called in later, to demolish the structure,” said Bhath, adding that the drive went on till late evening due to the sturdy nature of construction. Bhath said that an FIR was earlier registered against the owners in this matter under relevant sections. “The owners were asked to desist from further construction,” he said. The owner of the under-construction complex, OP Kataria, when asked about the matter said that he was being targeted for being an RTI activist, to pressure him to compromise in a legal matter. “I am being targeted as I had filed multiple cases of electoral malpractices and I am not ready to compromise in the matter. Why no action is being taken against illegal buildings on Khandsa Road and in the 900-metre area around IAF ammunition dump?” he said. DTCP officials, however, said that the department would take action in all areas under their jurisdiction. “It is wrong to defend illegal actions by citing violations by others. We have strict directions from director, DTCP, to take action against illegal shopping complexes and colonies,” said Bhath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/35-under-construction-shops-near-khandsa-road-demolished-101622655669126.html
02-06-2021||Gurugram||Retired cop among trio held for handcuffing, assaulting siblings in Jharsa||Three persons, including a retired sub-inspector of police, were arrested for allegedly handcuffing and assaulting two persons in Sector 39 on Sunday following a scuffle that broke out during a cricket match.A video of the incident was also widely shared on social media, in which the trio was seen thrashing one of them after tying him to an electricity pole. The police said that the trio also filed a cross-complaint against the two siblings who were assaulted, but the details are being verified.According to the police, the two siblings, Suraj (20) and Vishwajeet (19) alleged that during a cricket match, a person on the opposite team, identified as Naveen Kumar, started abusing them following which a scuffle broke out, in which Kumar was injured.Around 5.10pm, when the siblings were returning to their home in Sector 39 of Jharsa, Kumar, his brother and their father intercepted them and started assaulting them with sticks, the police said.Suraj alleged that Kumar’s father handcuffed Vishwajeet to an electricity pole and started assaulting him. “Some people started recording the act on their mobile phones following which they took us inside the house and assaulted us. Meanwhile, someone informed the police control room, following which a team from Sadar police station reached the spot,” he said.Aman Yadav, the assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said that the victims were taken to the Civil hospital and were given first-aid. “On Monday, the victims filed a complaint against the suspects and during an investigation, the prime suspect was identified as Prem Babu, a retired sub-inspector of Haryana Police. We arrested him and two of his sons on Tuesday,” he said.A case under sections 147 (riot), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (causing hurt) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Sadar police station.Yadav said during the investigation it was also found that the duo assaulted Kumar initially during the cricket match. “We have received a cross-complaint from the suspect’s side and they alleged that they were the first to attack. We have recovered CCTV footage from the spot and are verifying the facts, following which action will be taken against those responsible,” he said.The police said they are yet to recover the handcuffs used in the crime and that it is unclear how a retired cop managed to retain handcuffs that are to be deposited at the time of retirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/retired-cop-among-trio-held-for-handcuffing-assaulting-siblings-in-jharsa-101622655668553.html
02-06-2021||Gurugram||Three-member committee to look into overcharging for Covid-19 treatment||A three-member committee was constituted by the district administration on Wednesday to address complaints of inflated bills by private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment. “Based on the directives issued by the state government, a committee has been constituted to look into grievances related to overcharging by private hospitals against the treatment cost fixed by the state. The deliberations on the complaints will be done weekly or more frequently, if required, considering the number of complaints received in a day,” said Siddharth Dahinya, city magistrate, who is the chairman of the committee. The other members of the committee are Dr Anuj Garg of the district health department and Dr MP Jain of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). According to Dahiya, only after the deliberation on every case will a recommendation be submitted to the state government that will take action against hospitals. On June 25, 2020, the state government fixed rates (per day) in hospitals accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare providers (NABH) at ₹10,000 for isolation bed, including supportive care and oxygen; ₹15,000 for Intensive Care Unit (ICU) bed without ventilator and ₹18,000 for ICU with ventilator. The rates for non-NABH accredited hospitals were fixed at ₹8,000, ₹13,000 and ₹15,000 respectively, for the three categories.However, many have complained that the treatment cost in ICU went over ₹50,000, while more than ₹20,000 was charged per day for general ward.According to the statement issued by the district administration, people can submit their complaints at the Sector 31 polyclinic, health department office in Sector 39 and city magistrate’s office in Mini Secretariat. People can email their complaints to atctmgrg@hry.nic.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/threemember-committee-to-look-into-overcharging-for-covid-19-treatment-101622655667926.html
02-06-2021||Gurugram||Newer sectors to get link roads within six months: GMDA||The newer sectors of Gurugram (from Sector 81) will get better road connectivity within six months as the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has started work on developing missing link roads, said officials.The authority is first working on constructing a link road on the master dividing road of Sector 87/91 that will connect to IMT Manesar. The project cost has been estimated at ₹70 lakh.Due to litigation issues, road connectivity in the newer sectors could not be completed, said officials.“Due to litigation issues, compensation of land, delays in land transfer, parts of roads at different places had been left out and could not be constructed. Due to this, residents had to take longer routes, but now these issues have been resolved and we are starting work on the construction of these missing links. We have floated tenders and link roads on five stretches will be constructed within six months,” said Shaveta Sharma, executive engineer, Infrastructure-I division of GMDA.The authority will be constructing missing link roads to connect sectors 81, 82, 86, 92, 95 and outer parts of sectors 91 and 92. During the 8th board meeting of the authority in April, GMDA officials said these roads will have specifications of 2 x 2.99-metre width with central verge varying from three to eight metres, with surface run-off drains on both sides.Residents of the newer sectors said that completion of these link roads is important to bring down the number of accidents in the area.Praveen Malik, the vice-president of United Association of New Gurugram, a body of 40 housing societies from Sector 77 to Sector 90, said, “In 2015-16, these new sectors started coming up which were developed by private builders, and they were responsible for the construction of service lanes, while master roads were to be developed by GMDA. But due to different legal issues, the road construction got delayed. Due to that, residents have to face issues like potholes and waterlogging on roads, making them accident-prone. The construction of the link roads will help in smooth connectivity for residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/newer-sectors-to-get-link-roads-within-six-months-gmda-101622655666437.html
02-06-2021||Gurugram||Power department cuts losses by 2.87%, recovers dues of ₹162 crore||The electricity department has managed to reduce aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses by 2.87% this year, officials of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) said on Wednesday, citing checks on electricity theft on a large scale as the main reason. The department registered 48,729 cases of power theft in 2020-21 and fines to the tune of ₹162 crore were realised, officials said. Dr Balkar Singh, the managing director of DHBVN, said that the transmission and other losses in 2020-21 have decreased sharply as the discom focussed on reducing losses. “The transmission losses have come down from 16.50% last year to 13.63% this year. One of the major reasons for AT&C loss is electricity theft. To check the theft of electricity, campaigns were also organised from time to time by DHBVN, with special teams to check electricity theft and monitor them regularly,” said Singh. Aggregate technical and commercial losses are a combination of energy loss (technical loss, theft and inefficiency in billing) and commercial loss (default in payment and inefficiency in collection).Singh also said was the government departments and agencies were asked to pay electricity bills on time and they also launched a large-scale exercise to disconnect electricity connections of defaulting consumers. When asked about the timelines of the Smartgrid project in the city as electricity consumers across the city face power cuts, especially due to meteorological factors, Singh assured that work will be carried out at an accelerated pace. “The lockdowns have impacted the project work but the Smartgrid team has assured me that two modules will be completed by July this year. The wind storms and squall this year have been far stronger and have damaged cables in many cities, including Gurugram, but this will be minimised,” said Singh. Officials said that around 40% of the electricity lines in sectors 1 to 57 of Gurugram have been laid underground. Kulvinder Singh, executive engineer, Smartgrid project, Gurugram, said, “The remaining areas would be covered in the next one year at the most.”In a related development, DHBVN officials said that consumers can also get meter reading errors rectified from home. An official said that a facility of trust reading is being provided by Haryana Bijli Vitaran Nigam (Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitaran Nigam and Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitaran Nigam). In case the readings are wrong, consumers can get the bill rectified by uploading the correct meter reading on the department’s website, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/power-department-cuts-losses-by-2-87-recovers-dues-of-162-crore-101622655665882.html
02-06-2021||Gurugram||45 mucormycosis patients recovered so far, 184 under treatment||At least 45 patients diagnosed with mucormycosis, commonly referred to as black fungus, have recovered from illness and discharged from hospitals in Gurugram, according to the district health department. The total count of patients now stands at 229. Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, said, “Unlike Covid-19, mucormycosis cannot be transmitted from one person to another. Treatment is possible if detected timely. About 45 people have been discharged till now, while 184 are still undergoing treatment. The disease has been notified by the Haryana government, making it mandatory for hospitals to share information of black fungus cases treated in their facilities.” According to the data, till June 1, 951 cases of black fungus have been detected in the state, of which 746 are currently active. As many as 84 people have died due to illness. Black fungus has been found mostly among people with uncontrolled diabetes, whose immunity is compromised, or among people who are given excessive steroids or immunity-modulating drugs such as tocilizumab. According to doctors, if left untreated, it could kill up to 80% of those infected. If not detected early, it affects the orbit of the eye and the mouth, resulting in people losing their vision or jaw during debridement, the process of removing dead tissue from an infection or wound.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/45-mucormycosis-patients-recovered-so-far-184-under-treatment-101622655605890.html
02-06-2021||Gurugram||Vaccinations on hold for 18-45 age group for third consecutive day||Covid-19 vaccinations for the 18-45 age group will remain suspended for a third consecutive day on Thursday at government health centres due to a shortage of vaccines. However, officials said that sufficient doses are available for those aged 45 and above at the government centres. “The department is yet to receive vaccine stock from the state health department for the inoculation of people aged 18 and above,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. Two big hospitals, Narayana Superspeciality in Sector 24 and Artemis Hospital in Sector 51, have also started vaccination drive in the last two days. Until now, only four hospitals, Fortis, Max, Medanta and Columbia Asia, were providing vaccines for the 18-45 age group. Commander (retd) Navneet Bali, regional director, northern region, Narayana Health, said, “Vaccine has been purchased from the Serum Institute of India by our corporate office in Bangalore. For Gurugram, we have 10,000 doses. The target is to inoculate at least 1,000 people every day. It has been decided the hospital won’t charge any processing fee, and shots will be given at ₹650 instead of ₹900. This is our small way of fulfilling our commitment towards the nation’s goal of vaccinating maximum beneficiaries.” Dr Anjali Kaul, medical superintendent, Artemis Hospital, said that at least 300 people are taking Covishield shot every day since May 31. “Hospital will be holding vaccination drives at workplaces and residents’ welfare association based on requests. The daily coverage will be increased to 800 gradually.” According to the health department data, 708,768 doses have been administered in the district till now, of which 7,544 doses were administered on Wednesday. Over 7,781 people in the 18-45 age group took their vaccine shots at private hospitals. The health department held a special camp for widows in the 18-45 age bracket and inoculated 382 persons across the four blocks of the district. Among those aged 45 and above, 1,712 people took their doses at government health centres, and 264 were inoculated at private facilities. About 95 healthcare workers and 310 front-line workers and their family members also took the vaccine shot. In the last few days, various camps have been organised to cover high-risk population group. To cover people with physical disabilities, who are not enrolled under any social welfare schemes, the district administration is reaching out to them on social media. “A Google form has been generated and promoted on district administration’s social media platform asking people with physical disabilities to come forward. Till now, 92 people have registered, seeking the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine,” said Nayonika Basu, associate, Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associate (CMGGA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vaccinations-on-hold-for-18-45-age-group-for-third-consecutive-day-101622655547078.html
02-06-2021||Gurugram||People aged 21-40 account for 51% of total cases since pandemic outbreak||Around 51% of the 177,190 people who were infected with the coronavirus infection since the outbreak of the pandemic till May 20 were aged between 21 and 40 years, according to the district health department data. Based on the cumulative case count until May 20, till when the data of age-wise breakup was available, over 49,075 (27.7%) people in the 31-40 year age group contracted the coronavirus, making them the highest infected population group, followed by people in the 21-30 year age group that accounted for 41,158 (23.2%) of the total cases. On Wednesday, the overall tally reached 180,115, with 83 new cases detected. Of these, 1,073 are currently active. According to the data till May 20, 27,846 people (15.7%) in their 40s and 18,333 (10.3%) in their 50s also tested positive, making them the next highest impacted age groups.Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine department and school of public health, PGIMER-Chandigarh, said, “Be it the first wave of Covid-19 in 2020 or the second wave this year, it has been seen across the country that people of 21-40 years are the most affected. First, they are more in number compared to the elderly population. Second, they are highly mobile, moving from one place to another for various kinds of work. It makes them more susceptible to contracting the infection.” Over 12, 515 children (7%) in 11-20 years and 6,624 (3.7%) in the 0-10 age group contracted the virus, but no death has been reported in these age groups. Likewise, in the older age groups, 13, 353 people aged between 61 and 70 years tested positive for the coronavirus infection, but their mortality was higher than other age groups, as was the case in the 71-80 years age group that accounted for 6,277 (3.5%) of the cases. Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “Despite 21-40 age group being the most affected population, death rate in the age groups has been lesser compared to the older population. They contribute roughly about 10% to overall deaths. In terms of morbidity and mortality, people between 41 and 70 are the most vulnerable. Among those in their 60s, the death rate has been almost 26% until May 24 and 23% among those between 71 and 80 years.” The data shows that almost 58.6% of the infected population were male, while two transgenders tested positive in the last 14 months of the pandemic. 83 new cases detected The daily case count on Wednesday declined to 83, the lowest since March 16. The test positivity rate, the proportion of positives out of the sample tested, also decreased to 1.63%, while the recovery rate reached 98.7%. On April 30, according to a statement issued by the district administration on Wednesday, when the lockdown was imposed for two weeks, the positivity rate was almost 34.9%. Cases were doubling every 23 days, while the recovery rate fell to 69.76%. It took over a month of lockdown and extensive testing in large outbreak areas to bring the numbers down. Daily mortality is still high, according to the district health bulletin. On Wednesday, nine people died due to Covid-19, taking the death toll to 836. Among the 1,073 active cases, at least 143 are hospitalised, while 926 are home isolated and four are in district covid care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/people-aged-21-40-account-for-51-of-total-cases-since-pandemic-outbreak-101622655546476.html
02-06-2021||Other||UP govt fixes max tariff for pvt ambulance providers||The state government has fixed the maximum tariff to be charged by ambulance service providers at private hospitals in order to bring about uniformity in the rates across the state and stop overcharging of patients and their attendants. The maximum tariff for the Type-A ambulances/medical first responders has been fixed at ₹500 for first 10 km and above that ₹10 per km, while Type-B road ambulances/patient transport ambulance (the cost of which is up to ₹8 lakh such as Maruti Omni, Tata Magic etc) can charge maximum fare of ₹1,000 for per 10 km and ₹20 per extra km. Similarly, the government has fixed the maximum fare for Type-C road ambulances/basic life support ambulances (more than ₹8 lakh and up to ₹10 lakh like Mahindra Bolero) at ₹1500 for first 10 km and then ₹25 per extra km. The Type-D road ambulances/advance life support ambulances (more than ₹10 lakh such as Tata Winger, Force Traveler and Tata 407) cannot charge more than ₹2,000 for first 10 km and ₹30 per extra km. The decision comes after the government received complaints about private hospital ambulance operators charging exorbitant rates when the Covid pandemic was at its peak in the state. A circular issued by principal secretary, transport, Rajesh Kumar Singh here on May 31 after the state transport authority passed a proposal in this regard warned that the transport department would cancel the ambulance’s registration besides cancelling the driver and the conductor’s driving licence if any ambulance operator was found charging more than what the government had fixed. Transport commissioner Dheeraj Sahu said that road ambulances were free from the liability of taking a permit to ply and the state government also did not charge any tax from them. “This is because ambulance service is not a commercial venture but a social service and hence they are not supposed to overcharge,” he pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-fixes-max-tariff-for-pvt-ambulance-providers-101622655545880.html
02-06-2021||Gurugram||Third sero survey to be held next week||A third round of the serological survey to detect the presence of antibodies developed against the SARS-CoV-2 virus will be held in the second week of June, according to the district health department. Four urban clusters and 12 rural areas have been selected in the district for the survey.“State health department has planned to conduct the third round of sero survey by using the sample size of 400 participants from each district of Haryana. Guidelines on conducting the survey are yet to be received from the state,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram.Officials said that directions were issued to make necessary arrangements for lab equipment, such as reagents and testing machines, among others, before the survey starts.Serological surveys help in gauging the extent of spread and the actual burden of Covid-19 infection in a given area. Blood samples are taken to trace the presence of IgG antibodies, which a person might have developed after contracting the virus but remained asymptomatic.Across the state, 88 urban areas and 264 villages have been finalised for the survey, with an overall sample size of around 8,800, with 400 samples to be collected from 22 districts.In Gurugram, samples will be collected from urban clusters under urban primary health centres of Mullahera, Basai Enclave, Naharpur Roopa and Patel Nagar. These are densely populated areas of the district, largely in old Gurugram, said officials. Besides, samples will also be collected from rural blocks of Bhondsi, Pataudi, Farrukhnagar, Wazirabad, Mushedpur, Khalipur, Baluda, Sanchauli, Dooma, Khetiawas and Lohatki.The state conducted two serological surveys in 2020. In the first round in Gurugram, the seropositivity rate of the urban areas was 18.5%, which increased to 25.9% in the second area, while in rural areas, it increased from 5.7% in the first round to 10.1% in the second round. In both surveys, over 800 people were tested.Overall, the seropositivity in the state in the second round was 14.8%. At the district level, Faridabad reported the highest prevalence of 31.2%, followed by 28.6% in the Yamunanagar district. Six districts, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Mahendragarh, Sirsa and Hisar, were found to have seropositivity prevalence below 10%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/third-sero-survey-to-be-held-next-week-101622655485879.html
02-06-2021||Kolkata||Abhishek Banerjee’s 10-min courtesy call sparks buzz over Mukul Roy's next move||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and Trinamool Congress (TMC) youth unit president Abhishek Banerjee on Wednesday evening visited a private hospital to check on the ailing wife of former party colleague Mukul Roy, adding to speculation about the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) vice-president’s next move.Abhishek Banerjee, 33, spent about 10 minutes at the east Kolkata hospital where Mukul Roy’s wife Krishna Roy is being treated for Covid-19. The young Lok Sabha MP did not speak to the media. TMC leaders said it was a courtesy call.“Abhishek Banerjee briefly met Roy’s son Subhranshu and inquired about his mother’s health,” said a TMC leader who did not want to be named. But the visit nevertheless sparked buzz about the 67-year-old Roy’s next move. As the rumours swirled, Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh too dropped by two hours later.Mukul Roy, a founder TMC member, was suspended for six years from the Trinamool Congress after his meeting with BJP leaders in September 2017. Roy quit from the party and the Rajya Sabha the following month and joined the BJP in November 2017. Mukul Roy was the BJP’s lead election strategist for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Bengal when the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 seats. In September last year, Roy, who is an accused in the Narada sting operation case probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation, was appointed national vice-president of the BJP.Abhishek Banerjee’s surprise visit comes days after Mukul Roy’s son Subhranshu wrote on Facebook on Saturday that self-criticism is more necessary than criticising a government elected by people, a remark that was widely seen to refer to the BJP sharp campaign against Mamata Banerjee after she won the state elections.Subhranshu Roy, who joined the BJP last year, had also contested the election from Bijpur in North 24 Parganas district but lost. Mukul Roy won the Krishnanagar North seat in Nadia district.To be sure, Mamata Banerjee did make repeated references to Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari - two of her trusted lieutenants who quit the TMC to join the BJP - during campaigning for the eight-phase polls and was seen to be soft on Mukul Roy.“Poor Mukul has been fielded from Nadia district although he hails from North 24 Parganas. He is not as bad as Suvendu,” Banerjee said at one campaign rally.Mukul Roy did try to end the speculation, telling reporters that he was a “dedicated worker” of the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-s-nephew-visits-bjp-leader-mukul-roy-s-ailing-wife-sparks-buzz-101622654226396.html
02-06-2021||Other||Class 12 CBSE students from J&K welcome cancellation of exams||As the central government on Tuesday cancelled Class 12 CBSE board exams in wake of safeguarding the health of students, thousands of students from Jammu and Kashmir, who were to appear in this contested exam, welcomed the decision.“Students in J&K were facing a lot of stress due to the circumstances in the UT from past few years. Cancellation of these exams is a sigh of relief for students, as classwork is almost shut in J&K since August 2019,” said Raja Asif, a Class 12 CBSE student from Kashmir.Asif adds that if there was further delay in the exams, students would have lost a complete year. “We have a different session schedule. Schools here fall under the local UT board and they have already conducted exams in Kashmir. Universities and colleges have also started admissions here unlike the rest of India where college admissions begin after CBSE declares the results,” says Asif.“Not only students, parents too were worried about conducting exams in these conditions. Most students and teachers who would appear and invigilate the exams, are still not vaccinated,” said Faisal Ahmad, a student.He added that even if student vaccination would have been given a priority, this meant there was a delay of over two to three months until all students get both doses administered.Another student, Muheeba Ayoub, said it was imperative to cancel these exams for not facilitating a third wave as lakhs of students were at risk of a potential infection through these exams.“The decision of not forcing students to take the exam has relieved us,’ Ayoub added.Meanwhile, academicians in J&K said that the decision to cancel these exams is not in best interest of students.Shah Fayaz, who heads the Jammu and Kashmir Teachers’ Association, said that cancellation of exams of Class 12 students will have far reaching impact on the future of the society.Fayaz adds that the government should have instead delayed the exams and conducted them after a few months as Class 12 students, unlike little children, are conscious of Covid-appropriate behaviour. “They are old enough to abide by the safety protocol and conducting exams of such students is not a big deal,” he said.Dr Shashikant Dixit, principal of Delhi Public School, Kashmir, said that there is no replacement to life and cancellation of physical exams was the only option left as students were unprepared owing to persistent crisis in the country.Dixit added that the decision has created distress among students who had been preparing hard to score well in their board exam.He said that CBSE most likely will keep a second option open by conducting offline exams in October for those who don’t wish their grades to be assessed internally by schools.Sofi Rafeeq, a teacher at a CBSE school said the decision is a disrespect to the hard work of students who had been burning their midnight oil amid such a crisis to score well in exams.Rafeeq added that the assessment that will be done now will largely put students in the same fray and there will be an aggregate average scoring of marks by all students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/class-12-cbse-students-from-j-k-welcome-cancellation-of-exams-101622653266453.html
02-06-2021||Other||Army chief begins 2-day visit to Valley||Army chief Gen MM Naravane on Wednesday began two-day visit of Kashmir and during his visit, he was briefed by formation commanders about the situation on the LoC in the backdrop of ceasefire between India and Pakistan.The army chief reviewed the overall security situation in the UT and discussed the efforts being made to prevent local youths from joining militancy.The army spokesman said that army chief arrived in Srinagar on Wednesday morning and was accompanied by Lt Gen YK Joshi, the Northern Army commander and Lt Gen DP Pandey, Chinar Corps commander.“The army chief visited units and formations in the hinterland where he was briefed by the local commanders on the existing security situation and measures being taken to identify and target the overground workers’ network involved in radicalisation and recruitment of youth into terrorist ranks,” the spokesman said.He said that the chief was briefed about efforts undertaken to prevent local recruitment and facilitate surrender of local terrorists.“The chief reinforced the need to be prepared to meet emerging security challenges effectively. Later, he was briefed by the Chinar Corps Commander on the overall situation pertaining to the LoC and the hinterland,” the spokesman said.The army chief complimented the synergy exhibited by all sections of the civil administration, J&K Police, Central Armed Police Forces and other security agencies in projecting a ‘whole of government’ approach that has resulted in improvement in security situation conducive for fostering a new era of development in the UT.In the evening, the army chief held meeting with L-G Manoj Sinha at Raj Bhawan and discussed the emerging challenges and road map for long-term peace in J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/army-chief-begins-2-day-visit-to-valley-101622652966968.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||BMC and govt vaccination centres in Mumbai to remain shut on June 3||Covid-19 vaccination centres run by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the Maharashtra government in Mumbai will remain closed on June 3, the civic body said in a tweet on Wednesday. Vaccination details for other scheduled days will be shared on their official Twitter handles.“Please note that all BMC and government vaccination centres will be closed tomorrow (June 3, 2021). We apologize for the inconvenience. Please watch this space for updates regarding vaccination centres and schedules,” BMC tweeted.The civic body gave no reason for the closure of vaccination centres but news agency ANI reported a shortage of vaccine was the reason behind the sudden closure of centres run by the state government and the municipal body.“Due to lack of adequate vaccine stock, vaccination will be stopped tomorrow (June 3) at Government and Municipal Centers in Mumbai,” ANI said quoting BMC’s department of public relations.Maharashtra is slated to receive six million doses of Covid-19 vaccine in June. Out of these six million doses, four million will be allocated by the Centre and two million will be bought by the state to vaccinate people between 18 and 44 years. State health officials told reporters that the state-procured doses might also be diverted for administering the second dose to individuals in the above 45 age group.Maharashtra has formulated a plan to help reduce the daily cases of Covid-19 by pushing vaccination in areas with high positivity rates and low vaccination rates. The state has been witnessing a sharp decline in the daily tally of cases and reported 15,169 new cases on Wednesday, out of which 923 were from Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-and-govt-vaccination-centres-in-mumbai-to-remain-shut-on-june-3-101622652590784.html
02-06-2021||Other||Social distancing goes for a toss in Jammu as tipplers rush to liquor shops||Social distancing went for a toss in Jammu on Wednesday when tipplers rushed to liquor shops.Wine shops opened across Jammu on Wednesday after over a month-long closure owing to Covid-induced lockdown, drawing heavy rush of tipplers.Consequently, the city witnessed traffic snarls outside such vends and the case in point was Gole Market, Gandhi Nagar where huge rush outside two liquor vends brought the traffic movement to standstill.Though a few policemen were posted outside these vends and a traffic police van made announcements asking the tipplers not to park their vehicles on roads, their beeline kept swelling despite the rising mercury throughout the day.Saner people, however, sulked and questioned the logic behind the 42-day lockdown across the UT. “It seems that all of a sudden Covid has disappeared. Where is the required social distancing and Covid-appropriate behaviour? People are so eager to purchase liquor and it doesn’t matter to them if the virus gets transmitted,” said an elderly man, who had come to an adjacent hardware store to purchase bath fittings.“Is it not a callous approach of the government? There was a lockdown and now everything has gone for a toss. It seems that this government wants revenue even if it comes from the dead,” he rued.New chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta said that there will be “zero tolerance on non-adherence to Covid-apt behaviour”.“There will be zero tolerance on non-adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour. No one has the right to put others’ lives at risk,” he tweeted on the official handle of the health and medical education department.Liquor shops were closed in the last week of April following imposition of Covid curfew after a successful e-auction which fetched ₹140 crore for one year to the government.The e-auction replaced the traditional practice of renewal of license, leaving 228 liquor traders without a job.Setting up of wine shops in residential areas led to protests by residents against the excise department, with the protesters seeking L-G Manoj Sinha’s intervention in shifting the establishments from their areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-in-jammu-as-tipplers-rush-to-liquor-shops-101622652848817.html
02-06-2021||Other||24 Covid deaths reported in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday reported 24 Covid-19 related deaths, lowest daily fatalities in 38 days, and 1,718 fresh cases taking the overall case tally to 2,94,078 and fatalities to 3,963.Of the deaths in the UT, seven were reported in the Jammu division and 17 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 1,133 were from Kashmir and 585 from Jammu, besides 23 travellers.The number of patients who were cured in the UT on Wednesday was 3,391, including 2,064 from Kashmir and 1,327 from Jammu. The active cases dropped to 31,579 from the highest-ever active cases of 52,848 on May 13.The overall number of people who recovered reached 2,58,536, improving the recovery rate to 87.91%.Officials said 45,753 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours in the UT with the overall number of tests reaching 8.65 million.With 320 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new cases, followed by 169 in Jammu, 158 in Pulwama, 137 in Budgam and 103 in Anantnag. Jammu has the highest number of 1,078 fatalities, followed by Srinagar with 781 deaths.‘COMPLETE VACCINATION OF 45+ AGE GROUP BY JUNE END’New chief secretary of the UT, Arun Kumar Mehta, on Wednesday chaired a meeting to review the Covid containment measures including progress of vaccination drives.Mehta directed achieving universal vaccination of 45 and above age group by June-end. He directed the health and medical education department to prioritise and saturate the targeted groups of vulnerable population in 18-45 age categories, and organise systematic vaccination drives for remaining people on arrival of the next consignment of vaccines.The department was asked to strengthen the panchayat-level Covid care centres as grid of Covid-related services by facilitating testing and lifting at least 10 samples per day towards early detection of cases and subsequent establishment of micro-containment zones in cases of high positivity rate.“People flaunting inappropriate behaviour in disregard to the laid down SOPs regarding Covid should be penalised for jeopardizing public health,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/24-covid-deaths-reported-in-jk-101622652787050.html
02-06-2021||Other||Administrative apathy more fatal than the pandemic: Mehbooba Mufti||Lambasting the Union government for abandoning people at the crucial juncture, former chief minister and People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday said that administrative apathy coupled with mismanagement and nepotism is proving more fatal than the current pandemic.“From the rising graph of Covid-19 positive cases and fatalities caused by it, it is clear that the Jammu and Kashmir administration, like rest of the country, was caught unprepared to meet the exigencies,” Mehbooba said, adding that “nepotism and favouritism has crippled the administrative setup in the erstwhile state compounding miseries of people”.She was addressing PDP’s provincial committee Jammu in a virtual meet attended by senior party leaders from across region.Vice-president Abdul Hameed Choudhary, general secretaries, state secretaries, district presidents and others participated and shared their feedback about the current situation across region.“The closure of these important road links has not only affected the business community but has also restricted options for those required to go for specialised medical treatment,” she added.The PDP president said that non-availability of required health infrastructure and shortage of manpower at district level has compounded the issue.“At place like Kishtwar and Ramban, ventilators installed a year ago remain non-functional due to unavailability of trained manpower,” she said. Many people have lost their lives allegedly due to non-availability of required medical facilities.“Jammu was given the impression that Article 370 is the only hurdle in development and prosperity of the region. But today, even medicines are not available to people battling the pandemic,” she added.She urged the party leaders to formulate emergency response strategy at district level and reach out to people at grassroots level.Mehbooba said the administration, at the district level, has been crippled as the ruling dispensation in New Delhi is not allowing even the officers to take decisions required for the welfare of people.“Independence and functioning of administration has been made hostage to the political aspiration of BJP and Jammu has been at the receiving end,” she said.Mehbooba said Mughal Road and Kishtwar-Sinthan highways remained closed for vehicular traffic despite huge amount being spent on snow clearance only because those sitting in New Delhi consider surface connectivity of Pripanchal and Chenab Valley with Kashmir region detrimental to their political interests.Mufti said efficiency, experience and competency are no more yardsticks for posting of officers at key places resulting into complete administrative chaos.She said that the SC, ST population has been victimised in the name of anti-encroachment drives and people have been pushed to the walls to appease political heavyweights.“All the sections of society including traders, industrialists, transports, farmers, labourers besides others are at a crossroad today due to official apathy and administrative inertia,” she said.“The recent revelations by BJP leaders about functioning of the party and its leadership and facilitating corruption is indication of how rights of people are being muzzled to benefit few people connected to the ruling party,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/administrative-apathy-more-fatal-than-the-pandemic-mehbooba-mufti-101622652727032.html
02-06-2021||Other||Mandi, Fatehpur bypolls due in Aug, ECI seeks report on Covid situation||With byelections for the Fatehpur assembly and Mandi Lok Sabha seat due in August and September respectively, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has sought a report on the Covid-19 situation in Himachal.The Mandi Lok Sabha seat had fallen vacant on March 17 after the demise of Member of Parliament Ram Swaroop Sharma. He was found dead at his official residence in New Delhi.The Fatehpur assembly seat, on the other hand, was represented by Congress legislator and former minister Sujan Singh Pathania who died on February 12 after a prolonged illness. Section 151A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, mandates the EC to fill vacancies in the Houses of Parliament and State Legislatures through byelections within six months of the date of occurrence of the vacancy.Chief electoral officer C Paularasu said the state government will ask the election commission to consult them before announcing the poll plan.On May 25, the EC, while reviewing the situation amid the second wave of the pandemic, had observed that it would not be appropriate to hold byelections till the pandemic situation improves. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislative party had suggested to the high command to postpone the byelection which was supposed to be held with last round of elections in Bengal. The party had urged the commission to relax the constitutional binding of holding elections within six months. Parties gear up for pollsMeanwhile, political parties have started preparations for the polls. BJP had appointed industries minister Bikram Singh and former state chief Satpal Singh Satti as incharges for Fathepur elections. Former Rajya Sabha member Kripal Parmar is among the claimants for the ticket along with party’s local leader Baldev Thakur. The Congress had appointed former transport minister GS Bali as its in charge and forwarded only one name for candidature -- Bhawani Singh Pathania, the son of Sujan Singh Pathania. In Mandi, there are four claimants for the BJP ticket. Kargil war hero Brigadier Kushal Singh Thakur, who is currently the chairman of HP ex-servicemen corporation, party secretary Payal Vaidya and BJP’s chief spokesman Ajay Rana are in the race while a section of the party is keen on fielding the party’s senior most minister Mahender Singh Thakur, who holds the horticulture and Jal Shakti portfolio.Thakur himself is not keen to contest. On the other hand, the Congress is still in dilemma over the candidates. During the previous elections, it had pitted former chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s wife Pratibha Singh against Ram Sawroop Sharma. Pratibha has served as the Lok Sabha member from Mandi while former telecommunication minister Sukhram’s grandson Ashray Sharma who lost to Ram Swaroop Sharma last time is also vying for the ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mandi-fatehpur-bypolls-due-in-aug-eci-seeks-report-on-covid-situation-101622652667293.html
02-06-2021||Other||Pandemic-hit HP tourism industry seeks govt help to emerge from crisis||Deprived of business during the peak season due to the lockdown, the pandemic-hit hospitality sector of Himachal Pradesh has sought help from the government to emerge from the impact of the Covid-19 crisis.Tourism economy in Himachal amounts to ₹17,000 crore and contributes to 9% of the state’s gross domestic product (GDP). According to conservative estimates, the hospitality industry has borne over ₹1,500 crore losses since the lockdown was imposed in state while more than two lakh persons employed in the hotel industry have gone jobless.After the lockdown was imposed last year, the tourism sector was hopeful of making up for the losses this summer. The peak tour season for Himachal starts in April and end in June but the surge in second wave of Covid forced the government to impose state-wide lockdown.“The three-month summer tourist season plays a big role in sustainability of the hotel industry. The tourism industry lost complete summer season last year due to the pandemic and this year also, they lost almost 75% of the major tourist season,” says Himachal Pradesh Tourist Stakeholders Association president MK Seth, adding, “Our working capital has completely exhausted. Tourism in Himachal has come to a grinding halt since March 2021.”Hoteliers are worried about repaying monthly instalments of the loans. The Reserve Bank of India has brought the scheme of restructuring of loans with a condition that loan account should be standard as on March 31, 2021.The tourism industry remained closed for almost eight months last year due to the nationwide lockdown. This year again just before the tourist season, the second wave of Covid has compelled the hoteliers to keep their units closed due to no occupancy.The RBI has brought Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme 3.0 to provide relief to the tourism, hospitality and travel sector but majority of tourism stakeholders could not take the benefit of the scheme due to its stringent conditions.The biggest hurdle in the scheme is the cut-off date of outstanding balance of loan taken as on February 29, 2020 that also with a condition that the account should not have default of more than 60 days as on February 2020.Majority of the tourism units were compelled to take fresh loans past year to meet their running expanses of the units because there was no help extended to the industry by the government since last year.The tourism sector has asked the government to make amendments by extending cut-off date to March 31, 2021 and to relax the condition of number of days of default of the EMI.The state working capital interest subvention scheme is still awaited. Further, the hoteliers have asked the government to ease out restrictions for tourists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pandemichit-hp-tourism-industry-seeks-govt-help-to-emerge-from-crisis-101622652426245.html
02-06-2021||Other||As state grapples with high CFR, HP issues presumptive treatment protocol||Even as Covid-19 cases are beginning to taper off, the high case fatality ratio (CFR) remains a concern for health authorities in Himachal Pradesh.In May, the state had witnessed 91,043 Covid-19 cases and 1,643 deaths, recording a CFR of 1.8%, the highest in 15 months of the pandemic. Comparatively, the CFR was 1.2% in April when the state recorded 35,682 infections and 449 deaths.The overall CFR in the state is 1.6%, which is higher than the national average of 1.2%.Shimla has the highest CFR of 2.34% followed by Kangra at 2.14%. However, when one looks at absolute numbers, Kangra’s fatalities (559) outnumber Shimla (211).The other two districts having a CFR above the state average are Hamirpur and Una (1.7% each).Kangra chief medical officer Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said the district’s overall CFR since the outbreak is 2.14% while in May, it was 2.18% and in April, it was 1.81%.“We don’t have a very high CFR but the absolute number of deaths is high,” said Dr Gupta, adding that this was primarily due to the high number of infections. Kangra recorded 8,207 infections in April and 25,628 in May, he said.Dr Gupta further said that another reason is that Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda, is a tertiary care centre and people are referred here from at least five districts. “If a patient is detected positive here and eventually dies, the death is counted in Kangra,” he said. Meanwhile, National Health Mission director Dr Nipun Jindal said some of the deaths were of patients in home isolation. In such cases, patients fall in two categories – the first were those who had come in contact with an infected patient and were recommended home isolation while the second type were those who neglected their symptoms and eventually died. Presumptive treatment protocol For suspected Covid-19 patients, the state Covid clinical team has recommended presumptive treatment. It is advised that patients in home isolation and all patients who are suspected to have Covid-19 infection and are waiting for their test reports should be put on presumptive therapy, which includes recommended medicine, said Dr Nipun Jindal.Suspected Covid-19 patients, whose RT-PCR test report is awaited or is negative but show features of severe acute respiratory illness, shall be admitted in the Triage area of the hospital and will be considered for chest scan.Covid-19 treatment of such patients shall be started with the aim to maintain target oxygen saturation, he said.Apart from that, Dr Jindal said, panchcyat-level task forces have been constituted to keep tabs on health vitals of home isolated patients so that they can be immediately shifted to a hospital if required.An IEC programme has also been launched to encourage people to seek treatment and report to the authorities if they have symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-state-grapples-with-high-cfr-hp-issues-presumptive-treatment-protocol-101622652066285.html
02-06-2021||Other||40 samples positive for UK variant, 16 with double mutation in Himachal||Total 40 samples sent from Himachal Pradesh for genome sequencing have been detected positive for the UK variant and 16 with double mutation, state health authorities said. Twenty-five samples have exhibited some mutation of interest.Total 876 samples were sent for genome sequencing under sentinel and special surveillance of which, reports of 146 have been received.National Health Mission director Dr Nipun Jindal said the state was in regular touch with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) authorities and results of the remaining samples are likely to be received soon.He said that two kinds of surveillance are being carried out in Himachal for genomic sequencing.One of the modalities is sentinel surveillance of whole genome sequencing, wherein instructions have been given to the designated labs to send samples to NCDC, Delhi.Samples sent from tertiary care health facility will include samples of patients with severe illness/prolonged admission, suspected re-infection, suspected vaccination failure or infection following vaccination and any other special case, etc and should have CT<30.Under the sentinel surveillance, samples are being sent from all eight RT-PCR labs in state.The second is special surveillance with an objective to gather WGS information in the community by targeting events such as clustering of cases, super-spreader events, and clustering of cases in institutions.Sample of Covid positive patients who had received the second dose of vaccination irrespective of the period after second dose and cases who had been re-infected with Covid will also be given priority and the district surveillance officers have been asked to identify such samples for further submission to NCDC, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/40-samples-positive-for-uk-variant-16-with-double-mutation-in-himachal-101622652008408.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 2,281 new cases in Punjab, 99 more deaths||Punjab on Wednesday reported 2,281 fresh cases of the novel coronavirus, raising the tally to 5,71,970, according to a medical bulletin.With 99 more fatalities, the toll from Covid-19 climbed to 14,748 in the state, the bulletin said.In the last 24 hours, nine new deaths were reported from Fazilka, eight each from Patiala and Mohali and seven each from Amritsar, Ferozepur, Sangrur and Moga.The number of active cases dropped to 31,133 from 33,444 on Tuesday.Ludhiana reported 285 new cases, followed by 224 in Jalandhar, 180 in Bathinda and 153 in Mohali.The state's Covid positivity rate marginally dropped to 3.33 from 3.69 per cent the day before.With 4,426 recoveries from the infection, the recovery count reached 5,26,089, according to the bulletin.There are 300 critical Covid patients who are on ventilator support, 791 other critical patients and 3,887 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 93,93,735 samples have been collected for Covid-19 testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh registered 134 cases, taking the infection tally to 60,288, according to the medical bulletin.Three more people succumbed to Covid-19 in the Union Territory, taking the toll to 761.The number of active cases declined to 1,251 from 1,481 on Tuesday, the bulletin said.With 361 patients being discharged after they recovered from the infection, the number of recoveries reached 58,276, it said.A total of 5,13,554 samples have been taken for testing so far and 4,52,047 of them tested negative while reports of 34 samples are awaited, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-19-2-281-new-cases-in-punjab-99-more-deaths-101622651430098.html
02-06-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata to get its first drive-through vaccination centre at Quest Mall||Kolkata will get its first drive-through vaccination centre, which will begin operations at a shopping mall in the central part of the city this week, an official said on Wednesday.The facility will be launched by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation at Quest Mall in Park Circus for the 45-plus age group, he said.People will be allowed to book their slots through the WhatsApp bot of the KMC from Thursday, the State e-Governance Mission Team (SeMT) official said.Maximum four persons will be allowed to be vaccinated per four-wheeler and they would not need to step out of the vehicle, he said.Bookings can be done by sending a message to WhatsApp number 83359 99000, the official said.The bot has been developed by the SeMT to enable the people of the city book slots in a hassle-free way.Pre-registration on the CoWIN portal is mandatory for booking through WhatsApp, the official said.The vehicle number is also required for booking the slots, he said.This will be the first drive-in vaccination centre in Kolkata. The facility is already available in cities such as Mumbai and Delhi.A vaccination centre is also operational in South City Mall on Prince Anwar Shah Road but it does not have a drive- through facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-to-get-its-first-drive-through-vaccination-centre-at-quest-mall-101622651008875.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||With Covid-19 cases dipping, Delhi focuses on new health infrastructure||With cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on the decline, the national capital is focussing on new healthcare infrastructure with Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain visiting two of the new hospitals under construction in Madipur and Jwalapuri. He also visited three other hospitals that are being revamped to add beds – Acharya Shree Bhikshu Hospital in Moti Nagar, Guru Gobind Singh Hospital in Raghubir Nagar, and Shri Dada Dev Matri Avum Shishu Chikitsalaya in Dabri. Three hospitals which were completed in 2020 were also opened up for Covid-19 patients. The bed capacity at Acharya Shree Bhikshu Hospital will be increased from the current 100 to 400. “Once ready, this facility will be dedicated to Covid-19 treatment,” the government said in a release. The hospital has currently added 50 makeshift beds and is running a 150 bed Covid-19 hospital. The second stop for the health minister was the Madipur construction site; the plan is to complete the construction of the hospital by 2022. Then, the minister visited the under-construction building of Guru Gobind Singh Hospital. “The PWD team here is working in full swing to complete this project. This will augment the current hospital bed capacity to 572 beds,” Jain tweeted. Delhi’s health minister then visited the construction site at Jwalapur followed by Shri Dada Dev Matri Avum Shishu Chikitsalaya where the bed capacity is being tripled from the current 106 to 300. One of the electoral promises made by the AAP government when it first came to power in 2015 was to double the bed capacity in Delhi government hospitals from 10,000 to 20,000. The current bed capacity of Delhi government hospitals is 12,464 according to the economic survey of Delhi for 2020-21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-covid-19-cases-dipping-delhi-focuses-on-new-health-infrastructure-101622651346376.html
02-06-2021||Pune||Couple found dead in Wadgaonsheri||A man was found hanging in his house while his wife was found strangled to death in their house in Vadgaonsheri area of Pune on Tuesday. The now-deceased man was later booked for murder of his wife over suspicion of an extra-marital affair. The deceased man was identified as Yogesh Gaikwad (33), a resident of Pirajinagar area of Malwadi in Vadgaonsheri in Pune while the murder victim was identified as Usha Gaikwad (28), according to the police. The bodies were found in the early morning hours of Tuesday in their house and later taken to Sassoon General Hospital (SGH) for post-mortem. While the post-mortem observations were awaited, the police registered an accidental death report in the matter at Chandan nagar police station. Based on the post-mortem report, the police concluded that the man strangled his wife before dying by suicide. While the woman was found to have been strangled to the death, the man is suspected to have hanged himself, according to the police. Based on inquiries made with the relatives of the couple and the observations made inside the house, the police found that the man suspected the woman of having an extra-marital affair. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chandan nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/couple-found-dead-in-wadgaonsheri-101622651165611.html
02-06-2021||Pune||1,000 humorous books donated to police as gratitude for service during lockdown||As many as 1,000 humourous books were donated to the Pune police on June 1, 2021,as an acknowledgement and gratitude towards the way police boosted the confidence of the citizens during the lockdown. The books were presented by Punya Bhushan foundation along with Rohan Prakashan. “It is often said that humour in any form helps in reducing stress and tension and we wanted to thank the police for carrying out their duty and lending a helping hand to the citizens during the lockdown,” said Rohan Champanerkar of Rohan Prakashan. Across Maharashtra, police have been on the street tackling movement in view of restrictions. 1,000 copies of selected humorous books published by Rohan Prakashan were donated to the police department, which were handed over to Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta, and deputy commissioner of police Mitesh Ghatte by president of Punya Bhushan foundation Satish Desai. “Pune police has been working relentlessly, persistently and responsibly in such a catastrophic disaster since last year. The police department is working by taking care of the mood of the citizens and reassuring them from time to time. They often carry the responsibility of city discipline and order at the risk of their own lives. The time limit does not interfere with their work, but adds to their stress unknowingly, hence the idea of presenting them with some light reading material which will relax them,” said Champanerkar. According to the commissioner of police, Amitabh Gupta, “Humour books are a great stressbuster and will also inculcate the idea of reading among the force and also create a lightweight atmosphere.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/1000-humorous-books-donated-to-police-as-gratitude-for-service-during-lockdown-101622651105685.html
02-06-2021||Pune||Eastern Pune residents demand proper cleaning of storm water drains to prevent monsoon tragedy||Residents of eastern Pune, from Wagholi, Kharadi, Mundhwa, Hadapsar and Mohammadwadi, have demanded proper cleansing of storm water drains to prevent clogging and flooding in the area. Several roads in the suburbs are inundated with water after spells of rain and open storm water drains can prove fatal to the commuters, complained residents. The Wagholi Housing Societies Association (WHSA), an umbrella organisation of over 200 housing societies, has appealed to the Pune Metropolitan and Regional Development Authority (PMRDA), seeking immediate repairs of storm water drains and the laying of fresh drainage lines in the interiors. Similarly, citizen groups in Kharadi, Mohammdwadi, NIBM, Mundhwa and other suburbs have petitioned the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) stating that persistent rains during the past few days had laid bare the inadequate and faulty storm water drainage system. The residents of Undri-Mohammadwadi complained about repeatedly flooding of connecting roads, while Kharadi residents contended that their roads were inundated by sewage water overflowing from clogged drains and chambers. Sanjeev Kumar Patil, director of WHSA, said that storm water drainage in almost all the locations in Wagholi become mini nullahs and rivulets during monsoon. “Wagholikars are living under the fear of getting drowned in the accumulated and flowing rainwater. The rainwater is causing havoc as the approach roads to different societies in our area don’t have a proper drainage system. With rainfall increasing every year, the threat to our lives has also scaled up over the years. We want the PMRDA to immediately prepare a masterplan of storm water drain works in our area. The citizens cannot endanger their lives during monsoon season,” Patil said. Wagholi rural development officer Anil Kumbhar said that the storm water work will be carried out once the necessary funds are made available from the government. “In the meantime, we have taken efforts to ensure that all the drains were cleaned before the onset of monsoon,” he said. Santosh Argade, a teacher at Undri primary school and a resident of Undri Heights said that he had a a tough time driving his car from Mohammadwadi to Undri via the connecting road from Dorabjee Mall. “The entire road was overflowing with water and the water from the nullah too came onto the road leading to traffic jams and chaos. It could turn fatal in the future as the fencing wall has collapsed and the PMC has done nothing about it for the past four years.” PMC road department head V G Kulkarni said that the road will be reconstructed, and fencing will be done to protect the lives of the commuters.Pune Mayor Muralidhar Mohol said, “All the roads across the city need to have working storm water drains and any lethargy will be dealt wi0h strictly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/eastern-pune-residents-demand-proper-cleaning-of-storm-water-drains-to-prevent-monsoon-tragedy-101622651045614.html
02-06-2021||Pune||Two arrested for duping aspirants of Territorial Army using fake website||Indian Army officials of the Southern Command, along with officials of Pune police crime branch, have arrested two men for creating a misleading website of the Territorial Army (TA), and duping aspirants wanting to join the force, of lakhs of rupees. While the police have arrested the two men for running the fake website, the men are involved in duping aspirants attempting to join multiple government services, including the Railways and the banking sector.The accused were identified as Bharat Krushna Kate and Pandit Pawar, both arrested in the late hours of May 31 from Solapur. Based on information provided by Army sources, officials of Unit 5 of the crime branch made the arrests.By quoting ₹6 lakh for an Indian Army job and ₹7 lakh for Indian Railways, the two men and their accomplices duped the complainant and witnesses of over ₹13,50,000, according to a statement by Pune police crime branch.Kate ran a coaching center for government job entrance exams in Sangola, Solapur and selected victims from the people who approached him, according to a statement issued by Unit 5 of Pune police.“The module recently hosted a fake website of Territorial Army with uploaded names of selected candidates on it. Investigation further revealed that they were charging innocent aspirants wanting to join various government services hefty amounts for fraudulent recruitment forms. The aspirants were not only charged for their selection but were also made to bear the expenses of travel, boarding and lodging during their trips to different dubious locations for fraudulent written exams, medical tests and training, post the fraudulent recruitment,” read a statement from the Indian Army.The accused, along with others, sent fake call letters, joining letters, admit cards, medical test reports and took the victims to dubious locations.Adding further details about the investigation, the crime branch officials revealed that the two men and their accomplices made the aspirants go to Delhi, Jhansi, Ranchi, Lucknow, and Jabalpur before flashing their names on the fake website.The police have formed two teams of crime branch officials to probe the matter further.A case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act has been registered at the Mundhwa police station. Senior police inspector Hemant Patil of Unit 5 is investigating the case along with Indian Army officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-for-duping-aspirants-of-territorial-army-using-fake-website-101622650985659.html
02-06-2021||Pune||Four isolated cases of murder in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad over two days||The Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad police have witnessed four murder cases in the past two days in Wadgaonsheri, Deccan, Dapodi, and Narhe in the two days between Tuesday and Wednesday. The case in Wadgaonsheri was suspected of a man killing his wife before dying by suicide, the three other cases are similar in nature - spat between two men turning violent and resulting in death of one. The isolated cases are being investigated respectively by Chandan nagar, Deccan gymkhana, Bhosari, and Sinhagad road police station officials. The suspect in one of the cases remains at large while all the other cases have been solved within a day. Deccan Gymkhana A 21-year-old man walked into the Deccan Gymkhana police station on Wednesday and confessed to have killed his friend three days ago in a school in Deccan area. The deceased was identified as Rajan Ramesh Sahani (27), a resident of Warje and the arrested man was identified as Kisan Prakash Varpa (21), a resident of Karve road area. The man was arrested by Pune police and the body of the 27-year-old man was salvaged from the building of Garware school in Deccan area based on confession recorded by him. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at the Deccan Gymkhana police station. Dapodi A 21-year-old man was arrested for bludgeoning a 48-year-old man to death during a spat between them in Dapodi area of Pune on Monday afternoon. The deceased man was identified as Anil Chintamani Shinde (48), a resident of Limbore Vasti in Dapodi while the arrested man was identified as Yash Mahadev Gopi (21) also a resident of the same area. The body of the deceased man was found with his head smashed with a blunt object, according to the police. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Santosh Chintamani Shinde (41), a resident of Siddharthnagar in Bopodi. “One year ago they had been in a fight and their relation was strained since then but they used to drink together. Last afternoon, they were drinking together when they started fighting,” said police sub inspector Ravi Bhawari of Bhosari police station who is investigating the case. The two were drinking and the younger man got agitated due to abusive words used by the now-deceased man for Gopi’s mother. He used a piece of tile, a stone, and a cement block to bludgeon the man to death, according to the police. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code is under investigation at Bhosari police station. Sinhagad road A 28-year-old man was found dead in a water tank at a construction site near Abhinav College in Narhe area of Pune on Monday. The deceased was identified as Krushnakumar Gurucharan Prasad (28), a resident of the construction site where he was found. “He has been strangled. And there is an injury caused by a blunt object at the back of his head. He was hit and then thrown in the water tank. There are no suspects yet and there is no CCTV coverage in that area. But we are investigating the case from all angles,” said Police inspector (crime) Pramod Waghmare of Sinhagad road police station who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (destruction of evidence) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sinhagad road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-isolated-cases-of-murder-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad-over-two-days-101622650925598.html
02-06-2021||Pune||79-year-old duped of ₹1 lakh in online fraud||A 79-year-old man from Warje Malwadi was duped of ₹1 lakh in a credit card fraud after the accused acquired his credentials while trying to track a courier the complainant had sent. A case in the matter was registered at Warje Malwadi police station on Tuesday.The complainant had sent some documents through a courier service to Nashik and was trying to track the package. He called the courier service phone number, but his call went unanswered on February 22 around 12 noon.However, he received an SMS from a mobile number asking if he could be called back later on. The accused then called the 79-year-old man and asked him to install an application on his mobile phone in order to track the package.However, the application that the accused had made the complainant install was a screen sharing platform, according to the police.The accused person got access to the senior citizen’s phone screen and made him use his credit card to make a payment of ₹5 in order to read his confidential card credentials like CVV. Using the information that the caller had gathered unknown to the 79-year-old man, he used the credit card for online transactions worth ₹1 lakh, according to the police.A case under Sections 419 (personation) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Warje police station. Police inspector (crime) Amrut Marathe of Warje police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/79yearold-duped-of-rs-1-lakh-in-online-fraud-101622650865629.html
02-06-2021||Other||Service-lane work on Katraj-Dehu rd bypass continues to pose a traffic hazard for commuters||PUNE It has been risky travelling on the Katraj-Dehu road bypass for the last couple of months, as the work on the service roads, on both sides of this bypass, is still on. At several spots, the work is overflowing onto the main bypass highway, with huge rocks, mud and construction material obstructing the path of commuters and motorists. “I travel on this bypass every day for my work and often, we have to slow down as material is on the road. I have seen two-wheeler riders slipping over the mud and stones near Katraj,” said Rohan Nalawade, a resident of the Vadagaon Budruk area. Pankaj Shastri, a resident from Warje said, “We have to risk our lives while travelling on the bypass. The service road work is going on at a snail’s pace. There are children and senior citizens who travel on bikes.”The Katraj-Dehu road bypass opened in 1989, to keep heavy-vehicle movement outside the city limits. Trucks going towards Mumbai and Gujarat from Bengaluru and Kolhapur use the bypass. It is a 40-km stretch that connects several residential parts of the city, from Katraj, Sinhagad road, Warje, Kothrud, Baner, Balewadi, and Hinjewadi, to Chinchwad and Dehu road.Atul Namekar, secretary, Sinhagad road-Warje residents’ association, said, “This bypass is a major road for citizens which connects several parts of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. So there is round-the-clock traffic movement. Earlier also there have been many fatal accidents due to repair works going on. There needs to be a permanent solution and the service road work should be completed fast.”State public works department (PWD) executive engineer Dhananjay Deshpande said, “All the safety measures have been taken on the service roads. We will take a review where construction material is on the highway and it will be immediately be removed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/servicelane-work-on-katraj-dehu-rd-bypass-continues-to-pose-a-traffic-hazard-for-commuters-101622650505650.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||BJP-JJP regime hurting youth by keeping recruitment process pending: Surjewala||Congress general secretary and former Haryana minister Randeep Singh Surjewala on Wednesday slammed the BJP-JJP government in the state for hurting the prospects of youngsters by deliberately keeping the recruitment process for thousands of posts pending for years, thus adding to unemployment. Addressing a press conference, Surjewala accused the state government of cancelling the recruitment process for a large number of posts. Quoting the latest data of the Centre for Monitoring of Indian Economy (CMIE) for May, the Congress leader said the rate of unemployment in Haryana is 29.10 %. “This horrific unemployment is the result of the inefficiency, incompetence and negative policies adopted by the Khattar-Chautala government towards the youth and employment generation,’’ he alleged. Criticising the state government, Surjewala said first they announce government vacancies, then for years, the vacancies are not advertised; and when advertised, the written test and interviews are not conducted for years. Even after having the exams or interviews conducted, instead of declaring the results, the recruitments are cancelled citing various reasons, he alleged. Giving examples, the Congress general secretary said that advertisements were issued for recruitment of 170 posts in the power department and online examination was conducted but recruitment was not made and the matter has reached the court. “Just before 2019 assembly elections, an announcement for recruitment of 5,000 male constables and 1,000 female constables was made to befool the youth. No action was taken for 18 months. Later, this proposed recruitment was withdrawn on the pretext of announcing fresh recruitment,’’ he said. Surjewala said that around 10,000 temporary and permanent workers were dismissed by the BJP led government in the last seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjpjjp-regime-hurting-youth-by-keeping-recruitment-process-pending-surjewala-101622650206262.html
02-06-2021||Ranchi||‘Jharkhand likely to hold Panchayat polls in Nov-Dec’||Strap: State government to seek Centre’s opinion over extension of powers to panchayat bodies that expire on July 31  The three-tier panchayat polls in Jharkhand can be held in November or December this year, depending on Covid-19 situation in the state, said rural development minister Alamgir Alam on Wednesday.Panchayat polls in the state were due in December last year. In January this year, the government granted a six-month extension to the current panchayat bodies in the wake of delay in conducting the polls. The extension expires on July 31. “We could not conduct panchayat polls last year due to Covid-19 pandemic. We thought that the elections will be conducted during the extension period. But, the second wave of Covid-19 ruined that possibility too. It is not possible to conduct the polls by July 31,” said Alam.Besides, the Panchayati Raj Act doesn’t mention a second extension, putting officials in a fix.Therefore, the state government has decided to seek the Centre’s opinion over further extension, officials said on Wednesday.The rural development minister also called a meeting on Wednesday to explore alternatives so that panchayat works do not get affected after the extension expires. Alam said they were considering two options- to give further extension to panchayat bodies or put them under administrative control.“The Panchayati Raj Act talks only about six months’ extension in case election is not conducted. It doesn’t mention about any extension. So, we have decided to write a letter to Government of India, seeking its opinion if any amendment in the Act is possible. We will also seek advocate general’s opinion in this regard,” Alam said.He said, “If Covid-19 situation remains under control, we will try to conduct the panchayat elections in November-December this year.” The tenure of as many as 4,402 mukhiyas (village heads) and panchayat committees ended on January 4 this year. The state government could not conduct the panchayat polls last year in absence of state election commissioner.In 2015, the four-phase polls for electing the 4,402 mukhiyas, 5,423 panchayat ward samitis and 545 zila parishad committees were held from November 22 to December 12.Meanwhile, Jharkhand State Mukhiya Association (JSMA) demanded extension of power on line of Madhya Pradesh. JSMA president Vikas Kumar Mahto said, “Panchayat polls are also pending since 2019 in Madhya Pradesh, where executive committees of Mukhiyas have been set up and they have been given powers. Such practice is functional for past two years. So, extension to panchayat bodies can also be given on line of Madhya Pradesh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-likely-to-hold-panchayat-polls-in-novdec-101622649905544.html
02-06-2021||Other||People with co-morbidities vulnerable to post-Covid problems also, say docs||LUCKNOW: While UP’s recovery rate of 97.1% comes as a relief, the spate of post-Covid complications, especially among people with co-morbidities, is a matter of concern, said health experts. After being discharged from hospital, many such people are experiencing problems like respiratory distress, headache and body ache, uncontrolled diabetes, sudden fall in oxygen levels, inability to walk for some distance, loss of appetite, weakness or increased heart rate, they said. “Viral infection leading to poor immunity and residual lung damage due to fibrosis/pneumonia are making patients vulnerable post Covid. Majority of these people have co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension,” said Prof Kauser Usman, HoD, geriatric medicine at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU).Sample this. Danish of Alambagh area was admitted to a Covid facility in the second week of April and was discharged 10 days later. However, within 15 days he again had to visit the hospital after his oxygen level dipped suddenly (85-87).“We have increased the number of wards for post-Covid treatment as a number of patients are coming after weeks of recovery has gone up,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson, KGMU. Doctors at the Lok Bandhu hospital too have called back several patients to the OPD post recovery from Covid as they reported breathing problems. “We are calling up all patients discharged from our hospital to take a feedback about their health,” said Dr Ajay Shankar Tripathi, medical superintendent of the hospital. The patients were examined by doctors in the OPD and advised medication. “This is important to save them from further worsening of the condition. We keep track of their medical history and accordingly they are given medical advice,” he said. Patients are also being admitted to different hospitals weeks after they get discharged. “The problem is more among those above 50 years of age as this age group suffers more with co-morbidities due to work stress and lifestyle disorders,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Lohia institute and Civil Hospital were also running post-Covid care facilities for patients. Asked about the change in policy for discharge adopted by the state government where patients eligible for home isolation were discharged by hospitals without a repeat Covid test, doctors said this had nothing to do with the illness that is developing weeks after recovery. “Patients are discharged only if their clinical condition is fine. As far as repeat Covid test is concerned, people may test positive for up to two months. Hence the decision for discharge has to be taken by doctors based upon clinical condition. But even in home stay, patients have to follow medical advice,” said Prof Usman. Doctors said despite being discharged from hospital, a Covid patient needs to follow instructions of the doctor and continue following protocols that were followed during illness. “Discharged patients should stay in isolation to keep away infection that a healthy family member might bring to them. One has to avoid infection carriers who might be family members,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/people-with-co-morbidities-vulnerable-to-post-covid-problems-also-say-docs-101622649786219.html
02-06-2021||Lucknow||Demolition of Barabanki mosque: Clerics seek state advocate general’s consent for criminal contempt against DM, SDM||Two Uttar Pradesh clerics have approached the state’s advocate general (AG), seeking consent for the initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against the Barabanki district magistrate (DM) and the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) for their alleged role in the demolition of a 100-year-old mosque at Ram Sanehi Ghat in Barabanki.“Demolition of the 100-year-old mosque was sheer misuse of power and an attempt to hurt one’s religious sentiments. It was also a violation of high court orders not to take any such steps till May 31, following the Covid situation,” said Maulana Mohammed Faizan, imam of the Eidgah, Barabanki, who has sought consent from AG as part of the procedure to initiate criminal contempt against the administrative officers for their alleged role in the act.On May 17, following the orders of the SDM’s court, the old mosque located adjacent to the tehsil premises and opposite the residence of the SDM was demolished amid heavy security. The mosque was registered in the records of the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board.Maulana Mohammed Faizan said the act of demolition came as a rude shock for him and for the people of the community who were offering “namaaz” there since ages.“I don’t remember the time and date when the mosque—Gareeb Nawaaz — that was in the tehsil compound at Ram Sanehi Ghat, Barabanki, got constructed. What is known to all is that our father and grandfather, too, had offered namaaz here and we too are offering namaaz here since ages. Hence, its demolition was a setback for all of us,” the maulana added.Wasif Hasan, co-mutwalli (co-caretaker) of Teelay Wali Masjid in Lucknow, too, has sought consent from AG for the initiation of the criminal contempt which, he says, is a part of the procedure.“Basically, there are two types of contempt of court in India. Criminal contempt is regarding anything that scandalises or lowers the image of the court. However, for a private individual to initiate criminal contempt requires consent of AG of state. It is for the same reason we have approached him,” said Wasif Hasan.Besides, he blamed Barabanki administration for misleading the public by saying that the demolition was as per high court orders.Adarsh Singh, district magistrate of Barabanki, said he was not aware of any such developments.The two clerics are being backed by the legal team of Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), the trust which Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) had formed to look after the construction of the proposed project in Dhannipur village of Ayodhya on the five-acre land allocated in line with the Supreme Court’s Ayodhya title suit verdict.“The act has badly affected our upcoming Dhannipur project, which is 20km from the site where the (Barabanki) mosque was demolished. Our project—under which a mosque, hospital, community kitchen, museum etc would come up—aims at bridging the communal and cultural differences. However, such acts often play spoilsport and create unpleasant environment for the people. We believe people responsible for creating such unpleasant situations should be punished. The maulanas will also be approaching the high court for initiation of civil contempt proceedings against the SDM for violating the high court orders,” said Athar Hussain, spokesperson for IICF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/demolition-of-barabanki-mosque-clerics-seek-state-advocate-general-s-consent-for-criminal-contempt-against-dm-sdm-101622649785484.html
02-06-2021||Ranchi||Over 7.5 lakh state board examinees in dilemma as govt yet to take decision||More than 7.5 lakh board examinees of classes 10 (matric) and 12 (intermediate) were in catch-22 situation, as the state government was yet to take any decision on Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) board examinations.While students demand the government to clear the dilemma, parents’ body has urged to cancel the examinations on the line of other educational boards such as Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE).CBSE on Tuesday announced to cancel of board exams of Class 12, while it has already cancelled the same for Class 10. The CISCE has also declared the same on line of CBSE.However, the JAC, which is responsible to conduct the Class 10 and 12 examinations, seemed to be ignorant about the fate of the exams as it has not made any announcement in this regard. Earlier, the JAC postponed the examinations twice in wake of Covid-19 situation in the state. The council said at the time that they will release a fresh schedule after reviewing the situation on June 1. JAC chairperson Arvind Prasad Singh said on Wednesday, “We cannot decide whether examinations will be conducted. The decision needs to be taken by the government and we will follow it.”Poonam Kumar, a student of Class 10 at Adarsh Vidya Niketan in Dhanbad, said, “The current dilemma over the examinations is taking toll on our preparations. The government should clear it. If examinations will be held, we will prepare for it accordingly. If not, then we will focus on preparation for higher classes.”Another student Manish Kumar of Class 12 at a government high school in Ranchi expressed similar views. “Central board and most state boards have cleared their stands. But, Jharkhand government is still waiting. It should consider the mental status of the students,” he said.More than 4.31 lakh students were expected to appear for matric examinations, while over 3.32 lakh students are likely to take intermediate examinations this year.Meanwhile, when contacted, state school education and literacy department secretary Rajesh Sharma said, “The CBSE took the decision to cancel the exams on Tuesday evening. We are waiting for the detailed procedure it is going to adopt to promote the students. Once the details come, we will take our decision. Meanwhile, we are also doing our internal assessment in this regard.”JAC, however, sought opinion of headmasters and other officials concerned on conducting safe examinations amid the pandemic. The council also sought suggestions on examination hours and centres in case examinations are conducted, officials said. General secretary of state parents’ body, Jharkhand Abhibhawak Mahasangh (JAM), Manoj Mishra said, “Keeping in mind the impact of coronavirus disease and lives of students, Jharkhand government should immediately cancel both board examinations on line of CBSE and CISCE. The delay in announcement is causing stress on students.”The state unit of Congress also demanded the Hemant Soren government to cancel the examinations. Party spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “We welcome the decision of CBSE and CISCE and demand the Jharkhand government to cancel the examinations for the sake of students and their parents during Covid-19 period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/over-7-5-lakh-state-board-examinees-in-dilemma-as-govt-yet-to-take-decision-101622649665597.html
02-06-2021||Patna||Rehab for transgenders set to start in Patna||A residential rehabilitation and skill training centre for transgender persons at Khagaul in the state capital is set to start functioning on June 15.Dostana Safar, a local NGO, which has been working for transgenders for a long time, will be running the centre, which has been named Garima Griha. There are 2,200 identified transgenders in Patna and over 40,000 across the state, as per the 2011 Census. Dostana Safar convener Reshma said, “There will be 17 rooms for the inmates, besides an office, training centre, kitchen, medical treatment and recreation facility in the building. It will start functioning from June 15.”The inmates will get food, lodging and medical facilities for free. “There will be various kinds of skill development training. Besides, those who want to study can also join online courses in various universities. The Dostana Safar has approached many Universities to start online courses for these people,” she said.Garima Griha is an initiative of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment to create short-stay homes for transgender people to improve their economic and social status under the provisions of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019.Altogether, 13 such homes have been planned to be set up in 10 cities across the country, including Patna. At Garima Griha, transgender people can learn and develop various skills to become economically independent. “Many among them have been demanding this kind of facility for long. They no longer want to be in their traditional vocation or seeking alms. Instead, many among them now want to take up some respectful jobs,” Reshma said.Traditionally, transgender persons have been into begging and sex trade, or have been doing shows on weddings and birth of children, she said.“Though many transgender persons like doing their traditional jobs, a few of them do not like the way they are treated by the general category people,” she said.Giriraj Ranga Samy, deputy director of the National Institute of Social Defence, a part of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, said Garima Griha for transgender persons will be set up in 10 cities. “Transgenders can stay here and get skill development training for six months. If needed, they may stay here for one year and try for placement,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rehab-for-transgenders-set-to-start-in-patna-101622649545559.html
02-06-2021||Other||Senior cop booked for minor’s rape in 2017||PATNAA senior police officer in Bihar has been booked for raping a minor girl in Gaya in 2017 when he was posted there as a deputy superintendent of police (DSP). The accused, Kamlakant Prasad, is currently posted as officer on special duty in Central Selection Board of Constable in the state. The FIR was lodged with the Woman police station of Gaya on Tuesday night on the statement of the girl’s brother following the intervention from additional director general of police (weaker section) Anil Kishore Yadav.According to the FIR, Kamlakant Prasad approached the girl’s brother through the then in-charge of Women police station (Gaya), Meera Kumari, for hiring a maid servant for his wife, who stayed in Patna at the time. The DSP instead brought the girl, then 14, to his official residence in Gaya, where he raped her. Gaya’s senior superintendent of police Aditya Kumar said the FIR was lodged after he received a letter from the state police headquarters. “The case is under investigation. The victim has recorded her statement before the court of judicial magistrate. The case was lodged under sections of 376 of the India Penal Code, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) and the SC/ST Act.” According to the Gaya police, the girl was raped by another man in 2016 and subsequently became pregnant. A case was lodged with the women police station and the accused was convicted in the case. Meanwhile, Kamlakant’s wife Anand Tanjua Kushwaha, while talking to media persons, said her husband was a habitual offender in sexually harassing minors and was facing several cases in Patna, Lakhisarai, Gopalganj and Buxar districts. In June 2014, when Kamlakant was posted in Gopalganj district as the subdivisional police officer at Hathua, a 30-year-old woman had lodged a police complaint accusing him of sexually assault. Fate of the case wasn’t immediately known. Kamlakant could not contacted despite repeated calls on his cellphone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/senior-cop-booked-for-minor-s-rape-in-2017-101622649485460.html
02-06-2021||Other||Cyber frauds on prowl with fake FB accounts of top cops, ministers Latest victim is Saran DIG Manu Maharaaj||PATNACyber frauds have started targeting top police officers, officials, ministers and even judges, creating their fake Facebook (FB) profiles and using their pictures to ask their contacts for money. And in most of the cases, the fraudsters would use the current Covid-19 pandemic plea, making claims of financial crisis and sharing links of e-wallets for transfer of money. The latest to fall victim to this is deputy inspector general (DIG) of Saran range, Manu Maharaaj. A man created fake Facebook account and started sending obscene messages to girls and demanding money from them.The DIG was shocked when the girls concerned called him to complain“I immediately checked the cellphone number provided by the girls on the Truecaller app. The man was traced with the help of cyber cell. He has been identified as Manu Kumar Yadav alias Manu Maharaaj from Garkha in Saran. On May 20, an FIR was also lodged with the Town police station in this connection,” the DIG said.During interrogation, the accused confessed to the crime and told the police that he created the fake profile on Facebook in January and saved a number in Truecaller app as Manu Maharaaj to cheat people and girls. Saran DIG is not the lone police officer to have fallen victim to fraudsters. At least three other police officers, including additional director general (ADG) Jitendra Kumar, have faced similar problems. In a message posted on his FB account, Kumar said, “Dear Friends, It seems somebody has made a duplicate FB ID in my name with same profile picture. Therefore, any message, friend request or any demand of money etc. must not be entertained & be ignored.” In a similar FB post, ADG (security) Bachchu Singh Meena said, “Someone has created my fake FB and sending friend requests. Please do not respond to another ID. Must take utmost care in Pandemic.” Earlier, cyber criminals allegedly made an FB account in the name of minister for cooperative Subhash Singh and demanded money from his supporters. The incident came to light when one Nilesh Kumar Mishra, a resident of Tiwari Mathania village of Gopalganj district, was asked to pay ₹50,000. “We received a complaint in this regard and the case has been transferred to the cyber cell for investigation,” said Gopalganj SP Anand Kumar. Similarly, minor water resources and irrigation minister Santosh Kumar Suman said that he got to know of a fake FB account in his name soon after receiving a call from his friend who stated that there was request made for ₹26,000 through that social media account. In a message posted on his account, Suman said, “A fake account with same photo and details created... all be careful... because someone may start requesting to transfer some money... all be alert on such requests.” Director general (training) and managing director of Bihar Police Building Construction Corporation, Alok Raj, has thrice fallen victim to such cyber crimes. Fake accounts have also been created in the names of principal secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar, primary education director Ranjit Kumar Singh, Banka DM Suharsh Bhagat, former Munger DM Rajesh Meena, Lakhisarai SP Sunil Kumar, former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey and others. “Public are advised to not fall prey to such frauds and exercise caution while accepting any request from government officers, especially those who are already in your friends’ list. Privacy controls provided by social media sites may be used to avoid any misuse of information,” said N H Khan, additional director general (economic offences unit) of the Bihar Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyber-frauds-on-prowl-with-fake-fb-accounts-of-top-cops-ministers-latest-victim-is-saran-dig-manu-maharaaj-101622649426076.html
02-06-2021||Other||Bihar diverts Covid vaccines for 45+ to cater to younger population||Ruchir Kumar ruchirkumar@hindustantimes.com PATNA: Faced with an acute scarcity of Covid-19 vaccines for the younger population, the Bihar government Wednesday diverted supplies meant for the 45 years and above, to cater to the requirement of the 18-45 years population. Bihar diverted 3,97,410 doses of Covishield, which it received from the Serum Institute of India, Pune, Wednesday afternoon as also 1,04,620 doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin it received from Hyderabad on May 31 for the 18-45 years age group, said state health officials. The Centre supplies Covid-19 vaccines for 45+ free of cost, while the state has to buy most of them for the 18-45 years population. Vaccination of the younger population had halted across the state at regular session sites due to vaccine shortage, said officials. In what was more a symbolic gesture, the health department was conducting special camps to inoculate a small population. All 59 regular session sites in Patna, which has the highest vaccine demand, were shut for the last five days as stocks had dried up. However, special camps were being conducted at different offices to keep the count ticking in its vaccination database. The accountant general office, the Bihar State Power Holding Corporation, SBI, NTPC Barh, office of the agriculture department, besides a few orphanages under the social welfare department were among the few off-site camps where vaccines were administered in Patna on Tuesday. For instance, on June 1, only 2,438 people in the 18-45 years age group were inoculated out of the total 48,139 vaccinated across the state during the day. Patna accounted for only 889 of them. Similarly, on Wednesday, only 2,216 people in the younger age group out of the total 45,315 people could be vaccinated in the state. Bihar health officials were maintaining a stoic silence on the issue. Repeated efforts to contact Manoj Kumar, state nodal officer for vaccination and also the executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar (SHSB), proved futile as he did not respond to phone calls or text messages. No other officer in the health department was willing to talk on record. GOVT MUM ON BLACK FUNGS The health department was reluctant to share information on patients affected by mucormycosis and its fatalites. The state government’s daily bulletin on Covid-19 found no mention of mucormycosis. It did not issue a separate bulletin either, despite the Bihar government declaring black fungus a notifiable disease on May 22 and the state reporting 394 cases so far. The nodal officer appointed for mucormycosis said the integrated disease surveillance progarmme (IDSP) unit of the SHSB was tasked to compile figures on case load and fatality due to black fungus and upload the information on the National Health Portal. The IDSP, on the other hand, said the medical colleges had been asked to do it. The state health brass and executive director, SHSB, chose not to respond on the issue. Meanwhile, the state health department had cancelled all leaves of doctors, nurses, paramedics and health support staff, including fourth grade staff till June 15 in view of high incidence of Covid-19 cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-diverts-covid-vaccines-for-45-to-cater-to-younger-population-101622649425530.html
02-06-2021||Other||IMA probe lists reasons for high fatality among docs||PATNAContinuous work without any leave, incomplete vaccination, lack of oxygen and ventilators during the peak period of second Covid-19 wave, poor infection control in hospitals and inferior quality of PPE kits and other protective gear are some of the reasons for increased fatality among doctors during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, according to an investigation by the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Bihar chapter.Nearly 100 doctors from Bihar died during the second wave, more than three times the figure during the first wave last year. On May 21, the IMA had constituted an eight-member committee to investigate the reasons behind the high fatality among doctors. IMA president-elect Dr Shahjanand Prasad Singh said lack of oxygen and ventilators during the peak pandemic period also affected doctors, who worked without break both in government and private health facilities. “Patna alone has over two hundred private hospitals, but only 90 could get oxygen supply. Some big hospitals also could not get oxygen supply. However, doctors kept working. Sometimes, social distancing also could not be maintained with patients, as the doctors kept their doors open. At other times, doctors also erred by not wearing masks properly or removing it,” he said.Singh said the doctors who had taken both the doses of vaccines were relatively safer, while those who could not take the second dose for whatever reasons and kept working despite risks seemed to have fallen prey to Covid-19. “There have also been instances of secondary infection or blood clot in chests. It is a fact that this time there was an explosion of cases within a short period, but the doctors and healthcare workers responded to the challenge with full devotion despite huge risks,” he said.Dr Sunil Kumar, state secretary of the IMA and a member of the investigation committee, said the responses through the forms given to the family members of the deceased doctors had started arriving. “More responses are awaited. Once they come, we will put the report in the public domain,” he said.Last year, a central team visiting Bihar’s first dedicated coronavirus disease (Covid-19) facility, Nalanda Medical College & Hospital (NMCH) in Patna, had flagged poor infection control in hospitals and underlined the need to provide a safer working environment. Later, training programmes were also organised for doctors and healthcare workers to improve safety for them.Dr Sunil Kumar, who had released a full list of deceased doctors from Bihar, said the high fatality rate was a cause of concern and therefore the IMA had decided to investigate the matter so that timely steps could be taken in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/imaprobe-lists-reasons-for-high-fatality-among-docs-101622649365470.html
02-06-2021||Other||Bihar to reserve 33% seats in medical, engineering colleges for girls||PATNAChief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday said one-third of seats in medical and engineering colleges in the state should be reserved for girl students.Kumar made this announcement during the course of presentation of by the departments of health and science and technology about setting up of medical and engineering universities in the state.The CM said reserving seats for girls would encourage them to come forward for higher and technical educations in large numbers. “The establishment of the varsities would facilitate better management of engineering and medical colleges and 33 per cent of seats in these colleges should be reserved for girls,” he said.“It will also go a long way in ensuring a higher enrolment of girls in these technical institutes of higher learning,” he said.The latest move is in line with the Nitish Kumar government’s emphasis on women empowerment and girls’ education.Earlier, the state government had increased scholarship amount for girl students under the Mukhyamantri Kanya Utthan Yojana. Girls completing graduation will now be provided ₹50,000 while those passing intermediate (class 12) would be getting a scholarship of ₹25,000. Earlier, graduate girls or those with an equivalent degree were provided ₹25,000, while intermediate girls received ₹10,000.Kumar said his government was committed to ensuring there was a sufficient number of medical and engineering colleges so that boys and girls interested in these disciplines did not feel compelled to migrate to other states for their studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-to-reserve-33-seats-in-medical-engineering-colleges-for-girls-101622649305508.html
02-06-2021||Other||Central Railways sees 45.9 per cent freight increase in May 2021||PUNE Despite Covid challenges, continuous efforts of the Central Railways’ business development unit (BDU), has ensured that freight transportation by track has not lost any momentum.A total of 6.32 million tonnes of freight was transported by the Central Railways in May 2021, and increase of 45.9 per cent when compared to May 2020.“In May 2021, CR transported 6.32 million tonnes, which is 45.9 per cent more than May 2020, which was 4.33 million tonnes. The important items transported in May 2021 include 3.57 million tonnes of coal, 0.21 million tonnes of iron and steel, 0.58 million tonnes of cement, 0.86 million tonnes of containers and 1.10 million tonnes of other goods like fertilisers,”said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer of the Central Railway. In April-May 2021, Central Railway transported 12.57 million tonnes of freight, as compared to 7.55 million tonnes during the same period in 2020, achieving a 66.5 per cent increase.In a bid to increase revenue, the Railways set-up business development units (BDU). These BDUs boost the freight and parcel services of the Railways. “The 12.57 million tonnes freight transportation includes Mumbai Division at 2.83 million tonnes; Bhusaval Division at 0.95 million tonnes; Nagpur Division at 7.30 million tonnes; Pune Division at 0.29 million tonnes; and Solapur Division at 1.20 million tonnes. A number of concessions and discounts are also being given to make railway freight movement very attractive. Freight speed improvement leads to saving of costs for all stakeholders and freight speed has almost doubled over year,” added Sutar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/central-railways-sees-45-9-per-cent-freight-increase-in-may-2021-101622648465460.html
02-06-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,820 new Covid cases, 22 deaths||Pune: On Tuesday, the state health department reported 1,820 new Covid cases in the district in the last 24 hours. With 22 more deaths the toll in the district went up to 12,712 and progressive cases up to 1.020 million Covid cases of which 0.979 million have recovered and 27,990 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. On Tuesday, Pune rural reported 973 new cases which took the progressive counts to 290,779 and with 11 more deaths the death toll went to 4,101. Pune city reported 501 new cases which took the progressive count to 485,409 and with eight more deaths the toll went up to 6,803 while PCMC reported 346 new Covid cases the progressive count went up to 244,290 and with three more deaths the toll went stood at 1,747The state reported that 29,270 patients were discharged on Wednesday and a total of 5,460,589 Covid patients discharged after full recovery. The recovery rate in the state is 94.54%. Also, 15,169 new cases and 285 Covid deaths were reported in the state on Wednesday. Case fatality rate in the state is 1.67%. Of 35,514,594 laboratory samples, 5,776,184 have been tested positive (16.26%) for Covid until Wednesday. Currently, 1,687,643 people are in home quarantine and 7,418 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-820-new-covid-cases-22-deaths-101622647745325.html
02-06-2021||Pune||PMC to continue special drive for students going abroad||Pune: In view of the higher demand from students who wish to study abroad, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to continue their special drive to vaccinate them. Close to 700 students have been vaccinated within two days while 500 more would get the jab on Thursday, said civic officials. Students have appreciated the drive for its smooth access and cleanliness at the centre. On Wednesday, 443 more students got the jab and the civic body plans to continue with the drive for Thursday (June 3) and around 500 students have been given the slot timing. The special vaccination drive for such students would continue at PMC’s Kamala Nehru hospital. A senior PMC official said, “A total of 2019 applications have come for these students and of these 664 have got the jab in the last two days. On June 1, 221 students got the vaccine and on June 2, 443 students got the jab. For Thursday, slot has been given for 300 students.” Earlier, PMC additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said that the vaccination drive would continue to meet the demands of the students who have to go for education abroad, given that the flow of vaccine supply continues. As of Sunday, over 1.16 lakh beneficiaries in the age group of 18-45 have been vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-continue-special-drive-for-students-going-abroad-101622646725338.html
02-06-2021||Other||State agriculture department advises farmers to hold back on sowing till 80mm-100mm of rain received||PUNE As most parts of the state have witnessed record pre-monsoon showers, the Maharashtra agriculture department has advised farmers not to start sowing unless their respective regions witnesses a rainfall of between 80mm-100mm. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the state agriculture department said farmers can start pre-sowing work in fields. “The soil holds moisture only after 80mm-100mm of rainfall. Therefore, farmers should wait before sowing,” read the statement. The Western region, Marathwada and Vidarbha have received considerable rainfall in the past 15 days. Pune has recorded 145.4 mm of rainfall in May, the highest in a decade. The India Metrological Department (IMD) has forecast pre-monsoon showers, with thunderstorms and lightning in Konkan, Central Maharashtra, Marathwada and Vidarbha, till June 4, with more rain and thunderstorms over Vidarbha on June 5. The department of Agriculture has stated that farmers can begin the preliminary work on crops like soybean, groundnut and maize, as well as work on the pre-plantation of the rice crop in Vidarbha. According to the department, seeds sown during the intermittent rains will be wasted as it there will be insufficient moisture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-agriculture-department-advises-farmers-to-hold-back-on-sowing-till-80mm-100mm-of-rain-received-101622646365326.html
02-06-2021||Other||Month-long festival of plays to celebrate master of the one-act performance, Madhukar Tillu||PUNE Ekpatri Kalakar Parishad, a leading theatre group in the city specialising in one-act plays, has marked June 1 in memory of legendary one-act maestro, Madhukar Tillu. The memorial celebration will be held every year under the “Ekpatri Kalaprasar Din” (Day to promote one-act plays) banner. The parishad announced a month-long festival of one-act plays on the occasion. The festival was inaugurated on Tuesday by veteran actor-director Swaroop Kumar, with a one-act performance entitled, “Shri and Mrs Bhampakji Aadmuthe”, performed by Swaroop Kumar. In the month-long festival, 50 actors will perform different plays.Deepak Rege, president of the Ekpatri Kalakar Parishad, said, “Madhukar Tillu was one of the leading one-act artistes in Marathi theatre in the early days of this theatre form. He used to act in various plays by Bhalba Kelkar.” Parishad vice-president BD Jatti recalling Tillu’s performance in the play “Devmanus, said, “He started performing one-act plays in 1961 while introducing the method of performing monologues in a different and unique style to Marahi theatre. His contribution to Marathi theatre was remarkable. Madhukar Tillu’s son Makrand, and grandson Harshda, have also been performing Marathi one-act plays.” “Tillu’s performance was characterised by the fact that he could present jokes without making any gestures or obscene categorisations. He promoted standup comedy not only in Maharashtra, but outside the state. He introduced a variety of standup forms in Marathi,” said vice-president Chaitali Mazgaonkar Bhandari.Parishad member Narendra Lavate said, “The festival is a tribute to Madhukar Tillu, who has created a new avenue for artists. We salute his remarkable work and contribution to satirical one-act plays. We will perform different forms of standup to mark Tillu’s memorial. The audience can view the programme on the Facebook page of the Ekpatri Kalakar Parishad”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monthlong-festival-of-plays-to-celebrate-master-of-the-one-act-performance-madhukar-tillu-101622644925226.html
02-06-2021||Bangalore||Congress asks Karnataka's BJP govt to listen to its own Covid-19 vaccine advisor||Congress on Wednesday asked the Karnataka government to pay heed to its vaccine advisor Gagandeep Kang and alleged that the BJP government is only doing headline management."The Karnataka must listen to their own vaccine advisor to defeat Covid, rather than deal with Covid as merely a means to let Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders blackmarket vaccines and hospital beds," said DK Shivakumar, Karnataka Congress chief.On Kang's appointment, Shivakumar said, "We thought the BJP government was finally taking scientific advice. However, it is clear it was only headline management because the government's actions do not reflect their own advisor's advice."On social media, Shivakumar quoted Kang on 10 aspects of Covid management and asked if the Karnataka government agreed with her. Congress asked if Karnataka government if it agrees with their vaccine advisor's comment that vaccine procurement should be done by the Centre and not by the states and whether they agreed with her that India was "late on the table" in acquiring vaccines from global companies.According to an official statement of the party, Dr Kang has been quoted in the media as saying, "The rest of the world has been buying vaccines at risk for a year, so what's the supply that is available in the market for us to go now and say we want to buy vaccines?"Gagandeep Kang has said the central government's claim of 2 billion vaccine doses by December should be taken "with a pinch of salt," the statement said.Karnataka Congress asked the BJP government in the state whether it agrees with their vaccine advisor's assessment and if they plan to explain by when they hope to vaccinate all adults in Karnataka.Congress also asked if the state government agree with its advisor's criticism of the approval that Covaxin got in January without publishing final efficacy data, her criticism that the government ignored early warnings of COVID second wave.Kang has been urging the Indian government to collect better and more data on Covid and vaccines so that we can fight this war better, the party said.According to the Union Health Ministry, Karnataka has 2,98,320 active COVID-19 cases. The total number of recoveries has reached 22,90,861 and fatalities have mounted to 29,554.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/congress-asks-karnataka-s-bjp-govt-to-listen-to-its-own-covid-19-vaccine-advisor-101622643514161.html
02-06-2021||Pune||Cancelled CBSE Class 12 exam leaves students in dilemma over career choice||Pune: After the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) cancelled the board exam for Class 12 on Tuesday, the students are worried about their further assessment and admission process. The board’s decision will impact on their studies, results and admission process in the upcoming time. College administration and students share their take on the exam cancellation decision taken by the central government. “I concur with the decision taken by the Centre to cancel our board exams. We cannot expect all the students to be in the right mindset for exam during this pandemic situation. The decision has cleared the confusion and calmed fears over the exam as health and well-being of students, teachers and their families have been prioritised. The question of an alternative evaluation of students remains unanswered. I request the government and the CBSE to take a prudential and timely decision in this regard,” said Pragnya Paramita, a class 12 student of ODM Public School. Another student Rushi Jambhale said, “The class 12 exams should have been conducted online or by some other means. We studied online throughout the year and were preparing hard for the exams. I want to pursue computer engineering and there is a tough competition to get admission in a good college. If I get less marks in the alternative assessment process, my career will be affected.” After the CBSE Class 12 exams were cancelled, the Maharashtra state education minister Varsha Gaikwad said, “On the grounds of CBSE board exams been cancelled, soon we are also going to take a decision about our Class 12 board exams. Our first priority will always be student safety and their health.” Meanwhile, college administrations are worried about the admission process. Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal, Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar said, “The decision to cancel CBSE Class 12 exams is good for the safety of students, but it will certainly have an impact on admission process for various graduation courses. After Class 12 there is a vast spread of options before students to choose their career subjects and this is the time when students want to go for a better opportunity. Now, for the CBSE board students, it will totally depend on the assessment process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cancelled-cbse-class-12-exam-leaves-students-in-dilemma-over-career-choice-101622644625219.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi High Court says Juhi Chawla’s lawsuit against 5G technology ‘filed only for media publicity'||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday termed as “defective” the suit of actress-environmentalist Juhi Chawla against setting up of 5G wireless networks in the country and said it was filed for “media publicity”.The court also questioned Chawla for filing the suit without giving any representation to the government on her concerns related to the technology.Justice J R Midha said the plaintiffs, Chawla and two others, were required to first approach the government for their rights and if denied, they should come to the court.The court, which reserved order on the suit after hearing the arguments of various parties, also asked as to why as many as 33 parties have been added to the plaint and said it is not permitted under the law.“It is not the sweet will of the plaintiff to join as many parties and cause of action. Please see the memo of parties. Tell me how you have joined them. Every party cannot be arrayed in the suit,” the judge said.The court further said, “It is a defective plaint. This suit has been filed only for media publicity and nothing more than that. It is very shocking.”“Did you approach the government with a representation? If yes, is there any denial?,” the court asked to which the plaintiffs’ counsel replied in negative.The court said in the suit, the plaintiff says ‘I have personal knowledge of paragraphs 1 to 8’ only.“Plaintiff has no personal knowledge of the plaint. I am surprised. How can it be? Is the suit permissible when the plaintiff has no personal knowledge of the averment? I have not seen a suit where a person says I don’t know, please conduct an inquiry,” the judge said.The court asked about the knowledge of plaintiffs on the facts and warned to prosecute them on filing false claims.The plea claimed that 5G wireless technology threatens to provoke serious, irreversible effects on humans and permanent damage to the earth’s ecosystems.The suit, filed by Chawla, social worker Veeresh Malik and Teena Vachani, said that if the telecom industry’s plans for 5G come to fruition, no person, animal, bird, insect and plant on earth will be able to avoid exposure, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to levels of RF radiation that are 10x to 100x times greater than what exists today.Advocate Deepak Khosla, representing the plaintiffs, said the 5G technology trials involving human population have been done and added that these are not "pigs and rats".The court was hearing arguments only on several applications filed by the plaintiffs, including payment of court fees and permission to institute a suit.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and advocate Amit Mahajan, representing the Department of Telecommunications, said the 5G policy does not fall in the category of public nuisance and it is obviously not prohibited in law.Mehta said the plaintiffs need to show how the technology is wrongful and termed the suit as an ill-conceived litigation.Mahajan said the plaintiffs could have filed a PIL if they wanted to avoid depositing court fees.“What is the hidden agenda”, he said, adding that a petition on similar issues was earlier filed by the plaintiffs before the Bombay High Court and it was not pending in the Supreme Court, which was the reason for not filing a PIL and instituting a private suit.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing private telecom companies, said launching of 5G technology is a policy of the government and as it is a policy, it cannot be a wrongful act.On the issue of public nuisance, he said it has to be first established by the plaintiffs that the policy is a public nuisance and they cannot just make averments and get the relief.“They have to establish that the policy itself is wrong,” he said.Kholsa said the implementation of 5G technology should not be done at the cost of others.On being asked by the court as to what was the special damage done to the plaintiffs, the counsel said, “I am suffering radiation every time I use a cellphone”.The suit has sought a direction to the authorities to certify to the public at large that how 5G technology is safe to humans, animals and every type of living organism, flora and fauna.“This suit will reveal a complete sell-out by the regulatory agencies who, statutorily, have been tasked to protect the health and life of the public, but whose actions reveal an utter derogation of their own statutory duty in order to advance private interests...,” the plea has alleged.“Since ‘prevention’ is well-accepted to be far better than ‘cure’, immediate measures must be taken to protect humanity and the environment, in accordance with ethical imperatives as well as formal international agreements, before such harm is actually unleashed,” it said.The plea said that in April 2019, Brussels became the first major city in the world to halt any further steps in the 5G rollout on account of health hazards.“In fact, as recently as on May 5, 2021, the Parliament of Belgium, still not willing to allow 5G rollout in Brussels, invited 45 ordinary citizens drawn at random to address it on their concerns, assuring them that the 5G roll-out will not be permitted till they are heard by Parliament and their concerns are properly and fully addressed,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-says-juhi-chawla-s-defective-lawsuit-against-5g-technology-filed-only-for-media-publicity-101622643303250.html
02-06-2021||Pune||WCD gets enquiries for over 400 kids who lost their parents to Covid, 17 lost both parents||Pune: The women and child welfare department (WCD) committee, Pune district, has received over 464 calls regarding enquiries about kids who have lost either one or both their parents to Covid-19. Of these 464, at least 17 have been confirmed to have lost both the parents to the infection. The action committee would verify the details of the child and the guardian currently taking care of the child and also confirm that the parent died to Covid. District women and child development officer Ashwini Kamble said, “The counting is still in process as we get calls on a daily basis and the data is upgraded accordingly. The action committee, which was formed on March 20, 2019, looks into such children who have lost both parents and have members from the health department of both the civic bodies and the rural areas too and we get information regularly. In view of Covid-19, the health department also informs about kids who have lost their parents to the infection. As of now, we have had about 464 enquiries from across the district regarding kids who have lost either one or both parents. Of these we have confirmed that 17 have lost both parents, and eight of them are admitted at various government homes for orphanages and the remaining kids are still with relatives or guardians. The youngest we have is about six years old and the oldest is 17.” Kamble said that once a kid’s information comes to the WCD, the committee visits the child’s home to inspect the child’s welfare and also the guardian’s details. She said, “We check the claim as to whether the parents die of Covid or not. We check if the guardian is able and willing to take care of the child. In addition to ensuring the child’s welfare, the committee also ensures that the child gets legal help. In case of any property which the child might be legally entitled to, the committee also helps the child get legal advice and help whenever he or she turns 18 and to ensure that the property is legally handed over to the child.” On Wednesday, the government announced a special welfare package for such kids. Tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted, “Those kids who have lost both their parents to Covid19, for such kids the state government has announced a special fixed deposit package of ₹5 lakh until they turn 18 and also the child would be eligible to get benefits under the state government child welfare schemes until the child becomes an adult. This decision has been approved at the cabinet meet on Wednesday.” As of Tuesday, Pune district has reported a total of over 10.18 lakh Covid cases, and progressive cases up to 1.018 million cases of which 0.975 million have recovered, 12,630 have been declared dead due to Covid and remaining are active cases. Of these deaths, 4,060 are from Pune rural, 6,784 from Pune city and PCMC are from 1,725.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/wcd-gets-enquiries-for-over-400-kids-who-lost-their-parents-to-covid-17-lost-both-parents-101622643425150.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s daily Covid cases rise marginally to 15,169, deaths fall to 285||Maharashtra’s daily caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose marginally to 15,169 on Wednesday, according to a bulletin from the health department. With this, Maharashtra’s infection tally has risen to 5,776,184.Follow all latest Covid-19 updates hereThis is for the fourth straight day that the state has seen less than 20,000 fresh infections in a day. The number of people who tested positive on May 30 stood at 18,600, while a day later 15,077 new cases were detected. Then, on June 1, a further 14,123 people returned a positive test result.Wednesday’s bulletin also showed 285 related deaths on the day, with the death toll rising to 96,751; there were 477 fatalities on Tuesday. The number of new recoveries was recorded at 29,270, taking the total number of such cases to 5,460,589. With this, the recovery rate has improved to 94.53%. Active cases, meanwhile, are at 216,016, according to the bulletin.Also Read | Show complete data on procurement of Covid-19 vaccines, Supreme Court directs CentreThe latest positive cases were from 236,941 samples tested for Covid-19, giving a positivity rate of 6.40%. Total 35,514,594 samples have been tested thus far, giving a cumulative positivity rate of 16.26%.Meanwhile, the state capital Mumbai also witnessed a rise in its daily cases for a second consecutive day, with its Covid-19 tally rising to 707,041 with the addition of 923 cases. 31 people succumbed to the infection on the day, taking Mumbai’s death toll from the disease to 14,880.Among other worst-hit districts, Nagpur saw almost as many new cases as it did on Tuesday, adding 204 cases to its tally as against 203 a day ago. New recoveries were recorded at 649 while 11 more lives were lost due to the viral disease. A total of 13,419 tests were conducted as against 10,545 on June 1.Maharashtra is currently under lockdown-like restrictions which were extended by 15 days, beginning June 1, as announced by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in his address to the state on Sunday night. However, a day later, Thackeray expressed unhappiness at heavy vehicular traffic in Mumbai despite Covid-19 norms, also warning of stricter curbs in the city if the situation continued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-daily-covid-19-cases-rise-marginally-to-15-169-deaths-fall-to-285-101622639659662.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray’s cabinet decides to cancel Maharashtra’s Class 12 exams||Mumbai: The Uddhav Thackeray government on Wednesday decided to cancel the Maharashtra board examinations for Class 12 students. The in-principle decision by the Maharashtra cabinet will be placed before the state disaster management authority, also headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackaray, for the formal orders.The state school education department on Wednesday moved a proposal to the state disaster management authority headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to take the final decision, officials said. A formal announcement is expected after the nod by the authority. School education minister Varsha Gaikwad, who had welcomed the Centre’s decision to cancel CBSE class 12 exams on Tuesday, said their priority is to ensure the health and safety of the students.Around 1.5 million students appear for Class 12 exams in Maharashtra every year.The Maharashtra government had earlier decided to cancel Class 10 board examinations due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation and promote students on the basis of their performance in Class 9 and 10.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday had announced the Centre’s decision not to hold the school-leaving exams conducted by the CBSE this year. Several states such as Haryana, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh also have cancelled Class 12 board examinations.“We informed the state cabinet about the decisions taken by the central government and a few states pertaining to Class 12 exams. We have moved a proposal to the state disaster management authority to take a decision in this regard as all such decisions have to be approved by it considering the unprecedented situation,” Gaikwad said on Wednesday after the state cabinet meeting.“Our stand on this issue has been clear since the beginning. Health, safety and mental stress of the students needs to be considered before taking such a decision. We had clarified our stand in a meeting of education ministers of all the states chaired by the defence minister Rajnath Singh and have also welcomed the decision of cancellation of Class 12 board exams. The same has been proposed before the disaster management authority,” school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said.A senior official familiar with the matter said all ministers supported Gaikwad’s proposal to scrap the Class 12 board exam at the cabinet meeting.“It was decided that it should be approved by the disaster management authority as Epidemic Diseases Act was invoked in the state,” said a senior official, privy to the development.Class 12 examinations were scheduled on April 23 and were put off till May-end owing to a surge in Covid-19 cases and subsequently lockdown restrictions imposed to arrest the spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-s-cabinet-decides-to-cancel-maharashtra-s-class-12-exams-101622642468035.html
02-06-2021||Pune||Lockdown hits Maha tourism industry||Pune: The Covid lockdown has choked the economy of various sectors, including tourism, in the state. Two months of suspended operations, trip cancellations and shutdown of tours and travel companies has left the hospitality and tourism companies bleeding. “Last year, Covid outbreak was new for all of us, and even then our pre-booked tours in April and May got cancelled. A similar situation happened this year too, when our industry was somehow settling down again, the lockdown happened. The domestic tours in different states and even the tours within the state were put on hold for almost all the tour operators. People had booked their summer vacations in advance, but lockdown put their plans on hold,” said Deepak Pujari, director, Vihar Tours and Travels and chairman of Pune Tours and Travels Operator Association. “Though the state government has provided assistance to various sectors to cope with the financial crisis due to pandemic, we are yet to receive any aid even as losses are mounting every day. Some of us have even shut shop,” he said. Anantprasad Deshpande, another tour operator and owner of Discover Nature Club, said, “I had a booking of 30 people going to Kanha National Park in June many months back. We had booked hotels, jungle safari rides and train tickets. Now, around 8 to 10 of them want to cancel the tour. We cannot go to Mumbai to board trains because of inter-district travel ban and mandatory e-pass. The hotel management has told us to reschedule the bookings as they cannot refund the money because of the financial crisis. Huge funds are stuck in this industry with no solution in sight.” With inter-district and inter-state travel allowed only emergency needs, the tourism industry is facing its worth situation during the peak summer season. Shrikant Parchure, owner of a resort at Dapoli beach, said, “This is the second consecutive year when our summer vacation bookings got cancelled. Every year we wait for this time when there is a heavy rush when families come to spend summer holidays.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lockdown-hits-maha-tourism-industry-101622641624981.html
02-06-2021||Bhopal||Woman killed by stalker in moving train in MP, police arrest accused||A stalker on Tuesday allegedly killed a 21-year-old woman by slitting her throat on a Bhopal-bound train near Madhya Pradesh’s Sehore after following her for months, a police officer said. Assistant police superintendent (Sehore) Sameer Yadav said the single mother of a two-year-old son called her brother when he spotted the alleged stalker, Sagar Soni, and asked him to call the police. But before police could help her, Soni slit her throat with a sharp-edged weapon after an argument, he added.The brother accused police of inaction and sitting on his sister’s complaint in Indore against Soni a month ago for stalking and sending her obscene messages.Inspector general of police (Indore) HN Mishra promised to investigate the matter.Also Read | Woman arrested in MP’s Rajgarh for sexual assault on 16-yr-old boyYadav said the woman, who suffered a child marriage before getting a divorce, had recently lost her job and was on her way to Bhopal to look for one. He added the woman was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared her brought dead. “She died due to excessive loss of blood.”Yadav said Soni was arrested from Bhopal on Wednesday and has confessed to murdering the woman. Soni has claimed to have known the woman and said she had stopped talking to him after promising to marry him. “He attacked her just to scare her but not to kill her,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/woman-killed-by-stalker-in-moving-train-in-mp-police-arrest-accused-101622638866521.html
02-06-2021||Dehradun||U’khand says no proposal for Haridwar airport days after minister’s announcement||The Uttarakhand government on Wednesday said there was no proposal to build an international airport in Haridwar days after state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj made an announcement in this regard on May 31.Maharaj, who is also the minister in charge for Haridwar, had said the airport would be developed by 2030 and that a committee under the district magistrate would be formed to look for the land for the purpose. He had claimed the airport will be to handle big aircraft including Boeing 777.Subodh Uniyal, the state government spokesman and agriculture minister, said no such proposal has come to the government. “...if any such proposal is received by the government, then it would be discussed in the Cabinet.”Also Read | ‘Death of humanity’: Stray dogs eat human corpses at riverbank in UttarakhandMaharaj, who on May 31 said authorities were looking for land spread over 5 km for the proposed airport, was immediately unavailable for comments on Wednesday.Congress leader Suryakant Dhasmana said the denial shows there is no coordination among ministers. “A senior minister makes an announcement of a new international airport, but the government is oblivious about it. What can be more ridiculous than this?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ukhand-says-no-proposal-for-haridwar-airport-days-after-minister-s-announcement-101622638325292.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||Banks to sell off Mallya’s properties worth ₹5,646.54 crore to recover dues||A special PMLA court has, in two separate orders passed within the last 10 days, allowed the restoration of properties of fugitive liquor baron Vijay Mallya to a consortium of 17 banks that had provided him loans. The consortium, led by State Bank of India, can now sell off these properties that have a combined value of ₹5,646.54 crore and recover some of their dues. The bank consortium had approached the PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) court asking for the release of the properties attached by the Enforcement Directorate. The ED raised no objections, but Mallya’s legal team did, and so did the lawyers of other companies that have an interest in these properties. Also Read | UK judge’s order brings Indian banks closer to recovering debts from MallyaMallya’s lawyers challenged the jurisdiction of the PMLA court. They argued that the liquor baron had only given a personal guarantee while taking the loans and that didn’t connect him to the offence of money laundering. But the court rejected the claim and accepted SBI’s plea that it suffered huge losses. “It is material to note that the claimants are public sector banks, and these banks are dealing with public money,” the court said, adding that these PSU banks cannot have any personal or private interest in making the claims against Mallya. The court held that the quantifiable loss suffered by the banks was ₹6,203 crore but the properties in question were insufficient to meet it. So, on May 24, the court ordered the release of properties worth ₹4,234.84 crore, and on June 1, it released more properties worth ₹1,411.7 crore. Those released so far include properties in UB City, Bengaluru, worth ₹712.94 crore; Mallya’s under-construction flats in Kingfisher tower worth ₹564.25 crore; several pledged and unpledged shares; and many other properties owned by Mallya through various companies in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/banks-to-sell-off-mallya-s-properties-worth-rs-5-646-54-crore-to-recover-dues-101622637965511.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC will display bullet-hit saroop of Guru Granth Sahib||In a first, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Wednesday decided to display the bullet-hit holy saroop of Guru Granth Sahib that was installed in the sanctum sanctorum of Golden Temple during Operation Bluestar, for darshan at Akal Takht from June 3 to 5 in the run-up to the anniversary of the army action on June 6, 1984. Announcing the decision taken during the SGPC executive committee meeting in Amritsar, its chief Bibi Jagir Kaur told reporters: “The army action at the holiest Sikh shrine left deep wounds on the community’s psyche. It was a kind of genocide. They did not even spare Guru Granth Sahib, followed as the Guru by the community and injured the saroops. Though a very late decision, we will place this holy saroop for darshan.” Also read: ‘Inherent biases a challenge’: Advocacy group on Sikh man’s forced beard shaving“For the next three days, the saroop will be placed inside Shaheedi Asthan of Baba Gurbaksh Singh behind Akal Takht,” she said. “We have gold-plated layers that were removed from Golden Temple during renovation. They have bullet marks, too. We have preserved the bullet marks on buildings in Sri Darbar Sahib complex,” she said, turning emotional. In reply to a query, she said the gallery of portraits being established in memory of those killed by the army during the action will be completed in a month. Work on the gallery has been on for four years and the kar sewa (voluntary service) is being carried out by Damdami Taksal, the Sikh seminary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-will-display-bullet-hit-saroop-of-guru-granth-sahib-101622634425340.html
02-06-2021||Other||Frequent fires: Hospitals need to watch health of their electrical infra||Frequent hospital fires have put at risk the lives of Covid-19 patients in healthcare facilities across the country, calling for urgent preventive measures.Given the poor enforcement of fire safety laws, fire mishaps at hospitals are not rare in the country. But they have never been as frequent as we are seeing since the pandemic. And the numbers are only going up.From newspaper reports of fires in hospitals, there were roughly about 11 such fires during August to December. This number went up to 17 during January -May, leading to at least 70 deaths. The reasons are obvious. As Covid cases shoot up phenomenally in the second wave of the pandemic, hospitals are constantly expanding their facilities, overloading their electrical circuits, eventually leading to fires.An article on ‘Fire Safety hazards: How safe are our hospitals’ published in the Indian Journal of Community Medicine (Jan-March2020) observes that no hospital estimates accurately at the time of designing and execution, the electricity load. So much so that by the time a hospital is commissioned, it’s power requirement would have almost doubled from the earlier estimate and it goes up further by 25 per cent annually, as it adds newer facilities and gadgets, the article points out. .Given that scenario, one can well imagine the overload on the circuit during the pandemic, with hospitals bursting with patients needing constant emergency care. High oxygen content in the air, sanitizer spills only add to the problem. Besides, in the absence of regular maintenance, any of the overworked or malfunctioning gadgets could heat up and catch fire. A review of 33 major fires reported in hospitals across the country between January 2010 to December 2019 and published in the International Journal of Community Medicine and Public Health (September 2020) pointed out that the most common cause of fires in hospitals was electrical short circuit with air conditioners being the most common source. In ten cases, fires originated at or near intensive care units.So it is of utmost importance that hospitals do a regular electrical audit to check their sanctioned load and the actual consumption and upgrade the systems accordingly. Regular maintenance of all electric and electronic equipment and fire protection devices are also a must. It is also extremely important for hospitals to comply with ‘Part IV of the National Building Code of India: fire and life safety’ formulated by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) and incorporated in the fire safety laws of most states. . ‘Fire and Life Safety’, deals with three aspects of fire: fire prevention, life safety and fire protection.Similarly, states/civic authorities running temporary health care facilities in urban and rural areas need to pay more attention to fire safety.. There are standards like the “ Fire precautionary measures in construction of temporary structures and pandals-code of practice” published by the BIS for temporary constructions, but obviously a temporary medical facility with life saving equipment, particularly oxygen cylinders (unlike piped oxygen in hospitals) need more specific standards of fire safety, keeping in mind the fact that these facilities cannot have some of the standard fire safety measures recommended for permanent structures. We therefore need to urgently draw up stringent standards for such temporary medical facilities.But unfortunately, violations of fire safety laws are a rule rather than an exception , with a large number of hospitals in the country running without a fire NOC or without renewing their NOCIn December, the Supreme Court took suo motu cognizance of fires in Covid hospitals and issued detailed directions to all states and union territories to create an oversight mechanism to ensure compliance with fire safety laws by all Covid facilities and also conduct ‘at least once a month’ fire safety audits of each Covid hospital. . The increased fires post-these directions speak volumes about the state of implementation. Are the states waiting for a contempt notice from the apex court to start taking some action?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/frequent-fires-hospitals-need-to-watch-health-of-their-electrical-infra-101622628844205.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 576 new Covid-19 cases as positivity rate falls under 0,8%, fresh fatalities rise to 103 from 62 a day ago||Delhi recorded 576 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative tally of positive cases to 14,27,439, according to state government's health bulletin. The death toll in the national capital rose to 24,402 after 103 fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the bulletin. Wednesday's numbers marks a further decline from the 623 cases recorded a day before.The positivity rate in the national capital now stands at 0.78% - the third consecutive day that it has stayed below the 1% mark. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends a positivity rate below 5% consistently for a period of at least two weeks before an outbreak can be considered to be under control. Delhi’s positivity rate has remained below the stipulated mark for 13 consecutive days now.A total of 73,451 samples were tested for Covid-19 out of which 576 came back positive, according to the health bulletin. This was an increase from the 70,813 samples tested on Tuesday and 65,240 samples tested on Monday.The number of fatalities, however, went up significantly on Wednesday, breaching the 100-mark after three days. At the peak of the fourth wave, Delhi reported scores of deaths everyday, witnessing the highest single-day spike on May 3, when 448 people succumbed to the disease in a span of 24 hours.As per the health bulletin, 1,287 people have recovered from the infection in the last 24 hours.The total number of active cases currently under treatment stands at 9,364, out of which 4,531 are in home isolationHospitalisation went down further with just 4,012 beds being currently occupied by Covid-19 patients, 20,572 beds remain vacant as of Wednesday. A similar picture emerged from dedicated Covid care centres where 6,154 beds are unoccupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-576-new-covid-19-cases-as-positivity-rate-falls-below-1-fresh-fatalities-rise-to-103-from-62-a-day-ago-101622627047396.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||Bombay High Court seeks details of crime rate in Maharashtra during pandemic||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the Maharashtra government to submit details of all FIRs registered and arrests made during the Covid-19 pandemic and inform the court about the present crime rate in the state.The direction came after the state's counsel, Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, told the HC that while orders of the state high-powered committee were being followed on granting emergency parole to eligible inmates in a bid to decongest prisons during the pandemic, jails across the state were still crowded.Kumbhakoni said the "crowd in prisons was not being reduced due to new arrests".He said following the HC's orders passed over the last two months on decongesting prisons and following Covid-19 safety protocols in prisons, 2,168 inmates from seven prisons in the state had been released on interim bail as per the high-powered committee's guidelines.After the HC's orders, vaccination drives for prison inmates and staff had increased, he said, adding that more prisoners were being tested for Covid-19 and the number of active cases among inmates has now come down to 114.He further told the HC that 26 prisoners, who were eligible for emergency parole, were yet to apply for the temporary release.Last month, Kumbhakoni given the instance of these 26 prisoners to say that even though eligible for parole, they had chosen to stay in the prison for reasons like fear of being unable to sustain themselves outside, lack of a place to stay or secure meals for themselves.However, on Wednesday, a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said the state must address the issue of overcrowding in prisons.The court said prison population swells because police make arrests. So, they have to be sensitised about the guidelines made in Arnesh Kumar judgement, the court said."In case some of them are first time offenders, forced into a life of crime because of loss of job due to the pandemic...jobs and employment are an issue now. So they may steal food...basically, first time offenders. Putting them in jail is not going to solve the problem," the HC said.The Arnesh Kumar judgement mentioned by the bench refers to a 2014 verdict of the Supreme Court, where it said to ensure police officers do not arrest accused unnecessarily and magistrates do not authorise the detention casually and mechanically, specific directions must be followed.These directions included instructions to police officers not to automatically arrest when a case is registered under offences where the maximum punishment is seven years or less, but to be satisfied first with the need to arrest as elaborated in the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).The HC bench led by Chief Justice Datta said the state prison authorities must also address the issue of vacant sanctioned post for doctors and medical staff in prisons.The prison authorities must also devise a system to segregate inmates above 45 years of age, or who had co- morbidities, from others, and to vaccinate them, he said."We are concerned about the lack of doctors and medical staff in prisons. As an ad-hoc arrangement, can some doctors visit at least once a day for two hours? Doctors can be sent on rotation," the HC said.It also took note of the submission made by senior counsel Mihir Desai, the amicus curiae in the case, that not enough RT-PCR tests were being conducted in prisons.Desai cited the instance where an inmate (Jesuit priest Stan Swamy) at the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai was admitted to a private hospital where he tested positive for the coronavirus.Before being admitted to the hospital, the inmate underwent a rapid antigen test in the prison and he had tested negative for the viral infection.At this, the HC said there had to be "some mechanism" where prisoners were tested, segregated, and those with co- morbidities or those above 45 years of age needed to be vaccinated on priority.The HC was hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) taken up suo motu (on its own) on the spread of Covid-19 among prison inmates and staff.Professor Vijay Raghavan of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, who is assisting the HC in the PIL, told the court that prison inmates could not be taken for admission to civil hospitals in neighbouring Thane, Kalyan and Navi Mumbai.Thus, all of them were required to be brought to the state-run J J Hospital in Mumbai, he said.The HC asked the state government to respond to the above concerns.It will continue hearing the PIL on June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-seeks-details-of-crime-rate-in-maharashtra-during-pandemic-101622625986110.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu’s ‘missing’ posters surface in Amritsar||A day after Navjot Singh Sidhu, the Punjab Congress MLA from Amritsar East, appeared in Delhi before the party’s three-member committee, constituted to resolve infighting in the state unit ahead of the assembly elections, posters announcing that he had gone missing surfaced in his constituency. The posters with Sidhu’s photo announced a reward of ₹50,000 for finding the former minister.Also read: Sidhu, Pargat stick to their guns, target Capt before Kharge panelThe posters were pasted on the walls of a dozen houses and on electricity poles in the Rasoolpur area of Amritsar East constituency on Wednesday morning. Residents, however, said they had nothing to do with the matter. Taking ownership for the posters, Anil Vashisht, who runs local NGO Baba Deep Singh Lok Sewa Society, said, “Sidhu’s constituency is littered with garbage. People have been living in hell here. Ever since the Covid restrictions were imposed, people of his constituency haven’t seen him.” “Amritsar residents made him an MP and then MLA, but he has done nothing for the holy city. When he was elected as MP from Amritsar, youngsters had expectations from him. Residents have been complaining that Sidhu never bothered to listen to them and redress their grievances.” Sidhu has been accusing Capt Amarinder Singh of shielding the Badal family in the sacrilege and police firing cases of 2015. He has blamed the chief minister for the botched-up probe in the Kotkapura case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-singh-sidhu-s-missing-posters-surface-in-amritsar-101622626264737.html
02-06-2021||Kolkata||First mucormycosis death reported from north Bengal||A 49-year-old woman has become the first person to die of mucormycosis, or black fungus, in north Bengal. She died at Siliguri in Darjeeling district on Tuesday after being detected with mucormycosis, which has emerged as a major Covid-19 complication.West Bengal has reported 26 cases of mucormycosis and at least 12 people have died of it in the state.“The woman...was operated for black fungus on May 24 and died at a critical care unit on Tuesday night,” said Radhey Shyam Mahato, head of the department of Eye Nose Throat at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital.Also Read | Know how Centre’s X-Ray Setu on WhatsApp can detect Covid-19The woman, who had earlier tested positive for Covid-19, had developed swelling in the right side of the face and was suffering from fever, loss of vision, and facial pain.Officials said this was the first mucormycosis case associated with Covid-19 during the second wave of the pandemic in north Bengal.The Centre last month asked states and union territories to declare mucormycosis as a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act-1897.Susanta Roy, the officer on special duty, public health services, north Bengal, said there are four confirmed and one suspected case of mucormycosis in north Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/first-mucormycosis-death-reported-from-north-bengal-101622625964591.html
02-06-2021||Other||NPP MLA accused of rape in Meghalaya; FIR lodged||Meghalaya police on Tuesday lodged a First Information Report (FIR) against a ruling National Peoples Party (NPP) legislator on rape charges. East Khasi Hills district police have registered the case against Thomas A. Sangma, MLA from North Tura, on a woman’s complaint that he raped her multiple times over a year on the pretext of marriage. “He has been raping me on the pretext of getting married since January 2020 up to April this year,” she said. She said she didn’t file an FIR the first time she was raped because Sangma promised her marriage.Also Read | Meghalaya Raj Bhavan has 43 Covid casesShe said Sangma even promised to divorce his wife for her. She claimed she got pregnant but the legislator asked her to go for an abortion, and abandoned her on April 17 this year.East Khasi Hills superintendent of police S Nongtnger said, “Inquiry proceedings have been initiated. We will go by the law.”Sangma, a Rajya Sabha MP from 2008-2014 from the Nationalist Congress Party, is the NPP national general secretary. The legislator, reported to be in Tura, did not take any of HT’s calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/npp-mla-accused-of-rape-in-meghalaya-fir-lodged-101622624764561.html
02-06-2021||Bhopal||‘850 teachers died of Covid during pandemic-related duties in Madhya Pradesh’||At least 850 schoolteachers deputed for Covid-19 related duties have died of the disease in the second wave of the pandemic in Madhya Pradesh over the last three months, a teachers’ association has said.“Over 6,000 schoolteachers, who were deputed for vaccination and Covid-19 surveys, were tested positive and more than 850 died,” said Jagdish Yadav, president, Rajya Shikshak Sangh, the association, citing a survey that they have carried out across the state.He said 100 teachers died of the disease in Chhindawara followed by Seoni (95) and Rajgarh (78).Also Read | Senior Madhya Pradesh BJP leader dies of Covid-19Teachers have blamed the government for deputing them for the pandemic-related work without declaring them as frontline workers. “The teachers are surveying Covid 19 cases and also working at vaccination centres, but without PPE [personal protection equipment] kits and gloves. Even, they use their own masks. The government set up vaccination centres at schools and teachers are working without kits,” said Bhagwan Singh Ranawat, a teacher from Rajgarh.Ashutosh Pandey, president of Madhya Pradesh Teachers Congress, accused the government of mistreating teachers. “From census to Covid-19 duties, teachers bear all the responsibilities and work hard but hardly any government thinks about us. But now, it is a matter of life and death and of the families of teachers.” He added in Damoh, 17 teachers died of Covid 19 after being infected during poll duty during the by-election in April.Pandey demanded ₹50 lakh compensation for teachers, who have died of Covid-19 after contracting the disease during pandemic-related duties, as frontline workers.School education minister Indersingh Parmar said the teachers will get all benefits and safety gears while insisting they were not insensitive towards them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/850-teachers-died-of-covid-during-pandemic-related-duties-in-madhya-pradesh-101622621584385.html
02-06-2021||Bhopal||Woman arrested in MP’s Rajgarh for sexual assault on 16-yr-old boy||A 35-year-old woman was arrested for sexually assaulting a 16-year-old boy in Madhya Pradesh’s Rajgarh district, police said on Tuesday. The woman’s husband, and parents-in-law were arrested under Section 384 (punishment for extortion), and 427 (mischief causing damage) while charges were pressed against her under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.Rajgarh superintendent of police, Pradeep Sharma said, “The woman sexually assaulted the minor boy, who lives in the same village, twice. On May 27, her husband and in-laws came to know about it. They demanded ₹1 lakh from the boy’s family, threatening to implicate them in a fake case of rape if they failed to pay up. When the boy’s family refused to pay, the woman’s husband and father-in-law damaged their agricultural land by cutting down papaya trees.” The boy then contacted Childline, Rajgarh where counsellor Manish Dangi spoke to him and also informed the police on Monday. Dangi said, “The boy was in depression after the incident but due to fear of social stigma, he didn’t share his ordeal with anyone. When the woman’s family started harassing his family, the boy gathered the courage of informing us. He is still being counselled by us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/woman-arrested-in-mp-s-rajgarh-for-sexual-assault-on-16-yr-old-boy-101622620744216.html
02-06-2021||Patna||Bihar cops to be punished if seen using mobile phone on duty||Bihar Police personnel have been barred from using mobile phones while on duty and violators will be punished, said an order by state police chief Sanjiv Kumar Singhal (DGP). The motive is to ensure policing in the state stays focused and effective by eliminating a common distraction, the order added.The order says police personnel tend to use mobile phones even during VIP/VVIP visits, law & order situations, festivals, demonstrations, traffic jams etc, diverting their attention and leading to negligence. “At every nook and corner of the city, one can see these constables standing, playing or talking on their phones or (chatting) with each other. That seems to be their prime duty,” the order said.If any Bihar policeman is now found using mobile during field duty, he will invite disciplinary action, the order said. Copies of the order have been sent to all the range IGs (inspector general of police), DIGs (deputy inspector general of police), district SSPs (senior superintendent of police), SPs (superintendent of police) and rail SPs.Most Bihar police personnel are not happy with the order, however, they are refraining from making any statements in public, said a police officer, who didn’t wish to be named.A senior police officer said that Bihar home department has been dealing with the twin challenges of shortage of personnel and reduced efficiency due to over usage of smartphones. He added that the problem was not limited to the police department but was also common among the staff in secretariat, collectorate, SDO’s (sub divisional officer) and CO’s (circle officer) offices, where the general public is made to wait for a long time while they play with their mobiles.Common residents, who often have to cough up fines for talking on phone while driving, have welcomed the move. “We are fined for talking on cellphones while driving. We often find police personnel either playing games on their cellphones or listening to music. It is good that the same restriction has been imposed on them,” said a businessman, Prabhat Kumar Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cops-to-be-punished-if-seen-using-mobile-phone-on-duty-101622619244458.html
02-06-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav calls for cancelling UP board exams in view of Covid-19||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday demanded that state boards should also cancel examinations like those of the CBSE.His remarks come a day after the government decided to cancel the CBSE class 12 board exams amid the continuing Covid-19 pandemic, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserting that the decision has been taken in the interest of students and the anxiety among students, parents, and teachers must be put to an end.In a tweet in Hindi, Yadav said, "Finally, the insensitive BJP government had to bow down to the pressure of the examinees-parents and they had to take the decision to cancel the CBSE class 12 exams. Now on this basis, the examinations of other boards and state boards should also be cancelled"."No examination without vaccination", he added.Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma had said in a statement on Tuesday that the cancellation of the exams is in the interest of students, parents, and teachers.He said a decision about the Class XII exams of the UP Secondary Board would soon be taken after a meeting with the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-yadav-calls-for-cancelling-up-board-exams-in-view-of-covid19-101622618183878.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Coming to terms with life, death during the pandemic||In the present situation when a sombre event such as death has been reduced to mere statistics, the musings of Japanese writer Haruki Murakami ring true: “Death is not the opposite of life but a part of it.” With the Covid-19 crisis taking its toll on relatives, friends, acquaintances and colleagues and reading their obituaries day in and day out, one is forced to take a step back from life and ponder over it in its entirety and thereby its culmination or corollary, which of course is the endgame for each one of us. We mortal beings presume that our journey ends with the last breath. Is that so? The persona continues to live far and beyond. The first gush of thoughts that deluge the mind on hearing of someone’s demise is the overarching personality traits of the departed one – protagonist for some and antagonist for others. Our cognitive senses are wired to judge and evaluate and then follow the emotive response. While the first response till a few years ago was sadness and mourning, in later years it has graduated and even post-graduated to that of objective evaluation instead of experiencing an overarching sense of subjective grief. This may have precursors in the collective wisdom gathered over the years as one approaches middle age. What one has begun to realise now is that while each of us comes with a stamped expiry date, what makes us unique and different is the way we navigate through this journey. Our personality type and behaviour patterns are woven uniquely through the warp and weft of our psychosocial and socio-economic threads enmeshed with a dash of our genetic composition. These finally determine our unique goals, hopes and aspirations and the journey of life we traverse – either meandering or racing towards the self-designated goals. Also, the means adopted towards achieving these goals count. How many people whose lives we touched were hurt by our actions-inactions or how many people we trampled upon to script our moments of glory? What the pandemic has taught us is that man revels in his invincibility but forgets the harshest teaching by the brutal duo of time and experience. That all of us may not make it to the pages of history books but those whose lives we touch in this sojourn are sure to remember us for reasons both good and bad. While we may be showered with praise and words of affection on our eternal departure, our darker side will sooner or later come up for discussion, albeit in hushed tones. There are bound to be outpourings of exaggerated accounts of our professional achievements, success and qualifications, but we will also be remembered for our shades of grey. The choice is clear for us to make. As Majrooh Sultanpuri aptly and prophetically puts it: Ik din bik jaayega, maati ke mol Jag mein reh jayenge, pyaare tere bol ….The writer, a senior bureaucrat, is resident commissioner, Punjab, in New Delhi. She can be reached at rarabhandari@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coming-to-terms-with-life-death-during-the-pandemic-101622616423975.html
02-06-2021||Patna||Lalu slams Nitish Kumar over Bihar healthcare, JD(U) says RJD chief has amnesia||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad has made his presence in Bihar politics felt with continuous attacks on chief minister Nitish Kumar’s handling of Covid-19 pandemic and the poor state of healthcare system since his release on bail in fodder scam cases in April this year.On Tuesday, Prasad posted pictures of one dilapidated building, claiming it was the referral hospital in Saharsa district, which he said was in a shambles like “thousands of other primary health centres” in the state.“The referral hospital in Saharsa, built at a cost of ₹14 crore, was inaugurated by me as the chief minister in 1995 to provide healthcare to lakhs of people living on both sides of east and west Kosi embankment. But it has been ruined, like thousands of other primary health centres, by [the] one [person] who is narrow and negative minded,” the RJD chief tweeted, taking indirect potshots at the chief minister.The former railway minister has been posting a series of photographs of primary health centres in Sitamarhi, Sheikhpura, Kaimur and Madhubani to name a few, alleging their neglect during CM Nitish Kumar’s tenure had turned them either into buffalo shelters or unusable locked properties.In a tweet posted on Monday, Prasad accused Nitish Kumar of shutting down a PHC in Kumar’s home district of Nalanda just because it had been set up during the RJD government’s rule.“Nitish closed the PHC in his home district [of] Nalanda because it was set up by me during my government. But the PHC is shown as operational in pink [government] files,” Lalu said.In another recent tweet, Prasad claimed that Nitish Kumar’s good governance and development existed only on ‘paper’ and that “thousands of PHCs set up during the RJD’s rule” had been shut down by the NDA government but shown as running in government records. He also alleged that crores of rupees sanctioned for these PHCs were being diverted.RJD’s top leaders feel the Yadav strongman is slowly returning to mainstream politics with his tweets. “There is no bar on politics for Laluji. He cannot contest polls but will become more active in politics in days to come,” said Bhola Yadav, former MLA and a close aide of the RJD chief. Yadav said could soon return to Patna once the Covid situation improves and the lockdown ends. Lalu Prasad is currently staying with his eldest daughter and RJD MP Misa Bharti in New Delhi,A few weeks after leaving AIIMS after getting bail, an ailing Prasad, attended a meeting of party MLAs but it had to be cut short since his oxygen level was low. He had then asked party workers to start community kitchens named Lalu Rasoi in their respective areas to provide free food to poor people affected by Covid and the subsequent lockdown.The ruling Janata Dal-United (JD-U) MLC (member of legislative council) and former minister Neeraj Kumar said the RJD chief was suffering from “memory loss’ or else he wouldn’t have forgotten the “pathetic” state of medical care in Bihar during his party’s 15-years of rule, which resulted in flight of doctors from the state.“During RJD’s rule, only 39 patients used to be treated in government hospitals per month on an average, whereas now, 10,000 patients visit government hospitals each month on an average. Lalu is suffering from memory loss while his heir apparent (Tejashwi Yadav) has hardly any knowledge since he has no interest in legislative business and stays away on tours,” Kumar said.Refuting Lalu’s allegation of neglect of PHCs under Nitish Kumar’s tenure, he said the healthcare system had witnessed a turnaround with ANM (Auxiliary Nursing and Midwifery) colleges set up in all 54 sub-divisions of the state along with GNM (nursing) and para-medical institutions.“How is it that Lalu’s oxygen level goes down during a RJD meeting but his twitter level goes up? The RJD chief should check facts and should know that during his government, only ₹64 crore was spent on an average in the health sector. But now, more than ₹64 crore is spent every year only from the CM relief fund to treat patients suffering from serious illness,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/lalu-slams-nitish-kumar-over-bihar-healthcare-jd-u-says-rjd-chief-has-amnesia-101622616363989.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||NCB arrests drug peddler, to probe his role in drug case linked to Sushant Singh Rajput's death||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested drug peddler Haris Khan over his alleged links with gangster and drug peddler Parvez Khan alias Chinku Pathan, an associate of fugitive underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, an NCB official said on Wednesday. The NCB will also conduct an investigation into Khan's role in a drug case linked to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death last year, he said.Khan was arrested on Tuesday after an NCB team, lead by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, conducted raids at various locations in suburban Andheri, Lokhandwala, and Bandra, the official said."As of now, the NCB has arrested Khan in connection with the Chinku Pathan drugs case, but his role in the drug case linked to Rajput's death will also be investigated," the official said.The anti-drugs agency last week arrested Rajput's flatmate Siddharth Pithani from Hyderabad in the drug case linked to the actor's death.The NCB on Sunday also questioned Rajput's two former domestic workers Neeraj and Keshav in connection with the case.Rajput was found hanging at his home in Bandra in June last year.The NCB had arrested Pathan, a henchman Dawood Ibrahim and a relative of late mafia don Karim Lala, in January this year from neighbouring Navi Mumbai after busting a drug trafficking racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-drug-peddler-to-probe-his-role-in-drug-case-linked-to-bollywood-actor-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-101622613897293.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai woman kills husband with lover's help, buries body at home||A 28-year-old woman allegedly killed her husband with the help of her paramour and buried his body inside her house in the western suburb of Dahisar here, police said on Tuesday.While the woman identified as Rasheeda Sheikh was arrested during the day, her paramour Amit Mishra is absconding, an official said.The incident took place in Rawal Pada locality of Dahisar (east) 12 days ago, when the accused allegedly slit the victim Raees Sheikh's throat with a sharp weapon in front of his minor daughter, the official said.The duo then buried the victim's body in the woman's room and went on with their lives, he said.The deceased used to work as a salesman in a clothing store, and on May 25, the victim's neighbour registered a missing person's complaint after he had not seen him for over a week.The matter came to light after the victim's brother reached the latter's home and his niece broke down and told him about the murder, the official said.The police are in the process of recovering the body, which was buried in the accused woman's room, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-woman-kills-husband-with-lover-s-help-buries-body-at-home-101622613950959.html
02-06-2021||Patna||Bihar parents giving home to children orphaned by Covid under Parvarish scheme||Bihar government’s Parvarish (child raising) scheme meant to secure foster care and home for scores of children orphaned by Covid-19 pandemic is showing promising results with several parents coming forward and a family in Muzaffarpur being handed over the first such child.Over two dozen families from across the state have so far shown interest in the social welfare department’s alternative care plan to raise around 100 children aged above six years, abandoned or orphaned during the second wave of Covid-19 and who have not been adopted yet.While several applications are under process, one has come to fruition with a couple in Muzaffarpur district given custody of a child a couple of days ago with the support of UNICEF and the Centre of Excellence in Alternative Care, an NGO.“Dubbed Parvarish, the plan is intended to provide such children with a home and to help them grow in a family environment. Family is important for better growth of a child. It’s mainly beneficial for the girls at government care institutions as they need a family and home once they become major. And this plan has turned out to be very useful for children orphaned by Covid,” Rajkumar, director, social welfare department said.Earlier the social welfare department used to give ₹1,000 to families for maintenance of a child under foster care. Now, chief minister Nitish Kumar has announced ₹1,500 for children under foster care, he added.The official said soon several other applications will be approved resulting in more orphaned children getting ‘homes’. “Now that the Covid lockdown norms have been relaxed to some extent, things in this direction will move faster. In fact, spot verification of families applying for foster care is very important,” he said.A social welfare department employee, who did not want to be named, said among the applicants there are several families with no children. “But there are many others who have children, even then they want to provide foster care to Covid victims’ children,” the employee said.Among them one family wants a girl child as the couple have three sons but no daughter; while in another case, the couple want a boy as there’s no male child in the family, the department employee added.Meanwhile, Vijay Kumar Sinha, speaker of the Bihar assembly, has urged people representatives to monitor the effective implementation of Parvarish scheme in their areas.“I have asked the MLAs to monitor whether such children in their areas are getting financial and social support,” he said. Even former MLAs have been requested to help out. There are about 600 former MLAs in the state, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-parents-giving-home-to-children-orphaned-by-covid-under-parvarish-scheme-101622610843657.html
02-06-2021||Patna||Patna University mulls cancelling entrance exam for UG courses, aspirants wary||Patna University (PU) is considering cancelling entrance exams for the new session and admitting students in traditional and vocational undergraduate (UG) courses on the basis of their intermediate scores instead, while eliminating the viva voice to shorten the admission process. The proposal was mooted keeping the Covid situation in mind during a recent academic council meeting of the university, chaired by vice-chancellor Girish Kumar Chaudhary.“The proposed provisions are exceptions to the usual admission procedure, due to [the] pandemic, which have been suggested only for the current year. The academic council’s resolutions have to be endorsed by the syndicate after which it would be sent to the Raj Bhawan for obtaining the governor’s approval,” Chaudhary said explaining the process for adoption of the proposal.Another varsity official said further movement will take place after the syndicate meeting on Wednesday. “We cannot implement any change in the admission process without [the] assent of the Raj Bhawan,” said Anil Kumar, media-incharge.Last year, more than 42,000 candidates appeared in the combined entranced examination conducted by the PU for various undergraduate courses.Officials said there will be no change in the admission process for postgraduate (PG) courses, done on the basis of marks obtained in previous degree examinations.The academic council has also resolved to change the nomenclature of six courses in the larger interest of the students and also commence National Cadet Corps (NCC) as a general elective credit course.Meanwhile, several aspirants have opposed the proposal to cancel the entrance exam fearing those with poor results in intermediate examinations will be disadvantaged.Amit Raj, a class 12 student, said, “PU should conduct entrance exams to provide fair opportunity to all aspirants. If conducting an offline exam is difficult due to Covid restrictions, then they should hold online exams. Marks of CBSE students are likely to dip since [the board] exams [for class 12 students] have been cancelled, creating a domino effect on their college admissions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-university-mulls-cancelling-entrance-exam-for-ug-courses-aspirants-wary-101622607903656.html
02-06-2021||Other||CBI lodges case against Guwahati company for bank fraud worth ₹168cr||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday registered a case against the promoters and directors of a Guwahati-based automobile company for causing an alleged loss of ₹168.62 crore to IDBI Bank. The accused are Pranab Kumar Ghosh, Pratul Kumar Ghosh, Gita Rani Ghosh and Prabir Kumar Ghosh, all promoters-directors of Ghosh Brothers Automobiles, chartered accountant Arunabha Chattopadhya, unknown bank officials, and private persons. Also Read | IDBI sale gets cabinet nodThe bank alleges that a term loan and cash credit facility to the tune of Rs.64.67 crore were sanctioned fraudulently to the private company for purchasing vehicles. “It is further alleged that the accused availed loan by submitting false documents and also indulged in diversion of money for purpose other than for which the loan was sanctioned, thereby causing a loss of Rs.168.62 crore as on January 31, 2021, to the bank,” the release said. As on July 2020, the company’s outstanding balance was ₹153.38 crore and the said account became non-performing asset due to non-payment of dues to the bank, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-lodges-case-against-guwahati-company-for-bank-fraud-worth-rs-168cr-101622605623143.html
02-06-2021||Lucknow||Mysterious blast in UP village triggers building collapse, kills 7||Seven persons, including three children aged between 5 and 12 years, were killed while seven others were seriously injured in a double-storey building collapse, triggered by a mysterious blast in Uttar Pradesh’s Gonda district late on Tuesday night, senior police officials said on Wednesday.Initial police investigation suggested the building collapsed after a LPG cylinder exploded in the house but further probe is on to ascertain the exact cause.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed his grief over the deaths and directed officials to ensure best possible treatment for the injured and help to the family of the deceased. He also asked for a thorough investigation to ascertain the cause of the blast.Gonda police chief (SP) Santosh Kumar Mishra said the incident occurred at Thatherkapurwa locality under Wazirganj police station limits at around 11.30 pm on Tuesday.He said locals ran out of their houses after hearing the sound of the blast and helped pull out survivors and bodies from under the rubble before rushing them to a local hospital. Seven were declared brought dead while seven others were undergoing treatment.The SP said a team of forensic experts and a bomb squad have been called to examine the spot thoroughly and give their report at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mysterious-blast-in-up-village-triggers-building-collapse-killing-7-101622605083251.html
02-06-2021||Bangalore||Lockdown in Karnataka should continue till Covid cases drop below 5,000: Ministers||Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Tuesday said stringent measures to curb the spread of Covid-19 would remain in place in the state till daily new cases fall below the 5,000 mark or the case positivity rate drops below 5%.Sudhakar’s statement comes a day after the state’s Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) made a similar recommendation to the government.Talking to reporters in Bengaluru, the health minister said: “I have submitted the report (to chief minister B S Yediyurappa). He (chief minister) has said that it (positivity rate) has to come down to 5% and (new cases) 5,000 cases per day, only then we can relax (the lockdown). Until then, it would be good to continue with these stringent restrictions. Whenever we unlock, we have to do it in a phased manner. It (daily cases) has come down as much as TAC wanted. We have to be cautious.”Also read: Centenarian freedom fighter who spoke truth to powerOn Monday, TAC in its recommendation to the government had said that the lockdown should continue till the test positivity rate falls below 5%. The committee prepared a report in which it suggested that the lockdown should be observed for two more weeks after June 7 until the daily new cases fall below 5,000 and the case fatality rate falls below 1%.The committee unanimously drafted the recommendations with its chairman M K Sudarshan saying that the panel is “placing lives before livelihoods”.The daily Covid-19 case count in Karnataka fell to less than 20,000 in the state and to less than 5,000 in Bengaluru Urban district on Monday with around 1.2 lakh to 1.3 lakh tests being conducted every day. The test positivity rate recorded on Monday was 13.57% and the case fatality rate was 2.47%.Deputy chief minister and state Covid task force head Dr Ashwath Narayan also echoed similar views as the health minister, saying that the government would take a feasible decision with regard to the continuation or easing of lockdown restrictions based on experts’ opinion and facts and figures.“There is a possibility of the positivity rate dropping down if testing is done in 1:10 ratio (for each positive case, 10 contacts to be tested). But whatever the case, the decision with regard to lockdown will be taken by the government after considering experts’ opinions and thorough discussion,” he said.Meanwhile, left-wing parties in Karnataka organised a state-wide protest on Tuesday, demanding better policies from the state government to ensure the livelihood of the unorganised sector is not hampered in case of an extension of the lockdown.Also read | BBMP launches app to keep tab on food distribution at Indira canteens“The state’s Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee on Monday had recommended that Karnataka continue the lockdown in a stricter form, thus ‘placing lives before livelihoods’. While the state government has to strengthen public health systems and ensure the people of Karnataka overcome the toll that the pandemic is having, it is also equally important that livelihoods are protected. People should not be left at the mercy of the state and their dignity must be upheld,” read a statement by CPI(M) Liberation.Workers from the unorganised sector, including street vendors, construction workers, pourakarmikas, sanitation workers and rural landless labourers, participated in the protest across Karnataka, including Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru and Ballari.The CPI(M) statement also demanded that treatment and medicines for Covid-19 patients and vaccination be made free for workers in the unorganised sector. They also demanded a direct cash transfer of ₹10,000 and free rations and “special protection for frontline and healthcare workers” and an employment guarantee for 200 days in the cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/lockdown-in-karnataka-should-continue-till-covid-cases-drop-below-5-000-ministers-101622602883204.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: After record lowest min temperature, mercury to rise, says IMD||A day after the national capital broke the record for the lowest minimum temperature for June, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the mercury was likely to rise slightly. Dust storm and late night rain brought Delhi’s minimum temperature on Tuesday down to 17.9 degrees Celsius (°C), the lowest ever recorded in June, ensuring that the city continued the trend of breaking some historical weather record every month since August 2020.According to IMD data, the previous lowest minimum temperature recorded in Delhi in June was 18°C on June 17, 2006.Also Read | Man kidnapped, beaten to death by four in JahangirpuriOn Tuesday, the minimum temperature was 10°C below what is considered normal for this time of the year. The maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 33.6°C, seven degrees below the season’s normal. “From today, the temperature is expected to rise by a one or two degrees,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’S regional weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-after-record-lowest-min-temperature-mercury-to-rise-saysimd-101622602383271.html
02-06-2021||Lucknow||UP election candidate shot dead, his brother injured over political enmity in Gorakhpur||A 22-year-old man who had contested the recent panchayat election in Uttar Pradesh was shot dead and his brother injured over political enmity in Gorakhpur district, police said on Tuesday.The brothers were shot on Monday evening in the Belghat area of the district and one of them later died at the BRD Medical College Hospital, the police said.Sanjay Beldar who had contested the recent panchayat election received a call on his phone on Monday evening. The caller asked him to reach a spot near his home and as he went out, his brother Ranjay followed him.As soon as they reached the spot, some people tried to forcibly take away Sanjay with them and opened fire when he resisted, leaving the brothers injured.A police team led by Superintendent of Police (South) AK Singh soon reached the spot and rushed the brothers to the hospital where Sanjay died.According to Ranjay, Krishna Agrahari and Shivam Singh had called his brother to the spot. He also told the police that Krishna Agrahari had contested the panchayat election as well and had enmity with his brother since then.Police have registered a case against Krishna Agrahari, Shivam Singh, Rintu Singh, Asif, and 15 unidentified persons.Police have detained Shivam Singh and a search was on for the rest.Meanwhile, locals staged a protest at Belghat-Kurri market over the incident on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-panchayat-election-candidate-shot-dead-his-brother-injured-over-political-enmity-in-gorakhpur-101622599159037.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Army's western command chief visits Haryana to review preparedness of troops||The Indian Army's western command chief Lieutenant General RP Singh visited the Kharga Sappers at Zirakpur on Tuesday and reviewed the operational preparedness of troops.During the visit, the army commander was briefed on the formation's operational capabilities and mission readiness. He was also briefed on the achievement of the formation by commander Kharga Sappers in the presence of Lieutenant General NS Raja Subramani, GOC Kharga Corps, a statement informed.Two personnel of the formation were awarded the Western Army Commanders Commendation for achievements in the field of engineering.Army commanders lauded the formation for their sustained efforts towards achieving excellence and their contribution towards force preservation during the Covid-19 pandemic. He exhorted the formation to remain prepared for future operational challenges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/armys-western-command-chief-visits-haryana-to-review-preparedness-of-troops-101622598552999.html
02-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand extends lockdown-like curbs till June 10 in view of Covid-19 situation||The Jharkhand government on Tuesday extended the lockdown-like restrictions till June 10 with some easing, an official said. This is the fourth time that the curbs, first imposed on April 22 for a week, were extended. The ongoing measures to contain the coronavirus surge were scheduled to end on June 3."The Health Safety Week now stands extended till June 10. Some relaxations have been given, including the opening of all shops in 15 districts from 6 am to 2 pm with certain conditions," the official said. The decision was made at a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren.As per the order, the districts have been divided into two categories and in 15 of the 24 districts witnessing lesser cases, all shops will be open. In the remaining nine districts, including state capital Ranchi, which are witnessing a high number of deaths, shops other than clothes, jewelry, and shoes have been allowed, the official added.Apart from Ranchi, these districts are - Bokaro, Dhanbad, Jamshedpur, Deoghar, Hazaribag, Garhwa, Gumla, and Ramgarh. All malls and multi-brand shops will remain closed. Norms for travelling have also been relaxed and e-passes would not be required for movement within the district, the order said. However, an e-pass will be needed for inter-district and inter-state movements.Chief minister Soren had earlier sought suggestions from stakeholders including people for gradually unlocking the restrictions. The state secretariat will function with 33% staff strength till 2pm, the official said. The restrictions include mandatory 7-day home or institutional quarantine for people visiting Jharkhand barring those who will leave the state within 72 hours.Jharkhand has already prohibited all indoor and outdoor congregations of more than five persons. All education centers and coaching institutions were closed and all examinations postponed. Cinema halls, multiplexes, stadiums, gymnasiums, swimming pools, and parks, among others, had also been closed in the state. Agriculture, industries, and mining operations, besides emergency services, are allowed to function. The government is making all efforts to save both human lives and their livelihood, the chief minister said.The death toll in Jharkhand rose to 4,991, while the coronavirus tally stood at 3,37,774. Jharkhand now has 8,907 active cases, while 3,23,876 patients have recovered from the disease. Altogether, 84,84,836 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand, including 50,338 since Monday, it added.The state has sought the Centre's intervention, including free vaccines, to tide over the crisis and has also ordered a death audit in five districts witnessing high fatalities. Chief minister Soren, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, termed the mandate for states to procure medicines as against cooperative federalism."This is probably for the first instance in the history of independent India that the states have been mandated to procure vaccines on their own," he said. Since the advent of the second wave of Covid-19, the death rate in the state increased from 0.9% to 1.46%, as several districts reported a high number of fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-extends-lockdown-like-curbs-till-june-10-in-view-of-covid-19-situation-101622597915239.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Home is where the bed is||Here’s the bed on the pavement, under the neem tree. The bed consists of a board of plywood placed upon a support of bricks. It has a mattress, a bed sheet, a folded chaadar (bedsheet), and a pillow with rose prints on it. A green comb is placed on the pillow. A mosquito net hangs from a bamboo scaffolding above.“This is my home,” says Jainath Mukhiya.This is also his chai stall. Mr Mukhiya, 33, has been running the stall on this spot, across the road from Aurobindo Market, for 20 years. Never before had his stall been closed for so long. But never before had the world seen such a pandemic.“This lockdown,” he sighs, shaking his head. Since it started, his stall—that would turn into a home only at night—is a bedroom 24/7. In the pre-pandemic era, the stall would teem with customers. Mr Mukhiya would dismantle the bed for the day.A white board on the pavement wall is hand scrawled with the tea stall menu: roti, dal, rice and aloo paratha. For many years, Mr Mukhiya worked as a cook in a household. He seems to be skilled in this art, for this evening he is making himself chicken curry in a pressure cooker. The kitchen is arranged beside the bed—some pans, an earthen surahi, a gas burner.The rest of the home consists of plants in pots and in plastic bottles, and a phool jhadu. There’s also a vase filled with plastic flowers.Overall, the scene is looking idyllic, and an unsuspecting passerby might see it as a Thoreau-like retreat, far from the world of relentless consumerism.“But everybody dreams of a house with roof,” corrects Mr Mukhiya shyly. “I haven’t earned for days... I had to borrow.” He hasn’t been able to send money to his family in Madhubani, Bihar, though his parents and younger brother do manage to earn a bit from the small farm land they own.Suddenly the pressure cooker gives a whistle. Mr Mukhiya will soon settle down to dine. “Though I go to sleep only by midnight, when traffic noise recedes.” He’ll wake up around 5 in the morning, with the day’s early light spilling into his home.Mr Mukhiya now lies down on the bed for a portrait. The wall behind the bed is crudely scrawled in Hindi, with a warning familiar to Delhi’s street walls—“Peeing is prohibited here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-home-is-where-the-bed-is-101622588190608.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||With 75 deaths so far, black fungus a major challenge for Haryana||Black fungus infection, detected mostly in people recovering from Covid-19, has claimed 75 lives in Haryana so far, official data revealed. Advocating the need for research to ascertain causes of black fungus, Haryana health minister Anil Vij had said about a week that the state had at least 64 black fungus patients who had no history of Covid-19 infection. “People with no history of Covid and those who were not on oxygen support during Covid treatment are suffering from black fungus and it is a matter of concern,” he said, asking the Centre and scientists to look into these findings. Haryana has detected not just Mucormycosis, commonly called as black fungus, but also yellow and white fungus cases, the state government said on Tuesday. Until May 31, there were 927 cases of black fungus in 16 districts. Of these, 734 patients are still under treatment while 118 patients have recovered. Out of the 927 cases reported so far in Haryana, 242 were from Gurugram district, 214 from Rohtak, 211 from Hisar 211, 55 from Faridabad, 48 from Sirsa, 37 from Panipat, 30 from Karnal, 26 from Nuh, 13 from Jhajjar, 11 in Fatehabad, nine each in Ambala and Rewari, eight in Bhiwani, seven in Panchkula, five in Yamunanagar and two in Kaithal. As per the data, as many as 61 patients (till May 30) had succumbed to the fungal infection with Hisar recording 19 fatalities, Gurugram 10, Rohtak and Sirsa eight each, Jhajjar six, Nuh three, and Bhiwani, Fatehabad and Kaithal one each. Even after declaring black fungus a notified disease and constituting an expert committee to decide the distribution of injection Amphotericin-B, a drug required to treat the said disease, the challenge before the state government is to ensure timely treatment and uninterrupted supply of injections to patients affected with this infection. As per the official data, the expert committee has approved 975 Amphotericin-B for 515 patients. The dosage is given per kilogram of body weight. For instance, 5mg/kg. The state government has reserved 75 beds in all medical colleges in Haryana for black fungus patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-75-deaths-so-far-black-fungus-a-major-challenge-for-haryana-101622579940997.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||Man kidnapped, beaten to death by four in Jahangirpuri||A 28-year-old man was kidnapped and beaten to death in north west Delhi’s Jahangirpuri by four men on Tuesday morning, Delhi police said after arresting two men on Tuesday.Police said they got a call on Tuesday morning from the father of the victim, who has been identified as Oshit Das, 28, who said that his son was missing.Police said that during the preliminary probe into the complaint, they found that Das was kidnapped by four men who had intercepted him near the Majlis Park Metro station.He was beaten to death inside a godown in the same area, investigators said.The police said while they registered a case of kidnapping on Tuesday afternoon, they managed to arrest two suspects, who were later identified as Krishan Prakash, 25, and Dharmender, 23.Police said Krishan is a resident of Charkhi Dadri in Haryana while Dharmender is from Khera village in outer Delhi.Investigators said they are on the lookout for the other two men who were involved in the kidnapping and murder.Police said they are still investigating the reason why the four men kidnapped Das, who lived in a slum cluster in Janakpuri’s G-block.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-kidnapped-beaten-to-death-by-four-in-jahangirpuri-101622579458754.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana targets to inoculate over 1.76 cr persons, 16% already covered||The Haryana government plans to administer vaccine doses to 1.76 crore beneficiaries, including 1.05 crore individuals in the 18-45 age group. An official spokesperson said about 3.5 crore vaccine doses will have to be administered to 1.76 crore beneficiaries. About 57.11 lakh doses have been administered so far, which is 16% of the total target. The spokesperson said the state government has spent ₹316 crore for buying vaccines for 18-plus group and vaccines worth ₹484 crore will be bought soon. The doses are being administered free of cost at government facilities. The spokesperson said the state government has administered vaccines in a phased manner. In the first two phases of the vaccination rollout, health care workers and frontline workers were inoculated while in the third phase, beneficiaries in the 45 to 60 group having co-morbidities and 60 and above were covered. The number of vaccination centres were enhanced and strategically placed in close proximity to residential areas, including villages, for easy access. “We have administered the vaccine to 82% of the health care and frontline workers each,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-targets-to-inoculate-over-1-76-cr-persons-16-already-covered-101622579760825.html
02-06-2021||Other||For third wave, PGIMS-Rohtak plans to add 600 beds for children||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, is planning to set up 100 ICU beds, 400 oxygen beds and 100 general beds for children, in preparation for the anticipated third wave of the pandemic.Addressing a press conference on the eve of the varsity’s foundation day, vice-chancellor (V-C) Dr OP Kalra said the hospital is gearing up to tackle the third wave in which, as per experts, children are likely to be the most affected.“We have started working to set up 600 beds for children, out of which 400 are oxygen beds and 100 each are ICU and normal beds. Three bottling plants will be established at PGIMS by July 15,” V-C Kalra added.The V-C said those who got themselves tested for Covid-19 can download their report from a website (www.covidhr.in) which was developed by a Rohtak-based NGO, Sewa Bharati.“People can get their report by keying in their mobile phone number and SRF-ID on the website. The site will be updated daily between 8am to 9am. Reports of all patients who got tested since May 2 , 2021 are available here,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/for-third-wave-pgims-rohtak-plans-to-add-600-beds-for-children-101622579641261.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||PSPCL suffered ₹9 cr loss due to storm||PATIALA High-velocity winds coupled with rain on Sunday and Monday caused a massive damaged to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) ahead of the paddy season. PSPCL has suffered loss of ₹9 crore in terms of damaged equipments, while the sale of power has also been disturbed as many feeders were affected. While the wind and rain caused damage on Sunday in Mohali, Kharar, Dera Bassi, Bassi Pathana, Sirhind, Amloh, Ropar, Chamkaur Sahib and Rajpura, it caused havoc in the Majha region on Sunday. Most of the damage was caused as trees got uprooted and fell on electric wires. The 11 KV system was worst affected. A total of 1,145 transformers, 6,323 poles, and 65 km of wires were damaged, besides, 1,359 other electricity supply equipment was affected. “The total loss is so far has been pegged at ₹8.9 crore. The PSPCL has worked overtime for last two days and restored almost 98% of the area through back-feeding. The high voltage towers will be installed by Wednesday evening,” said DS Grewal, director (distribution). He said the south and west zone of the PSPCL, which comprises major districts of Malwa, were the worst affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pspcl-suffered-rs-9-cr-loss-due-to-storm-101622579100622.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||Cleric held for rape of minor girl in mosque||A 48-year-old cleric of a mosque in northeast Delhi’s Harsh Vihar was arrested from Loni near Ghaziabad on Monday for allegedly raping a 12-year-old girl, who had gone to fetch water from the religious establishment on May 30, police said on Tuesday.A police officer associated with the case said on the night of May 30, her family members asked her to fetch water from the mosque as they did not have drinking water at home. The girl went to the mosque and was allegedly lured by the cleric. He forced himself on her, the officer said. “The girl returned home and told everything to her family members when they asked her why she came late. The family, along with some neighbours, went to the mosque to confront the cleric. Seeing them, the suspect fled through the rear door,” the officer said.Police said the agitated locals gathered at the mosque and informed the local police about the matter. Police personnel were deployed to pacify the angry people and maintain law and order in the neighbourhood. The girl was counselled and her medical examination was conducted.A case of rape was registered under the relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act was registered. Through technical investigation and human intelligence network, the suspect’s location was found in Loni. A team was sent there and the cleric, identified as Iliyas, was arrested, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cleric-held-for-rape-of-minor-girl-in-mosque-101622578243956.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||3,453 recoveries against 1,233 new Covid cases in Haryana||With 1,233 new cases, Haryana’s daily count of Covid-19 infections dipped for the second consecutive day on Tuesday even as 80 others succumbed to the virus. On Monday, the state had recorded 82 fatalities and 1,246 new cases against 29,334 tests. As per the medical bulletin, the state had collected 40,635 samples on Tuesday, taking the day’s positivity rate to 2.93%. The fatality rate rose to 1.11% as the death toll mounted to 8,383. Of the total 80 fatalities recorded on Tuesday, the highest, 15, were reported Hisar, followed by eight in Jind, six each in Gurugram and Jhajjar, and five in Sirsa. All 22 districts reported fatalities. As many as 3,453 people also recovered in the last 24 hours, pushing the recovery rate to 96.75%. The highest, 124, fresh cases were detected in Sirsa, followed by Hisar with 114 cases, 105 with Faridabad infections, Karnal 98, Panchkula 94, Fatehabad 87 and Gurugram 86.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3453-recoveries-against-1-233-new-covid-cases-in-haryana-101622578741179.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s single-day death toll drops below 100 for first time in a month||Punjab on Tuesday logged 2,184 fresh cases, which took the tally to 5,69,756, while the single-day fatality count was below 100 in the state after more than a month.The last time the state registered over 100 deaths was on April 29, when it logged 102 fatalities. The number of active cases has dropped to 33,444 from 36,433 on Monday, according to a medical bulletin released by the state government.With 94 fresh fatalities, the death toll in the state reached 14,649, the bulletin said. A maximum of 13 deaths were reported from Bathinda, 10 from Sangrur and seven each from Jalandhar and Gurdaspur, the bulletin said. Ludhiana reported 222 fresh cases, followed by 197 in Mohali, 194 in Fazilka and 179 in Jalandhar, the bulletin said. The state’s positivity rate dropped to 3.69% from 3.93% on Monday.With 5,039 recoveries, the number of cured persons has reached 5,21,663, the bulletin said.There are 296 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 785 other critical patients and 4,163 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 93,25,491 samples have been collected in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-single-day-death-toll-drops-below-100-for-first-time-in-a-month-101622578620777.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Another KTF activist arrested for in Moga||Moga police have arrested Kamaljeet Sharma, alias Kamal, another activist of the Khaistan Tiger Force (KTF). He is one of the main shooters who allegedly killed a dera follower at Bhagta Bhaika, a trader in Moga and also fired on a priest in the village of Canada-based KTF chief Hardeep Nijjar, police said on Tuesday. The accused was also involved in the murder of gangster Sukha Lamme. Kamal, a resident of Dala village of Moga, was arrested by from near Nathuwala Jadid village in Moga district and four pistols with 10 live cartridges were recovered from his possession, Punjab director general of Police Dinkar Gupta said. Moga police had already arrested two of his accomplices, identified as Lovepreet Singh, alias Ravi, and Ram Singh, alias Sonu, on May 22 from near a railway crossing at Mehna village in Moga. The DGP said the trio had been found acting on the directions of KTF’s Canada-based chief Hardeep Singh Nijjar, who has been notified as a “designated terrorist” under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) by the central government. The DGP said besides, Nijjar, three of their other KTF’s co-conspirators, identified as Arshdip, Ramandip and Charanjit, alias Rinku Bihla, are hiding in Surrey (BC), Canada, and the Punjab Police have been making efforts to deport them to India. He said the police have recovered a Mahindra Balero, bearing a fake registration number, three motorcycles used in dera follower’s murder, firing on a priest in Phillaur and murder of a trader from Kamal’s possession. Moga SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said: “Preliminary investigations revealed that Kamal had received heavy funding via hawala and Western Union from his Canada-based associates in lieu of committing these crimes. Kamal revealed that Nijjar and other three Canada-based associates have assured to hire top lawyers in case they are caught while committing the crime.” The SSP said on confession of co-accused Lovepreet Singh, police have also recovered a 0.32 bore pistol used in the murder of a clothes shop owner at Moga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/another-ktf-activist-arrested-for-in-moga-101622578500564.html
02-06-2021||Other||Now, Tohana MLA Babli faces farmers’ wrath||Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) legislator from Tohana, Devender Babli on Tuesday faced the farmers’ wrath while he was heading to the civil hospital to take part in a programme.The agitating farmers, who have announced a boycott of BJP-JJP leaders as part of their protests against the three farm laws, gheraoed the SUV of the local MLA and started raising slogans against him.The MLA reportedly lost his cool and stepped out of his SUV. A video of the incident that is now doing the rounds of social media shows the farmers as well as the MLA purportedly hurling abuses at each other even as the police struggles to control the crowd. One of the protesters allegedly even smashed the rear window of MLA’s SUV. His personal assistant received minor injuries. Police have arrested the man who allegedly smashed the window.Farm leader Rajender Singh said the local MLA Babli had used abusive language against farmers when they were protesting against him. “Babli has been claiming that he was in favour of the farmers but he backed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the trust vote. His real face was exposed today when he hurled abuses at us. We will gherao his residence on June 5 and file a police complaint against him for using abusive language,” he added.Reacting to the incident, Babli said the protesters were goons not farmers. “Farmers can’t attack anyone. The protesters used abusive language and tried to assault me. Everyone has the right to hold a protest but not to plan any attack or plot a killing,” he added. On Sunday, the farmers had protested against wrestler- turned-politician Babita Phogat when she had gone to address a meeting in Dadri’s Berhi Kalan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-tohana-mla-babli-faces-farmers-wrath-101622578441155.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Govt issues treatment guidelines for black fungus||Chandigarh The Punjab government on Tuesday issued the treatment and diagnosis guidelines for mucormycosis, also known as black fungus. Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that the guidelines for the diagnosis, treatment and management of mucormycosis have been recommended on the advice of expert group. He said that recommendation for constituting “Mucormycosis Audit Committee” in government medical colleges and civil surgeons’ offices have been passed and these committee will be responsible for collection of data of confirmed cases of mucormycosis from govt and private hospitals. This committee will also register outcome of each case on S3 portal. Treatment drugs will be issued to government medical college and CS offices so the same could be issued to all government and private hospitals,” he said. “Prioritisation of drugs will be done by the treating institution/ treating doctor as per the clinical condition of the patient.” The minister said that if there is no immediate risk to life, a patient of Mucormycosis should not be taken for surgery if he/she is Covid positive/hypoxic. There are no recommendations for treating patient with steroids if there is no sign of hypoxia. MRI scan should be made optional for hypoxic patient as he/she cannot be taken for MRI (cylinders are ferromagnetic), he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-issues-treatment-guidelines-for-black-fungus-101622578380763.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Patti shootout: Cong MLA’s aide among three held for Akali worker’s murder||Police on Tuesday solved the high-profile murder case of an Akali worker and his aide with the arrest of three persons, including an associate of Congress’ Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill.Those arrested have been identified as Malkiat Singh, alias Laddu, of Patti, Paramjit Singh, alias Pumma, of Harike and Manpreet Singh, alias Manna, of Manochahal village. Laddu is Gill’s associate while Pamma is a commission agent at Patti grain market. Manna is also a close associate of criminal Preet Sekhon, who, according to police, had killed the victims.Amandeep Singh alias Aman Fauji, who was close friend of former SAD minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon’s right hand Gurmukh Singh Ghulla, and his accomplice Prabhjit Singh of Patti, were shot dead by two car-borne men when they were returning after paying obeisance at a tomb in Patti on May 27. Aman and Prabhjit’s third accomplice Samsher Singh, alias Shera, received a bullet injury in his stomach.Police said gangster Lakhbir Singh, alias Landa, who is a resident of Harike and currently lives in Canada, had given ₹6 lakh to Preet Sekhon for executing the crime. Landa had conspired the killing along with Laddu, who was appointed vice-president of Majha Truck Union at Patti by the MLA in presence of deputy superintendent of police (DSP-Patti) Kuljinder Singh around a month ago.Police said Laddu, a drug peddler, come into Landa’s contact through commission agent Pumma, who oversees Landa’s work in India. They said Laddu had been at loggerheads with Aman Fauji over stacking of food grains at Chuslewar wheat godown.There are two truck unions in Patti — one is backed by the Congress and the other is led by Gulla, president of the Patti Majha Truck Union. Two months ago, the contract of stacking “specials” at Chuslewar godown was fetched by Ghulla’s union. “Lately, Laddu had a quarrel with Aman Fauji over stacking of wheat in the godown. He had been holding grudge against him,” said a senior police official.Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said: “Someone conducted a recee of the spot on May 20 where the crime took place. CCTV footage led us to Laddu’s arrest. When Laddu was questioned, he disclosed that he had hatched the conspiracy to kill Fauji and his associates at Landa’s instance.”“Laddu has also told us that Landa had sought ₹20 lakh ransom from a person. The person had discussed the ransom call with Aman Fauji. But, Fauji and his associates refused to give the ransom. After this, Landa discussed the matter with Laddu who was already against Fauji. The duo then hatched the conspiracy to kill him and his associates. Landa sent ₹6 lakh though Laddu for hiring Preet Sekhon,” the SSP said. The SSP, however, refused to disclose the name of the person from whom ₹20 lakh ransom was sought.Sekhon, who is already facing four criminal cases, including three of murder, had also posted on his Facebook page claiming the responsibility for the murder.Landa is facing 11 criminal cases in Ferozepur, Tarn Taran and Chandigarh. Similarly, Laddu is facing two criminal cases, including one of attempt to murder, said police. “I have asked the administration to take strict action Malkiat Singh ‘Laddu’. If anyone commits any mistake, he will have to face the music. I never protect criminals. If there is my involvement, I am ready to join the probe, said MLA Harminder Singh Gill. Responding to Ghulla’s allegation, the MLA said: “Aman Fauji and Laddu were Ghulla’s aide. When Congress government came to power, Laddu joined us. But we never protect any accused. We also oppose those who are involved in drug smuggling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patti-shootout-cong-mla-s-aide-among-three-held-for-akali-worker-s-murder-101622578320868.html
02-06-2021||Other||P’kula land scam: PMLA court issues non-bailable warrants against accused||The special court under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), Panchkula, has issued non-bailable warrants against Dagar Katyal, one of the beneficiaries and accused in the Panchkula land scam case.The case involves allotment of 14 industrial plots worth ₹30.34 crore to former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Hooda’s acquaintances in 2013. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) said the interview process was “vitiated and compromised”. It had initiated investigation in 2015 after an FIR was lodged by the Haryana vigilance bureau.All 14 industrial plots were attached as per provisions of PMLA in 2019. This February, the ED had filed a chargesheet against 22 persons, including Hooda and three retired IAS officers.On Tuesday, Savita Chaudhary, special public prosecutor for ED, filed an application for issuance of non-bailable warrant against Katyal on the grounds that he is intentionally avoiding appearance before the court. The court observed this case falls in the priority category and needs to be taken up expeditiously, in accordance with the directions of the Apex Court.In the application, ED stated that Katyal was allotted an industrial plot in Industrial Estate, Panchkula, through an illegal allotment process wherein undue favours were given to the allottees at the cost of other genuinely eligible applicants by the then HUDA chairman and other office bearers.The plot was allotted to him an at abysmally low price, which was approximately four times less than the prevailing circle rates and approximately eight times less than the prevailing market rates. Further, his application for plot allotment was incomplete and had serious shortcomings and should have been rejected. The ED stated: “Now, Katyal was found projecting this plot as being untainted property, whereas conveniently forgetting that all the plots were attained through a process which was vitiated, illegal and riddled with criminal activities related to the scheduled offence.”He has committed an offence of money laundering under Section 3 and 4 of PMLA, 2002, it was stated. The next date of hearing is July 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pkula-land-scam-pmla-court-issues-non-bailable-warrants-against-accused-101622578201016.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Derogatory posters at Bargari: SIT collects handwriting sample of dera follower||FaridkotThe special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege incidents has again collected handwriting sample of a dera Sacha Sauda follower to match it with the writing on derogatory posters that were pasted at Bargari village in 2015.Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, who is in two-day police custody, was presented before a court with a request to collect his handwriting samples claiming that one of the derogatory posters was written by him. The court of judicial magistrate Tarjini on Tuesday allowed SIT’s application and samples were collected by the probe team. The SIT said the sample will be sent to the Forensic Science Lab (FSL).The SIT led by inspector general of police Surinder Pal Singh Parmar arrested four dera followers saying the posters were pasted by them on the directions of dera’s three national committee members. In the three posters that appeared at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala villages on September 24-25, 2015, it was threatened that the “bir” (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on June 1 that year would be torn if the Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim-starrer film Messenger of God (MSG)-2 was not allowed to be released in Punjab.The SIT, then led then deputy inspector general (DIG) Ranbir Singh Khatra in 2018, claimed that the handwriting of the accused dera followers has matched with the one on the posters. But the CBI in its closure report filed in a Mohali court in July 2019 said the handwriting samples of the accused dera followers it had sent to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) in Delhi did not match with the ones on the posters. With two contrary claims on the record of two investigation teams, the Parmar-led SIT is again going for the forensic analysis of the handwriting of the same accused. The SIT is following the Khatra-led SIT’s lead in the investigation. According to the Khatra-led SIT probe findings, the dera followers in September planned to paste posters to throw a challenge to the Sikh community three months after the theft of the bir from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village. The Khatra-led SIT had further claimed about the involvement of dera followers Mohinder Pal Singh Bittu, who was killed in the Nabha jail, Sukhjinder and Ranjeet Singh in putting up these posters at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala.“The dera followers were also upset with the government for not releasing MSG-2 in Punjab. To execute their plan, they procured A-4 paper along with Reynolds black marker pen from a shop at Bargari of Gopal Das, a member of a dera committee. Shakti Singh bought these papers and Bittu decided what will be written on the posters,” the SIT had claimed, adding that Sukhjinder wrote on the posters at a Kotkapura namcharcha ghar (dera prayer centre) and Bittu handed them over on September 24 to Baljeet Singh, who along with Shakti pasted it at Bargari. The same night, Sukhjinder and Ranjit pasted two posters at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala, the SIT had claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/derogatory-posters-at-bargari-sit-collects-handwriting-sample-of-dera-follower-101622578140798.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sikh outfits announce morcha from July 1 if sacrilege, firing culprits not arrested||Sikh organisations, including hardliners, on Tuesday announced to start a morcha from July 1 if the Punjab government failed to arrest those responsible for the 2015 sacrilege and subsequent police firing incidents. Marking the sixth anniversary of the sacrilege incident at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village, Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (ad hoc) president Baljit Singh Daduwal said the desecration was unfortunate and successive governments failed to provide justice. The event was held at the Bargari gurdwara.“The Bargari Morcha was lifted on the Congress government’s assurance. First it was the Badals and now it’s Captain Amarinder Singh who failed to rise to the occasion. We are giving one-month time to the government to put the guilty of sacrilege and police firing behind the bars,” he said. “The investigation officers made efforts to provide justice. We have full faith in special investigation team (SIT). All the witnesses will give them full support. But we don’t trust Amarinder Singh,” he added. Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) president Simranjit Singh Mann said, “We demand arrest of (former chief minister) Parkash Singh Badal, (Shiromani Akali Dal president) Sukhbir Badal and (ex-DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini for their involvement in sacrilege and police firing. In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, I ask the sangat to reach the morcha venue in an 11-member group each from all the districts every day. The groups will go back in the evening.”Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) leaders led by party president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and patron Ranjit Singh Bramhpura reached the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village gurudwara and held an ardas. Daduwal also joined the SAD (Sanyukt) leaders during the ardas before reaching Bargari. But they did not address the gathering. Dhindsa said, “Instead of providing justice, CM Amarinder and the Badals are doing politics on sacrilege and police firing.” Party leader Nidharak Singh Brar said the release of Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda chief Ram Rahim on parole and ardas by a pathi hurt the sentiments of Sikhs.Sukhraj Singh, son of Bhagwan Krishan who died in the Behbal Kalan firing incident, said Dhindsa and Brahmpura never visited the sacrilege-hit villages nor did they meet the victims of police firing in the last six years. “They are only pursuing their political agenda,” he added. Also, the Sikh leaders got into a minor scuffle over holding each other responsible for lifting the Bargari Morcha in 2018. Capt worked to save guilty: AAPAam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders led by leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema also visited the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara. Later, they went to Sarawan village and met the family of Gurjeet Singh who was killed in the Behbal Kalan firing.Cheema said if voted to power in 2022, the AAP government will put behind the bars those guilty of sacrilege. “The only thing Amarinder Singh has done is to save the culprits through special inquiry committees and court proceedings,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikh-outfits-announce-morcha-from-july-1-if-sacrilege-firing-culprits-not-arrested-101622578027690.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC in a fix as Damdami Taksal fails to complete Op Bluestar portrait gallery||With just days left for the 37th anniversary of Operation Bluestar, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) is in a quandary as Sikh seminary Damdami Taksal has failed to complete a portrait gallery dedicated to those killed in action in the Golden Temple complex even as the project was assigned four years back. Sikh hardliners are questioning the apex gurdwara body over the delay. “The SGPC, being custodian of the project, must clarify about the fate of the gallery. The gurdwara body president must tell what hurdle they are facing in completing the project,” said Kanwarpal Singh, a radical Sikh leader. Besides militants, portraits of the devotees killed in the operation were also proposed to be installed in the gallery. The portraits will include those of slain militant Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, the then head of the seminary, and his military adviser Major General Shabeg Singh who helped fortify the shrine complex. In 2017, the SGPC executive body passed a resolution to set up the gallery in the basement of the existing Bluestar memorial. The seminary had constituted a four-member committee to prepare a blueprint of the project and collect information and pictures of those killed in the operation whose anniversary is marked on June 6. Also, a delegation of radical outfits is planning to meet SGPC chief Jagir Kaur in this regard. The Damdami Taksal is likely to face their anger during a ceremony to be held at Akal Takht to mark the anniversary, it is learnt. Taksal chief Harnam Singh Khalsa was not available for comments. Seminary’s media adviser Sarchand Singh said, “The work on the gallery was stopped due to the pandemic outbreak. We are working on a collection of portraits of those killed. This is taking time.” The Taksal has been collecting donations from the devotees at the entrance of the proposed gallery. This had raised eyebrows of many in the community. The SGPC chief could not be reached for comments. “We have repeatedly asked the Taksal to complete the project. Its chief has assured us to do the needful at the earliest,” said SGPC senior vice president Surjit Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-in-a-fix-as-damdami-taksal-fails-to-complete-op-bluestar-portrait-gallery-101622578021555.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||No neurosurgeon in Bathinda AIIMS for black fungus patients||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bathinda, is struggling to treat black fungus patients in the absence of a neurosurgeon.On May 24, the central institute constituted a multidisciplinary mucor task force to treat patients diagnosed with black fungus. AIIMS executive director Dr DK Singh said on Tuesday that four mucormycosis patients have been operated upon in the last one week but it is a challenging task to treat patients fully without an expert from the neurology department.Singh said fungus infection in Covid-9 patients is a critical medical condition that needs swift treatment by a panel of experts. While limited resources jeopardise complete treatment, black fungus complexities affect the quality of their lives as it affects various organs, he added.“Scarcity of drugs is another serious challenge in treating patients for a disease that was a rarity in India before the pandemic outbreak. Central and state authorities have been apprised about the drug shortage and efforts are being to streamline it,” he added.“I made best efforts, but no neurosurgeon is ready to join AIIMS on ad hoc basis. Since the institute is at a developing stage, we have limited facilities for faculties. Keeping in view of the grim situation of black fungus, I have decided to hold interviews later this month to appoint neurosurgeons,” said AIIMS head.Institute authorities say the fourth mucormycosis surgery was held on Tuesday afternoon and the patients are under constant medical observation. They all are in post-Covid stage treatment.“The third surgery on Tuesday took over six hours and the patient is in a critical condition. The operation of the fourth patients started at around 3.30 pm and AIIMS has 10 more black fungus patients. Our maiden experience says these cases are very serious,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-neurosurgeon-in-bathinda-aiims-for-black-fungus-patients-101622578020586.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||New rules allow home delivery of liquor in city||The Delhi government on Monday allowed home delivery of liquor in the Capital through websites and apps as part of a new excise policy that aims to introduce sweeping changes in the city’s liquor business, clean up malpractices, and improve user experience.Under the Delhi Excise (Amendment) Rules, 2021, which was notified on Monday, the government allowed retailers who hold L-13 licence to deliver alcohol to consumers’ homes. At present, all liquor shops in Delhi are shut due to the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown.“Only a particular kind of license holder will be allowed to home deliver liquor. In Delhi, we have allowed home delivery of liquor only to L-13 license holders,” said an excise department official, who did not want to be named.A second government official clarified the rules might not be implemented immediately, but the changes would clear the decks for the process to begin.“This notification was meant to notify the changes made to the Delhi excise rules. The date of implementation of these rules, including the home delivery service, will be announced through another notification by the Delhi government. That date is yet to be decided,” the second official said.The excise department official said the L-13 category existed before but was little used due to complex rules that allow home delivery only for orders placed by fax or email. “Such modes of placing orders are outdated now and hence, home delivery of liquor never took off in the national Capital,” the official said.“L-13 is an existing license which has been amended. No license for L-13 or home delivery of license has been issued so far,” said a Delhi government statement.The new excise rules allow L-13 licence holders to deliver Indian and foreign-made liquor to residences only.“The licensee shall make delivery of liquor at the residences only if the order is received through a mobile app or online web portal and no delivery shall be made to any hostel, office, and institution,” read the notification issued by the state finance department.Home delivery of liquor is allowed in other prominent cities, including Mumbai, Bengaluru and Kolkata.The move was welcomed by young people and liquor associations but opposed by some residents and trade associations and political parties.The Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) called it a progressive step.“Mumbai and Kolkata are two good examples that show that the mechanism of home delivery of liquor can work without any adverse fallouts. Growth of sales in Maharashtra shows such prompt measures helped the state recover some loss in sales forced by Covid lockdowns,” said Vinod Giri, director general, CIABC.Ankita Kumar, a 31-year-old banker, said Delhi’s government should expedite home delivery of liquor. “It is such a relief to hear that people, especially women, will soon have the option to order alcohol at home. I am sure the liquor purchasing experience of 95% of women in the city has been unpleasant at some point or the other,” she said.The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said the timing of the notification was questionable. “This move of the Delhi government is purported to be taken with a view to earn revenue. Even by allowing shops and markets to open from May 31, the government could have fetched substantial revenue by sale proceeds which would have been made by the traders on the one hand and providing opportunities to earn a livelihood on the other,” said Praveen Khandelwal, CAIT secretary general.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) criticised the move and said the notification suggested “misplaced priorities” of the Aam Aadmi Party government. “At a time when Delhi was reeling under the brutal second wave of Covid-19 during the last two months, the Delhi government was busy working with the liquor mafia to change these rules,” said Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta.Last week, HT reported that lieutenant governor Anil Baijal cleared the Delhi Excise Policy, 2021, and the Delhi Excise (Amendment) Rules, 2021, paving the way for a raft of changes to boost revenue and crack down on liquor mafia. These changes were approved by the Delhi cabinet.Major changes include slashing the legal drinking age from 25 to 21, getting the state out of the retail alcohol business, overhauling a labyrinthine tax system, reducing the number of dry days in a year from 21 to 3, and improving spread and service. It gets rid of the iron grilles at the front of most liquor vends in the Capital, and allows buyers to browse and purchase the brands of their choice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-rules-allow-home-delivery-of-liquor-in-city-101622577600179.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Basmati exporters seek check on use of pesticides in crop amid tougher norms by foreign buyers||With Saudi Arabia insisting on tightening the norms on minimum residue level of pesticides and insecticides in the aromatic basmati imported from India on a par with European Union (EU) standards, the exporters of the premium rice have sought stringent check on the use of agro-chemicals in the crop. The Saudi Food and Drug Administration (SFDA) has decided to follow tougher quality check of the premium rice from India as it wants fungicide levels not more than 0.01 mg against 1 kilogram, it is learnt. The Gulf country imports the bulk of basmati rice from India.In a communiqué to the Union ministries of agriculture and commerce besides Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), the exporters of basmati have demanded regulations on the sale of pesticides and licences to manufacturing companies. ‘Pesticide makers fleecing farmers’ Ashok Sethi, director, Basmati Exporters’ Association, said in the communiqué, “The manufacturing companies sell pesticide to the gullible farmers without any authorisation by the agriculture development or agriculture universities. There is no regulation on the pesticides companies.” “Moreover, the supply of spurious pesticides through unscrupulous traders has resulted in wrong and excessive use. The state governments ban pesticides from time to time, but they can’t do much as the power vests with the Insecticides Board of India under the Union ministry of agriculture. The pesticide companies also approach the courts to get relief,” Sethi pointed out. The government should ban the pesticides not matching the international standards, the association suggested. APEDA general manager (cereals) SS Nayyar said they are concerned over the high pesticide levels in the crops, particularly basmati, and have been taking up the issue at different levels. Punjab contributes 40% share to the ₹34,000 crore (USD 4.66 billion) annual basmati exports from India. From 2018 to 2020, the state agriculture department, APEDA and the exporters association have organised awareness camps and cut pesticide use. Besides Saudi Arabia, others importing basmati from India are Iran, Iraq, Lebanon and countries in North America and Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/basmati-exporters-seek-check-on-use-of-pesticides-in-crop-amid-tougher-norms-by-foreign-buyers-101622577965068.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Covid death toll in May over twofold than April||Punjab recorded more than twofold increase in Covid-19 deaths in May as compared to the previous month with an average 178 fatalities a day. As many as 5,528 patients succumbed to the virus in the state in May against 2,154 in April. Besides, May contributed 38% to the state’s total fatalities so far. The state also heaved a big sigh of relief as the number of daily fresh infections came down from a record 9,200 to 2,253 the same month. Among the districts, Ludhiana was the worst-hit in May at 624 deaths, followed by Bathinda at 550. The maximum 202 single-day deaths were registered on May 21. “The trend is reversing now as the daily addition of cases has come to around 2,000 a day,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. A prolonged wave in state Experts believe that the second wave lasted longer in Punjab than Delhi and Maharashtra. Maharastra and Delhi registered their pandemic peak for a shorter period. “This was primarily due to the fact that we didn’t decrease our testing despite shortfall in the daily addition of cases. More testing means more positivity rate. The good thing is despite high testing our positivity rate has decreased to less than 3%,” said the nodal officer. More cases in rural areas In May, the state also registered more cases in rural areas that contributed 35% of the caseload in May-end from 27% in April. Dr Rajesh Bhaskar also attributed it to intensive testing in villages. “We screened 1.37 lakh people in rural areas in the last two weeks of May in our door-to-door campaign with a 3.3% positivity rate,” he said. The positivity rate came down from 14.2% on May 12 to 5% on May 31. It further dipped to 3% on June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-covid-death-toll-in-may-over-twofold-than-april-101622577964173.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sports minister lays stone of astroturf for second time||Punjab sports minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi on Tuesday laid the foundation stone of Moga district’s first hockey astroturf at Lala Lajpat Rai Government College at Dhudike village for the second time.The project stone was first laid by then deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal on January 28, 2016, on the 150th birth anniversary of martyr Lala Lajpat Rai. Sodhi said, “ ₹5 crore will be spent on laying international-standard astroturf by the Dutch company Greenfield. An international coach will also be appointed to train the players.”He had come to Dhudike a few months back and saw the pathetic condition of the ground and decided to change it on a priority basis, he added.“Once the Astroturf is laid, the youth of district will be exposed to world-class facilities. Also, a state-of-the-art swimming pool will be set up in Moga. The existing indoor stadium in Moga will also be made operational,” the minister said. Dhudike village had produced many national-level hockey players. The work on the astroturf project that started in February 2017 was stopped the same year. Sodhi said all remaining work will be completed within 7 months.A sports department official said, said, “Though the work on constructing the base was completed, tenders for installing the astroturf were never floated. The tender has been allotted.”He said around 40% funds on the project are being spent by the central government which has already provided ₹2 crore to the state sports department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sports-minister-lays-stone-of-astroturf-for-second-time-101622577960949.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||VB starts probe into recruitment of asst professors at Pbi varsity||The Punjab vigilance bureau (VB) has started an inquiry into the recruitment of 65 assistant professors at Punjabi University, Patiala, from 2009 to 2016. In September last year, the university syndicate, while holding a detailed discussion on the findings of 13 inquiry reports related to allegations of corruption, nepotism and misuse of funds during 2007-2017, decided to handover the probe to the VB.In a complaint filed in 2017, it was alleged that these assistant professors were appointed in violation of the University Grants Commission (UGC) norms related to NET and PhD. It was also alleged that the wards and relatives of then ruling Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders were recruited on regular basis, ignoring the eligible candidates.Assistant inspector general (vigilance) Ashish Kapoor said they have collected record from the university and a detailed investigation has been initiated. “We hope to complete the probe soon and detailed report will be submitted to senior officials for action,” Kapoor said.How varsity tweaked rules In June 2011, Punjabi University issued advertisement regarding recruitment of assistant professors. However, before the recruitment, the university constituted a seven-member committee and allegedly tweaked UGC guidelines and also got it cleared on March 29, 2012.The committee allowed applications from PhD holders, who had done their degree before 2009. It also exempted PhD holders from clearing the NET. According to UGC regulations notified on July 11, 2009, and September 18, 2010, NET/SLET/SET is the minimum eligibility condition for recruitment and appointment of lecturer/assistant professor in universities/colleges/institutions. Only those PhD holders are exempted from the minimum eligibility condition for appointment whose degree has been awarded in accordance with the UGC (minimum standards and procedure for awarding PhD degree) Regulations, 2009.VB already probing fire extinguishers case The VB is already probing a case related to purchase of fire extinguishers worth ₹80 lakh in the university. In 2017, irregularities in the purchase of fire extinguishers at ₹58.4 lakh and smoke-detection alarm systems at ₹21.4 lakh over three years came to light. A 4kg fire extinguisher was bought at ₹8,229, though the Punjab common schedule of rates says it’s available for ₹2,415 per piece. An internal inquiry report on the April 2014-October 2016 period says the purchase of extinguishers was made from a “ghost” company. Following the resignation of former V-C Dr Jaspal Singh in March 2017, the then secretary, higher education, Anurag Verma, was appointed as the officiating V-C. Verma received complaints on irregularities in the university’s functioning from 2007 to 2017. These included allegations of nepotism, corruption, and bungling of funds in the examination branch, among other issues.On the basis of these complaints, Verma ordered 14 internal inquiries in April 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vb-starts-probe-into-recruitment-of-asst-professors-at-pbi-varsity-101622577900754.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Majha witnessed 34% deaths last month, Pathankot worst-hit||Around 34% cent of the coronavirus-related deaths in the Majha region, comprising four districts of Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot, took place in May alone. The region recorded 26,147 Covid-19 cases and 967 deaths in May. The region has reported 2,869 deaths so far.Pathankot remained worst-affected district as it recorded 43% of the total Covid deaths till May 31. Percentage of Covid-19 cases during this month also turned out to be same. Being the most populated district of the region, Amritsar recorded 487 deaths, 33% of the total deaths. “As per epidemiological survey conducted at the government level, it was expected that May will record maximum cases and fatalities. This month has witnessed a peak in the Covid cases,” said Dr Charanjit Singh, civil surgeon, Amritsar.The second largest district Gurdaspur witnessed 218 deaths, or 29% of the total deaths, while Tarn Taran recorded 94 deaths (30% of total deaths).Percentage of Covid-19 cases in the districts, expect Pathankot, during the last month has not remained as high as deaths. Amritsar recorded 11,194 cases or 25% of total cases, Gurdaspur 54 cases (25%), while Tarn Taran recorded 1,827 cases (24%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/majha-witnessed-34-deaths-last-month-pathankot-worsthit-101622577720770.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu, Pargat stick to their guns, target Capt before Kharge panel||Punjab MLAs Navjot Singh Sidhu and Pargat Singh, who have been railing against chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh over various issues, continued to do so before the three-member committee formed by the Congress to resolve the internal fight in the party ahead of next year’s polls.Sidhu, who has consistently accused Amarinder Singh of shielding the Badal family in the sacrilege and police firing cases and blamed him for the botched-up probe in the Kotkapura case, met the committee headed by leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge for at least one-and-half-hours in New Delhi on Tuesday. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former MP Jai Prakash Agarwal are the other members of the committee.After the meeting, Sidhu said he was there at the high command’s invitation . “My stand was the same, is the same and will be the same that the democratic power of people that goes to the government in the form of taxes should go back to the people...each citizen must be made shareholder in progress. The truth may be punished but it cannot be defeated. We have to make the truth victorious and defeat anti-Punjab forces,” the cricketer-turned-politician told reporters.Between June and October 2015, three incidents of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib took place in Faridkot district, leading to huge resentment and protests in the state. On October 14, 2015, two protesters were killed in police firing in Behbal Kalan. The same day, police also opened fire on protesters in Kotkapura. Amarinder had promised strict action against those responsible for sacrilege and police firing. On April 9 this year, the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the investigation carried out by the state police’s Special Investigation Team (SIT) in the Kotkapura police firing case. The legal setback has fired up the chief minister’s detractors. The state government has constituted a new SIT in accordance with the court orderThough the Amritsar East MLA made a brief statement after the meeting he did not take any questions from the media. Later, Pargat Singh, who is considered close to Sidhu, is learnt to have raised questions over the chief minister’s working style, his failure to deliver on key poll promises and the public perception about Captain and the Badals being close.During his 25-minute one-on-one meeting, the Jalandhar Cantonment MLA also handed over to the committee members copies of a letter that he wrote to the CM around 18 months ago, expressing displeasure over the state government’s performance. In his letter (first reported by Hindustan Times on February 17, 2020), Pargat Singh raised questions over the alleged cover-up of corruption cases, the drug menace, revenue leakages and the delay in dealing with those involved in the sacrilege case. “Though there has been no issue regarding the flow to funds for development works in assembly constituencies, there are several key promises that are still to be kept. If these relate to the CM’s departments, then who is responsible?,” the former India hockey captain said after the meeting.Sidhu and Pargat Singh were among 30 leaders, including Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Ravneet Singh Bittu, Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Dr Amar Singh, Ashwani Kumar, Ajaib Singh Bhatti, Navtej Singh Cheema and Satkar Kaur, who met the committee constituted by the Congress president to resolve factionalism in the state Congress. In addition, heads of frontal organizations such as Mahila Congress and Punjab Youth Congress also met them.The duo’s criticism is unlikely to help . “We need to go into the poll mode immediately and avoid such squabbles. There is no doubt that there is resentment with regard to the sacrilege case, inaction against the Badals and lack of implementation of promises made to Dalits. Once these are addressed, everything will okay. The meetings are not about Sidhu,” one Congress leader said on condition of anonymity. Though there is talk that the peace formula could include appointment of two deputy chief ministers, several MLAs and MPs who have met the panel over the past two days said this is news to them. The panel will meet more leaders, including the remaining MLAs, MPs and former state unit presidents, on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-pargat-stick-to-their-guns-target-capt-before-kharge-panel-101622577240597.html
02-06-2021||Other||UP CM announces special vax booths for state staff, teachers and others||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday announced to set up special booths across UP for state government employees, milkmen, teachers, grocers, vegetable sellers and all others engaged in public dealing in order to take the ongoing vaccination campaign to the next level. “From June 15, we plan to start special booths for people in professions where public dealing is involved. These booths will function on the lines of special booths to administer doses to parents of children up to 12 years of age on priority basis,” said the chief minister during his visit to KD Singh ‘Babu’ stadium Covid vaccination centre in Lucknow. He was here to inaugurate the UP Government’s aggressive vaccination drive that aims to administer around one crore doses in June. Addressing the media, the CM said so far around 1.83 crore people had been vaccinated in UP. “However, in June we have a target to administer doses to around 1 crore people,” he added. For the purpose, around 2,100 booths have been established in all 75 districts of UP to carry out Covid vaccination drive on a war footing. Of these, 200 are special booths meant to vaccinate parents of children up to 12 years of age on priority basis, said the CM. He said efforts to check the spread of Covid infection were successful as the number of active cases in UP came down to 32,000. “We have so far relaxed curfew in around 61 districts,” he added. The CM not only inspected facilities at the vaccination centre, but also interacted with people. He urged people not to avoid Covid test and vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-cm-announces-special-vax-booths-for-state-staff-teachers-and-others-101622576519922.html
02-06-2021||Other||In UP’s Banda, pradhans roped in to inject ‘vaccine confidence’ into villagers||KANPUR The health department has started holding vaccination camps in villages of Banda district of Bundelkhand to help rural folk overcome vaccine hesitancy. Gram pradhans have also been roped in to dispel misinformation about the vaccine among people. Chief medical officer (Banda) ND Sharma said vaccine hesitancy in villages is a fact and many departments have been mobilised to accelerate the vaccination campaign, particularly in villages. Though 1.30 lakh people have so far been inoculated against Covid in the district, most of the beneficiaries are in Banda town and vaccination in rural areas is extremely sluggish, said health department officials. “That is why it has been decided to hold camps in villages. Today, I got 250 people registered online in my village and they will be vaccinated in a day or two. If we have to vaccinate people in villages, we have to reach out to them. Waiting for them at community or primary health centres will not help,” said Ram Lal Jayan, pradhan of Tendura village in Bhisanda block. Jayan held a series of meetings with sector magistrate and other officials for the camps to be held in the villages. “I have urged them to organise several such camps to cover the entire population,” he added. In the past one week, people who took their first jab met others and persuaded them to get inoculated. “They were going to door to door sharing their experiences post vaccination. The 250 registrations in the past three days is a result of this exercise,” said Jayan.People in the nearby Chausar village are extremely wary of vaccination. Many ran away when the health department teams visited them. Their biggest fear is about death after taking the jab, said Vishambhar Singh Kushwaha, a local. “People think that immunity becomes zero for 10 days after the vaccine It’s a myth that this period makes one vulnerable to catching coronavirus. They also fear fever after vaccination, said Ram Vilakshan of Tendura village.“The mindset will take lot of effort to change. But when the change is happening, the vaccine is short in supply,” said Raju Shrivas, pradhan of Katra Kalinjar. “We had 120 doses against registration of 230 in my village. Nearly 100 people had to return without being vaccinated today,” he said. Similarly, Ranno Patel, pradhan of Ragauli Bhatpura village said the shortage of vaccines hit the efforts to boost inoculation drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-up-s-banda-pradhans-roped-in-to-inject-vaccine-confidence-into-villagers-101622576340594.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to appoint commission to get data on OBC||The state, in a meeting of ministers chaired by CM Uddhav Thackeray, on Tuesday decided to appoint an independent commission to collect empirical data on Other Backward Classes (OBC).While ruling that the reservation in favour of OBCs in local bodies should not result in exceeding the 50% reservation cap, the Supreme Court on March 4 had directed the state to appoint a commission to collect empirical data, based on which, the reservation would be fixed. The state had approached for a review, which was quashed on May 28.This means, no seat will be reserved for OBCs in the upcoming local bodies comprising municipal corporations, municipal councils, zilla parishads, gram panchayats etc. at least for this year or until the state completes the process.“We have decided to appoint an independent commission. The draft of the order will be prepared on Wednesday and modalities will be fixed,” said OBC minister Vijay Wadettiwar after the meeting at Sahyadri guest house at Malabar Hill.The legislation for local bodies in Maharashtra provides political reservation to the Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) based on their population in those particular bodies. In case of OBC, this data is not available as their last census was conducted in 1931.Community leaders on Tuesday blamed the state and decided not to allow holding of polls to district and municipal bodies until their reservation is restored. The decision was taken in a meeting called by OBC Jan Morcha, an umbrella body of OBC outfits. “We have decided to study the SC judgment. Our team of legal experts will prepare its interpretation based on which a memorandum will be made and sent to the chief minister, deputy chief minister, OBC minister, social justice minister and collectors through thousands of emails,” said Chandrakant Bavkar, executive president, OBC Jan Morcha. “We will wait till June 15 to see the steps taken by the state.”“The apex court had directed the state to implement the order passed in 2010 by a constitutional bench in K Krishna Murthy versus Union of India case, in which the court had asked to appoint a dedicated commission, but they didn’t act,” said Devendra Fadnavis, leader of opposition on May 31. “We have also promulgated an ordinance to save the OBC reservation on July 31, which lapsed as this government didn’t convert it into a law.” Former rural development minister Pankaja Munde on May 31 said the government should appoint a commission. Nawab Malik, minority affairs minister, said, “BJP has always supported organizations that are against reservation system.”State Congress chief Nana Patole said, “BJP can’t misguide the OBC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-to-appoint-commission-to-get-data-on-obc-101622576339956.html
02-06-2021||Other||3.40 lakh people take the jabs in UP||LUCKNOW The UP government claimed that the statewide mega vaccination campaign launched on Tuesday received an enthusiastic response from people with 3.40 lakh beneficiaries taking the jabs.In some of the districts, Covid protocols and social distancing were ignored as large crowds converged at vaccination centres. Security personnel faced a tough time in managing the crowd as people broke the queues to enter the centres. People also lined up at the vaccination centres hours before the start of the vaccination session. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said there was good response from people in 18-45 age group. The state government set up 5,500 vaccination centres across UP to facilitate beneficiaries to take the jabs.The parent-special vaccination centres were a unique initiative of the state government to pave way for the vaccination of beneficiaries whose children are below 12 years. The state health and family welfare department set up two to three such centres in each district, he said. Prasad said UP is likely to get adequate doses of the vaccine from the central government quota while the state government had also procured enough doses of vaccine from two manufacturing companies - Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech to inoculated over one crore people in June. The quantity of the vaccine that UP will receive in June will be much higher than what the state got in May, he added.People who missed the vaccination this week should get themselves registered on the CoWin portal when the booking for slots opens on Sunday. He said some anti-social elements were trying to create doubts about the vaccine and people should ignore them to get both doses for protection from Covid-19, said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/340-lakh-people-take-the-jabs-in-up-101622576219944.html
02-06-2021||Other||Vaccination drive: 5,633 inoculated at 3 mega centres in Lucknow||LUCKNOW The state capital’s biggest Covid-19 vaccination drive got underway on Tuesday at three mega camps at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Cricket Stadium, the KD Singh ‘Babu’ Stadium and the iconic Chhota Imambada. This was part of the UP government’s aggressive vaccination campaign that aims to administer around one crore doses in June.Though Covid protocols and social distancing were ignored in the earlier part of the day as large crowds converged at vaccination centres, health department officials said the drive was successful as they managed to inoculate 5,633 people at the three centres. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited the KD Singh ‘Babu’ stadium to inspect the vaccination drive. “The Covid-19 vaccination drive went off smoothly. Against the target to administer around 10,500 doses in a day, we inoculated around 5,633 people at the three mega centres. This was in addition to the 76 regular Covid vaccination centres across the city, which administered over 19,000 doses in a day,” said Dr MK Singh, additional chief medical officer\district immunisation officer (DIO). The Ekana cricket stadium, Chhota Imambada and KD Singh ‘Babu’ stadium were transformed into mega vaccination centres. Despite time slots being allocated, people began pouring in since morning, which made the situation chaotic at the centres, said beneficiaries. “We were given a time slot of 11am. Hence we reached the vaccination centre at 10:30am. But we were surprised to see a huge crowd there and Covid protocols not being followed. The situation was rather scary for us as I also suffered minor injury while entering the main gate,” said Radhika, a college-goer, who reached Ekana stadium to take the jab. Sarita Gautam, a college student who went to Ekana stadium to take the jab, said crowd management there was zero and social distancing went for a toss. “However, the management people said the crowd is huge as it is the first day of vaccination. I hope things improve in days to come or these centres would act as super-spreaders,” she said.She said people with other time slots too thronged the centre and made things worse. The situation was similar at the Chhota Imambada and the KD Singh ‘Babu’ Stadium, which were crowded during the initial hours. However, the things improved as the day progressed. Though the official time for the vaccination was between 10am and 4pm, people were inoculated till 6pm to clear the rush. At the Ekana stadium, 2,085 beneficiaries were vaccinated in 18 plus age group and 507 in the 45 plus group. The KD Singh ‘Babu’ stadium witnessed inoculation of 939 people in the 18 plus age group and 548 in the 45 plus category. As many as 46 people took the jabs at parents’ special booths here, said officials.The Chhota Imambada centre saw vaccination of 956 people in the 18 plus category and 485 in the 45 plus age group while 47 beneficiaries took the jabs at parents’ special booth here, they said.Ekana stadium the biggest centre Of the three mega centres, Ekana stadium was the biggest with around 20 inoculation booths. Of these, 10 were allocated to administer doses to people in 18 to 45 years age group while the remaining 10 booths catered to 45 plus citizens. A team of eight doctors and over 50 vaccinators and data operators, ensured smooth functioning of the centre. The Chhota Imambada and KD Singh ‘Babu’ Stadium centres had eight booths each, of which four were for people between 18 and 44 years of age and the remaining four for 45-plus people. 250 staffers ensured smooth functioning A team of 250 officials, including doctors, paramedical staff and health workers, was deployed to ensure smooth vaccination at the three mega centres. Three doctors took care of the entire vaccination event. Besides, there were four doctors each at the three mega vaccination centres while over 70 vaccinators, 40 data entry operators and administrative officers ensured smooth functioning at the centres. Parent special booths a hit Special booths to vaccinate parents of children up to 12 years old on priority came in for praise. People said it’s tough for people having kids to spend hours in the queues. “I am thankful to the administration for giving a thought to the problem. The move will not only minimise the problem, but also motivate parents to get themselves vaccinated,” said Narendra Gupta, a banker who reached KD Singh ‘Babu’ stadium to get himself vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-drive-5-633-inoculated-at-3-mega-centres-in-lucknow-101622576049368.html
02-06-2021||Other||Amid space crunch, impounded vehicles dumped on roadsides in Ludhiana||The Ludhiana police are grappling with a major space crunch at police station compounds, being forced to dump hundreds of vehicles and other impounded articles on the roadsides.At least 4,000 vehicles are gathering rust at police stations and police posts in Division Number 8, Division Number 5, Tibba, Jamalpur, Moti Nagar and Sadar.On May 31 at Basti Jodhewal police station, 45 vehicles, dumped on the roadside, were gutted in a fire.According to police personnel, they can only dispose of vehicles and other articles after the related cases are disposed of in the courts.A station house officer, on the condition of anonymity, said that some vehicles, dumped for as long as three decades, were totally damaged, but could not be disposed of as the cases were sub judice.Another SHO said that sometimes people didn’t come back for the vehicles either for lack of documents, or because the vehicle was old or they had already taken a claim from insurance companies.At division number 5 police station, a Mahindra Scorpio and a Hyundai i20 car have been dumped on the roadside outside the station. The vehicles were seized on March 25 from Gurdev Nagar in an attempt to murder case. The police had punctured the tyres of the vehicles so no one would steal them.In October 2020, the police had returned 239 vehicles, 213 mobile phones and ₹6.74 lakh in cash to the people on superdari to create space.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said that they were working on returning the vehicles to the owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-space-crunch-impounded-vehicles-dumped-on-roadsides-in-ludhiana-101622575800538.html
02-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana ASI held for demanding ₹20,000 bribe for registering dowry case||The Vigilance Bureau has arrested an assistant sub-inspector for demanding ₹20,000 bribe to lodge a dowry harassment case against a woman’s NRI husband.The accused, Saudagar Singh, is deputed with Ludhiana police’s NRI wing.He was nabbed on the complaint of Gurcharan Singh of Ram Nagar. Gurcharan approached the bureau stating that his daughter had married a Canada-based NRI in February 2020, and soon after, he and his family had started harassing her for dowry. He had filed a complaint to the additional director general of police (ADGP, NRI wing) in this regard, and an inquiry was marked to the NRI wing that forwarded the case to ASI Saudagar.However, to lodge an FIR against the NRI and his family members, the ASI demanded a bribe of ₹25,000, Gurcharan alleged. A deal was settled at ₹20,000, to be paid in two instalments of ₹10,000 each, following which Gurcharan approached the economic offence wing of Vigilance Bureau.The wing’s SSP, Amarjit Singh Bajwa, said they laid a trap at the NRI wing on Monday and nabbed the ASI red-handed as he accepted ₹10,000, which was recovered from his pocket.The accused was booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act. He was produced before a court on Tuesday and sent to two-day police custody for questioning.TAINT ON KHAKIFebruary 25: The Vigilance Bureau arrested ASI Tarsem Singh, deputed at Division Number 8 police station, for accepting a bribe of ₹1,500 for serving non-bailable warrants, issued by a court, to the accused in a cheque bounce caseJanuary 16: An ASI at the Salem Tabri station was arrested for accepting bribe from an employee of a chemist shop in the jurisdiction of another police station. The ASI had accused the employee of selling intoxicant pills and capsules to addicts and demanded ₹50,000 as bribeAugust 4, 2020: ASI Jaswinder Singh was nabbed while accepting ₹10,000 in bribe from an accused in an assault case to give him a clean chitJuly 19: A head constable deputed at the Ludhiana Central Jail was arrested for supplying narcotics to inmates. During a special checking, he was found carrying eight packets of tobacco in his shoesJuly 18: The Division Number 2 police arrested a constable for duping a gas agency’s delivery manJuly 17: Head constable Surinder Kumar, deputed at Kanganwal police post, was arrested for changing a drug case’s FIR in exchange for ₹50,000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-asi-held-for-demanding-20-000-bribe-for-registering-dowry-case-101622575500584.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Players should focus on their game: Haryana sports minister on Sushil’s arrest||Expressing regret over the high-profile murder case of international wrestler Sagar Dhankar in Delhi and arrest of Olympian wrestler Sushil Kumar by Delhi Police, Haryana sports minister Sandeep Singh on Tuesday said that players should rather focus on their game than getting involved in such matters.“It’s tragic to see how such a fine sportsman who has brought Olympic glory to the nation twice gets involved in such cases,” the minister, former captain of the Indian national hockey team, added.He further said that players have a short span of professional life, where they have to struggle, win and prove themselves. “I would suggest that they focus on their game and practise. That is the only thing that is going to build their careers,” he added. On preparations for Khelo India Youth Games 2021 where the state will be the host amid the ongoing pandemic, Sandeep said the games are scheduled to begin on November 21.“We will follow the pattern that will be adopted during the Tokyo Olympics. Even now, the stadiums are closed and all training sessions are confined to online mode to avoid the spread of infection,” he told the reporters.The Pehowa MLA was in Ambala to attend a social event by an NGO at the City civil hospital, where he also donated ₹2 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/players-should-focus-on-their-game-haryana-sports-minister-on-sushil-s-arrest-101622575262065.html
02-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s Covid toll crosses 2,000 even as daily death count drops to three||Showing no major signs of receding so far, the daily Covid-19 deaths plunged to three on Tuesday, a first in the past 48 days.It was only on April 13 last that such a low number of deaths was reported in a single day, following which the figure had steadily risen, hitting the peak of 30 two days in a row, on May 10 and 11.However, Tuesday’s toll pushed the district’s overall deaths past the 2,000 mark, making Ludhiana the first in Punjab to cross the number.May deadliest since pandemic startedSince the pandemic claimed the first life in Ludhiana on March 29, 2020, May this year proved to be the deadliest, witnessing 624 deaths, which account for 31% of the 2,002 deaths till date.While 2020 ended with Ludhiana losing 964 people to the contagion, in just five months this year, the toll has reached 1,038. 2021 had begun with 37 deaths in January. The number dropped to 28 in February, only to rise again in March that saw 115 deaths. As the second wave climbed relentlessly in May, the month saw fatalities surging by 170% from the 231 in April. Contrary to the four-month gap (120 days) between the toll climbing from 750 to 1,000 mark from October 2 last year to January 30 this year, it took just 11 days for the number of total deaths to cross the 1,750 count from 1,500. For the toll to touch 2,000 from the 1,750 mark, it took just two weeks’ time, while it had taken 79 days for the deaths to climb from the figure of 1,000 to 1,250 and 18 days to reach 1,500 from 1,250.222 test positive as cases decline furtherOn a positive note, the daily cases dropped further to 222, keeping up with downward trend noticed since the curfew was enforced in the district on May 10.The number of daily active cases also fell below 4,000 for the first time in 45 days, with 3,916 patients still fighting the infection. Among them, 45 patients are on ventilator support. The fresh cases took the tally to 84,337, of which 78,419 patients have recovered.The three people who died on Monday included a 28-year-old woman from Sahnewal, a 65-year-old woman from Pratap Nagar and a 66-year-old man from Khanna.Even though the cases are declining, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma cautioned residents that there was no room for complacency and everyone must adhere to wearing masks and maintaining social distance at all times. “It is good news that the daily deaths have finally started to show a downturn, but so many people have died in the last one month. Times have been tough for all due to the restrictions and struggle to get admission in hospitals,” he said.Black fungus claims another lifeMucormycosis (black fungus) claimed one more life in the district during the last 24 hours, taking the total casualties in the district to nine. But, no fresh case was reported on Tuesday. The deceased was from another district and was undergoing treatment at a city hospital.As many as 78 black fungus cases have been reported in the district till now, of which 33 are from Ludhiana. Out of the nine fatalities, two belonged to Ludhiana and the remaining were from other districts and states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-covid-toll-crosses-2-000-even-as-daily-death-count-drops-to-three-101622575260967.html
02-06-2021||Other||SIT exposes evasion of ₹35 cr excise duty by country liquor factory||LUCKNOW While investigating anomalies in the supply chain of country made liquor, the Uttar Pradesh police’s Special Investigation Team (SIT) exposed evasion of excise duty worth ₹35 crore by a Saharanpur -based country-made liquor factory in just 11 months between April 2020 and February 2021, said senior SIT officials here on Tuesday. The officials said the factory owner and officials evaded excise duty by allowing two trucks laden with country-made liquor on one gate pass and receipt. They said the SIT had charge-sheeted nine people, including the authorities of the factory, in connection with the two FIRs lodged in March earlier this year. They said the investigation about the involvement of at least seven more people, including the factory’s managing director Pranay Aneja, vice president Virendra Shankdhar, HR head Som Shekhar and sales head Ashwani Upadhyaya was still on. The officials suspected that it could be just the tip of the iceberg. The SIT detected such a large amount of excise duty evasion in just 11 months from one factory, as the records older than this period were not made available and it could not be ruled out that this practice had going on before this period too. It could also not be ruled out that similar practice of tax evasion was prevalent in other country-made liquor manufacturing units in the state, an official said. Superintendent of police (SP) of SIT, Dev Ranjan Verma said those charge-sheeted included eight people who were arrested at the time of search conducted by the local authorities at the factory on March 4, 2021, on the complaint of major anomalies while one person was arrested later by the SIT. He said the investigation was handed over to the SIT on March 6 this year. He said the accused charge-sheeted were the factory’s unit head Govind Rao, bottling in-charge Hari Shankar Tewari, ETP operator Mange Ram Tyagi, assistant manager quality control Sanjay Sharma, chemist Arvind Kumar, barcode dispatcher Pradeep Kumar, transporter Jai Bhagwan, truck driver Gulsher and attendant Ashok Kumar. Another senior SIT official said the SIT investigation revealed that the factory authorities used to prepare duplicate bar code and QR code slips and used one gate pass and receipt for allowing two liquor-laden trucks from the factory. He said the excise department had fixes some time limit for the transporters for transportation of liquor consignment from the factory to the licensed godown meant for it in different districts. He stated that the transporter was allowed 24 hours’ time for transportation of liquor consignment to the godown within 300 kilometres, 48 hours for 500 km and four days for 1000 km. “In connivance with the factory authorities, the transporter used to make two trips in the same time period and deliver extra liquor consignments to the godown and the godown authorities used to sell it in the market with help of their preferred license shop owners,” he said, adding, “The first trip was not registered at the factory while the second trip was registered.” He explained the first trip was registered at the factory only when they were afraid of getting caught by the government authorities. He said one truck contained 1500 cartoons of liquor bottles and one cartoon contained 45 bottles. He said the investigation revealed that factory authorities allowed supply of at least 99 trucks causing loss of ₹35 crore to the state exchequer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sit-exposes-evasion-of-35-cr-excise-duty-by-country-liquor-factory-101622575199749.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh home secretary gets 3-month extension||Arun Kumar Gupta, a Haryana cadre IAS officer, has been given extension of three months as the UT home secretary. The UT administration’s proposal to the central government for the three-month extension to Gupta, a 1992-batch officer, as home secretary was approved by the appointment committee of the Cabinet.Gupta’s three-year term had ended on May 31. Amid Covid second wave, the administration had sought extension for the officer.The post of home secretary is reserved for a Haryana cadre IAS officer. It is the second-most important post in Chandigarh administration after the UT adviser. Nitin Kumar Yadav (2000 batch), Ravi Pankaj Agarwal (2000 batch) and Vinay Singh (2003 batch) were three IAS officers whose names Haryana government had earlier sent to succeed Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-home-secretary-gets-3-month-extension-101622575140292.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Denied surgery, patient drags PGIMER to court||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday asked the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to take steps to immediately operate upon a city resident to “save his life”. The high court acted on the plea of Manimajra resident Bhupender Beniwal, who had sought directions to the PGIMER to operate upon his nephew Saksham Bishnoi, a kidney patient. He had claimed that in case the surgical intervention is not done, he would face acute kidney infection, which in all probability would result in kidney damage. This is apparently the first of its kind incident reported during the Covid-19 outbreak, wherein a family approached court seeking directions for treatment.The court was told that Saksham, 22, had developed the problem in April and the PGIMER fixed the date for surgery on April 26. However, he tested positive for Covid-19 and the surgery could not be conducted. After completion of the quarantine period, the patient was taken to the PGIMER again in May, but the hospital “arbitrarily” refused to conduct the operation, citing Covid-19 restrictions, the court was told. The petitioner added that earlier the surgery date was fixed by the hospital noting Saksham’s critical condition, and Covid restrictions were already in place even then. Now that he has recovered fully, he would require the surgical intervention as has already been opined by the treating surgeon, the Manimajra resident pleaded.The PGIMER had told court that certain protocols are to be followed before conducting the surgery, and in case the patient comes to the emergency, he would be examined and assessment for his admission for surgery would be conducted.The court while fixing the matter for Wednesday for hearing told the PGIMER that if the patient tests negative for Covid-19, the surgery be slated as soon as possible. “It is a sanguine hope that every attempt would be made to save the petitioner’s nephew from any harassment,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/denied-surgery-patient-drags-pgimer-to-court-101622575021454.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Four key lessons from second wave in Chandigarh||The uptick in the infection numbers, which had started in the second week of March and transformed into a deadly second wave, caught the authorities off guard resulting in a crisis in the city.With limited resources available in government hospitals, the system trembled under the burden of widespread infections, amid influx of patients from the National Capital Region and neighbouring states. The experts, however, say it is time to look for loopholes in the system and fix them to deal with any urgency in the future.Ventilator-supported intensive care unitsThe pandemic raged on in the first 15 days of May, leaving critical Covid-19 patients scrambling for intensive care beds in city hospitals. Even though the number of ICUs were doubled in the last one and a half months, the arrangements were not able to cater to the increased demand.There were instances of patients dying while waiting for ventilators.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said, “Despite being able to more than double the number of beds from the first wave, we were still left wanting. Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32 (GMCH-32), and GMSH-16, besides Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), will be adding more ventilator beds. We are preparing GMCH-32 to convert at least 50 more ICU beds.”Testing in government facilitiesFailing to expand testing facilities in government institutions even till early March, the UT administration roped in private laboratories to meet the target set by the Union health ministry. The UT administration had asked PGIMER and GMCH-32 to expand testing, but the capacity could not be stretched beyond processing 950 samples a day.With cases seeing a major rise in early April and more samples being collected for RT-PCR test, the turnaround period for reports also increased to 48 hours. Underlining the importance of prompt testing, Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine department and school of public health at PGIMER, said, “If diagnosis is delayed, infection spreads. It takes just 6 hours to conduct the RT PCR test and my impression is that there are inadequate machines and workforce in the city. The testing capacity should be increased to reduce time from sample taking to availability reports which inturn will help better management of the pandemic.”It was only after two months that authorities on May 24 announced that daily testing levels at GMCH-32 had been increased to 700 per day, from 400. PGIMER announced that they were presently testing 1,200 samples, which had now increased to 1,500 per day.Coordination among government agenciesAmid the peak of second wave on May 8, a war of words had broken out between the Chandigarh administration and PGIMER after UT had directed a private refilling plant in Dera Bassi not to fill cylinders from PGIMER from the UT’s quota.Though UT had later allowed PGIMER to partake in some of its oxygen share, the incident had opened the Pandora’s box. Though the administration always wanted PGIMER to convert more beds for Covid-19 patients, the premier institute has not been keen for the same, suggesting that being a tertiary care institute non-Covid service cannot be closed even though non-emergency surgeries and OPDs have been shut.UT had also written to the Union health ministry seeking directions for PGIMER to put additional resources at disposal to deal with the pandemic. Administration at PGIMER is of the opinion that load should be proportionally divided among all the health facilities. “Situations like this require command and control centres in which representatives from every department and hospitals are present and they take decisions in real time,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar.Inconsistency in policies in tricity areaEven though the tricity area is de facto a single urban complex, the three administrations have struggled to formulate a uniform policy on Covid management, with varied night curfew timings, lockdown restrictions and failure to assist each other.It was only after the intervention of the Punjab and Haryana high court that three the administrations were forced into action to set up a unified command centre. Also, when the cases were hovering between 400 to 600 in the second week of April, UT had imposed night curfew. However when the daily infection numbers reached around 850, the restrictions were withdrawn. Later, the administration had to come up with stricter restrictions of allowing only essential services in the city.UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “Decisions are taken keeping in view all worst-case scenarios. In some areas, restrictions can be common, but similar policies in the three administrative units are not always necessary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-key-lessons-from-second-wave-in-chandigarh-101622575020291.html
02-06-2021||Kolkata||ATM hackers in Kolkata steal around ₹2 cr, more machines detected||The ongoing probe by the detective department of the Kolkata Police has found that hackers have stolen around ₹2 crore from at least 10 unguarded automated teller machines (ATM) in the city between May 14 and 22 by intercepting the two-way encrypted messaging and data system that connects an ATM to a bank’s main server, police said.The hackers stole anything between ₹2 to 20 lakh from each machine using technology that experts refer to as 'man in the middle' (MITM) hacking. The targeted ATMs belong to the same private bank. The software in the machines was not upgraded, investigating officers said.Two of the hackers, who are suspected to be part of a gang that carried out a similar operation in Faridabad of the Delhi/NCR region two months ago, were caught on a security camera installed near the hacked ATMs in Kolkata.“We are in touch with the Faridabad police,” said Murlidhar Sharma, joint commissioner of police (crime). “Account holders have not lost anything. The loss was incurred by the company which loads money in these machines,” Sharma added.Kolkata Police started the probe when the bank lodged complaints saying three ATM were hacked between May 14 and 22 and ₹39.6 lakh were stolen in several instalments.While investigating the case, police found that none of the machines located in the New Market, Jadavpur and Cossipore police station areas was forcibly broken. The probe showed that more machines located in Beniapukur, Behala, Phoolbagan and Bowbazar were also hacked during the same period and the quantum of money stolen stood at around ₹2 crore.The hackers, apparently, took around 15 minutes to hack into the system in each ATM. They made the machines dispense cash by connecting to the bank’s server using a device that was is said to be attached to cables in the ATM, said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/atm-hackers-in-kolkata-steal-around-rs-2-cr-more-machines-detected-101622574729877.html
02-06-2021||Other||Tug-of-war within BJP reflecting poorly on governance: Akhilesh||LUCKNOW Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday said the internal tug-of-war in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was reflecting badly on the governance in the state. “Decisions on public interest issues are delayed and development work is at a standstill. The government machinery is inert. The internal pushes and pulls are badly showing on the governance in UP,” Akhilesh said in a statement referring to the high-level internal meetings in the BJP over UP.Akhilesh had been frequently attacking the BJP and its government in the state as there have been high-level meetings in Delhi recently and then in Lucknow over election preparations by the BJP and possibilities of changes in the party and its government.“People are distressed over treatment, medicines and oxygen supply amid the pandemic. The situation in the party and government is reduced to such a state that after four years in power, they are compelled to do meetings for striking synchronicity between the organisation and the government,” he said.The SP chief added: “The only objective of these meetings and involvement of Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh is how to grab power in the state again. The Covid pandemic crisis is far from over, but the ruling dispensation is obsessed and restive for political power.”Akhilesh said the ruling party was spinning false success stories to camouflage their failures. “While the BJP government failed in the first and the second wave of the pandemic, it is claiming to have made arrangements for tackling the possible third wave. People died due to lack of oxygen, medicines and there’s negligence in the treatment of black fungus cases,” he added.“The government has not been able to provide essential injections for the treatment of black fungus. After one and a half years of the pandemic, the government has woken up to get scientific research done,” said Akhilesh.Akhilesh said the government built castles in the air by an announcement that all will be vaccinated by Diwali while the reality is that the rate of vaccination in UP is less than 2%. “In UP, 98% of those who got their first jabs have not received their second dose. How will people be protected against the third wave without vaccination and the second dose,” asked Akhilesh and added that now there are talks that UP would decide to give a cocktail of vaccines because of lack of vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tugofwar-within-bjp-reflecting-poorly-on-governance-akhilesh-101622574961430.html
02-06-2021||Other||GDP contracts by 7.3%: All eyes on size of UP’s economy now||Lucknow: All eyes will now be set on provisional estimates about the size of the state’s economy to be released in coming weeks, amid the state government’s claims that Uttar Pradesh’s gross state domestic product (GSDP) is estimated to reach 19,40,527 crore in 2020-2021. The Indian economy contracted by 7.3% in the fiscal year 2020-21, according to the gross domestic product (GDP) statistics released by the National Statistical Office on May 31. The state government had made the projections about the growth in the size of GSDP in the budget analysis presented in the state assembly along with the budget for 2021-2022 on February 22 this year. The state government had estimated that the GSDP would reach up to ₹1791263 crore in 2020-2021. Its revised estimates, however, projected the GSDP to reach ₹19,40,527 crore during the period. “Advance estimates of state’s income as released by the UP’s State Planning Institute’s Economics and Statistics Division in March 2021 have indicated the state’s economy has been adversely impacted by Covid-19. It shows estimated contraction of 6.4 per cent in the GSDP in 2020-2021. This contraction in GSDP comes after a low growth of 3.8 per cent in 2019-2020. Under such a situation the targeted size of GSDP for 2021-2022 put at ₹21,73,390 crore appears to be highly ambitious in view of the damage inflicted on state’s economy by the second wave of Covid-19 in the first quarter of 2021-2022,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor, department of economics, Lucknow University. However, a final picture about the size of GSDP in 2020-2021 will be available when provisional estimates are out in the next few weeks. The state government may have to mobilise additional resources as the projected contraction in GSDP is bound to have an adverse impact on the state government’s goal of making the state a trillion dollar economy in five years (2020-2025). “What is more worrisome is the fact that the state’s manufacturing sector has consecutively witnessed negative growth rate of -3.5 per cent (2019-2020) and -5.4 per cent (2020-2021). Agriculture sector is the only bright spot which witnessed a healthy growth of 6.2 per cent in 2020-2021. This clearly indicates that the state government faces a tough challenge of saving lives along with livelihood in the coming months,” said Tyagi. As the state government may need additional funds to complete various development projects before UP goes into poll mode (by end of 2021) for 2022 assembly elections, its task of mobilizing additional resources would become even more challenging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gdp-contracts-by-7-3-all-eyes-on-size-of-up-s-economy-now-101622574960823.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Senior citizens to get special stickers for vehicles in Chandigarh||On the lines of learner driver ‘L’ stickers, the Chandigarh traffic police will now give special stickers with hologram to senior citizens to alert other road users.“Two stickers will be given for both the front and rear windshield,” said Palak Goel, deputy superintendent of police, traffic administration, on Tuesday. “It will make other drivers more careful around seniors and also help bring down incidents of road rage.”The application process has already started on the eSaathi app of the Chandigarh Police. Registrations will open on the traffic police website within this week. To apply, people need to upload their senior citizen card or Aadhaar details besides the vehicle registration certificate. The sticker will be given only to those who have the vehicle registered under their name and drive it themselves. “We will hand deliver the stickers to the houses of the seniors if needed,” said Goel. Welcoming the move, RK Garg, president, Second Innings Association, said: “These stickers will allow seniors to drive more comfortably. People will keep a check on honking and speeding around us, and in case of an accident more people will be willing to stop and help the injured senior.”However, Garg said instead of asking seniors to register, the traffic police can access the data from Sampark Centres and coordinate with the local beat cops. “Special lanes for seniors or allowing seniors with these stickers the right of way at turns and rotaries can also be considered,” he said. “This is a welcome move,” said Kamaljeet Singh Soi, member, National Road Safety Council. “Now, the traffic police should focus on educating drivers on how to behave around senior citizens on roads.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/senior-citizens-to-get-special-stickers-for-vehicles-in-chandigarh-101622574960310.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Citizens forced to turn to private vax facilities in Chandigarh tricity||With the tricity authorities struggling to procure Covid-19 vaccine for the young age group, the citizens are forced to head towards private facilities to get jabbed. However, the shot comes at a price, anywhere between ₹850 and ₹1,500, unlike free vaccine available at government centres. In Chandigarh, all slots for the 18-44 years age group at government centres are filled till June 4, and the fresh supply of 36,000 doses expected in the first week has been delayed till at least June 10. Panchkula, too, is facing an acute shortage, with the number of doses being administered daily falling significantly. In Mohali, the administration is vaccinating only a few priority groups among the younger population.While private hospitals in Mohali launched vaccination for this age group in early May, even Cloudnine Hospital in Panchkula opened the drive three days back while private facilities in Chandigarh followed suit on Tuesday. These private facilities are buying the vaccine directly from manufacturers. While Covishield is procured for ₹600 per dose, Covaxin costs ₹1,200. However, the citizens have to shelve an extra amount due to service and other charges involved. For example, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, is offering Covaxin for ₹1,250 and Covishield for ₹850. Max Medcentre, Mohali, and Cloudnine Hospitals in Chandigarh and Panchkula are offering Covishield for ₹900. A dose of Covaxin costs the corporates ₹1,350 and other individuals ₹1,500 at Aasharkiran Fertility World in Kharar. In Chandigarh, Global Health Care Centre and Bedi Hospital are offering a dose of Covishield for ₹900. “We are procuring Covishield directly from the manufacturer for ₹600, and with all the services, logistics and wages involved, the cost raises up to ₹900,” said Dr Sanjiv Bhatia of Global Health Care Centre, Sector 21. “This is not a proper system to be followed for distribution. It has caused inconvenience to people, and inequality in distribution, causing a disturbance in an orderly system running successfully for a long time,” said Dr RS Bedi, owner of Bedi Hospital, Sector 33.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/citizens-forced-to-turn-to-private-vax-facilities-in-chandigarh-tricity-101622574480461.html
02-06-2021||Other||Actor Karan Mehra’s arrested, released on bail after wife alleges assault||Actor Karan Mehra was arrested by Goregaon police early on Tuesday based on a complaint by his wife Nisha who alleged that he abused and hit her after a dispute between them over a discussion on their divorce. Mehra was granted bail after a few hours.Police officers said that they had sent Nisha for a medical check-up. During questioning, Mehra told the police that around 10pm on Monday, the couple were discussing the terms of their divorce when Nisha asked for an alimony amount which he could not afford to pay. Nisha’s brother, who was present at the spot, asked the couple to sort the matter out legally. Mehra told the police that he agreed and went to his bedroom. Nisha then allegedly barged in while he was talking to his mother over the phone and started abusing him. She then left the room and hit her head against the wall and called the police. Mehra told the police that Nisha’s brother, too, assaulted him before the police arrived and escorted them to the police station.The police then recorded Mehra and Nisha’s statements and filed a first information report (FIR). “We have registered a case for causing hurt rashly and negligently to endanger human life and are investigating the case further,” said an officer from Goregaon police station.Nisha said she approached the police after Mehra abused her and banged her head against a wall. She wanted to split up as Mehra was having an affair, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/actor-karan-mehra-s-arrested-released-on-bail-after-wife-alleges-assault-101622574239722.html
02-06-2021||Other||Unions blame security lapses by railway officials for Thane commuter’s death||Two days after a commuter, Vidya Patil, fell off the train while fighting a robber and died, the passengers’ unions in Thane have blamed security lapses by railway officials for the incident. The union claimed that while officials check identity cards of commuters to ensure they are from essential sectors, miscreants continue to easily board the trains or loiter on platforms. On Sunday, Patil, the mother of three, died after falling off between Kalwa and Mumbra from a moving local train, when a 31-year-old man, Faisal Shaikh, tried to snatch her mobile phone. Patil had recently joined work after six months of maternity leave. Lata Argade, the secretary of Central Suburban Railway Commuters’ Association, alleged that she has repeatedly sent photos of miscreants boarding women compartments but no action has been taken. Argade said that the union will meet railway officials on Wednesday. “We’ll submit a letter seeking compensation for the family. We also want action against the railway officials on duty for allowing the accused on the train. We have being complaining about peddlers and thieves continuously. However no attention is given to the issue, even as common citizens are held for travelling without reason.” Her relative Kamlakar Patil said that if the government has allowed only essential workers on trains, how are thieves travelling without any fear. “Officials claimed that the thief is a habitual offender. So why aren’t such people stopped from entering the station.” “The family’s financial situation is very dire. Her husband is an electrician and had faced crisis during the lockdown. So Vidya decided to join work immediately after her maternity leave was over. Her mother-in-law was also unwell, so Vidya took care of her medical bills. Her loss is too big for them and they will need compensation,” said Kamlakar Patil. A senior railway officer said, “We are looking into the issue and getting details of the officials who were present at that time. The GRP (Government Railway Police) have already arrested the accused within 24 hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unions-blame-security-lapses-by-railway-officials-for-thane-commuter-s-death-101622574181470.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid deaths drop below 10 after 6 weeks in Chandigarh tricity||Even as the tricity reported a spike in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, with 399 people testing positive, up from the previous day’s 276, the number of fatalities dipped below 10 for the first time since April 20.Nine people succumbed to the virus in the tricity on Tuesday. Even on April 20, nine deaths were recorded, after which the number consistently remained in double digits, peaking at 38 on May 5.While the number of daily cases has seen a steep drop after the peak of 2,612 on May 10, pointing to a receding second wave, the death count has kept mounting and was recorded at 19 on Monday.May proved to be the deadliest month, with 373 patients succumbing in Mohali, 275 in Chandigarh and 142 in Panchkula, which accounted for more than a third of the total death toll in these three jurisdictions since the outbreak last March.However, on the first day of June, Chandigarh recorded five casualties, followed by four in Mohali. In Panchkula, there was no death reported after 10 days. In terms of cases, Mohali recorded 197, followed by 108 in Chandigarh and 94 in Panchkula.With more people being cured and discharged than those testing positive, the cumulative active case load of the tricity dropped to 4,774 from 5,482 the previous day and the peak of 24,201 on May 12. While daily positivity rate, which remained around 20-25% during the peak of second wave, was recorded below 8% across the tricity, even recovery rate jumped above 94% in the three jurisdictions. Case fatality rate stands at 1.4% in Mohali, followed by 1.3% in Chandigarh and 1.2% in Panchkula.‘Need to wait for 2-3 weeks’“We expect that the downward trend in deaths to continue,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, Chandigarh health department. “The number of Covid-19 patients requiring intensive care treatment is also decreasing. As the pressure on health facilities will ease, focused care will be available to patients, which will decrease fatalities.” Meanwhile, Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, said we will have to wait for another two to three weeks to see the number of deaths drop to the levels seen before the second wave. “We witnessed a huge surge in cases in the early part of May, and many patients who tested positive then are still undergoing treatment. Even though the infection numbers are decreasing and even the occupancy of oxygen beds has decreased, the pressure on the ventilator beds is still there,” he said.‘Time to remain vigilant’Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula, said: “The situation is a little better, but not completely under control as yet. We need to continue to be vigilant. Regular strategic sampling will be ensured for timely case detection and isolation. Adding infrastructure and strengthening of systems to deal with severe cases will also be taken up.”“The numbers are coming down but now individuals have be to very careful and follow safety protocols. Those who have not got vaccinated should get it on priority. As the numbers are coming down, restrictions would be lifted; so we need to ensure strict compliance,” said Adarsh Pal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-deaths-drop-below-10-after-6-weeks-in-chandigarh-tricity-101622574180980.html
02-06-2021||Other||Pre-monsoon rain to stay, yellow alert issued for Maharashtra||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday issued a severe weather warning for Maharashtra, with all the 36 districts placed under a yellow storm warning alert, indicating a high probability of moderate to heavy showers in the next two days. Mumbai, Thane and Palghar are expected to see thunderstorm development along with lightning, rain and gusty winds of up to 40kmph, IMD officials said. Light showers scattered across Mumbai and Navi Mumbai on Tuesday evening, though the morning was both dry and sunny, despite official forecasts predicting light to moderate rains. As per BMC’s monitoring stations, Vikhroli Fire station received 23mm of rain between 8pm and 9pm while Kurla recorded 15mm and Goregaon 13mm.While IMD had placed Mumbai under a green category severe weather alert on Monday, it was upgraded to yellow category by Tuesday evening. Light to moderate rains are expected to continue till the weekend, with the entire state subject to dynamic and changing weather conditions, an IMD spokesperson said.IMD on Tuesday also released the second stage long range forecast (LRF) for the southwest monsoon, which is expected to hit Kerala on Thursday and arrive in Mumbai around June 11. “India will receive normal to above normal rainfall which will be spatially well-distributed over the country during the upcoming southwest monsoon season,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, IMD’s director general, on Tuesday. The entire Konkan coast is expected to receive above normal rainfall.Meanwhile, the daytime maximum temperature on Tuesday stood at a normal reading of 33.7 degrees Celsius, up from Monday’s 32 degrees Celsius. It is expected to touch 34 degrees Celsius by Friday, before dipping again during the weekend. As per IMD’s seven-day forecast for Mumbai, overcast skies with intermittent spells of rain will persist throughout the week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/premonsoon-rain-to-stay-yellow-alert-issued-for-maharashtra-101622574179686.html
02-06-2021||Other||Tagged by BNHS on Mumbai coast, bird sighted in China||A curlew sandpiper (a medium-sized wader bird native to Russia’s Arctic tundra), which was tagged by the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) in Navi Mumbai over two years ago, was seen again over 4,500km away, in China’s Tianjin province last month. The bird was seen in the Tangu Saltpans on May 7, marking the first international re-sighting of a bird tagged on the Mumbai coast, BNHS officials said.The bird was captured and tagged at the TS Chanakya wetland near Palm Beach Road in Nerul on March 18, 2019, and was subsequently resighted on January 12, 2020, at the Bhandup pumping station.Curlew sandpipers tagged by BNHS, as part of various studies to learn more about birds migratory routes, have earlier been resighted around the city.During the current migratory season, birds tagged by BNHS at different locations in India have been resighted across the world. For instance, a Terek sandpiper tagged in the Gulf of Kutch, Gujarat, was resighted in Jandola, Pakistan, last month. A Northern Shoveler tagged at Odisha’s Chilika Lake in February 2018 was resighted by birders in Uzbekistan in April, while a broad-billed sandpiper tagged in Tamil Nadu in October 2019 was spotted in Hong Kong in April. A similar resighting of an Indian skimmer tagged in Chambal, Madhya Pradesh, in June 2019 was in Bangladesh this January.“An isolated resighting does not tell us much because the tags are not like radio collars which allow us to track the journey of the bird. But it is still extremely exciting because of how rarely it happens. Taken together, resightings provide important insights about the political boundaries that birds may cross, and the potential hurdles they face on their often long migratory routes,” said Dr Bivash Panday, director, BNHS.Each year, an estimated 50 billion birds undertake such migrations across the world, and their preferred routes, the timing of travel and the ecology of migration is surrounded by intrigue. The bird ringing-recapture/resighting method is a commonly used method to study this process, and involves banding a bird with a light-weight metal ring (with a unique alpha-numeric code). When enough data through this method is collected, it allows for scientists to discern the migratory ‘flyways’ of these birds.Bird-ringing studies were first initiated by the BNHS in India in 1927, while large-scale studies relying on this method first began in 1959. They were also carried out extensively at Point Calimere in Tamil Nadu, Keoladeo National Park in Rajasthan, Harike Lake in Punjab, and Chilika Lake in Odisha among other places during the 80s and 90s, and have been monitored for resightings since decades. Along the Mumbai coast, such exercises have been carried out intensively for about seven years now.In Mumbai alone, since 2018, about 10,000 birds belonging to 36 species have been ringed (or colour flagged). Resighting and recapture records of these marked birds, experts said, have provided valuable insights into their migratory routes, site fidelity and turnover rates. “This information would be useful for proposing species specific conservation actions in future,” BNHS said in a statement on Tuesday.As part of other studies, various species including gulls, terns, shorebirds and flamingos ringed in Central Asia, the Persian Gulf, eastern Asia and along the islands in the Indian Ocean have been recorded along the coast of Maharashtra. “Remarkably, these birds show high fidelity to their traditional feeding and roosting sites as it is evident from their frequent resightings at these wetlands in the same as well as subsequent migratory seasons. This signifies the importance of these habitats and the urgent need for their conservation,” BNHS’ statement concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tagged-by-bnhs-on-mumbai-coast-bird-sighted-in-china-101622574059689.html
02-06-2021||Other||Rate caps for private hospitals in Maharashtra to continue till Aug 31||The state government, while extending its order of the capped rates for private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment till August 31, has also reduced the charges for smaller cities and village-tehsil level hospitals. All the municipal corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, except Vasai Virar, Bhiwandi, Nagpur and Pune, have been classified as A-class areas, while districts such as Nashik, Amravati, Bhiwandi, Nanded, Kolhapur and Sangli have been classified as B-class areas. The remaining rural regions are in C-category. While the charges for the routine isolation range from ₹4,000, ₹3,000 and ₹2,400 per day for A, B and C category areas, respectively, it is ₹7,500, ₹5,500 and ₹4,500 for ICU without ventilators. For the treatment in ICU with ventilators, the rates are ₹9,000, ₹6,700 and ₹5,400 for the hospitals. The rates include monitoring, investigations such as CBC, serum creatinine, urine routine, X-ray, ECG, nursing and bed charges. The state government had fixed the rates during the first wave of the pandemic last year after it received complaints of exorbitant charges levied by private hospitals. The rates have been fixed for the 80% beds in private hospitals, acquired by the government, for Covid-19 patients. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said that there was a demand from people in villages and smaller cities to not keep the rates on par with that in cities like Mumbai. “Hospitals in villages, tehsil and district places have started treating Covid-19 patients. It would not have been appropriate to keep universal rates across the state. People in rural Maharashtra will get respite after the decision,” he said. “The cities and areas have been classified on the basis of benchmarks applied by insurance companies and for giving allowances. Until now, the rates were uniform for the entire state. Health and finance department have been getting requests for the reduction in the rates for the hospitals in rural areas. The hospitals are required to charge according to pre-audited bills. Hospitals violating the norms will face action after flying squads review the bills,” a statement issued by chief minister’s office said. However, the hospitals will be free to levy charges for PPE kits, high-end investigations and drugs and Covid-19 tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rate-caps-for-private-hospitals-in-maharashtra-to-continue-till-aug-31-101622573999634.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Day 1 of reopening of non-essential shops sees confusion||On the first day of reopening of non-essential shops in the city, confusion mounted over which shops, with respect to the side of the road, were allowed to open. In several areas like Dadar, Worli, Borivli and Dahisar, shops on both sides were opened. However, they were later forced to shut. The shopkeepers also demanded scrapping of the alternate-day rule by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and demanded flexible timings for opening of shops, citing the time slot of 7am to 2pm as not feasible and that e-commerce websites are benefitting the most. Also, the relaxations also led to traffic snarls, especially along the Sion-Panvel highway, near the Vashi toll naka on Tuesday, which were further complicated by nakabandis conducted by the Mumbai Police at Mankhurd.With Covid-19 cases on a steady decline, the Mumbai civic body had on Monday allowed non-essential shops to function between 7am to 2pm on alternate days from Monday to Friday for the next 15 days, even as shops selling essential items are now allowed to remain open all days between 7am to 2pm. According to the BMC’s circular, starting the first week, shops on the right side will be allowed open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Shops on the left side will be allowed open on Tuesday and Thursday. This rule will be applicable on a rotational basis and the local wards are expected to issue a list of roads, specifying the left and right sides. However, after the coronavirus-enforced curbs were relaxed from Tuesday, there was a mixed response. The city’s 24 wards started issuing circulars, specifying the left and right sides in all areas, only by afternoon, resulting in confusion on day one.Viren Shah, from the Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association, said, “In many areas, non-essential shops were opened, but police came and asked them to shut. The orders are issued late at night and the message does not reach everyone. Even shopkeepers are confused as to what is to be considered left and right.” Shah added, “Additionally, we have also appealed to the state government to revise the timings from 7am to 2 pm to say 10am to 5pm. We are also asking BMC to allow reopening of shops all day, considering once we open shops, we have to pay salaries to employees, rent to landlords.”Paras Bamboli, Chembur Merchant’s Association, said, “In Chembur also, there is confusion among shopkeepers. If we stand towards Kurla, my shop is on the left and if I stand towards Govandi, my shop falls on the right side. Hence, the BMC should ensure they specifically mention what is left and right.” Further, although non-essential shops have been allowed to remain open, saloon, beauty parlour, gymnasiums, restaurant and bars have to remain shut until further orders, civic officials said.Meanwhile, Javed Juneja , Congress corporator from Nagapada, said, “There is confusion among shopkeepers on which side has to remain open on which day, considering it is the first day today. The same thing happened last year, and we hope starting tomorrow, this confusion might be solved.” Another Congress leader and former MP from South Mumbai, Milind Deora said, “I spoke to Maharashtra chief secretary and BMC commissioner about allowing Mumbai’s non-essential shops to open Monday-Friday from 11am-6pm. BMC can review weekends later. Mumbai’s retail sector is devastated — 300,000 non-essential shops impact the livelihoods of 1.5 mlllion families.”About the traffic snarls, Bhanu Khatawkar, senior inspector of the Vashi traffic unit, said, “The number of vehicles on the highway was more than usual on Tuesday, due to the lockdown relaxation. The Mumbai Police also conducted nakabadis at Mankhurd to check the vehicles entering their jurisdiction. The Vashi area saw traffic jams between 9.30am to 1pm. We deployed more officers to manage the traffic.” Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar said, “Navi Mumbai has a positivity rate of 3%, hence we have allowed the limited relaxation of the norms, under Break the Chain order of the state government. The residents have to ensure that all the improvement in the situation does not go waste and that through responsible behaviour of the shopkeepers and the customers, the situation only improves further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-day-1-of-reopening-of-non-essential-shops-sees-confusion-101622573939638.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||3 arrested for cheating people of Rs4.95 cr||The Chembur police have arrested three men for allegedly cheating people by promising to sell Ayurveda powder and herbs to cure Covid-19 and boost immunity. The police have estimated that the trio has cheated people to the tune of ₹4.95 crores since the start of the pandemic in 2020. The three told the police that they had partnered with Nigerians Jerry Sunday and Edward to commit this fraud. According to the police, the three accused identified as Mohammed Hussain Shaikh, 51, Trijugilal Kurmi, 43 and Salim Shaikh, 39, took flats, office spaces and galas on rent for two to three months and with the help of the rent documents, then opened bank accounts and other legal documents like GST etc to run the ‘fake’ business. The police officers said that complainant Nafis Khan had approached them alleging that the manager of their firm Archana Kumar called and informed him that the Ayurveda powder he was looking for was available with Ajaykumar Herbal Enterprises. She then led Khan to Shaikh who asked Khan to transfer ₹1.39 lakhs to his account. Khan alleged that he was cheated as he did not get any powder by courier. The police arrested the three accused from various locations by tracking their mobile phones and through bank transactions, they had made. “The three had opened 16 accounts in various banks with the help of documents of their rented properties and had cheated people to the tune of ₹4.95 crores. We have frozen the bank accounts containing ₹8.25 lakhs,” said a police officer from Chembur police station. On further investigation, the police learnt that the trio had cheated people in Kolhapur, Solapur, Karnataka, West Bengal, Haryana and Gujarat with a similar modus operandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-arrested-for-cheating-people-of-rs4-95-cr-101622573879628.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||Pawar: Boost NCP presence on ground||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar on Tuesday expressed concerned over the party’s presence on ground over crucial issues directly related to common man and asked leaders to be more visible in highlighting failures of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government. “Our party is not visible on ground when it comes to protests against failed policies of the Central government,” Pawar is said to have said in a meeting of party ministers. The meeting was held at the NCP headquarters at Ballard Pier in south Mumbai on Tuesday evening. He made the observations as leaders organised no protest against rising inflation, fuel prices etc. “Petrol prices crossed the ₹100-mark recently, but state leaders made no attempt to organize any agitation against it,” said Pawar, according to an NCP leader. In the meeting, it was decided to set up a task force to explore alternatives against amendment in the Banking Regulation Act 1949, which according to the NCP, will end the cooperative banking system. Comprising ministers from all three parties — Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress – the task force will be headed by state cooperation minister Balasaheb Patil. “Pawar saheb directed us to see if the state government can bring its own law to stop its implementation or if it can challenge it in the court of law,” said Nawab Malik, chief spokesperson and minority affairs minister. It was also decided to celebrate foundation day of the party, following all lockdown restrictions, on June 10. “The NCP chief, state president Jayant Patil and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar will virtually address party workers after hoisting the NCP flag at the party office,” Malik told reporters. The party has further decided to postpone its elections. Its membership drive will be launched on June 10 which will be concluded on December 12. Pawar to speak with Poonawalla The NCP chief is likely to intervene to resolve the issue of vaccine shortage in Maharashtra. He is likely to speak with Serum Institute of India (SII) chairman Cyrus Poonawalla or its CEO Adar Poonawalla. “Pawar saheb agreed to speak to SII after party ministers insisted he intervene, as the state needs vaccine doses to cover the 18-45 age group,” the NCP spokesperson said. “Cyrus Poonawalla was classmate of the NCP chief in college, which is why we requested his intervention and he agreed,” said another NCP minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pawar-boost-ncp-presence-on-ground-101622573880306.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||State yet to take call on quota in job promotion||The state government could not take a decision on reservation in promotion, in a meeting of the cabinet sub-committee, due to legal constraints – pending writ petition in the Bombay high court (HC) and negative opinion of the law department. After a high-voltage drama over the scrapped quota in promotion in government jobs last week, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar held a high-level meeting of ministers on Tuesday to decide the course of action. The cabinet sub-committee decided to defer its decision till hearing on the writ petition is completed in the HC on June 21. Ministers said that an amicable solution will be arrived at soon. Energy minister and senior Congress leader Nitin Raut said the state government was positive about reservation and a decision would be taken soon. “We have discussed all aspects related to the quota and have decided to wait till the HC verdict. The Congress is firm on its stand of reservation in promotion. The issue is complex, with legal and administrative difficulties, but we are taking legal advice to restore the reservation,” he said. The HC in August 2017 quashed the 33% reservation in promotion given to employees from Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribes, Vimukta Jati and Nomadic Tribes and Special Backward Class in 2004. The Maharashtra government, which moved an appeal in the Supreme Court on May 7, announced implementation of the court’s decision and scrapped the reservation. Till then, the state government had been promoting its employees by keeping 33% quota reserved for classified categories. The Congress had expressed its displeasure and threatened to take extreme steps if the reservation was not restored immediately. According to state officials, the law and judiciary department has given its opinion in favour of scrapping the quota. “The high court has scrapped the reservation in promotion and its implementation is mandatory. The SC, too, has not said anything on implementation of the quota, although the petition is still pending in the top court. The law and judiciary department has already given its opinion on two earlier occasions,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-yet-to-take-call-on-quota-in-job-promotion-101622573820248.html
02-06-2021||Other||47 cops died of Covid-19 in Maharashtra in May||After seeing the second highest Covid-19 cases in April during the second wave, the Maharashtra Police department is witnessing a declining trend in the number of infections among police personnel. In April, the department recorded more than 6,000 new cases of infection among police personnel, which dropped to 2,934 cases in May. However, the department recorded the fourth highest fatalities – 47 – in May. The highest deaths were recorded in September (87), followed by 68 this April and 55 last August. The first three months of this year recorded 36 Covid-19 deaths, with 12 fatalities each month. According to the state police, a total of 469 police personnel – 41 officers and 428 from the constabulary – have lost their lives to the deadly virus since its outbreak in the country in March 2020. Mumbai Police have witnessed the highest fatalities (119), followed by Thane (35), Nagpur (23), Pune (18), Ahmednagar (14), Gadchiroli (13), Navi Mumbai (12) and Nashik Rural (12). According to Mumbai Police spokesperson deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Chaitanya Siriprolu, 8,886 police personnel have been tested positive for Covid-19 in the city. Of these, 119 succumbed to the infectious disease while 176 are active patients who are undergoing treatment at various facilities. The police also said that the average daily cases have come down substantially, unlike in April month, when the number of infections were crossing the 150-mark every day. In the past 24 hours, only 32 cases were reported in the state police force, which included one casualty each in Mumbai and Pune Railway Police. As per the director general’s (DG) office, 43,882 police personnel across the state have been infected with the virus, of which 42,087 have recovered. There are 1,326 active cases in the state police force, while nearly 9,972 are quarantined. Senior police officers attributed the peak in April during the second wave to the overall spread of the infection and the police’s exposure to the public. There are a significant number of personnel who contracted the virus while they were on leave, an officer said. Another senior officer said that the fatalities could be attributed to the high comorbidities or other illnesses among the personnel. “Every month, on an average, 50 police personnel died of various illnesses and diseases. Cops suffering from a serious disease are the most vulnerable to the infection. During treatment, the cops cannot be vaccinated,” the officer said. Officers from the state police headquarters said that the present strength of the force is 154,039 (excluding 45,000 of Mumbai Police). As many as 138,992 personnel have been given the first vaccine dose, while 104,799 cops have received both the jabs. Mumbai Police have vaccinated 38,113 (90.96%) with the first vaccine dose, while 28,884 (68.90%) have got both the doses. “Due to vaccination, the number of serious cases is very low,” said a senior police officer from Mumbai Police. According to the state police 20 of its personnel have died due to Covid this year despite taking both doses of the vaccine. All unit commanders have been asked to aggressively pursue vaccination of the staff and ensure strict implementation of Covid-appropriate behaviour in the force, said a senior police officer. 200 Arthur Rd inmates get the jab A non-profit organisation, Project Mumbai, started the vaccination drive for Arthur Road jail inmates above 40 years from Tuesday. On the first day itself, 200 inmates and a few staff members of got their first dose. Project Mumbai’s CEO and founder Shishir Joshi said, “We had a team of two doctors and three nurses, apart from a cardiac emergency ambulance, and beds reserved at Kasturba hospital in case of any complications after vaccination,” said Joshi. They are awaiting BMC’s permission to vaccinate inmates from 18 years. “All the inmates stay together. So it is essential to vaccinate the younger prisoners also,” said Joshi. Project Mumbai also donated four oxygen concentrators for inmates.(Inputs from Megha Sood)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/47-cops-died-of-covid-19-in-maharashtra-in-may-101622573819625.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||Car used for Hiran’s murder brought by cop Sunil Mane: Mumbai Police chief in dismissal order||Former Mumbai crime branch inspector Sunil Dharma Mane, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for the murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, has been dismissed summarily from service. Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale on Tuesday issued the order of Mane’s dismissal under Article 311(2) (B) of the Constitution without holding a disciplinary inquiry.The police said that based on the findings of NIA’s probe about Mane’s role in the serious case, his dismissal procedure was initiated.The dismissal order (of which HT has a copy) stated that Mane borrowed a Volkswagen car from his friend which was used for Hiran’s abduction and murder. “Mane had collected mobile phones and SIM cards from main accused API (assistant police inspector) Sachin Vaze and used it for impersonation and abduction of Hiran. Importantly, Mane also called Hiran using a fictitious name ‘Mr. Tawde, police inspector from Kandivli,’ and called him out of his house and took him to the spot where he was killed (sic),” the commissioner’s order read.The order further stated that when Mane’s house was searched, NIA found incriminating documents, while the agency seized photocopies of four vehicle registration documents, photocopies of three agreements and three bank passbooks from a firm related to him at Goregaon (West).Mane’s disclosure statement has also pointed out the places in and around Thane and Palghar areas, which were relevant to the crime being investigated by NIA.It has also been revealed in the probe that in order to camouflage his identity on the day of Hiran’s murder, Mane had handed over his mobile phone and bag to a witness and asked the latter to deposit them at his residence, so as to mislead the investigation agency.“Mane allegedly abused his official position and instead of upholding the law, misused his position to commit serious crimes, becoming a part of conspiracy, destruction of evidence etc., having propensity to seriously jeopardise law and order in the state. He was fully aware of duties and responsibilities assigned to him as police officer and was duty bound for keeping utmost integrity and its strict enforcement and compliance,” Nagrale observed in the order. The police chief also observed that Mane’s conduct is more like a seasoned criminal rather than a police officer and he shows the very grave delinquency, which is enough to justify his dismissal.On February 25, a Scorpio car was found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence Antilia with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note addressed to the industrialist. A case was registered with Gamdevi police station on the same day. Vaze was originally in charge of the investigation of the case, but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV and had reported it stolen on February 17. On March 5, Hiran was found dead at a Mumbra creek. It was later discovered that Vaze had borrowed Hiran’s car in November and returned it in February. NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and Vaze was named the main accused. He was arrested by NIA on March 13. On March 24, the agency began probing the murder too, and Vaze was again named the main accused. After finding serving policemen allegedly involved in the heinous crime, the Maharashtra government, in order to contain the damage, transferred the then commissioner Param Bir Singh for his alleged poor management of the case. Singh subsequently wrote a letter to the chief minister, alleging that the then home minister Anil Deshmukh had instructed Vaze and some other Mumbai Police officers to extort ₹100 crore from bars, restaurants and hookah parlours. Singh approached the courts after no action was taken against Deshmukh. The Bombay high court eventually asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the matter, prompting Deshmukh’s resignation. Accordingly, the Central agency registered an offence against Deshmukh on April 24. Mane, a 1995-batch Maharashtra Police service officer, was in charge of Mumbai crime branch’s unit 11 till he was recently shunted out to the local arms division as a part of the clean-up drive undertaken by Nagrale, after Vaze was arrested by NIA in both the cases. According to NIA sources, Mane, who was arrested by the central agency on April 23, was purportedly part of the conspiracy hatched to eliminate Hiran. He was present at crime intelligence unit (CIU) office on March 3, when Vaze purportedly tried to convince Hiran to take the blame for placing the explosives-laden Scorpio near Antilia. The plan to eliminate Hiran was allegedly hatched after the 48-year-trader refused to take the blame and get arrested in the case.Beside Mane and Vaze, Riyazuddin Kazi and former constable Vinayak Shinde, who is serving life imprisonment in a fake encounter killing, have also been dismissed from service last month after their arrests by NIA. A cricket bookie Naresh Ramniklal Gor is also among those arrested. All the accused are in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/car-used-for-hiran-s-murder-brought-by-cop-sunil-mane-mumbai-police-chief-in-dismissal-order-101622573759717.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||CSMT revamp: Adani, Godrej among nine shortlisted bidders||Adani Railways Transport, Godrej Properties and Oberoi Realty are among the nine shortlisted bidders for redevelopment of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT). The Indian Railways Stations Development Corporation (ISRDC) will be undertaking the redevelopment of CSMT at a cost of ₹1,642 crore. The redevelopment of the terminus is likely to start from December 2021 and is expected to be completed by 2025. The other shortlisted bidders are Kalpataru Power Transmission Ltd, ISQ Asia Infrastructure, GMR Enterprises Private Limited, Moribus Holdings Private Limited, Anchorage Infrastructure Investments Holdings Limited and BIF IV Infrastructure Holding. CSMT will be redeveloped through a public private partnership (PPP) model. The redevelopment plan will involve construction of commercial spaces, including restaurants and cafes, along with vehicular parking, for passengers inside the terminus. ISRDC had earlier called for Request For Qualification (RFQ) in August 2020 and 10 developers had shown interest. The body will now invite the Request for Proposal (RFP) from the shortlisted developers. The proposal will include construction and development work plan. After evaluation, the redevelopment project will then be awarded to a developer. “Nine firms have qualified for the RFQ stage. CSMT station redevelopment is one of our most ambitious projects and we are committed to transform the station into a state-of-the-art transport hub” said SK Lohia, managing director and CEO, IRSDC. Segregation of outstation and local train passenger movements with interconnecting decks has also been planned. Shifting of harbour railway platforms to PD’Mello entrance of the terminus will be undertaken as part of the redevelopment. ISRDC has also planned an underpass for passengers near the present pre-paid taxi stand near the divisional railway manager’s (DRM) office at CSMT. This will be done by dismantling railway buildings that comprise the main reservation office and railway offices adjacent to DRM office. Additional holding area for passengers will be created at the PD’Mello Road entrance, along with the current main entrance for the outstation terminus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/csmt-revamp-adani-godrej-among-nine-shortlisted-bidders-101622573760329.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: HC extends Hany Babu’s stay at Breach Candy Hospital till June 3||The Bombay high court (HC) has extended the hospital stay of Delhi University associate professor and Elgar Parishad accused Hany Babu till June 3. The HC was hearing a petition by Babu’s wife Jenny Roweena seeking bail for her husband on health grounds or shifting him to a private hospital to treat an eye infection. Babu was shifted to Breach Candy Hospital as per a May 27 HC order for treating his eye infection along with Covid and the hospital had been asked to submit his health report till June 1. After Babu’s counsel informed the court that his condition had improved, the court extended his stay and adjourned the hearing to June 3, due to paucity of time.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Abhay Ahuja while hearing Roweena’s petition was informed by advocate Yug Choudhry that as per the information available Babu’s condition was much better but he was not aware of the eye infection as the medical report by the hospital was not made available to Babu’s family or lawyer.On May 19, the bench had been informed that though Babu had been complaining of swelling in his left eye to the Taloja jail authorities since May 3, it was not heeded and hence the petition seeking bail for Babu on medical grounds or shifting him to a hospital was filed. Choudhry had informed the court that there was an apprehension that Babu may lose vision if the infection was not treated and there was also a possibility of it being a case of black fungus or mucormycosis. Choudhry submitted that as GT Hospital did not have the facility to treat the infection, Babu should be shifted to a Breach Candy Hospital.Though the state and National Investigation Agency (NIA) had opposed the request, the bench directed that Babu be shifted to Breach Candy for treatment of the eye infection and Covid provided Babu’s family paid for the treatment. On May 27, the court extended his stay to June 1 and asked the hospital to submit a report on Babu’s health and eye infection.On Tuesday, the state informed the bench that the hospital had submitted the report directly to the court.After hearing the submissions, due to paucity of time, the court directed the hospital not to discharge Babu till the medical report was seen by the court and posted the hearing of the petition to June 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-hc-extends-hany-babu-s-stay-at-breach-candy-hospital-till-june-3-101622573699609.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||North civic body sells, leases out property to pay dues to staff||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation told the Delhi high court on Tuesday that it has begun selling or leasing out 37 high value properties under its jurisdiction to generate revenue to clear the salaries of its employees.North body commissioner Sanjay Goel told a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh that the civic body has already leased out Novelty Cinema for ₹37 crore and another commercial place at Karampura for ₹7 crore, last month.“By October or November, the procedure of leasing out or outright sale of nine properties will be completed. We are expecting revenue of ₹700-800 crore from it,” Goel told the court.The high court had on Monday warned the North MCD that it will start attaching the civic body’s properties, pointing out that the employees and retired staff cannot wait endlessly for salaries and pensions.The commissioner of the civic body informed the court that currently, there are 57,000 employees in the corporation.The court noted that besides salaries, the corporation has other mandatory responsibilities which also require funds, and for which it should augment its resources to generate more revenue.It noted that 96% of the corporation’s revenue goes into paying salaries and thereafter, it needs funds for other works, including stopping the spread of epidemic, control dengue and perform desilting of drains. “Ensure maintenance of the city as this is one of the foremost priorities and for that you need to augment resources,” the bench said.The court was hearing a plea by Akhil Dilli Prathmik Shikshak Sangh, through advocate Ranjit Sharma, seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against the North MCD for not paying pension of retired staff despite judicial orders.The bench asked the civic body to make an endeavour to comply with the judicial orders to clear arrears of salaries and pension, saying it is not acceptable that a poor employee is not paid dues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/north-mcd-begins-selling-leasing-property-to-pay-staff-101622573639580.html
02-06-2021||Other||Olympian Sushil Kumar’s gun licence to be suspended permanently||New Delhi The Delhi Police on Tuesday said they have suspended the firearms licence given to two-time Olympic medallist and world champion wrestler Sushil Kumar, who has been arrested in connection with the murder of 23-year-old wrestler Sagar Dhankad. Police said they have also initiated the process to cancel the licence permanently.The firearm, for which licence was issued to Kumar in 2012, has already been seized by the crime branch team investigating Dhankad’s murder case. Police officers privy to the investigation said they have already arrested nine people, including Kumar, in the case so far.“We have suspended the arms licence of the arrested wrestler, Sushil Kumar, as he was booked in a criminal case. The process for cancellation of his licence has been initiated. He has been served a notice, seeking his explanation on why the cancellation of licence should not be done,” said joint commissioner of police (licencing) OP Mishra.A senior police officer privy to the development said that the notice was served to Kumar on Monday and further action would be taken as per his reply, for which he has been given 15-20 days. The procedure for suspension of Kumar’s arms licence was initiated after the Model Town police station, where Dhankad’s murder case was registered, and the crime branch submitted their reports to the licencing unit, informing about the murder case he was arrested in and the seizure of his licenced gun. A request was made in both the reports to cancel Kumar’s gun licence, the officer said.“Taking the reports into consideration and the fact that Kumar was arrested in a criminal case, we suspended his arms licence and initiated the procedure for its cancellation,” added joint CP Mishra.Kumar is presently in the crime branch’s custody and will be produced before a Delhi court on Wednesday, when his four-day police custody ends. The investigation team is likely to seek further extension of Kumar’s custody to recover his mobile phone and clothes that he was wearing at the time of the crime.On Monday, the crime branch team took Kumar and Bakkarwala to Haridwar to identify the places where he stayed while absconding in the case and to recover his mobile phone and the clothes he was wearing at the time of the crime. However, the recoveries could not be made.The police are still looking for four more suspects who are wanted in Dhankad’s murder case.Advocate Pradeep Rana, who is representing Sushil Kumar, said, “The suspension of Sushil’s arm’s license is not in accordance with the law and there is no cause of action for Delhi Police to act in such hasty and unconstitutional manner and the same is in stark violation of natural justice and right to be heard. The involvement of the said weapon in the alleged incident is a matter of trial but prima facie there were no alleged gun shot injuries. Therefore, it is apparent that the investigating agency is acting in a malafide manner and trying to malign the image of a two- time Olympic medalist. It is incorrect that Sushil has not cooperated with the investigation agency. He is a law abiding citizen and he has duly cooperated with the investigating agency. However, since the investigation agency has failed to justify considerable period of police custody of 10 days, they are making these false claims just to cover up the lacuna in investigation.”Kumar was arrested along with his associate, Ajay Bakkarwala, on May 23, from outer Delhi’s Mundka, 19 days after the duo and at least 11 others allegedly thrashed Dhankad and his friend Sonu Mahal with sticks and other blunt objects at Chhatrasal Stadium. Dhankad later succumbed to his injuries, prompting the police to register a murder case and look out for the suspects involved in the crime.A video footage purportedly showing Kumar and others assaulting Dhankad was allegedly found on the cellphone of Kumar’s associate, Prince, who was the first to be arrested in the case. Prince had allegedly told the interrogators that it was Kumar who had asked him to shoot the assault video as he wanted to circulate it in the wrestling circle and also among his rivals to prove his dominance, the officer cited above said.The case was initially investigated by the northwest district’s Model Town police station’s team and later transferred to the crime branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/olympian-sushil-kumar-s-gun-licence-to-be-suspended-permanently-101622573580833.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||With Class 12 exams cancelled, varsities to discuss ways to tweak undergraduate admission process||With the government announcing the cancellation of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) class 12 examinations on Tuesday, higher educational institutions in the national capital will discuss and formalise changes, if any, that will be needed in the process of admission to undergraduate courses, in view of the change in the assessment pattern.While Jamia Millia Islamia conducts entrance tests for its undergraduate courses, Delhi University and Ambedkar University have a merit-based admission process, whereby students are admitted on the basis of class 12 marks and the cut-offs set, also on the basis of the class 12 results. In Jawaharlal Nehru University, admissions to undergraduate language courses happen through entrance tests and interviews.The cancellation of class 12 board exams also leaves open the possibility of conducting the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) for admissions to 63 colleges of Delhi University. Last December, the Union ministry of education had formed a committee to look into the modalities of a common entrance test for undergraduate courses at all central universities, in accordance with the National Education Policy, 2020. The committee has submitted its report and universities are currently waiting for the ministry’s response on it.Acting vice-chancellor PC Joshi, who is a member of the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) committee, said the university will now wait for the CBSE criteria for compiling class 12 results. “Since there will be no exams, CBSE would be evaluating students through well-defined criteria. We will discuss the matter with our admissions committee and academic council, if needed, and decide on how to proceed. The university too has to adjust to the situation. Safety of our students is most important.”Last year, DU started the online admission process on June 20 and announced the first cut-off on October 10 while classes started in November, disrupting the entire academic cycle. Generally, the university declares cut-offs around four to six weeks after the CBSE results and that of several state boards are out.Manoj Sinha, secretary of DU Principal Association (DUPA) and principal of Aryabhatta College, said the admission process will become “complex”. “Some sort of screening should be there to make the process fair. Otherwise, when students are evaluated on the basis of internal marks, the line between deserving and non-deserving candidates can get blurred.”Anu Singh Lather, vice-chancellor of Ambedkar University, said, “We were waiting for a decision on the board exams to decide on our admission process. As far as CBSE’s alternative assessment options are concerned, we don’t feel it will lead to much of a difference in results. CBSE has adopted a continuous evaluation process in its schools; so internal marks will not vary much.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-class-12-exams-cancelled-varsities-to-discuss-ways-to-tweak-undergraduate-admission-process-101622573580212.html
02-06-2021||Other||20%-45% of Mumbai’s population infected in second wave of Covid-19: Mathematical model||The second wave of Covid-19 pandemic has so far affected 20%-45% of Mumbai’s population, according to an estimate by a mathematician from Middlesex University, London. A significant part of these infections could be reinfections, suggested the model by Murad Banaji, senior lecturer in mathematics, department of design engineering and maths at the university, who has been studying the epidemic in Mumbai. Banaji has used Monte Carlo simulation – a mathematical technique used to estimate possible outcomes of an uncertain event in multiple scenarios. The model by Banaji takes into account that the second wave in Mumbai began on February 15. Between February 15 and May 21, around 380,000 new cases were added to the city’s tally.“A broad estimate is that between 20%-45% of the city’s population have so far been infected during the current wave. The estimates assume that there will be around 4,000 recorded deaths associated with infections acquired during this surge so far,” said Banaji. “Cases have not increased much in the last week. Daily fatalities have come down, so second wave recorded fatalities could end up at less than 4,000 – we’ll have to wait and see. But the broad conclusions should still hold,” he added. The surge in infections in the slums suggests that a significant percentage of infections in the slums during this wave could have been reinfections, Banaji said. “It would be great to have more clarity - hopefully the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation will eventually share data on cases where the same individuals tested positive more than once. Of course, because of very limited testing in the slums during the first wave, case-data may not shed much light on reinfections. But it would likely still prove valuable,” he added. Sandeep Juneja, dean of the school of technology and computer science at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, who has also been running simulation models to understand the transmission of Covid-19, said, “Our own estimates are on the lower side. More of the order of 12-18% population got newly infected during the second wave. Although we need information on reinfections to be more certain. Also, it may well be that the current strain leads to a larger proportion of population being symptomatic and hence a larger proportion getting tested and getting detected. This is plausible but we lack the research to confirm this. Given that most infections are in non-slums, one in any case expects a higher detection rate. A higher detection rate would imply a lower percentage of the population affected in the calculations by Banaji.” While Banaji’s estimation suggests a significant number of reinfections, Juneja said it was difficult to project reinfection cases. “We need a different method to arrive at reinfection numbers. For example, seeing what percentage of the population tested positive this time while they had tested positive in the last wave as well,” said Juneja.Rahul Pandit, a city-based pulmonologist and part of the state’s Covid-19 taskforce, said, “We are seeing some reinfections but not significant. Most cases are new ones. Mathematical models are based on various assumptions. So they may be accurate only when these assumptions are true.”“We know that prior infection and partial vaccination are likely to reduce severe disease. After an earlier Covid infection or single dose vaccination, people may still get infected and even transmit the disease – but they are less likely to fall severely ill, be hospitalised, and die. When we look at cases during this wave, it is clear that there were a significant number of infections in the slums; but reports have not described a surge in hospitalisations from the slums. This could be because a large number of the infections were reinfections - this would be consistent with serosurvey data which indicates high levels of infection in the slums by the end of 2020,” Banaji said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2045-of-mumbai-s-population-infected-in-second-wave-of-covid-19-mathematical-model-101622573579632.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||Students, teachers welcome end of uncertainty; CM says ‘big relief’||Students, teachers and parents on Tuesday welcomed the government’s decision to cancel the CBSE Class 12 board exams in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and demanded that the board should now come up with an “objective” criteria to evaluate students.The Centre on Tuesday cancelled CBSE Class 12 exams after discussions at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said it is a “big relief” that the Class 12 board exams have been cancelled. “I am glad 12th exams have been cancelled. All of us were very worried about the health of our children. A big relief,” Kejriwal tweeted.Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, who had said that exams must not be conducted without vaccinating all students and teachers, tweeted, “I am happy that the never-ending Class 12 for 1.5 crore students of the country will finally end.”Darshan Pal, a Class 12 student at Bluebells School International, said that the exam cancellation brought “big relief” to him and his parents. “My parents were anxious and worried about my safety. The decision is in the wider interest of students and it would prevent turning schools into Covid hotspots. However, the CBSE should formulate a criterion that is suitable for all students. Considering classes 9 to 12 while for assessment would not be fair since the subjects we studied in classes 9 and 10 were very different from what we opted in classes 11 and 12. CBSE should give more importance to Class 12 internals only,” he said.Pratham Agarwal, 18, a Class 12 student who has got admission to the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign (UIUC) and has to submit his Class 12 results by August 1, said, “I am really happy with the decision to cancel the exams. The board now should speed up the assessment process and give us our results at the earliest.”Parents also welcomed the decision. Aprajita Gautam, whose daughter was going to appear for Class 12 boards this year, said parents were not in favour of children going for their exams. “We recently lost family members to Covid-19 and all of us were infected with Covid-19. My child could not have appeared for her papers in such a scenario. Every house has been affected and parents are scared and the decision will bring them some comfort.”Principals said that schools are now waiting for directions from the board on the compilation of results. Divya Bhatia, principal of Amity International School in Saket, said, “Parents have been calling us asking questions over college admissions. Those students who were going to pursue their higher education in other countries are also relieved because the results are expected to come out sooner than it would have if exams had taken place.”Vishnu Karthik, CEO, The Heritage Schools, said the decision brought clarity for both students and parents. “The challenge now is for CBSE to arrive at alternative criteria to determine Class 12 marks. Any delay or any confusion on the new grading criteria will lead to more confusion and stress among students. Clear directions should also be provided to universities to modify their admissions criteria to ensure fair play.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/class-12-exams-students-teachers-parents-welcome-cancellation-101622573519639.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||Exam cancellation leads to debate on scoring method||Following the cancellation of CBSE Class 12 board exams this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, stakeholders including school principals and education experts have suggested that scores in internal exams of Class 12 or the performance of the students in Class 11 and Class 10 board exams may be considered to devise an alternative assessment method.After a high-level review meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the government on Tuesday announced that Class 12 board exams will not be held this year and CBSE will compile the results as per a well-defined objective criteria that will be announced later.Like last year, the government has also directed the national board to provide an option for students to take the exams if they wish to do so but only when the situation becomes conducive.Educationist Meeta Sengupta said the board can consider internal scores of classes 10 to 12 and Class 10 board exam marks for assessing Class 12 results. “These exams were conducted under the supervision of CBSE. They should trust their systems. Equal weightage should be given to all the components so that students are not left to the mercy of any one exam. An entrance test, to be conducted twice a year, should also be introduced for Class 12 students seeking admission to higher educational institutions,” she said.While experts suggested a combination of scores, principals across the capital said that including Class 11 results in the mix will not be helpful due to several reasons, including strict marking, online learning, and the “lax attitude of students” during Class 11.Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales, Pusa Road, said, “Using Class 11 scores may not be very helpful. Generally, students in Class 11 engage in multiple extra-curricular activities to de-stress after appearing for their Class 10 boards and tend to focus more on those activities than academics,” she said.She added that the board will have to consider varying factors while coming up with the objective criteria for deciding Class 12 results. “Some schools may have already conducted Class 12 pre-board exams while other might not have been able to. In some cases, the exams or practicals may have been conducted online. Taking all these variations into account, the board can come up with a system of averages, predicted scores or percentile for assessment and allot marks,” Wattal said.Principals also said that considering only Class 12 pre-boards is not a suitable option as students tend to perform better in board exams than school pre-boards.Alka Kapur, principal of Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh, said, “Many high-performing students focus more on their competitive exams during that period and only study for their final board exams later. These students could be at a disadvantage if we only look at Class 12 pre-boards. Similarly, considering only test scores of classes 10 to 12 will not be enough. The board could introduce a ’teachers’ recommendation’ criteria in the grading system as teachers know about each child.”Several government schools in the national capital said they were relieved over the cancellation of exams, and added that they were now waiting for CBSE’s directions on the matter. There are around 1,030 government schools in Delhi and all of them are affiliated to CBSE.Awadhesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Sector-8 Rohini, said the board should only consider internal scores of Class 12 and board exam results of Class 10.“Teachers tend to do tight marking in Class 11 so that students prepare better for their Class 12 boards. So we cannot take Class 11 results into account while compiling Class 12 results. However, the board should give around 20-30% weightage to Class 10 board exams. The remaining can be divided between the pre-board and other internal exams of Class 12. The board should also introduce a moderation policy for schools so that the marking is standardised, similar to the one they introduced this year for Class 10 board results,” Jha added.According to an official press release, the Prime Minister said that the decision on Class 12 CBSE Exams has been taken in the interest of students. He stated that Covid-19 has affected the academic calendar and the issue of board exams has been causing immense anxiety among students, parents and teachers, which must be put to an end.PM said that the Covid situation is a dynamic situation across the country. While the number of cases are decreasing in the country and some states are managing the situation through effective micro-containment, some states have still opted for a lockdown, the release said.Students, parents and teachers are naturally worried about the health of the students in such a situation. The Prime Minister said that students should not be forced to appear for exams in such a stressful situation, the official release stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/class-12-exams-cancellation-leads-to-debate-over-assessment-method-101622573460232.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC pulls up Centre over vaccines for 18-45 yrs group||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the Centre as to why it made a “wrong” declaration that it will vaccinate people between 18-45 years when “there is no vaccine available in the country”.“These are not satisfactory systems. You initially started the vaccination of 45-60. And now you have introduced (the vaccine) for the 18 years when there is actually no vaccine available... Why did you announce vaccination for them? Why did you have to make... wrong declaration?” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh asked.Emphasising on the need to invest in the future, the court said, “We have to invest in the future. Our future is the people who are 18, below 18, and above 18; the youth of this country and we are sidetracking them. We want to vaccinate people who are 60, 70, 80, 90. We are prioritising them when this wave has shown that it is the younger people who have suffered so badly.“… There are so many young bright people who have lost their lives. We have to actually protect the future. The younger lot which is the future is to be saved. We are on our way out. I don’t understand the policy at all,” the court remarked.The Supreme Court on Monday also questioned the Centre’s vaccine policy, saying the government needs to “smell the coffee” and modify its policy that requires states to pay more for Covid-19 vaccines.It also asked the Union government to ensure that the marginalised and rural population are not left out of the vaccination drive due to India’s digital divide.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the government, told the Supreme Court that the entire eligible population of the country would be vaccinated by the year-end.According to the HT dashboard, India had administered over 215 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Monday.During the day, 1,223,596 beneficiaries of the 18-45 age group received their first dose and 13,402 beneficiaries of the same age group received their second dose.Cumulatively, 20,210,889 persons across 37 states/UTs have received their first dose and 23,491 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-hc-pulls-up-centre-over-vaccines-for-18-45-yrs-group-101622573459584.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||Cops launch cheating probe against Kalra||At least 17 people have alleged they were overcharged, cheated and handed defective devices by businessman Navneet Kalra, who was arrested last month in connection with the alleged hoarding and black marketing of oxygen concentrators, following which the Delhi Police have initiated a cheating probe against the him. The police have also suspended his arms licence and served a notice, asking him to surrender his firearm.“He was initially investigated for hoarding and black marketing of the medical supplies. But with victims coming forward, we are probing him for cheating and overcharging,” said a police officer with knowledge of the matter. The police have recorded the statements of the 17 buyers and are investigating allegations of cheating against the accused, the officer said, asking not to be named.The officer said that last month, the police sent at least four concentrators that Kalra allegedly sold at prices much higher than MRP to the Shriram Institute for Industrial Research. The institute confirmed that the output of the oxygen concentrator was below 30%. The police have attached the report from the institute with comments from experts that the output should have been at least 90%. More test results are awaited.Kalra, through his lawyers in court, denied allegations of cheating and said the concentrators were donated to Covid care centres too. He also informed the court that he had no intention of cheating and paid taxes for getting the concentrators. He also said that he submitted the invoices to the investigating officer.When contacted, Kalra’s counsel, Vineet Malhotra, said: “All the allegations raised by police are false.”Kalra, who is out on bail since May 29, has been directed by the court not to contact any person to whom he had sold the concentrator.Arms licence suspendedMeanwhile, the police have also suspended the arms licence of Kalra and served him a notice asking him to surrender his firearm, officials aware of the matter said.The licensing department of the city police has also initiated the process for cancellation of his gun licence. Confirming this, OP Mishra, joint commissioner of police (licensing), said: “We have suspended the arms licence as he (Kalra) was booked in a criminal case. The process for cancellation has been initiated. He has been served a notice seeking an explanation why it should not be cancelled permanently.”A senior police officer aware of the matter said the notice was served to Kalra on Monday and further action would be taken as per his reply. Kalra was issued an arms licence in 1998.Last month, the Delhi Police recovered at least 524 oxygen concentrators from Kalra’s three restaurants and from the office of a private company, Matrix Cellular, in Chhatarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-probing-cheating-allegations-against-businessman-navneet-kalra-101622573404677.html
02-06-2021||Other||Shamli shocker: Man kills wife, injures son, for delay in serving salad||In a bizarre incident, a man hacked his wife to death and injured his son over delay in being served salad for dinner. The incident took place in village Gogawan Jalalpur under Babri police station of Shamli on Monday, police said. Superintendent of Police (SP), Shamli, Sukirti Madhav said a case of murder had been registered against the accused Murli, 45, who is absconding. “Raids are being conducted and the accused would be arrested soon,” the police official said. Police said Murli (goes by one name) had demanded salad for dinner on Monday. His wife Sudesh, 42, was busy in some work and the delay in serving salad led to an altercation between the couple after which Murli attacked his wife and 20-year-old son with a hoe and ran away, the police said. Hearing screams neighbours rushed to their house and alerted the police. Sudesh and her son were taken to the hospital where Sudesh was declared dead. Doctors said her son’s condition is critical. A few days ago, in neighbouring Purkaji area of Muzaffarnagar, a man shot his wife dead after she refused to make physical relations with him. He then threw his three minor children into Ganga Canal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shamli-shocker-man-kills-wife-injures-son-for-delay-in-serving-salad-101622573403784.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||SC stays HC order to cancel IGST on O2 devices as gifts||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed a Delhi high court decision quashing a government notification to levy integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) on the oxygen concentrators imported as gifts for personal use.The finance ministry approached the apex court challenging the May 21 order of the Delhi high court, pointing out that the decision was an entrenchment on a policy issue lying within the domain of the executive.Attorney general KK Venugopal, representing the Centre, told the court that on May 28, at the 43rd meeting of the GST Council, a decision was taken to constitute a Group of Ministers (GoM) to scrutinise the need for “further relief to Covid-19-related individual items immediately”, and its report will be submitted by June 8.The bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah issued a notice on the Centre’s plea, and stayed the Delhi high court order, stating: “Arguable questions are raised.” The matter was adjourned for four weeks.The high court order came on a petition filed by Gurcharan Singh, an 85-year-old who was infected with Covid-19 this April. His nephew, living in the US, sent him an oxygen concentrator as a gift, but it was subjected to IGST chargeable at 28% for personal use. In the wake of assisting import of Covid-19 medical devices, on May 1, the Union finance ministry issued a fresh notification bringing down the tax levy to 12% on the import of oxygen concentrators for personal use. This notification was challenged by Singh in a writ petition before the high court.The high court noted that this was a “rare petition” where a tax statute was challenged for being violative of a citizen’s fundamental right to life under Article 21. The petitioner claimed that, by a separate notification issued on May 3, the government gave a GST waiver till June 30 for oxygen concentrators imported by state governments or via any entity, relief agency, or statutory body authorised by the state government, even as those imported as gifts for personal use were charged at 12%. Even concentrators imported for commercial purposes were taxed 12%.A division bench of the high court struck down the May 1 notification, and said, “The courts and the state have to adopt a humanistic approach, which, in our view, is a facet of Article 21 of the Constitution. The failure to do so both, by the court and by the State, would lead to an unbridgeable chasm between law and justice, resulting in, disruption of social order.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/scstays-hc-order-to-cancel-igst-on-oxygen-concentrators-imported-for-personal-use-101622573403240.html
02-06-2021||Other||Gear up to tackle third wave of Covid: Jai Ram||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday directed the health authorities to plan a strategy in advance and gather logistics to effectively tackle the anticipated third wave of Covid-19.He was presiding over a meeting with the deputy commissioners, superintendents of police, chief medical officers, principals and medical superintendents of all medical colleges to review the Covid situation.He said that world over it is being speculated that the third wave, if it happens, could be dangerous for children, thus, greater stress should be laid on strengthening paediatric wards and services in health institutions.“Special focus should be laid on strengthening of health infrastructure related to paediatrics,” he said, adding that possibilities should be explored for vaccination of pregnant women in state.Thakur said with the active support of all stakeholders, the state government had successfully overcome the first wave of the pandemic and now the second wave is also waning.“Still, we have to be more vigilant as the pandemic is not over yet,” said the CM, cautioning people to follow all guidelines and adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour.The CM said information education and communication activities are vital for sensitising people to remove the stigma associated with Covid.He said opinion makers, local leaders and elected representatives of PRIs should be involved to educate people regarding the stigma associated with Covid.He called for graded de-notification of dedicated Covid hospitals, where there are no Covid patients to facilitate patients suffering with other diseases. He added that efforts must be made to demobilise private hospitals requisitioned by the state government.Jai Ram said the strategy for testing, tracing and treatment along with effective surveillance should remain intact as the crisis is not over yet.He said that the health department should take effective steps to provide oxygen facilities in all hospitals having 50 or more beds.He said that proper inventory of oxygen cylinders and storage should be ensured. He added that about 11,000 people are still in home isolation, thus, it is vital to contact them to regularly monitor their health parameters.He said that it is impossible and illogical to continue the restrictions and the state may consider easing curbs in the Covid curfew if the dip in new cases continues.Chief secretary Anil Khachi said it is the need of the hour to ensure that all stakeholders be more vigilant and keep an eye on people with ILI symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gear-up-to-tackle-third-wave-of-covid-jai-ram-101622573402554.html
02-06-2021||Other||Compared to April, realty bookings in Mumbai down 47% in May||The Covid-19 lockdown has adversely affected the realty sector in Mumbai with only 5,360 properties registered in May, which is a 47% decline from April’s 10,136 registrations.Experts have attributed the decline to the lockdown, accompanied by the loss of business as well as negative sentiments among the homebuyers.According to Gulam Zia, executive director, Knight Frank India, “The registration volumes in Mumbai have been impacted because of restrictions in movement owing to the lockdown. With the government allowing a maximum period of four months to register a sale after paying the stamp duty, buyers have not flocked to the registration office to conclude their deals. Many of the deals registered in May have been those that were concluded in the previous months when the stamp duty was lower,” he said.Anand Gupta, chairman, Builders Association of India (housing and Rera committee) blamed the negative sentiments for this slowdown. “The real estate sector works on sentiments and the second wave has significantly dampened the sentiments of the homebuyers. The whole economic activity has come to a standstill and buying a house is now a last priority for citizens,” said Gupta.The sector has been facing slowdown from several years and the pandemic has only made the situation worse.Last August, the government announced its decision to reduce stamp duty levied on the sale of properties to 2% from September 1 to December 31, 2020, and then reduced it further to 3% from January 1 till March 31, 2021. The move had played a huge role in boosting the sales of both primary and secondary market. The state, however, refused to extend the cut despite several requests.Manju Yagnik, vice-chairperson of a leading realty company, Nahar Group, demanded that the stamp duty cut be reintroduced. “The present lockdown situation has slowed down the demand and affected the sales of new properties. The state government should introduce stamp duty cuts to bring back the momentum and help the realty sector to tide over the crisis,” said Yagnik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/compared-to-april-realty-bookings-in-mumbai-down-47-in-may-101622573339638.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||Soon, restaurants can serve alcohol in open spaces||With the Delhi government notifying amendments to existing excise rules, restaurants and pubs in the city can soon serve liquor in open spaces, such as terrace, balcony, etc, inside their premises and can also have live music arrangements, such as performing bands, DJs, karaoke, etc, without hassle.The amendments – notified on Monday – also allow microbreweries in the city to start takeaway service for draught beer, serve in events and sell directly to restaurants and pubs.A senior government official clarified that this notification was meant to notify the changes made to the Delhi excise rules and the date of implementation of these rules will be notified separately.“The licensee may serve any Indian liquor or foreign liquor at any area within the premises of the restaurant, including open spaces viz. terrace/balcony/lower area of restaurant (same applies to hotels and pubs), if any, specified and endorsed on its licence subject to the condition that the liquor serving area shall be screened off from public view,” said the notification, a copy of which HT has seen.It further said, “Provided that the licensees holding license for consumption ‘on’ the premises may be permitted, subject to such terms and conditions as may be imposed by deputy commissioner by general or specific order, to play any type of entertainment/performance including music and musical instruments, dancing, or singing by professionals or DJ, live bands, and karaoke on its premises.”“The new notification would bring clarity... Earlier in the absence of these rules, civic agencies often used to impose their own regulations on restaurants and pubs,” said Manpreet Singh, a Delhi-based restaurateur and treasurer of the National Restaurants Association of India (NRAI) which has more than 5,000 members across the country.The notification of the new amendments to the excise rules further said, “Microbrewery shall be allowed to supply to other bars and restaurants… Draught beer shall be allowed to be taken away in bottles or ‘growlers’. However, wherever draught beer is being served as a take away, clear signage and information will be need (needed) to put up about its short shelf life and the bottles will have to mention the expiry date clearly.”Pratekk Chaturvedi, COO of BrewDog India, said the initiative will help promote microbreweries in Delhi. “So far, breweries in Delhi had to operate in suboptimal capacity in the off-months (winters) because sales drop, but they got no relaxation in fees levied by the government. Now that microbreweries have been allowed to sell to restaurants and pubs and serve at events, it is expected to bring relief. Also, the provision for allowing breweries to start take-away service can be a major game-changer,” he saidDelhi currently has two functional microbreweries (Ministry of Beer and Connaught Club House). Five more have licenses and are likely to start functioning soon, said an excise department official.Some more provisions under the new excise policy – such as reducing legal drinking age from 25 to 21, gatekeeping, age gating of clients, reducing number of dry days to three in a year, and allowing restaurants and clubs to stay open till 3 am (from 1 am currently) – will need amendments to the Delhi Excise Act and have to be tabled in the Delhi assembly, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/soon-restaurants-and-pubs-in-delhi-to-serve-liquor-in-open-spaces-101622573340221.html
02-06-2021||Other||Adopt progressive parenting methods: Sisodia to parents||New Delhi: Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday asked parents to do away with “archaic” approaches to parenting and adopt “progressive” methods to improve the emotional well-being of children as they face newer challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic.During a webinar organised by the Delhi government to mark the occasion of global parents day on Tuesday to discuss the mental health of children amid the pandemic, Sisodia said, “In the times of Covid-19 crisis, a new normal has emerged and our old ways of parenting will not work. Our children who used to have many social interactions are now at home, they are unable to go to school or meet their friends. When the outside world has been a place for our children to fulfil their dreams, they have been made to sit at home because of this pandemic. In such a time, when children have been home for 1.5 years, parents have been facing new challenges in how to deal with situations at home.”“A nation which can pull off parenting in a progressive manner, especially in times of crisis and beyond, will emerge holistically successful. In India, approaches to parenting are still very archaic. Our ways of parenting need to change, we need to adopt approaches that will deal with the challenges of our current times,” he said.The webinar was attended by over 10,000 parents on various social media platforms. Sisodia said that parents should involve children in activities to ease out undue stress caused by the pandemic. “Considering our children have been home for a long period of time, we can see they have been going through some changes emotionally, mentally and physically. Children are more upset, they are irritable and there is no balance or equilibrium... In such times, we as parents need to be more understanding. In fact, mindfulness practices in Happiness Classes organised by Delhi government have played a big role in easing the mental stresses in our children and parents alike,” he said.Experts on children’s mental health, Dr Shelja Sen and Dr Amit Sen also participated in the webinar and gave suggestions on parenting in times of crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/adopt-progressive-parenting-methods-sisodia-to-parents-101622573281979.html
02-06-2021||Other||Enthusiasts plan long rides to mark World Cycling Day on June 3||: To make cycling popular, enthusiasts and members of cycling groups have decided to go for a long ride on June 3, the World Cycling Day. Popular cycling groups in city include ‘Meerut Cycling Club’ and ‘Cyclofit’. Pratap Ghosh, 55, a networking professional along with his friends Hemant, Nitin Choudhary, Atul Sharma and others had formed Meerut Cycling Club in 2015. They have decided to go on a 50 kilometers cycle ride (Meerut to Khatauli in district Muzaffarnagar) on June 3. Pratap shared that many club members are childhood friends. Members are between 30 to 60 years and are a mix of professionals and entrepreneurs. Dr Anil Nausran, is another cycling enthusiast who has decided to take a 376 kilometers ride to Rishikesh and Dehradun via Muzaffarnagar, Roorkee and back. “I will start on Wednesday evening and return next day,” he said. Both Dr Nausran and Pratap do cycling for physical and mental fitness. Pratap said cycling has helped him keep an effective control on his diabetes. “I believe that cycling can cure many illnesses and therefore it should be adopted by people,” he said. Dr Nausran has undertaken cycling expeditions to Kolkata, Mumbai, Ayodhya and other locations in past 3 years. “Cycling before sunrise increases ‘happy hormones’ in the body and eventually it helps in keeping illnesses like diabetes, hypertension and depression in check,” he said. These cycling enthusiasts have called upon the people to make cycling a part of their daily activities. Rashid (goes by one name) who participated in state level cycling championships, now runs one of the leading cycle stores in the city. His store Evancy Enterprise has cycles ranging from ₹7000 to ₹3.5 lakhs. “People are now more aware about their fitness therefore they are adopting cycling to keep themselves fit,” he said. Rashid shared that there is demand for both hybrid (city cycles) and mountain terrain cycles (long ride cycles) and claimed to have sold more than 25 high end cycles ( ₹1 lakh onwards) in Meerut, Bijnor, Moradabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/enthusiasts-plan-long-rides-to-mark-world-cycling-day-on-june-3-101622573281279.html
02-06-2021||Other||Pilots’ union asks Air India to vaccinate family members too||Mumbai Air India Airbus’ pilots union, Indian Commercial Pilots Guild (ICPA), on Tuesday asked the national carrier to vaccinate not just the airline’s employees but also the staffers’ family members. The airline began vaccinating its pilots for Covid-19 from May 15. “Factoring in the government policy, we request the partisans who made vaccination for the flying crew possible to extend the privilege of vaccinating the dependent family members of the flying crew. Limiting vaccination against Covid-19 only to employees is not going to help the process,” a letter by the pilots, dated June 1, read. Air India had lost five of its pilots to Covid-19 last month. The pilots in the letter said that they fear infecting their family members on returning home after operating the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) flights. “With this backdrop, we need support from the company to keep performing our duties and keep our families safe,” the letter concluded. “Pilots are getting quarantined, contracting the virus and succumbing to Covid-19 at an alarming frequency. Even their family members are suffering and dying of this deadly virus,” said a pilot. The airline refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pilots-union-asks-air-india-to-vaccinate-family-members-too-101622573280712.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||Lockdown curbs push mayoral polls to June 16||Elections for the posts of mayor, deputy mayor and standing committee chairperson in the three municipalities — north, east and south— have again been postponed to June 16 due to the extension of the lockdown in the national capital till June 7. As per the new schedule, the last date for filing nominations is June 8.This is the fourth time that the election and nomination dates have been rescheduled due to the extension of the lockdown imposed to arrest the spread of Covid-19. “Now, the elections for the posts of mayor, deputy mayor and three members of standing committee in the three MCDs will be held on June 16... It has been done in the wake of Covid lockdown, which has been extended to June 7 now,” said mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation Jai Prakash.Besides this, election of one member of north MCD to the Delhi Development Authority Advisory Council will also be held on June 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mcd-mayoral-polls-postponed-to-june-16-101622573279587.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||Labour board seeks ration for workers||With some industrial areas resuming work at full scale, members of the Delhi Labour Welfare Board (DLWB) have proposed setting up facilities for ration, testing and vaccination of workers in such zones of the Capital.Bhure Khan, chairman of the DLWB, pointed out that markets, eateries and street vendors, among others, are not allowed to operate even as industrial activity and construction work have restarted. “We have suggested that the board set up community kitchens in industrial areas so that workers can get at least two proper meals a day. We can also provide ration to workers,” said Khan.Welfare board officials didn’t comment on the matter.The proposals can be discussed and passed only once the board meets. Thaneshwar Adigaur, member of the board and secretary of the Delhi Asangathit Nirman Mazdoor Union, said they want the board to hold a meeting in this regard soon.Among the other proposals raised by board members are starting facilities for Covid-19 testing and vaccination, and providing protective gear such as masks, sanitisers, etc.Shweta Raj, a member of the board, said,: “Vaccination of migrant workers should be done on priority basis.”Some industrial areas have already set up or made arrangements for testing, with the help of district administrations. Neeraj Sehgal, board member and general secretary of Mayapuri industrial area welfare association, said: “We had started a testing facility last year... Right now, workers need all the support as markets and other activities are all closed.”Adigaur said that these efforts are needed to build confidence among workers, who had to leave the city for the second time in less than a year due to the pandemic.“The government has taken measures for the welfare of construction workers. The government should also do something for lakhs of migrants working in industrial areas... The migrant workers have been the worst affected due to the Covid pandemic, as they lost their livelihood in cities and had to return to their home states.”Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests seeking a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-labour-board-proposes-community-kitchens-for-workers-101622573280139.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||How did some wards wave down Covid-19 in Mumbai? Civic body to study pattern||Since the outbreak of the pandemic, a few civic wards in the city have recorded fewer Covid-19 cases compared to others, keeping the numbers low even during the second wave. Anticipating a third wave post September, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to conduct an epidemiological study of these wards. Since the start of the pandemic in March 2020, wards A (Fort), B (Dongri) and C (Kalbadevi) have been recording the lowest growth rate. On April 7, these three wards had fewer than seven cases each. On the same day, G-South (Elphinstone) ward followed by D (Nana Chowk), E (Byculla) and K-West (Andheri West) ward recorded 78, 59, 46 and 43 Covid-19 patients, respectively. The ward-wise difference is visible in the data shared by the BMC. For instance, till May 30, B ward recorded a total of 3,796 cases, the lowest in the city. It is followed by C and A wards, with 6,624 and 15,463 cases, respectively. On the other hand, K-W (Andheri West) has recorded 51,432 cases, the highest in the city. Similarly, R-Central (Borivali) and K-East (Andheri East) have registered 48,293 and 43,861 cases so far. The BMC plans to study the trend. Several educational institutions like Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) and the University of Mumbai have tied up with the civic body for the study. “All the wards have implemented the same Covid-19 containment procedures and uniform policies. Despite this, some wards have recorded 10 times more cases. So, it is essential to study and understand the reasons behind it, which may help if we face a possible third wave in the near future,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. At present, the average seven-day growth rate of Mumbai stands at 0.15%. R-N ward that covers Kandivli has the highest growth rate (0.28%). A senior officer explained that the number of cases varied drastically between south Mumbai and suburban wards due to the variation in population. Citing an example, the officer said, for instance, B ward has a population of 1.5 lakh, while R-C has 6 lakh. “The infection rate is directly proportional to the size of the population. Wards with more people will have more infected patients, but this needs to be studied. As the cases have dipped, we can spend time on research to understand the epidemiological characteristics of the virus spread,” said the officer. Last year, the BMC conducted a sero-prevalence study in Mumbai in association with Niti Aayog and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR). As per officials, the study will include topics such as ward-wise tests, ratio of contact tracing per patients, isolation of high-risk contacts, among others. “This is the first time we are conducting such a study,” said Kakani. Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state Covid-19 task force said, “The infection rate varies from place to place. There is a need for a study to understand the reason behind it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/how-did-some-wards-wave-down-covid-19-in-mumbai-civic-body-to-study-pattern-101622573220762.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||Another weather record: Coolest day in June ever||A dust storm and late-night rain brought Delhi’s minimum temperature on Tuesday down to 17.9 degrees Celsius, the lowest ever recorded in June, ensuring that the city continued the trend of breaking some historical weather record every month since August 2020.According to IMD data, the previous lowest minimum temperature recorded in Delhi in June was 18 degrees Celsius on June 17, 2006.HT reported last week that the Capital was on a weather barrier-breaking streak for at least the last nine months.In August 2020, the city recorded 236.5mm rainfall, the highest for the month since 2013. In September, it recorded the warmest month in almost two decades.The Capital’s average maximum temperature that month was 36.2 degrees Celsius, breaking the previous record of 36.1 degrees Celsius in 2015. The last time Delhi recorded higher average maximum temperature in September was in 2001, when the mercury soared to 36.3 degrees Celsius.In October, the city broke a 58-year-old record by clocking a mean minimum temperature of just 17.2 degrees Celsius. In November, it broke an even older record, with the month’s mean minimum temperature dropping to 10.2 degrees Celsius, a level last seen in 1949.In December, the city witnessed eight “cold wave” days, the highest since 1965, while January recorded the highest number of cold wave days since 2008 (at seven days) and also broke the record for the highest rainfall for the month in 21 years (56.6mm).Then, there was sudden change. February was the second warmest in 120 years, with the mean maximum temperature in the month touching 27.9 degrees Celsius, falling marginally short of the all-time record of 29.7 degrees Celsius in 2006. March recorded the hottest day in 76 years, with the mercury levels touching 40.1 degrees Celsius on March 29.After a sweltering February and March, the conditions changed again in April, and the lowest minimum temperature in at least a decade was recorded on April 4, at 11.7 degrees Celsius.In May, under the impact of Cyclone Tauktae, Delhi broke the record for the highest single-day rainfall for the month ever, with 119.3mm of precipitation on May 19-20.And now, a new record has been set on the first day of June.Early on Tuesday, between 1am and 2.30am, the Capital experienced moderate to heavy rain and gusty winds of 50-70 kmph, accompanied by thunder. As per IMD data, around 16mm of rainfall was recorded in the 24 hours beginning 8.30 am on Monday and 8.30 am Tuesday. Rainfall between 15 mm and 65 mm is considered “moderate”.Weather officials attributed the rain to “western disturbances and induced cyclonic circulations”.“Usually, pre-monsoon activities are triggered due to western disturbances and induced cyclonic circulations. These act as trigger mechanisms for the development of thunderclouds which further leads to pre-monsoon intense weather activities such as dust storms or thundershowers,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president of Skymet weather services.Following the rain, the minimum temperature -- 17.9 degrees Celsius, as per the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered representative of Delhi -- was 10 degrees below “normal” for this time of the year, and nearly seven degrees below Monday’s 25 degrees Celsius.The maximum temperature was recorded at 33. 6 degrees Celsius, seven degrees below the normal temperature for this time of the year.Met officials and scientists said that while these extreme weather recordings are the immediate result of temporary atmospheric events in and around the Capital, the larger role of the climate crisis in the overall shifting of weather patterns is evident.“This time we have observed a relatively cooler summer. We are yet to record a heatwave, and according to our forecast, it is unlikely there will be any heatwave. Usually, in Delhi heatwave days are recorded till June 15, after which pre-monsoon activities start in this region,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.Meanwhile, the air quality improved on Tuesday on account of the rain, with Delhi recording an AQI of 115 (moderate) -- an improvement from Monday’s 135, according to data from the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-records-another-weather-record-coolest-june-day-ever-101622573220211.html
02-06-2021||Noida||Noida: Sanitation worker electrocuted while cleaning road||Noida: A sanitation worker was allegedly electrocuted near an electric pole in Noida’s Sector 51 on Tuesday morning while cleaning the road. The worker was sent to a nearby hospital from where he was discharged in the evening after treatment, officials said.Locals said that the worker was electrocuted after coming in contact with a live wire which had snapped from the pole due to rains and winds late Monday night. “This is the first time that a person has been electrocuted in our area. In this case, a loosely hanged wire was touching the pole. However, all the poles are rusted with the bottom touching the ground directly and only a few have concrete base. The electricity department must look into this as the upcoming monsoon season may pose similar threats,” said Sanjeev Kumar, general secretary, Sector 51 RWA.According to the electricity department, the cause of incident was a loose connection cable that has been fixed now. “The issue has been resolved. The incident happened as a loose cable was touching the pole. We will also look into if the incident accounts for compensation to the victim who is now out of danger,” said VN Singh, chief engineer of Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd (PVVNL).The worker was an employee of a contractor working for the Noida authority. “This was the fault of electricity department. The contractor concerned will look after his treatment,” said IP Singh, officer on special duty, Noida Authority.The worker, who is yet to be identified, has been discharged from the hospital after treatment, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-sanitation-worker-electrocuted-while-cleaning-road-101622573039574.html
02-06-2021||Noida||Security guard arrested for rape of minor girl||Noida: A 23-year-old security guard was arrested on Monday for allegedly raping a six-year-old girl in a village under Sector 49 police station. The suspect was identified as Shyam Sunder, a native of Lakhisarai in Bihar. He was presently living in a rented accommodation in Noida, police said. Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women safety) said that the Sector 49 police on Monday received a complaint of rape with the child. According to police, the victim’s family alleged that the suspect raped her when she was playing in the neighbouring park on Sunday evening. “When the child’s mother, a domestic help, returned from work, the victim narrated the incident to her. Then the woman filed a police complaint,” Shukla said. The DCP said that police will recommend a fast track court for speedy trial in this case.A case was registered against the suspect under Section 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code and also under POCSO Act. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/security-guard-arrested-for-rape-of-minor-girl-101622572980915.html
02-06-2021||Noida||Pet dog raises alarm in nick of time, saves family in Greater Noida||A family in Greater Noida was saved from a fire in the nick of time thanks to their three-year-old dog Bravo.The incident happened on Sunday evening at a duplex villa in Greenwoods society in Omega 1.“I was irritated by Bravo’s constant barking and pounding at our bedroom door. When I opened to see what was wrong, I found the entire house was filled with smoke,” said the 38-year-old resident Shesh Sarangdhar who lives with his pregnant wife.The smoke was coming from their kitchen downstairs and found that their stove and woodwork were on fire.“There was so much smoke that I could not see anything. I started dousing the fire with some buckets of water,” said Sarangdhar who runs an IT company. “It was a narrow escape for us because if Bravo had not raised an alarm in the nick of time, the smoke would have crept into our rooms as well and hurt us in our sleep.”Bravo is an Indie dog who Sarangdhar had adopted in March.“We used to stay in Sector 119 where I used to feed the street dogs. In December, when we decided to moved here, we adopted four of them,” he said.“When we take a nap during the day, all four dogs like to snooze on the terrace. When the incident happened, only Bravo was awake and indoors,” said Shesh.He later got to know that his wife had left the stove with a pan full of oil before sleeping and forgot about it. That is how the kitchen caught fire.“We did not have to call the fire brigade as I was able to control the fire on my own,” said Shesh.Aparna Bose Dey, an adoption coordinator with NGO Dhyan Foundation that runs the animal shelter in Sector 94, said that the incident shows how alert and smart street dogs are.“In our society we often look down upon Indie street dogs but this heartfelt story shows how sensible and alert Indies are. Shesh is part of our animal lovers group on social media because of which we got to know about the incident. This story struck a chord with all animal lovers,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/pet-dog-raises-alarm-in-nick-of-time-saves-family-in-greater-noida-101622572980304.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Global Covid-19 vaccine bids stuck in limbo||Even as the Maharashtra government and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) are scrutinising the responses they received for their respective global bids to purchase Covid-19 vaccine doses, state officials said they cannot proceed unless the Centre clarifies on dealing with intermediaries to procure vaccines. Both the state government and BMC are scrutinising documents, ascertaining links between the companies that have responded and the manufacturers. The BMC received two more proposals on Tuesday from bidders offering Indian vaccines, the last day set by the civic body to accept bids.The state government’s attempts to get foreign vaccines to boost its inoculation drive seem to have hit a roadblock. The application window for the state was closed on May 25, following which no extension was given, officials said. If the companies that have shown interest to supply vaccine doses are unable to establish connection with the manufacturing companies, it is curtains for the state’s tendering process. It will then primarily have to rely on stock from two Indian vaccine manufacturers, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech.On Tuesday, BMC decided to close the application window for its global expression of interest it had floated for procuring 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses on May 12. The civic body added that it has got nine proposals to supply Covid-19 vaccines and will carry out a detailed scrutiny process in the next three days. Similarly, Maharashtra government, which got eight responses, is also seeking documents from the interested companies. Besides that, the state has also written to the Centre, seeking clarity on engaging with intermediaries. A senior bureaucrat said that so far, the government has not got any response from the Centre on the letter. “However, we have sought documents validating their (interested company’s) connection with the manufacturer. Pfizer and Moderna have said they have not appointed any agency. AstraZeneca cannot participate due to the tie up with Serum, Russian Direct Investment Fund has not responded to our letter seeking stock directly. Dr Reddy’ [Laboratories] can only supply, which again will be limited as it has to give 50% of its manufactured stock to the Central government, we will have to compete with other states for the remaining stock. This can be resolved to a large extent if the Centre formulates a policy and procures vaccines,” he said, requesting anonymity. Maharashtra government’s attempt to float global bids is also seen as political posturing with an aim to put the onus back on the Centre to provide vaccines. State health minister Rajesh Tope has already demanded a central policy on vaccine import as well as asked the Centre to procure doses and distribute among the states and Union territories. Despite repeated attempts, health minister Tope or chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, who heads the state committee on global tenders, could not be reached for an official comment on the status of the tendering process.Meanwhile, the BMC received two proposals on Tuesday, taking the total tally of responses received to nine. Both the proposals received on Tuesday are from Indian suppliers, of which one has proposed to supply Sputnik and one has promised to supply any approved Covid vaccine. The other seven proposals, too, are for supplying Sputnik V and Sputnik Light.The BMC had floated the global bid on May 12 after which it gave extension on two dates of which the last one was on May 25. Post this, the BMC had announced receiving bids for supplying Russian Sputnik, Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccine. However, last week both Pfizer and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) in a joint statement with Dr Reddy’s denied giving authority to any other third party for selling, marketing or distributing its vaccine.On Tuesday, the BMC in a statement said, “Supply of Covid-19 preventive vaccine was earlier extended on 18 May 2021 and 25 May 2021. Proposals received by the deadline are now being scrutinised. This means that the expression of interest has not been extended. The scrutiny will take place as it is important to examine the business relationship between suppliers who are willing to supply vaccines and companies that actually produce vaccines.”P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, had last week told HT, “We will check the papers and validate the connection to manufacturers. If no proper connection is established, then we will not process further. We will check the shortlisted proposals through appropriate government channels.”Maharashtra administered 250,407 doses till 9 pm on Tuesday across 3,661 centres, according to the data on the CoWin portal. So far, the state has administered 22,848,402 doses since the vaccination drive commenced on January 16. The state has so far fully vaccinated 4,616,067 beneficiaries, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-global-covid-19-vaccine-bids-stuck-in-limbo-101622572979666.html
02-06-2021||Noida||Security guard arrested for ATM fraud in Noida||Noida Police on Tuesday said they had arrested a 35-year-old security guard for allegedly tampering with ATMs and stealing cash. Police identified the suspect as Rajesh Mishra, who is from Ambedkar Nagar of Uttar Pradesh. He had previously guarded an ATM kiosk, they said. Sector 39 station house officer (SHO) Azad Singh Tomar said that a private company that refilled ATMs had filed a complaint on May 5 on the alleged tampering. “The company alleged that its two custodians – Vipendra Kumar and Suraj Singh – responsible for refilling ATMs, along with an accomplice Ayush tampered with the ATMs and stole ₹26 lakh,” he said. A case was registered against them under sections 420 (cheating), 409 (criminal breach of trust), and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. Tomar said the three were soon arrested in connection with the case. “They revealed that the ATM security guard was also involved and that it was he who used to tamper with the machines. On Tuesday, we raided his residence in Salarpur village and arrested him,” he said. The police said they recovered ₹2.3 lakh and three debit cards from his possession. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/security-guard-arrested-for-atm-fraud-in-noida-101622572920961.html
02-06-2021||Noida||Man shoots wife dead, kills self in Noida||Noida: A 25-year-old man allegedly shot dead his 22-year-old wife and then killed himself in Gautam Budh Nagar on Tuesday morning. The reason for the alleged murder-suicide is unknown, said police.The deaths were reported from their rented accommodation in Sorkha village. The man was a native of Firozabad district, while the woman was from Etawah and worked as a guard at a society. They had married about a year ago, said police. Additional commissioner of police (Gautam Budh Nagar) Love Kumar said that the body was discovered by the woman’s colleagues. “Her employer had tried reaching her over phone but she did not receive it. Her colleagues visited her home and found the two bodies. Then they informed police,” Kumar said. A countrymade gun was found at the spot, police said. Kumar said that, prima facie, it appeared that the man first shot the woman and then killed himself. “A police team and forensics experts have gathered evidence from the spot. We have informed their family and are investigating the matter,” he said. Police said that the couple had shifted to this rented accommodation last month. Deputy commissioner of police (Gautma Budh Nagar) Rajesh S said that the autopsy reports were awaited. “The exact reason for the incident is not known. Neighbours said that the couple used to fight frequently. Their families are on their way to Noida. We will register a case once they file a complaint,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-shoots-wife-dead-kills-self-in-noida-101622572920324.html
02-06-2021||Other||In a first at MMR, newborn tests Covid-positive at Palghar||A baby has been tested positive for Covid 12 hours after her birth in Palghar on Monday evening. “This is the first case of a newborn contracting the virus in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and we are also surprised on learning about the case,” Dr Ramdas Marad, medical superintendent, Jawhar, said. The baby was a delivered prematurely in a private hospital at Palghar and weighs only 1.5kg. “The baby’s rapid antigen test report came positive, while her mother has been tested negative for the virus. The baby was rushed to Rural Hospital, Palghar, and later shifted to the Government Cottage Hospital at Jawhar. Her condition is said to be critical, but we are sure that the baby will be discharged soon,” said Dr Marad. The patient is being administered saline and has not been breastfed yet. “We will allow her to feed her daughter after taking all the precautions, once her condition is stable. The baby’s parents reside in Darshet, Palghar. Her father is a daily-wage earner and this is the couple’s first child,” said Dr Marad. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 tally in Palghar district reached 110,494, with 64,979 reported in areas under the Vasai civic body and the remaining 64,979 in Palghar rural. Of the 2,083 deaths reported in the district, 1,338 were from Vasai civic area and 745 took place in Palghar rural, said an official from the district information office (DIO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-a-first-at-mmr-newborn-tests-covid-positive-at-palghar-101622572919626.html
02-06-2021||Noida||Overnight rains bring mercury down by 7°C in Noida||Noida: The mercury fell by seven degrees Celsius on Tuesday in Noida due to rains and thunderstorm on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. The weather analysts said that the light rains may continue for another two days.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the thunder activities were due to the easterly winds, a low pressure line in the region meeting an active western disturbance.“It was a thunder activity and not a pre-monsoon activity. There is a low pressure trough line from Punjab to north-western Madhya Pradesh, and along with the western disturbance it led to the thunderstorm and rains. The maximum impact was observed on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. The light rains may continue for another two days. However, mercury will start rising from June 4 by four to five degrees,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.The average wind speed in the region is 30 kmph that kept the air quality under check, IMD said.According to IMD, Noida recorded maximum and minimum temperatures at 33.3 degrees Celsius (°C) and 20.4°C on Tuesday against 40.1 and 27.1°C a day earlier. The average rainfall in Noida was recorded at 0.5mm during the past 24 hours while the neighbouring Safdarjung recorded 15.6mm of rainfall. At Safdarjung, considered average for NCR, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 33.6°C and 17.6°C, respectively.Meanwhile, the air quality of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad improved slightly on Tuesday. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Tuesday was 127 against 156 (both ‘moderate’) a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 138 against 166 a day earlier, while Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 122 against 192 a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/overnight-rains-bring-mercury-down-by-7-c-in-noida-101622572859585.html
02-06-2021||Noida||Ineligible people book slots at camps meant for parents of kids under 12 years||The special vaccination camps for parents of children younger than 12 years saw many ineligible people arrive for the shot, including unmarried persons, in both Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar on Tuesday, the first day of these camps.The camps are called “Abhibhavak” on the Co-WIN portal with the disclaimer that it is meant “exclusively for parents of children below 12 years of age”.Both districts had two such camps each and the turnout was relatively poor.The camps were at Kailash Manasarowar Bhawan in Indirapuram and Delhi Public School Ghaziabad, Meerut Road (DPSG). Only 75 out of the total 200 doses were used. “More than 50 people who arrived at DPSG did not have children. Many said they had booked the slots in haste to get the shot and overlooked the eligibility criteria. So, we turned them all away,” said an officer from health department deployed at the centre. An official at the Indirapuram centres said 10 to 12 people had been turned away over similar reasons.“Such issues crop up on the inaugural day. We ask those bookings slots to carefully check their respective categories,” said Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr N K Gupta. GB Nagar health department said they could vaccinate only 137 people out of the 300 they had expected at the Bisrakh primary health centre and JP International School centres. “Many ineligible people also booked their slots here,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer of GB Nagar.The special camps were created on directions from the UP government. The government has been stressing on protecting children who could contract the virus in the event of a third wave of infections. “The staff deployed at the centre was very cooperative and they guided us through the entire process. Further, the arrangement at the school premises was also up to the mark with proper seating, drinking water and other arrangements. Otherwise, people expect they have to stand in long queues and face troubles at government centres,” said Sanjeev Kumar, a beneficiary from Shastri Nagar. Vaccination centres in schools: Several schools have also come forward and opted to provide their premises as vaccination centre. “We started as an isolation centre from April 5 to May 21 and it was also an oxygen aid centre. About 70 patients got benefitted. Now, we have taken a short break and preparing for a vaccination centre with 2000-3000 vaccination proposed in a day. This will be through a private hospital,” said Trilok Singh Bisht, principal of DPSG, Vasundhara. The other school of DPSG, Meerut Road started operations as vaccination centre from May 24. “Our overall target is about 500 vaccines per day, and we have also initiated session for parents from Tuesday. We have developed two adverse events following immunisation rooms and also a selfie point where people can take selfies when they come for vaccination. We have also allowed old-aged people to enter the premises in cars and even some of them were given the shots in cars. Proper arrangement of wheel-chairs and other basic facilities is also provided by the school,” said Yogesh Agarwal, admin officer of DPSG, Meerut Road. The members of federation of apartment owners said that they have tied up with Max Hospital at Vaishali for vaccination and they have decided that the process will be taken up at a nearby school which is walking distance. “Earlier we planned to get vaccination done at our highrises but now we have decided along with hospital authorities that it will be done at a nearby school, and it has proper facilities. So far, we have about 40 highrises in Indirapuram whose residents wish to take up vaccination. School premises will be convenient as people from other areas like Vasundhara, Vaishali and other can also come and take jabs,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of federation of association of apartment owners. The officials from Max Hospital said that they will be going live with the vaccination process from Tuesday. “The first day will be a dry run during which we will also assess about the arrangements. The premises is decided at a school, and we plan to take up about 3000-4000 vaccination per day. At our hospital, we have a daily average of about 1000 doses. So, overall, we will take up about 5000 vaccination per day,” said an officer from Max Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ineligible-people-book-slots-at-camps-meant-for-parents-of-kids-under-12-years-101622572799601.html
02-06-2021||Noida||Two oxygen banks shut as demand falls for Covid patients||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida Authority has shut two of its four oxygen banks in view of the decline in demand in the city. “As the number of Covid-19 cases are reducing daily, so has the demand for oxygen. We have decided to close oxygen banks at Gautam Budh Balak Inter College in Greater Noida West and the one in the primary school in Sirsa village. The other two - Mihir Bhoja City Park in Greater Noida East and Saini village primary school- will continue,” said Deep Chand additional chief executive officer of Greater Noida authority. “When we started there was a demand of around 40 cylinders at four centres on daily basis. But now the remaining two centres are filling only 7 to 8 cylinders daily.” The authority started the banks for patients in home isolation on May 8. The authority charges ₹500 for a 47-litre cylinder and ₹200 for a 10 litre one. The centres had supplied 700 cylinders till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-oxygen-banks-shut-as-demand-falls-for-covid-patients-101622572679538.html
02-06-2021||Noida||Noida: Only UP residents eligible for vaccination of 18-45 group||NOIDA: Many people in the 18-45 years age group, who visited the drive-through sites in Gautam Budh Nagar on Tuesday, had to return without getting their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine as they did not have a residence proof of Uttar Pradesh. They said that while booking their slots on Co-WIN app, there was no rider for essentially being a UP resident. The vaccination for the 18-45 age group started in GB Nagar on Tuesday. District administration officials said that only those having a state residence proof can avail the facility, citing an order by the state’s mission director of the National Health Mission (NHM). The officials said that residents of UP can show any documents like electricity bill and lease/rent agreement, among others, to prove their residency.Kailash Tyagi, a 28-year-old IT professional who is a resident of Yojna Vihar in Delhi, said that he had to return from the vaccination site at GIP mall in Noida, without getting the jab. “I had registered on Co-WIN app and was allotted a slot of 12pm to 2pm here. But as I am a Delhi resident, the vaccination staff straightaway refused to give me the dose, showing me a notification issued by the GB Nagar district administration,” he said. Thirty two-year-old Sandhya Singh, a resident of Shahdara in east Delhi, met the similar fate at her allotted inoculation booth in Pathways School in Noida Sector 100. “The vaccination officials showed me the door saying that the vaccine doses are only for permanent or temporary residents of UP,” she said. When contacted, Vandita Srivastava, additional district magistrate (finance) who issued the notification recently, justified the administration’s address rider on vaccination drive for the 18+ group. “The cost of vaccine doses for people aged 45 years and above is being borne by the central government. But, as the UP government has procured vaccines for the 18-45 group using money from the state exchequer, our aim is to benefit maximum number of people from the state,” she said. Srivastava further said that the district administration is not denying vaccines even to the temporary residents in the state. “Eligible people can show any document that establishes UP as their temporary or permanent place of living and they’ll get the shots. We can’t give the valuable vaccines meant for the UP residents to the people from neighbouring states. We’ve asked the staff at all vaccination booths to strictly adhere to the orders issued by the district administration,” the ADM said.The officials made it clear that this rule doesn’t apply to Noida’s private hospitals where paid vaccination is being carried out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-only-up-residents-eligible-for-vaccination-of-18-45-group-101622572619568.html
02-06-2021||Noida||Noida: Domestic violence cases high amid pandemic||Even as Covid-19 ravaged Gautam Budh Nagar over the last two months, domestic violence against women did not stop.According to data from the 112 emergency number, 813 such cases were reported in April and May this year in the district. Although this was much lower than last year when 1,764 cases were recorded in the same period, it was similar to the pre-pandemic levels of 839 in 2019.The “decrease” from last year, however, has to be seen in perspective of lockdowns and the pandemic. While in 2020, the nation was under a strict lockdown during the period, this year it was a comparatively relaxed “partial curfew” imposed by the Uttar Pradesh government from April 29.“Since the complainants could not call their families for help because of restrictions in 2020, they had to report the incidents to the police,” said deputy commissioner of police (Women’s Safety, GB Nagar) Vrinda Shukla. “This year, there was no strict restriction and the woman’s social support was more easily available.”Cases reported through the 112 emergency number are referred to the Family Dispute Resolution Clinic (FDRC) located at the Knowledge Park police station in Greater Noida where psychological and legal assistance are provided. In those cases where physical abuse is evident, a case is registered. As per Dr Ritu Gautam, FDRC Coordinator and an assistant professor of law at Sharda University, Greater Noida: “This his year, the root cause of most cases reported to us was due to the man losing his job, took to drinking and then vented his frustration on the family.”Dr Gautam recalled one such case in April this year in which a man took to drinking more often and relied on his wife’s salary. “This eventually led to a dispute between the two and that escalated,” she said.Dr Gautam, who is also writing a research paper on the domestic violence in India, also noted that the drop in cases this year could be due to the severity of the second wave. “Almost every household was affected due to Covid and there were reports of people struggling for life. Amidst this, a person suffering from domestic abuse can feel that what they are going through is not worth reporting,” said Dr Gautam.DCP Shukla said that a case under Indian Penal Code sections 151 (preventive detention) and 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) is registered in case of physical abuse.Mala Bhandari of Social And Development Research & Action Group (SADRAG) said “My interpretation of this data is that in 2021, we have been surrounded by death and despair all around due to the severe health emergency we were pushed into. As loss intensified for many, it may have led to low reporting of cases of domestic violence. However, incidents may still be happening inside the home”.“With a year of coronavirus, there have been many changes in life. Earlier, if reasons for domestic violence were just five-layered, Covid has added two more layers to it. This could be financial stress, job loss or even medical expenses. I believe the tremors of the second Covid wave are yet to come and there may be more cases reported in the future,” said Mala who is a Ph.D. in Sociology and her area of research has been Women, work and their quality of life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-domestic-violence-cases-high-amid-pandemic-101622572500273.html
02-06-2021||Noida||Noida to push vaccines into rural areas to achieve 1.5 mn shots in 2 months||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration targets 1.5 million vaccinations in two months - around 25,000 a day and the focus will be on rural areas. To do this, it had set out a blueprint: be aggressive and bridge the digital divide in rural areas. Taking cognisance of the difficulty in accessing the Co-WIN portal in rural areas to register for the vaccine, the district administration has tasked the common service centres (CSCs), which is under the Digital India mission, for an outreach programme.“The CSC staff are going door-to-door and compiling details of residents to share with the district vaccination department. On the basis of these reports, the department will set up vaccination centres in these areas. At present, we prefer community health centres, primary health centres, schools, panchayat buildings or any public place that have waiting, vaccination and observation rooms as vaccination booths ,” said district magistrate Suhas L Y. On Tuesday only 11,287 people were vaccinated, according to government data, and the district administration hopes that its push into rural areas will help increase the daily count. Over 590,000 people, more than a quarter of the district population, had been vaccinated at least once till date.“In terms of vaccination-population ratio, the GB Nagar district is one of the best performing districts in the state,” said Suhas. Dr Deepak Ohri, the chief medical officer, said that private hospitals will also play very important role in achieving the stipulated target. “While the private hospitals have procured vaccines directly from the manufacturers, there is no dearth of vaccines in the government hospitals. Even the rate of one dose of vaccine is less than its rate in Delhi and other places. The rate of one Covishield dose in private hospitals in GB Nagar is ₹850, while in Delhi and other places – the private hospitals are charging at least ₹100 more for the same shot,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-to-push-vaccines-into-rural-areas-to-achieve-1-5-mn-shots-in-2-months-101622572499633.html
02-06-2021||Other||Traffic snarls on Sion-Panvel highway after easing lockdown||Following the relaxations announced by the state government in some regions where the Covid situation has improved, non-essential shops have been allowed to open from 7am to 2pm on weekdays in both Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) and Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) regions. This, however, has led to traffic congestion along the Sion-Panvel highway, near the Vashi toll naka on Tuesday. The traffic snarls stretched up to Vashi village, which is around a three-and-half kilometre away from the toll naka. The problem was further complicated by the nakabandis conducted by the Mumbai Police at Mankhurd, the police said. Bhanu Khatawkar, senior inspector of the Vashi traffic unit said, “The number of vehicles on the highway was more than usual on Tuesday, due to the lockdown relaxation. The Mumbai Police also conducted nakabadis at Mankhurd to check the vehicles entering their jurisdiction. The Vashi area saw traffic jams between 9.30am to 1pm. We deployed more officers to manage the traffic.” Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar said, “Navi Mumbai has a positivity rate of 3%, hence we have allowed the limited relaxation of the norms, under Break the Chain order of the state government. The residents have to ensure that all the improvement in the situation does not go waste and that through responsible behaviour of the shopkeepers and the customers, the situation only improves further.” (Inputs by G. Mohiuddin Jeddy)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/traffic-snarls-on-sion-panvel-highway-after-easing-lockdown-101622572259479.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||Justify overruling Maharashtra govt’s decision over SSC exams, HC asks petitioner||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked the petitioner who challenged the state government’s decision to cancel the SSC board exams for the academic year 2020-21 to provide substantial grounds for them to pass orders contrary to the decision of the state government. The court also sought to know how it could pass such orders while there was an apprehension that the third Covid wave would affect children in the age group of 10-18 years.After the petitioner informed the court that he wanted to challenge the government resolution which announced the evaluation system for Class 10 students in lieu of exams not being held, the court directed the petitioner to amend the petition and include the challenge in it.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Pune resident and retired professor Dhananjay Kulkarni, was informed by advocate Uday Warunjikar that as the situation had improved there was no harm in conducting the SSC board exams. He further stated that the formula for evaluation and assessment of Class 10 students which were announced by the state government on May 28 was not acceptable and hence wanted to challenge it too.On May 28, the state government had announced that students would be evaluated through an internal assessment formula for the academic year 2020-21 and class 11 admissions would be conducted through an optional Common Entrance Test (CET) based on class 10 syllabus and those unwilling to appear for CET would be admitted based on their Class 10 marks.The additional affidavit filed by the state government on Monday in response to the PIL stated that the SSC exams could not be compared with HSC exams as the latter were more important milestones for students. The affidavit justified the decision to cancel the Class 10 exams while postponing Class 12 exams by stating that students appearing for Class 12 exams were more mature, independent, socially aware, bodily and mentally fit.The affidavit also referred to the threat of a third wave in July or August which medical experts have said could affect children between 10 and 18 years of age and said that in light of that decisions pertaining to exams on a large scale would have to be taken with due consideration.After hearing the submissions the bench asked the petitioner, “You want exams to be held. Do you think the Covid situation this year is better than last year? The state has said that the current environment is not conducive for conducting examinations. Can we substitute the decision saying that the situation is fine and say that it is conducive to hold exams?”While setting aside the argument of Warunjikar that the situation had improved the bench said, “We are making our prima facie observations. There are certain decisions of the state government that may not be fair but we are also aware of how much to extend our powers.” The bench then allowed the petitioner to amend the petition to challenge the newly announced evaluation formula for Class 10 students and said that by the next hearing on June 3 the Supreme Court would have passed orders pertaining to cancellation of Class 12 exams as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/justify-overruling-maharashtra-govt-s-decision-over-ssc-exams-hc-asks-petitioner-101622572260197.html
02-06-2021||Pune||Non-essential shop owners in Pune get back to business||PUNE For Ramesh Kadam, it is a relief and new hope to return to his garment store in Sadashiv peth after two months of lockdown.“For the last two months, we are struggling for our survival. Our small shop of clothes and garments was closed and our entire savings got finished during the last lockdown. I had to borrow money from friends. Now business has started and we hope to earn something for our livelihood,” said Kadam.On Tuesday, thousands of non-essential shops and traders opened for business after two months, post the strict Covid restrictions imposed by the state government. As Covid cases were on the rise in the state, a lockdwon was imposed which impacted hundreds of thousands who work in this sector. On Tuesday, major markets like Tulshibaug, Laxmi road, the jewellery market at Sonya Maruti chowk, the mobile shops at Hatta Ganpati chowk and several other small markets across the city opened up. Gangadhar Kundan, owner of Kundan Collections, one of the oldest clothing shops on Laxmi road said, “Though our shops were closed for two months and we didn’t have business, there were heavy expenses going on. We had to pay full salaries to our entire staff, electricity bills, EMIs and other maintenance of the shop. So we are already going through losses and now that the shop is open, it will take time to gain business.”Nitin Pandit, president of the Tulshibaug market shop owners association, said, “All the shop owners and registered street vendors inside the Tulshibaug market were excited to open up after a long period of time. We welcomed our customers by giving them roses and also gave a social message of getting vaccination done. It is our responsibility to get vaccinated and follow all the Covid safety norms strictly.”On Tuesday morning there was a sizeable crowd at all these markets. Manjiri Kulkarni had come to buy a new smarphone. She said, “My phone broke down last month and I had to use an old phone during this period. The first thing I planned to do after non-essential shops opened is to buy a new phone. I have bought a smartphone and also there are many other household things which we are planning to purchase this week.”Another customer Rakesh Jethva said, “My brother’s wedding was planned in May and due to lockdown we postponed it to June. We have started our purchasing, as there are only 15 days left for the wedding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nonessential-shop-owners-breathe-a-sigh-of-relief-with-masks-on-as-they-get-back-to-business-101622568539219.html
02-06-2021||Pune||0.1 million kids aged 0-10 years reported Covid-19 positive in second wave; 18K under age 4||As per the state health department, an age analysis of confirmed Covid-19 cases shows that there has been a significant rise in the number of infections reported in the age group of 0-10 years in the second wave, compared to the first wave. Between January 1 and May 29, 2021, the state saw 0.1 million cases within the age group of 0-10 years, including 18,000 cases among those aged four-years and below. However, this rise in the number of cases among children is in proportion with the overall rise in the number of cases in the state. During both the waves, the age group of 31-40 years was the most affected.The age-wise analysis shows that there has been a drastic rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in all age groups in the second wave. In anticipation that the upcoming third wave would affect children the most, state officials have stated that while children have not been vaccinated, which may make them more vulnerable, this is just a theory and that there is no scientific proof as yet. Dr Pradip Awate, state surveillance officer said, “The prediction that children will be more affected by the third wave has no solid scientific basis. The proportion of children of different ages has not changed much compared to the total number of Covid patients in the last six months. This means that the rate of infection in children has remained stable. There has been no increase. Most importantly, even though young children are infected with Covid, they have a much lower risk of complications and death, than adults. Even if you take the example of May, the under-18 mortality rate is 0.07. It is a common occurrence that one out of 10,000 children dies from this disease. Children who have other high-risk illnesses are more likely to have such complications.”However, city paediatricians have stated that the incidence of new borns being diagnosed with Covid-19 and the reported cases of multi-system inflammatory syndrome in Covid-19 positive children has also risen in the second wave. Dr Pradeep Suryavanshi, a paediatrician with three city hospitals, said, “In the first wave we had not reported a single case of neonatal Covid-19. In the second wave, in just a month’s time, between March 25 and May 11, we saw 11 such cases. This rise in the number of such cases is worrisome as we anticipate that this could become even more severe in the third wave. In addition to vaccinating lactating women, which has now been approved, the government must also think about vaccinating pregnant women, as this has been proven beneficial in multiple studies.” Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy director at Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital and a leading paediatrician said that until the government makes multi- inflammatory syndrome in children (MISC) a notifiable disease, it is difficult to know the exact number. He said, “At our hospital we have treated around five cases of MISC in just the second week of May and after that, there have been no reported cases. The second wave has just gotten over and these inflammatory syndromes are post-Covid, so cases may come forward now.”Dr Awate also added that while some children may need an ICU, that incidence is not very high. He added, “Young children do not develop the specific receptors needed for the virus to enter the body and therefore, do not appear to develop very serious illnesses. It is not very desirable to create a climate of fear in parents with young children and in society as a whole. We have to be careful and make sure your children are vaccinated regularly with regular vaccines and on time. It is not right to impose unnecessary restrictions on the child for fear of the third wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/01-million-kids-aged-0-10-years-reported-covid-19-positive-in-second-wave-18k-under-age-4-101622566318979.html
02-06-2021||Pune||Students studying abroad being vaccinated under PMC’s special provision||On Tuesday, the civic body began vaccinating students with confirmed admissions to universities abroad. On first day of this special drive, a total of 200 jabs were administered under the PMC’s special provision. This drive will continue on Wednesday as well. Kamala Nehru hospital is the only centre designated for this special drive. Earlier, the PMC allowed walk-in vaccinations for such students. The Pune civic body then shared a designated email ID for students to send in relevant documents to get a slot booked. A PMC official said, “Only those students who have received have received the email for June 1, 2021, with a token number/slot for a vaccination should visit the vaccination centre. The rest will also receive an email with a slot/ token details in due course.” Siddhant Yelwande, a 22-year-old student who has been admitted into the University of Minnesota, US, said he has to reach the university by August 23 and his second dose is assigned for August 24 on the CoWin app. “I have to join on August 23, which means I have to leave at least four to five days before that date. Also, I cannot leave immediately after the second shot and might have to wait for two-three days in case there is any adverse effect. If my second shot comes on August 24, I might miss my orientation and possibly miss out on courses I want to choose,” said Yelwande. The University of Minnesota, according to him, does offer vaccination for its students and only Pfizer and Moderna doses are currently available. “This means I have to ensure the second shot of Covishield here, before leaving,” said Yelwande. PMC has clarified that it will be writing to the Centre to minimise the interval between two doses of Covishield for students going abroad to study. “The World hHealth Organstion (WHO), has recommended Covishield internationally. So we will give Covishield to students planning to go abroad for studies. We will write to the central government to minimise the period between the two doses,” said Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner, PMC said on Monday. Not all students though have such a strict deadline.Sneha Abhyankar has to reach the University of Michigan by August 21. She said, “My second shot is scheduled for August 24 which is fine. I might surely miss the earlier days, but it will not affect my course greatly. I have been admitted into an MBA course at the university and Covishield is approved at the university.” Edwise International, which offers a consultancy service for students wishing to study abroad, has been informing their clients about demands from universities regarding Covid vaccinations. Subhash Pol, business manager, Pune region, said, “While Australia and New Zealand are yet to open their universities for foreign students, many universities in Europe and USA require their students to undergo vaccinations. While universities have not put forward any preferences for specific vaccines, all approved vaccines, including Covishield, are permitted. Also some universities have a mandatory quarantine for 10 days in case students are not vaccinated. Most universities require the student to join by September and so if the second dose is given before that, it should not be a problem.” Currently, as per the ministry of health’s guidelines, the gap between the doses of Covishield is 12-15 weeks.PMC has 500 applications from such students as of date. Agarwal said, “Students who wish to get the vaccine under this special drive should send in details like admission confirmation letter, passport copy with valid visa and other documents to studentvaccination.pune@gmail.com. The special drive will continue on Wednesday and PMC will give appointments.” Covaxin vaccine second shot for 18-45 age group from WednesdayStarting Wednesday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will begin administering the second dose of the Covaxin vaccine for those who were administered the first shot on May 5. Also starting Wednesday, PMC will start vaccinating the second dose of Covaxin for all those who got their first shot on May 5. Agarwal said, “PMC will arrange Covaxin second dose from tomorrow for May 5 first- dose beneficiaries from the age group of 18-45.” As of Sunday, Pune district has vaccinated 93,909 beneficiaries since the vaccination began on May 1. Of these, 24,000 are from rural areas, 59,000 are from Pune city and 13,000 are from PCMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-studying-abroad-being-vaccinated-under-pmc-s-special-provision-101622565419004.html
02-06-2021||Pune||Pre-monsoon showers keep Pune in the wet as monsoon beckons||PUNE Even as the monsoon is still a few days away, Pune’s rendezvous with the pre-monsoon rain continued on Tuesday, the 10th day in a row. Meteorologists said the onset of the Southwest Monsoon over Maharashtra can be forecast only once it reaches the Kerala coast. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), on Tuesday, released its second long-range forecast, with a 106% LPA (long period average) of rain for central India, which includes Maharashtra. On Tuesday, Pune reported 0.3 mm rainfall with IMD forecasting showers will continue in Pune city, along with thunderstorms and lightning for the next few days. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at IMD Pune, said that light to moderate rainfall is likely to continue in and around Pune and its adjoining areas for the next few days.“There are strong westerly winds along with a trough line which is incurring moisture from the Arabia Sea, from Central India to Madhya Maharashtra. Due to this we are seeing light to moderate rainfall in the city and four subdivisions of Maharashtra,” said Kashyapi.IMD officials noted that there is a cyclonic circulation over east central Arabian Sea off the Karnataka coast, which lies over the east-central Arabian Sea. A trough line runs from the cyclonic circulation over east- central Arabian Sea and the neighbourhood, to north Madhya Maharashtra, which is a reason for rainfall across Maharashtra.“We have forecasted that light to moderate rainfall is likely in Madhya Maharashtra, Vidarbha, Marathwada and parts of Konkan and Goa. These are pre-monsoon showers,” said Kashyapi.As per the forecast, all four subdivisions in Maharashtra will receive moderate rainfall at isolated places till June 4.“As per the latest meteorological indications, the southwesterly winds have strengthened, resulting in likely enhancement in rainfall activity over Kerala. Hence, the monsoon onset over Kerala is likely to take place around June 3,” said IMD officials.“After the onset of the Southwest Monsoon over Kerala, conditions will get clearer as to when the monsoon will reach Maharashtra and Pune. As of now, conditions are favourable for the onset over Kerala. On Tuesday, 12 of 14 stations in Kerala are reporting rainfall. When all 14 stations report widespread rainfall, we can say that the conditions are becoming more favourable,” said Kashyapi.The Second Long Range Forecast released by IMD suggests that the rainfall over the four homogeneous regions in India is most likely to be normal.“Seasonal rainfall is most likely to be above normal over Central India that includes Maharashtra. The southwest monsoon seasonal (June to September) rainfall over the monsoon core zone, which consists of most of the rain-fed agriculture regions in the country, is most likely to be above normal,” said Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, IMD Director General of Meteorology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/premonsoon-showers-keep-pune-in-the-wet-as-monsoon-beckons-101622563618825.html
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Batala police recover ₹34 lakh drug money from smuggler||Batala police on Tuesday recovered ₹34 lakh drug money at the instance of a drug smuggler, who was brought on a production warrant from the high security Amritsar Central Jail, for his alleged involvement a weapons’ seizure case last week.Joginder Singh of Purian Kalan village near Batala was lodged in the Amritsar jail after he was arrested with 1kg heroin and ₹1.35 lakh drug money in October last year.On May 26, Batala police arrested two persons—Sandeep Kumar and Sarwan Singh—with three pistols, two double-barrel guns, an air gun, two countrymade pistols and 101 live rounds. “During Sandeep and Sarwan’s interrogation, it came to light that Joginder had been supplying weapons smuggled from Pakistan to them. Joginder was brought on a production warrant from Amritsar jail and during his interrogation, we came to know that he had accumulated huge amount of money by selling weapons and drugs. Our team raided the location revealed by Joginder and recovered ₹34 lakh,” said Batala senior superintendent of police Rashpal Singh.He said police have already frozen his assets worth ₹1.17 crore in Batala. “Joginder’s family members are also involved in the illegal trade. Earlier, his wife Amarjit Kaur was arrested with 1.3kg of heroin and a foreign-made pistol and his nephew Sarwan Singh was nabbed with 255 gms of heroin,” the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/batala-police-recover-rs-34-l-drug-money-from-smuggler-101622550957423.html
02-06-2021||Delhi||Sushil Kumar’s gun licence to be cancelled permanently||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said they have suspended the firearms licence given to two-time Olympic medallist and world champion wrestler Sushil Kumar, who has been arrested in connection with the murder of 23-year-old wrestler Sagar Dhankad. Police said they have also initiated the process to cancel the licence permanently.The firearm, for which licence was issued to Kumar in 2012, has already been seized by the crime branch team investigating Dhankad’s murder case. Police officers aware of the investigation said they have already arrested nine people, including Kumar, in the case.“We have suspended the arms licence of the arrested wrestler, Sushil Kumar, as he was booked in a criminal case. The process for cancellation of his licence has been initiated. He has been served a notice, seeking his explanation on why the cancellation of licence should not be done,” said joint commissioner of police (licencing) OP Mishra.Advocate Pradeep Rana, who is representing Kumar, said: “The suspension of Sushil’s arm’s license is not in accordance with the law and there is no cause of action for Delhi Police to act in such hasty and unconstitutional manner and the same is in stark violation of natural justice and right to be heard. The involvement of the said weapon in the alleged incident is a matter of trial but prima facie there were no alleged gun shot injuries. Therefore, it is apparent that the investigating agency is acting in a malafide manner and trying to malign the image of a two- time Olympic medallist.”Kumar is presently in the custody of the crime branch and will be produced before a Delhi court on Wednesday, when his four-day police custody ends. The team is likely to seek further extension of Kumar’s custody to recover his mobile phone and clothes that he was wearing at the time of the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arms-licences-of-wrestler-sushil-kumar-delhi-bizman-navneet-kalra-suspended-101622531515881.html
02-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: YouTuber arrested over death of his wife||A well-known YouTuber was arrested by Bhandup police on Sunday night after his wife’s family alleged that she had been killed by the accused.According to police, the victim, Komal Agarwal, was found dead at her house where she lived with her husband. The police had initially registered a case of accidental death, but following the complaint by Agarwal’s mother and sister, a case of abetment to suicide, culpable homicide not amounting to murder and assault along with intimidation against filed her husband Jitendra under sections 304, 323, 306 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code.Agarwal had allegedly eloped with Jitendra, popularly known as Jeetu Jaan, on March 4 this year after knowing each other for around two months, which offended her parents and siblings. Her mother Sheela Pathak told the police that after her wedding, Agarwal was assaulted by Jitendra regularly over house work.The accused had allegedly told Agarwal to stop calling her sister Priya after finding out that she complained to her about the physical abuse.Agarwal allegedly complained of assault three times to her sister and her friend Meena and she once also left the house. “If Jitendra had physically abused Komal so many times, it is not difficult to imagine that he may have killed her,” said Priya.Pathak said that they learnt about the demise of Agarwal on May 27 when Bhandup police informed them that Agarwal had hanged herself. The family then approached the police saying they suspected Jitendra.“We have arrested Jitendra and are investigating the case. We are waiting for the post-mortem report to find out whether she was killed and then hanged or was forced to hang herself,” said Sham Shinde, senior inspector, Bhandup police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-youtuber-arrested-over-death-of-his-wife-101622487289545.html
