03-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra goes past 97,000 Covid fatalities||Maharashtra on Thursday went past 97,000 fatalities due to Covid-19, with 307 fresh deaths pushing the toll to 97,394. The state also added 15,229 fresh Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 5,791,413. The active caseload of the state dropped to 204,974; the positivity rate was 5.86% on Thursday, while the overall positivity rate was 16.19%. Mumbai, meanwhile, continued to report under 1,000-cases for the fourth consecutive day on Thursday. It saw 985 cases and 27 deaths, taking the respective tallies to 708,026 and 14,907. Of the fatalities reported in the state on Thursday, 228 occurred in the past 48 hours and 79 in the last week. The state also added 336 deaths to the state’s cumulative tally as part of the data reconciliation. The second wave in the state has been deadly for the state, as it has recorded 45,240 fatalities between March 1 and Thursday. However, state health department officials said the death rate has been lower in the second wave. The absolute number of deaths reported, however, has been high. In March 2021, the state recorded 2,495 deaths, which climbed to 14,164 in April, and 26,531 in May. “The case fatality rate (CFR) was over 3% in July and August, which dropped to 2.65 in September, when Maharashtra achieved its peak in the first wave. The CFR was 1.94% on March 31, 1.5% on April 30 and 1.66% on May 31. Although the number of deaths occurring during the second wave was higher, the positive aspect is the deaths did not rise to the level of the rise in cases,” said a senior health department official, requesting anonymity. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said Maharashtra is now in a declining state in the second wave. “We have been witnessing a downward trajectory of the curve now for the past few days,” he said. However, some districts still continue to show high daily cases and a slight increase in the number of cases. As per the health department data, many districts, including Raigad, Ratnagiri, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Pune, still have a weekly positivity rate between 14% and 18%. Raigad, Ratnagiri and Satara have double the weekly positivity rate of the state (8.48%), with 18.59%, 17.32% and 16.73% weekly positivity rate, respectively. The weekly growth rate in high in Sindhudurg district was 2.2%, while the state’s weekly growth rate is 0.34%. Kolhapur district’s weekly growth rate was 1.74%, while Ratnagiri’s 1.36% and Satara’s was 1.29%. “The high number of cases in four-five districts is not a major concern. The viral activity is high in these pockets but not out of control. The set protocol and procedures are being followed and as the incubation period finishes, we will see stabilising, and eventually, a declining curve in these parts,” the official said. Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts added 534 and 620 fresh cases on Thursday. Satara district added 1,463 new cases, while Kolhapur district added 1,436 cases. Ahmednagar saw 1,134 cases on Thursday and Solapur district added 603 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-goes-past-97-000-covid-fatalities-101622744172019.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Resume local train services in Mumbai for general public, passenger assns demand||As the state government begins the process of easing the lockdown restrictions in Maharashtra, associations of suburban train commuters have demanded that local trains should be resumed for the general public.With the second wave of coronavirus hitting the state, local train services were suspended for the general public for the second time on April 15.Presently, local train services are operational only for people working in essential services and citizens travelling for vaccination or hospital. Nearly three million passengers are travelling by local trains on both the Central and Western Railway.Passenger associations who met Central Railway officials on Wednesday asked for an increase in safety measures for women commuters, in the women compartment, and urged the railway authorities to open up local trains for the general public, like earlier.“Train services should be resumed for the general public. As the state is unlocking, passengers that are travelling for work should be allowed to commute. We discussed this with the railway officials but they said that the decision on allowing people to commute is with the Maharashtra government. The government should immediately open train services with restricted timing like earlier,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.Associations have also stated that those passengers who are vaccinated should be allowed to commute. “As the government has been saying that people who have received even one vaccine dose are less likely to transmit the virus, they should then be allowed to commute. Passengers who have got one or both doses should be allowed to travel. We also urge the state government to ramp up the vaccination process,” said Lata Argade, secretary, Suburban Railway Passenger Association.Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway, said, “Passengers as identified by state government are permitted to travel in suburban local trains. Our authorities are co-ordinating with state government for any further decision in this regard.” Further, the Central Railway detected 32,000 ticketless commuting cases on its suburban railway corridor in May and collected a fine of ₹1.65 lakh. During April and May, 1.50 lakh cases of ticketless travellers were detected in suburban and non-suburban trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/resume-local-train-services-in-mumbai-for-general-public-passenger-assns-demand-101622744112012.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccine supply falls by 44% in Mumbai in May compared to April: BMC data||Mumbai’s vaccine supply saw a huge fall of 44% in May compared to that of April. This also resulted in fewer citizens getting inoculated in May compared to April and March, reveals the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data.According to BMC data, the vaccine supply was 523,440 doses in May 2021, down from 947,500 doses in April. The city has received a total of 3,117,890 doses since January 16, when the vaccination started in the city.In January, vaccination started only for healthcare workers, later the frontline workers were added. Starting March, senior citizens were added, followed by those above 45 years of age. From May 1, those between the age group of 18 to 44 were also allowed to get vaccinated. However, with the increase in citizens eligible for vaccination, the supply went down, resulting in fewer citizens getting the jab in May 2021.The BMC got 265,000 vaccine doses in January when 33,505 beneficiaries were vaccinated; in February 571,000 vaccine doses were received and 187,805 citizens were vaccinated, while in March 810,950 doses were received and 931,664 were vaccinated.Further, in April, 947,500 vaccines were received when 1,275,652 were vaccinated, while in May 523,440 vaccine doses were received and 847,415 were vaccinated. However, the number of vaccines received does not match with the beneficiary numbers, as one has to also consider the wastage and the number of citizens vaccinated by private hospitals.On Thursday, vaccination remained suspended in the government and civic-run vaccination centres owing to the shortage of vaccine doses. However, private hospitals continued to undertake vaccination. As of June 2, 3,374261 citizens were vaccinated in the city. Meanwhile, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “We have thought of various plans to increase the vaccination in the city and also bring ease when it comes to vaccination. This includes having more vaccination centres and having mobile applications to inform about vaccination. However, the problem is with the shortage of doses. We are hoping to get more vaccine doses from the direct procurement by the BMC via tenders or from the efforts of the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-vaccine-supply-falls-by-44-in-mumbai-in-may-compared-to-april-bmc-data-101622743992021.html
03-06-2021||Other||Sero survey on in Varanasi, other east UP districts||: A team of researchers and scientists of Banaras Hindu University’s (BHU’s) zoology department, along with Biosense Technologies, India, is doing sero survey in 10 districts of eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP) to find out how many people have developed antibodies against Covid-19 infection. The 74-member team of scientists and researchers headed by professor Gyaneshwar Chaube of zoology department started sero survey around a fortnight ago. The survey will cover Azamgarh, Ballia, Mau, Jaunpur, Ghazipur, Sonbhadra, Bhadohi and Mirzapur, Prof Chaube said. “There will be special focus on Varanasi,” he said. While 500 samples would be collected from each of the other districts for antibody tests, in Varanasi 1000 antibody tests will be done. Over 400 tests have been done so far, prof Chaube said. In Ghazipur’s Gahmar village, over 100 antibody tests will be done. The village, with a population of 50,000, has several villagers serving the Indian army and is hence also known as the village of bravehearts. Professor Chaube said the survey will be completed by mid-August and its findings will be analysed to find out how many people developed anti-bodies during the second wave. “After that a detailed report will be prepared and sent to Prime Minister Office and union ministry of health and family welfare,” he said. The report will also be shared with an international science journal, he added.Prof Chaube said the team is also collecting data and doing surveillance to get an idea by when possible third wave might come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sero-survey-on-in-varanasi-other-east-up-districts-101622743872614.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||15 booked for cheating private bank of ₹1.64 crore||NM Joshi Marg police booked a manger of a car dealer shop, a loan agent and 13 others for allegedly submitting bogus and duplicate documents to IDBI Bank and fraudulently securing car loans to the tune of ₹1.64 crore and duping the bank. The first information report (FIR) in the case was registered on Wednesday and police would soon summon the accused for inquiry. Rupali Shriram, branch manager of Lower Parel branch, IDBI Bank, in her complaint to the police, said that the bank received an email from the head office in January this year, directing all branch managers to verify all vehicle loans and sought a detailed report. As part of the task, documents of all vehicle loans were subjected to scrutiny by the bank and discrepancies were found in 13 loans processed through a Kalyan-based car dealer and an agent Santosh Kambale, police said.When the bank visited the car dealer for inquiry, it was revealed that the car dealer’s bank account in which the loan amount of ₹1.64 crore was transferred actually belonged to Kambale.“Kambale allegedly conspired with Jayesh Ashokan, manager of the car dealership and 13 other people, and on the basis of bogus and duplicate documents secured loans from the bank and used it for personal gains. The customers who had taken the loan from the bank have defaulted in paying the EMIs and caused wrongful loss to the bank,” the complainant bank manager said.A police officer said, “We have recorded the manager’s statement and on Wednesday registered a case against 15 accused under sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code for cheating, forgery, and common intention.” The police have begun investigation and are checking if the accused are involved in duping other banks. No arrest has been made in the case so far, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/15-booked-for-cheating-private-bank-of-1-64-crore-101622743812553.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Three Elgar Parishad accused test positive for Covid-19 in Taloja jail||Three of the 10 Elgar Parishad accused lodged in Taloja jail tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, prison authorities said. The prison department had conducted tests on all 10 accused booked in connection with Elgar Parishad case and lodged in Taloja jail. The tests were conducted after another accused Hany Babu, who was taken to Sir JJ Hospital for an eye infection, had tested positive for Covid and had to be shifted to GT Hospital in May. Three accused who have tested positive are Mahesh Raut, Sagar Gorkhe and Ramesh Gaichor. “We conducted tests on all 10 accused. The three who tested positive are asymptomatic. They were not yet vaccinated as they are below 40 in age. The three are now lodged in the prison hospital and are being treated there,” said Kaustubh Kurlekar, superintendent of Taloja prison. The remaining seven including Vernon Gonsalves, Dr Anand Teltumbde, Sudhir Dhavale and Arun Ferreira have been vaccinated as they are senior citizens, informed the prison officers. All the accused were arrested after a case was lodged against them in the aftermath of the violence in Pune allegedly triggered by Elgar Parishad held on December 31, 2017. A total of 16 accused were booked under provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and the Indian Penal Code in the case, for alleged part in a larger conspiracy which led to the violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/three-elgar-parishad-accused-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-taloja-jail-101622743811945.html
03-06-2021||Gurugram||Former sarpanch of Farrukhnagar, brother attacked||A group of unidentified men allegedly opened fire at a former sarpanch of Farrukhnagar and his brother, a liquor trader, in Mohammadpur village on Wednesday. The police said that the duo was not hit, and that the former sarpanch, identified as Krishan Kumar Rao, also shot three rounds from his licensed revolver in retaliation.No arrest has been made so far. The reason behind the incident is not known yet, but the family suspects business rivalry, said the police.Thirty-year-old Rao said that he went outside his house after he heard gunshots around 8pm on Wednesday. He saw two masked men firing bullets. “As soon as they saw me, they shot five rounds at me and two hit my car which was parked outside the house. I ran inside my house and took out my licensed revolver and opened fire at them. My brother, Rajesh, came for my rescue, but they fired at him too,” Rao said.The assailants, before escaping, threatened to kill us and said that they would return soon, Rao said. He called the police control room and informed them of the incident, following which a police team reached the spot.Sandeep Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Farrukhnagar police station, said that they did not name anyone in their statement. “The motive is not yet clear, and we are questioning a few locals to know if there is any enmity within the village or if it was related to business,” Kumar said.The duo runs liquor vends in the area and also have political backgrounds, said the police, adding that they are investigating the matter, and a hunt to nab the assailants is underway.A case under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 307 (attempt to murder), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention), and relevant Arms Act sections was registered against two unidentified men at the Farrukhnagar police station on Wednesday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/former-sarpanch-of-farrukhnagar-brother-attacked-101622743755577.html
03-06-2021||Gurugram||GMDA to develop green belts along 300km of roads||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority is planning to develop green belts along 300 kilometres of its road network in the city over the next three years, officials said on Thursday. The focus in this fiscal is on 100 kilometres and groundwork of fencing, digging of soil and adding fertilizers has started on a few stretches, they said. Subhash Yadav, the divisional forest officer and head of urban environment division, GMDA, said, “During the 8th authority meeting held with the chief minister in April, we had calculated that the total road connectivity in areas under GMDA’s jurisdiction adds up to around 300 kilometres and green belts can be developed along these roads. Based on that, we started the groundwork of installing fences so that the plants are not destroyed and protected from encroachment. During the monsoon season, we will be planting saplings and aim to cover 100 kilometres in the first phase.” He said that work is underway on two stretches, the one from Sector 44 to Netaji Subhash Road and another from Huda City Centre to Sector 54.“During our meetings with the chief executive officer, it has been discussed that green belts should be developed in such a manner that one particular species is planted on a single stretch of the road. These could be either fruit trees or native species such as amaltas, dhak, and harsingar trees. Along with plantation of taller long rotation trees that will shade the green belt, shrubs will also be planted to ensure that ground surface is not left blank,” said Yadav. The official said that pipelines are being laid to ensure that watering is done only using recycled water. The method of irrigation will be brought to drip irrigations in a phased manner. The authority is also focusing on increasing the use of treated water. At present, around 20 million litres per day of treated water is used, with GMDA aiming to increase its use to 100 million litres per day. Forest department to plant 1 million trees this monsoon As a part of their routine pre-monsoon plantation drive, the district forest department has set a target of planting 1 million saplings this year with the help of panchayats, schools and other departments, officials said on Thursday. Ranbir Singh, the divisional forest officer of Gurugram said the estimate was decided upon after a prediction of a good monsoon this year. “We have decided that five lakh (500,000) saplings will be planted this year by the forest department and the rest will be planted with the help of different communities. Last year, we were not able to plant the required number of saplings as schools were closed due to Covid-19. But this year, we will be taking the help of gram panchayats and other departments to ensure that all saplings are planted,” said Singh. He said that the saplings are being prepared in nine nurseries of the district where the plant length ranges from two feet to six feet. Plant species like neem, Sheesham, Arjuna, and plants of fruit trees are being given priority. The official said that plants taller than four feet will be planted in forest areas identified by the department, while smaller ones will be distributed to the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-to-develop-green-belts-along-300km-of-roads-101622743754922.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC extends Hany Babu’s stay at Breach Candy till June 15||The Bombay high court (HC) while asking the counsel for Elgar Parishad accused Hany Babu’s wife, Dr Yug Choudhry, to have faith and trust in the court and to avoid casting aspersions on the orders being issued, permitted the Delhi University associate professor to continue to remain in Breach Candy Hospital till June 15. After the hospital’s health status report recommended Babu’s discharge, the court was going to order for his transfer to state-run Sir JJ Hospital, but on the insistence of Dr Choudhry that he be allowed to stay in the private hospital as the medical report indicated a swelling in his optic nerve which required an MRI scan and other tests after a few days, the court permitted the same. HC permitted Babu’s wife Jenny Roweena and other family members to visit the accused as per hospital protocols, and sought a health status report of Babu by June 14 and posted further hearing to June 15. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Abhay Ahuja, while hearing the petition filed by Roweena seeking bail for Babu on medical grounds or shifting to a private hospital to treat an eye infection, was informed by Dr Choudhry that though the hospital had stated in its report that Babu was ready to be discharged, he should be allowed to be put under house arrest rather than being sent to Taloja jail as he had just recovered from Covid-19. However, the bench was not willing to hear Dr Choudhry and said it took cognisance of a news article written by him or someone from his team in which aspersions were cast on the order passed by the bench in relation to the application by another Elgar Parishad accused. Dr Choudhry objected to it and said that though he had not written the article, he or his team had the right to freedom of speech. The bench said it was not taking offence to the article but wanted the advocates to understand that orders were being passed after due diligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-extends-hany-babu-s-stay-at-breach-candy-till-june-15-101622743754292.html
03-06-2021||Other||Allahabad University to impart free education to Covid orphans||In an effort to lend a helping hand to students who have lost their parents to the pandemic, Allahabad University (AU) has decided to offer them free education on its campus. Many other Prayagraj-based educational institutions have already decided to offer similar help to their present and prospective students. AU public relation officer (PRO), Jaya Kapoor said the prevailing corona crisis in the country for the past two years has had a deep impact on the lives of the people and caused great emotional, psychological, financial and social distress. Approximately 9,000 children have lost both parents due to Covid-19 in the country. The university has a responsibility as a part of its commitment to social welfare to reach out to such children who have lost both the parents and are facing the challenge of continuing their education, she said. “In view of this fact, AU’s vice chancellor, Prof Sangita Srivastava has informed district administration that AU will offer supernumerary seats for students who have lost both parents due to Covid-19. There will also be complete waiver of the fees along with any other charges related to academics for these children.” To cater to the rest of the needs of such students, fostering (where child who needs home is taken into one’s home and taken care of without formal adoption), and ‘Earn while you learn’ schemes will be utilized to prepare them for a better future, she explained. ‘Earn while you learn’ is a novel scheme being followed by some universities of the country including AU wherein enrolled students help their departments or central facilities like library in performing small duties (arranging books or files) against which they are paid some remuneration. To claim the admission at AU under supernumerary quota, the PRO informed that only those students would be eligible to avail the facility at AU who have passed the intermediate examination and can produce death certificates of both the parents citing Covid-19 as the reason for their deaths. The PRO also said the benefits that would be extended to the new entrants at AU would also be given to already enrolled students of AU who too have lost their parents to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-university-to-impart-free-education-to-covid-orphans-101622743752518.html
03-06-2021||Gurugram||Islampur to get underpass worth ₹6 cr by August-end||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is developing a high-speed corridor in Gurugram’s Islampur village. The locals had been demanding the same for a long time to prevent accidents on the Sohna road.The NHAI officials said that the underpass will be over 30-metre-long, and open on the service lanes on both sides of the Sohna road. It will facilitate the movement of pedestrians and cyclists. However, motor vehicles will not be allowed there.Demanding an underpass in Islampur, the locals had approached the district administration, and Union minister and Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit Singh to get the facility approved as soon as possible.Singh said that this ₹6 crore underpass will ensure safe movement of people. “I had taken up this matter with Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, who gave consent to this project a few months ago. The work on this project has started, and hopefully it will be completed by the end of August,” Singh said, adding that several Gurugram villages were divided as expressways had bifurcated the two parts, and several accidents happened as people tried to cross the high-speed road.“We need to avoid such situations, and this underpass will help in a safe movement of the people,” Singh added.NHAI consultant Bharat Bhushan Jindal said that the Islampur underpass will help the villagers to cross the Sohna road with ease. “The underpass will have adequate height and width, to facilitate easy movement of the commuters. Lighting and other fixtures will be installed, and this will meet the long pending demand of the villagers.”Subash Thakran, an Islampur resident, said that villagers live on both sides of the high-speed road, and this underpass was much needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/islampur-to-get-underpass-worth-6-cr-by-augustend-101622743752004.html
03-06-2021||Gurugram||Inflated power bills, smart meter use remain concerns for residents||Inflated electricity bills over the last year have become a major concern for residents, who alleged that despite taking up the matter with the distribution company, there has been no relief. They said that the issue has been a regular one since the installation of smart meters and the issue was compounded since a lockdown was enforced last year to quell the spread of Covid-19.Narender Singh, a resident of Sector 31, said that since the installation of smart meters, his electricity bill has increased by 40%. “We had thought that smart meters will bring relief, but the bills are inflated and there is no end to it. Since last April, our major expenditure has been on electricity bills. We have even tried to switch off all lights and locked the house for a week and stayed at a relative’s house, but to no effect,” he said.CP Surendran, a resident of Sector 67, said that for the second time in four months, he paid nearly ₹40,000 for power consumption. “I was shocked to receive the bill as my consumption is limited and the bill has never exceeded ₹11,000. I have complained at the power department office several times, but no action has been taken nor has anyone visited to check the meter reading,” he said.Residents even took to social media and tagged the power minister, as many are facing financial hardships since the pandemic broke out and the subsequent lockdown.In November last year, several protests were held by residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) across the city, against the installation of smart meters. A group of residents, under the aegis of Jan Adhikar Sanghathan, had also launched a public movement against the smart meters.Officials of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), the power distribution company, however, dismissed the allegations and said that the smart meters were accurate and sensitive, and rigorous testing was done before installation. They also denied that these meters record inflated readings.Hitesh Goel, the subdivisional officer of DHBVN, Badshahpur, said that there were issues due to the lockdown as meter readings were not taken from residential areas. “We had calculated highest reading of last year based on which bills are sent and the extra amount paid is adjusted in the next billing cycle. We are looking into the issue and if anyone feels there is an issue with their smart meter, we are ready to get it tested at a laboratory,” he said.Goel said that due to the lockdown, many residential areas did not allow their employees to enter. “The situation has improved and these issues will be resolved,” he said.Residents of Palam Vihar, Sector 22, 21, South City-1, Sushant Lok-1, and sectors 56 and 57 complained that their areas have been worst hit with inflated bills.Sudhir Sachdeva, a resident of Sushant Lok-1, said that since January last year, they have been receiving inflated bills. “We protested, organised meetings, met officials, complained and did everything possible, but the matter remains unresolved. No one has ever come down to take note of readings and they bill us as per their wish. We are helpless and are forced to pay the bill, else, the connection will be cut. We are paying a huge cost for electricity connection here,” he said.Pradeep Kumar Chouhan, superintending engineer, circle II, Gurugram, said that they have automated the billing process and now, the reading can be done without physical visits. “This process was started in April and it is being implemented. There are some teething problems but these would be resolved soon. All concerns over wrong billing would be resolved. In the coming months, I assure the city residents and DHBVN consumers that issues related to billing would be minimised,” he said.Chouhan also said that due to lockdown, there have been operational issues but with relaxation in curbs, the situation would improve. However, he also advised consumers to look into their electricity consumption as the same may have increased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/inflated-power-bills-smart-meter-use-remain-concerns-for-residents-101622743694950.html
03-06-2021||Gurugram||More urban clusters to be included in sero survey||The health department on Thursday said that the third serological survey will include samples from eight urban clusters and 12 rural clusters as in the last two rounds, most of the samples were taken from rural clusters and only four urban clusters were included.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said that 60% of the samples will be collected from urban areas while 40% of the samples would be from rural areas. “The sample size would remain the same and new urban clusters such as Tigra and Chanderloke have been included, as there was a high incidence of Covid-19 infections (in these areas),” he said. The sero survey will be conducted across the state and 400 samples would be collected from each district of the state, he said. On Thursday, the health department, in collaboration with the district legal services authority, organised a vaccination camp for jail inmates, in which 126 inmates were vaccinated, Yadav said. Chief judicial magistrate Lalita Patwardhan said that this was the seventh vaccination camp held in the Bhondsi jail for inmates. She said that jail inmates were vaccinated after they filled the consent forms as per the recommendations of a high-powered committee. She also informed that 245 inmates above the age of 45 were vaccinated in the previous drives. Yadav said that they had deputed a team from the health department for the vaccination and gave the first dose of vaccine to 126 inmates. “We have also asked RWAs in the city to submit details of patients with special needs so that vaccinations can be held locally. Patients who have special needs or those who are more susceptible to this infection are our priority. We have earlier carried out such camps and the response was very good,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/more-urban-clusters-to-be-included-in-sero-survey-101622743694252.html
03-06-2021||Gurugram||39 Covid-19 cases reported, lowest since February||The district on Thursday reported 39 new cases of Covid-19, the lowest single-day count since February, officials of the health department said. According to the district health department data, the number of active cases in Gurugram was 953 as of Thursday evening, of whom 121 patients were hospitalised, 829 were in home isolation and three were admitted to district Covid care centres. On Thursday, 155 patients also recovered in the district. The deaths of four Covid-19 positive patients were also reported in the district that took the total toll due to the pandemic to 840, as per the health department data. On the testing front, the health department collected 5,408 samples on Thursday, with the results of 2,898 patients still awaited. Even as the number of cases continued to decline, the health officials urged citizens to continue to follow Covid-19 safety protocols. Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, said, “Cases have been reducing gradually in the district, but people must not lower their guard. This is the first time since February that Gurugram has reported as few as 39 cases, which has been possible due to strictly following all Covid-19 safety protocols and the lockdown. I urge people to follow all safety protocols, especially at vaccination centres, where crowding has been noticed. Those who are fully vaccinated must continue to wear masks and go out only when necessary.” Meanwhile, 11,197 people were vaccinated on Thursday, including 10,407 who took the first dose of the vaccine and 790 who took the second dose. So far, over 719,000 people have been vaccinated in Gurugram district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/39-covid-19-cases-reported-lowest-since-february-101622743692060.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Genome sequencing dashboard to understand variants of virus||In a first, a start-up incubated at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay, has developed a genome sequencing dashboard for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to understand and manage the Covid-19 pandemic better, as part of the pilot with Kasturba Hospital. A genome is the genetic data of any organism. By sequencing the genome, one can get around 30,000 data points about the organism’s genome. Therefore, genome sequencing of the Covid-19 virus helps better understand the virus transmission. This dashboard, created by HaystackAnalytics—a healthcare startup incubated under the Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (SINE) at IIT-B —is an analytical tool that helps epidemiologists and public health officials understand data retrieved from genome sequencing of ribonucleic acid (RNA) samples from Covid-19 patients. Genome sequencing has four key steps – sample processing, creating a DNA library, sequencing the data from the genomes and analysing the data. Getting results from genome sequencing can take between 72 hours and 15 days. Haystack has also been able to reduce the time taken for processing and sequencing data from genomes to less than 36 hours. “In each of the four steps, we made changes to get a final reduction in turnaround time. For the first three steps, we needed high-end infrastructure for next-generation sequencing work. This was setup at the BioNEST facility at SINE, IIT-B, with support from the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council of the union department of biotechnology. Analysis is one of the biggest bottlenecks that requires huge cloud-computing or high-performance computing clusters. We had already developed a low-compute genomic analysis platform for tuberculosis. We used that platform for Covid sequencing. This reduced the analysis time from 12-24 hrs to 15-20 minutes,” said Anirvan Chatterjee, founder of Haystack. Ashwini Bhide, additional municipal commissioner (east suburbs), BMC, said the dashboard was created as a pilot project by the health department in association with the civic-run Kasturba Hospital. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner for the BMC’s health department, said it was part of the BMC’s plan to set up its own genome sequencing lab at the hospital, for which the BMC has tied up with various agencies. Starting mid-March, Chatterjee’s team of scientists, led by Amrutraj Zade (PhD in biosciences and bioengineering from IIT-B) collected RNA samples from international passengers, atypical clinical presentations, children with Covid-19 infection, and patients who contracted the infection in clusters with high positivity rate. The samples were sequenced using nanopore technology and analysed at the BioNEST. The analysed data is then reflected in a simpler format for health officials. “Currently, Covid-19 analysis is primarily based on RT-PCR tests, which only gives us a yes or no response of whether the patient is positive. RT-PCR gives us the number of cases, but says nothing about the virus variant. To better understand the virus, we need to know what kind of virus strains we are dealing with,” said Chatterjee. The dashboard created by Haystack can reference the sample with over 30 billion data points, which can indicate the strain of the variants of the virus, what kind of variants and what age groups are more likely to be affected, among others. Dr Jayanthi Shastri, professor and head of the microbiology department of Kasturba Hospital, said, “Interpretation of genome sequencing data is a tough task for which we require trained bio informationists. This dashboard breaks down the data and makes it ready to use by health professionals. This is going to be of great help to public health officials in understanding how different variants behave, and how much the new strain varies from the Wuhan one.” The genome sequencing data can be amalgamated into a patient report. “The setup that we have created can be imagined like a ‘COVID Genomics Pop-up’ which can be easily integrated into any current day hospital/lab,” said Chatterjee. The dashboard works similar to any e-commerce shopping portals, where products can be compared and cross-referenced against various parameters. The project is funded by the Centre for Augmenting WAR with Covid-19 Health Crisis (CAWACH) initiative of the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India. “We are confident in the next few months, genome sequencing for Covid is going to be as popular as today’s RT-PCR. And Haystack now has the solution to provide this entire thing at a cost which is already affordable. The beta version of the dashboard is up and running. We are closely working with health officials to further develop the product,” Chatterjee added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/genome-sequencing-dashboard-to-understand-variants-of-virus-101622743571990.html
03-06-2021||Other||Palghar to get central prison on 25-acre plot||In a bid to decongest the Thane and Taloja central jails in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Palghar district collector Dr Manik Gursal has sanctioned a 25-acre land to house a central jail in Palghar district. “As per a June 2 order by the collector, the jail is likely to come up on a government-owned land at Umroli village in Palghar district. Of the total 92.03 hectares (roughly 230 acres) of land, 10 hectares (25 acres) have been allotted for the jail,” said Palghar district information officer Rahul Bhalerao. The authorities propose to set up the main jail and the residential quarters for staffers first. The plot will also house a facility for inmates’ vocational training in bakery, carpentry, shoe making and other workshops. The products made at the facility will be sold to public and also displayed at government exhibitions.“Earlier around a 50-acre plot was identified at Morekhuran in Palghar for the jail. But project on the land was not feasible and thus the Umroli plot was given nod as the location has no legal encumbrances. Also, the plot is only 6km from the collectorate, rural hospital and sessions court,” said Bhalerao. The additional general of prisons, Maharashtra, has also given nod to the new jail at Umroli. Palghar district was formed in August 2014, but has no central prison since the past seven years. The 115 people arrested in last year’s lynching are rotationally shifted to Thane and Taloja jails. However, owing to overcrowding in these jails, some of the accused were also kept in Kasa, Dahanu, Wada and Palghar police lockups. Their relatives also have to travel long to Thane and Navi Mumbai to meet them. “There are 29 police stations within Palghar and the Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) Commissionerate. Once the prison is ready, people arrested from these areas will be lodged in the new jail,” said Bhalerao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/palghar-to-get-central-prison-on-25-acre-plot-101622743392660.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Srinivas appointed as new MMRDA chief, Mhaiskar housing secretary||Senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer SVR Srinivas was appointed as metropolitan commissioner of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) while Milind Mhaiskar was appointed as state’s housing secretary. Srinivas, who was serving as principal secretary (housing), will replace RA Rajeev, who retired on May 31 after his three-month extension was over. A 1991-batch officer, Srinivas has been entrusted with rebuilding of infrastructure in Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). MMRDA is building several ambitious infrastructure projects such as 337-kilometre-long Metro network in Mumbai and MMR; the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL) which will connect the city with the mainland through a 21.8-km sealink between Sewree and Nhava in Raigad; and Virar-Alibag Multi-Modal Corridor. The appointments of Srinivas and Mhaiskar were made as part of a minor reshuffle in the state’s administration ordered by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday. B Venugopal Reddy, who was the managing director of SICOM, was appointed as principal secretary (forest) in place of Mhaiskar. Lokesh Chandra was appointed as general manager of Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) which runs Mumbai’s second largest mass transport service. Vikas Chandra Rastogi was appointed as principal secretary (administrative reforms) in general administrative department in place of Chandra. Shrikar Pardeshi, who was in the United States for training after serving in the Prime Minister’s Office for five years, has returned to the state administration. He was posted as managing director of state-run corporation SICOM that provides financial and advisory services to investors who invest in Maharashtra. Srinivas said his priority would be to speed up both the Metro rail and MTHL projects. “I will ensure speeding up of various Metro rail projects, especially the trial run of the recent Metro-2A and 7 lines. Another vital project is to complete MTHL which will connect the island city with Navi Mumbai,” said Srinivas, adding, “My main focus will be to enhance the pace of the various infrastructure projects as the adjoining areas are growing and offer them better quality of life.” Srinivas shot into prominence in 2019 when he revived the ₹28,500-crore Dharavi redevelopment project, which was languishing from 2004 onwards, and brought out tenders. The revamp of the 600-acre slum, India’s largest slum pocket, saw two major bidders in the race. Seclink Technology Corporation (STC) emerged as the highest bidder by quoting ₹7,200 crore, outbidding its competitor Adani Infrastructure, who bid at ₹4,539 crore. However the entire process was scrapped later citing technical issues and the project continued to languish.This will be Srinivas’s second stint in MMRDA where he has earlier served as joint metropolitan commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/srinivas-appointed-as-new-mmrda-chief-mhaiskar-housing-secretary-101622743332595.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Domestic air traffic to accelerate from July, says CAPA||Aviation think tank and consultancy firm Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA) projected that domestic traffic in financial year (FY) 2022 will be 80-95 million, up from 52.5 million in FY2021, but below 140 million passengers in FY2020. While stating that June would see moderate recovery with acceleration in air traffic from the second quarter, CAPA also stated that there will be rising confidence and continued traffic recovery in the second half of this financial year. It added that international traffic will be in the range of 16-21 million.According to the consultancy, airlines are estimated to need around USD 5 billion of re-capitalisation in FY2022 just to survive, and Air India and IndiGo combined will represent around USD 4.5 billion of the approximately USD 8 billion loss.CAPA said the second half of the year is expected to have far more positive domestic traffic. “As was the case in the second half of FY2021, we expect to see rising confidence and continued traffic recovery in the second half of this financial year. Partly due to the easing of restrictions and the expansion of bubble agreements, but also due to the prospects of increased international deployment by Indian carriers, e.g. Vistara is likely to launch routes to North America and other long-haul destinations with its fleet of four 787s,” CAPA said in its airlines outlook for FY2022.CAPA also said that based on current settings, international traffic is likely to be constrained towards the lower end of the range because of border restrictions, and that it will be particularly sensitive to discrete decisions taken by governments on such matters, which is unpredictable.The think tank further said that the aviation industry is heading into a higher-cost environment at a time when it can least afford to. “Our projections assume an average oil price of USD70/barrel and an exchange rate of USD1= ₹75. It is possible that oil could spike to USD75/barrel and the currency could depreciate to ₹77 during some periods. Airport charges are also expected to be a potential challenge. It is possible in certain scenarios to see a domestic UDF (user development fees) of around ₹1,000 per departing passenger, and an international UDF of ₹2,000- ₹2,500,” CAPA’s estimation stated.In the domestic market, fare and capacity regulation are expected to continue for a large part of FY2022, said CAPA. It also said that removing caps may be more challenging than it was to introduce them. “The government may need to develop a framework for conducting a financial stress test of carriers prior to removing price and capacity regulations,” the aviation consultancy said.It also said that international operations to and from India are expected to continue under air bubble agreements for much of FY2022, with the capacity available under these bubble agreements expected to increase from October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/domestic-air-traffic-to-accelerate-from-july-says-capa-101622743331927.html
03-06-2021||Other||With 2nd wave waning, farmers’ movement picks up steam||After a lull of almost two months during the surge of the pandemic, the farmers’ movement is gaining momentum again in different districts of western UP.Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders and supporters staged a demonstration at different toll plazas of Moradabad and Meerut region on May 26 to mark six months of the movement of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. Though initially planned to be a day-long affair, the demonstration is still on at six toll plazas at least. Local BKU leaders are leading these protests and they have declared to continue supporting the movement. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait visited toll plazas in Kowla (Rampur), Dalpatpur (Moradabad) and Joya (Rampur) on Tuesday to meet demonstrating farmers and BKU leaders, who freed the toll plazas for a few hours before arrival of the leader. Tikait compared PM Narendra Modi with Kim Jong-un of North Korea and accused him of grabbing everything in the country. He called upon farmers to prepare for a long battle as the protest could continue till the next Lok Sabha elections. Tikait sat with protestors at each toll plaza and told them not to be afraid of police tactics and the toll plaza administration that are sending notices to protestors. “We will fight and win,” said Tikait.Meanwhile, a similar protest is on at toll plazas of Sivaya (Meerut), Chapar and Rohana (Muzaffarnagar) where protestors had freed the toll plaza for some time on Monday. At the Rohana toll plaza the protest is being led by BKU’s Charthàwal block president Kushalveer Singh, while BKU leader Sanjay Dauraliya is leading the protest at the Sivaya toll plaza. Leaders of AAP and Congress parties have also extended support to the protests and they handed over letters of their parties support to the protesting farmers. Meanwhile, BKU has also started reviews of the movement and evolving strategies to give momentum to the movement after the pandemic’s second wave. BKU’s state spokesperson Dharmendra Malik said that reviews of Meerut, Saharanpur, Agra, Aligarh and Moradabad divisions have been completed and Bareilly division’s review would be completed soon. Sharing the decisions taken in the review meetings, Malik said that BKU’s block presidents have been given responsibility to send a tractor and 11 persons to Ghazipur border from their respective blocks on rotation of 10 days. “It will help us keep an adequate number of farmers at the Ghazipur border,” said Malik and added that “protests at toll plazas will continue to extend support to the movement”. Meanwhile, a similar meeting was convened at Budhana block of district Muzaffarnagar on Monday where BKU leaders directed all village-level leaders to mobilise people to participate in the movement in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-2nd-wave-waning-farmers-movement-picks-up-steam-101622743272618.html
03-06-2021||Other||Maharashtra govt sets target of ₹60,860cr for crop loans||The state government on Thursday set the annual credit lending target by banks of ₹1.19 lakh crore for the agriculture sector in the current financial year. Of this, ₹60,860 crore is set for the crop loans during the kharif and rabi seasons. During the state-level bankers’ committee meeting, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray gave his nod to the annual credit plan worth ₹4.6 lakh crore, which includes funding to various sectors including agriculture, MSMEs (Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises), housing, education, among others.CM directed the banks from the private, commercial and cooperative sectors to implement a single-window system for credit finance to the agricultural proposal. He said these proposals should be cleared on the lines of industrial proposals passed under the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ programme. CM said it was necessary to strengthen farmers and agriculture by enhancing the credit system.“The government has implemented the ‘Vikel Te Pikel (cultivating crops that sell)’ drive under which we have been focusing on the agriculture sector’s comprehensive development. All areas are being tapped upon, right from crop planning, market research, development of infrastructure, development of agri-processing industry to crop enhancement. To make it successful and empower farmers, the banking sector should put in efforts with the government departments,” he said. CM also has directed the banks to cooperate with farmers for easy and timely lending for the crops without any hassles. The state government has already increased the limit of interest-free crop loans from ₹1 lakh to ₹3 lakh. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that banks should make crop loans available at the earliest as the kharif season is about to begin. “There are complaints that banks are not very enthusiastic to lend to farmers with smaller land holdings. Similarly, commercial banks are not very keen on lending for crop loans. This leads to the hardship of smaller farmers,” Pawar said. Agriculture minister Dadaji Bhuse, too, slammed the commercial banks for not availing crop loans to the farmers. He said that cooperative banks have disbursed 33% of their target set for the crop loans, while commercial banks have released only 4%. The banks have also been directed to increase their branches at rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-govt-sets-target-of-60-860cr-for-crop-loans-101622743271995.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to partially adopt Central Model Tenancy Act||Maharashtra government will partially adopt Central government’s Model Tenancy Act which was approved by the Union cabinet on Wednesday. The tenancy act has always been a huge controversial issue in Mumbai as hundreds of thousands of tenants living in old dilapidated buildings and chawls have been resisting any changes in the existing Rent Control Act.Their contention is that any change will result in massive hike in the rentals and make their eviction from the premises easier.State housing minister Jitendra Awhad said the state will not allow any injustice to the existing tenants. “We will thoroughly study the model law and adopt only those points which are for the benefits of citizens. Anything dealing with hike in rentals or eviction of existing tenants will not find a place in our law,” said Awhad. He said the state enjoys absolute liberty to decide on such matters.There are about 600,000 families living in more than 30,000 such old buildings and chawls which are controlled by the Rent Control Act, which leads to very low rent, making eviction of tenants a mammoth task. The rents were frozen at the rates prevailing in 1940s. The act was amended later with Maharashtra Rent Control Act, 1999. The new law proposed that landlords were entitled to make an increase of 4% per annum in rent of the premises that had been let out for any purpose. According to the Central government, the act was an attempt to give legal framing for rental housing and encourage private participation to tackle the problem of massive housing shortage. It said that it would bridge the trust deficiency between landlords and tenants. It also wanted establishments of the Rent Authority to deal with issues of rental markets.The Shiv Sena has decided to demonstrate against the central laws across the city. They will stage agitations on Friday at Lalbaug and Worli. Housing activist Chandrashekhar Prabhu said the act was useless for Maharashtra. “We already have the leave and license agreement which is sufficient to deal with rental market. Our main issue is that existing tenants have already paid a Pugree while taking possession of the premises which was the market rate at that time and hence deserve all the protection. Another is that these tenants have lived for generations in these buildings and it was unfair to throw them out,” said Prabhu. He said many attempts were made to destroy the Rent Control Act but all attempts were trawled. From decades, there has been a tussle between tenants and landlords of old buildings over rent. Landlords rue about the low rent saying it was impossible to maintain the premises on such rentals and that they were forced to shell from their own pockets. In contrast, tenants argued that since landlords were taking rents, it was imperative for them to maintain. As a result, most of these buildings decayed due to the inaction from both parties.Aslam Bambotia, who is the landlord of many buildings in Bhendi Bazar and Pydhonie, said it was impossible to maintain the buildings with such rent. “My tenants hardly pay ₹100 per month. How can anyone maintain such a huge old structure with such a meagre amount? The state government has allowed us to hike the rent by 4% annually, which is another joke,” said Bambotia.Advocate Vinod Sampat, who deals with real estate cases, said the act will encourage rental market. “People are afraid to give their flats and houses on rent, and such an authority will give them the confidence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-partially-adopt-central-model-tenancy-act-101622743211971.html
03-06-2021||Other||Bombay HC disposes of plea challenging cancellation of SSC exams||After the Maharashtra government clarified that Class 10 students across all the boards could take the optional common entrance test (CET) for admissions to junior colleges, the Bombay high court (HC) disposed of the petition which challenged the state’s decision to cancel the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exams for academic year 2020-21. However, the court allowed the petitioner to challenge the May 28 government resolution (GR) that laid down the evaluation formula for SSC students in lieu of the board exams. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by retired Pune-based professor Dhananjay Kulkarni and a bunch of intervention applications challenging the cancellation of the exams, was informed by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state that the government had on May 28 announced a formula for evaluation of SSC students and hence, the grievance of the petitioner was addressed. Kumbhakoni further stated that admissions to Class 11 would be conducted offline through CET, based on the board syllabus. However, Kulkarni’s advocate, Uday Warunjikar, objected the submission and said that the May 28 formula could not be effective, as it stipulated evaluation based on Class 10 assessments. He submitted that as many schools and parents did not have facilities for virtual studies, the curriculum for Class 10 could not be completed and hence, internal tests, practical exams and other exercises physically could not be conducted. In light of this, there was a need to conduct board exams offline, he said. Warunjikar added that as the May 28 GR did not clarify whether students from all boards could take CET, there would be discrimination among students of different boards for Class 11 admissions. The bench reiterated its views expressed on June 1 and asked the petitioner whether he was willing to take responsibility of any adverse situations that may arise out of conducting physical exams amid the current Covid-19 situation, more so in the light of the fear expressed by experts of a third wave, which would affect those between 10 and 18 years of age. “Why do you think tests should be held? And if they are held and the student community is affected, who will bear responsibility for that?” the court questioned. The judges added, “Whether exams are being held or not, under the Constitutional scheme, states are entrusted to make policy decisions. When the executive has made a decision, it may appear to you and us to be a foolish policy, but only because we think it’s not good policy, that’s not grounds for us to interfere. You have to manifest arbitrariness infringing on the rights of persons affected by the policy. How will the public be affected by this policy decision?” Kumbhakoni, while responding to the apprehension of the petitioner, said that though the state’s May 12 GR that cancelled SSC exams had not clarified about CET, he was making a statement that all students from various boards who are willing to participate in the entrance test for Class 11 admissions will be allowed to do so. In light of this clarification, Warunjikar submitted that the issues of cancellation of exams and CET were “virtually over” and the court may grant the petitioner liberty to challenge the evaluation formula. “In view of the statement made by Kumbhakoni, the petitioner does not wish to proceed to continue with the petition. As per the petitioner, as the May 28 circular did not appropriately lay down the procedure for evaluation of Class 10 exams, the liberty to petitioner to challenge such circular be reserved,” the court noted in its order, and disposed of the PIL as it was withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-disposes-of-plea-challenging-cancellation-of-ssc-exams-101622743091946.html
03-06-2021||Other||Maharashtra cancels HSC exams, students may be promoted||The Maharashtra government has officially decided to cancel the higher secondary certificate (HSC) exams owing to the prevailing Covid-19 situation and concerns related to a potential third wave. The decision was taken during a state disaster management authority (SDMA) meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday. State relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar confirmed the development.State school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said, “The priority of the Maharashtra government has always been the safety of students, and all our decisions in over a year were taken with the same approach. We are aware about the stress that parents and students are going through, as on one hand there is a fight against the pandemic and on the other, there’s exam pressure. Considering all these aspects, we have decided to cancel Class 12 board exams.”Gaikwad said experts have suggested that they should hold internal assessments to evaluate students’ performance while promoting them. The state school education department will now formulate a policy in this regard. “A policy pertaining to revised internal assessment and results date will be declared soon,” added Gaikwad.Around 1.5 million students appear for Class 12 exams in the state every year.The state government has been in favour of cancelling the board examinations. It has already cancelled the Class 10 (SSC) exams. The state decided to promote Class 10 students based on their performance in Class 9 and 10 through internal assessments. It also decided to conduct an optional common entrance test (CET) for admissions to junior colleges. Those who clear it will get priority in the admissions. The rest of the seats will be used for students who were cleared by the state board in the evaluation process.Officials said that Class 12 students of state board are also likely to be promoted based on internal assessments. “We will have to come up with a policy for promoting Class 12 students. More or less, it is likely to be similar to what has been declared for Class 10,” said a senior official from the education department.“My department is committed to conduct an accurate evaluation of the students,” Gaikwad said.During a discussion in the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday, all the ministers supported the decision to cancel Class 12 exams in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Earlier, the state had welcomed the Centre’s decision to cancel the Class 12 exams of the CBSE (Central Board of Secondary Education) board. The decision was taken on Tuesday in a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Around six states, including Haryana and Madhya Pradesh, have also cancelled their respective state board’s Class 12 exams.“Health, safety and mental stress of students need to be considered before taking any decision. This has been our stand since the beginning and we made it clear in a meeting of state education ministers chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh,” Gaikwad said.The state had scheduled Class 12 exams on April 23. They were pushed to May-end due to surge in Covid-19 cases and the lockdown restrictions. The state had last year invoked the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and Disaster Management Act, 2005, to contain the Covid-19 situation and thus all decisions related to the pandemic have to be approved by the disaster management authority, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-cancels-hsc-exams-students-may-be-promoted-101622742972521.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC orders banning of political hoardings, banners at vaccination centres||Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Thursday issued an order banning all sorts of political advertisement and hoardings outside vaccination centres in the city.Chahal directed all ward officers to write to local politicians in their ward asking them to take down all political hoardings and to take action against those violating the order.The office order issued by Chahal reads, “While vaccination is ongoing in the city and several corporators, MLA and MP have been showing interest in helping for the same. Due to this, the participation of citizens has also increased. However, at several centres, banners, posters and hoardings of political parties are being seen.”The order further read, “We have received several complaints about hoardings of politicians at vaccination centres, hence ward officers are instructed to look into this matter.”The BMC chief has asked all ward officials to write to the elected representatives requesting them to remove the same. Also, at a personal level, the same can be communicated to the elected representatives. Despite these measures, if hoardings or posters are not removed, we should take action and the ward officers should also submit a report regarding the same, BMC chief directed.Meanwhile, there are a total of 344 vaccination centres in the city, of which, 245 centres are of BMC, 20 of state or Central government. However, at several centres opened by BMC, where local elected representatives have facilitated the vaccination, there have been several instances where political parties have put up their hoardings and banners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-orders-banning-of-political-hoardings-banners-at-vaccination-centres-101622742971938.html
03-06-2021||Other||Child rights body to DMs: Stop identity disclosure of Covid-19 orphans in media||Taking serious note of the media disclosing the identity of children orphaned in the pandemic, the UP State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has written to district magistrates, asking them to put a ban on it.District probation officer, Jaunpur, Santosh Kumar Soni, said that in a letter sent to district magistrates, State Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairman Dr Vishesh Gupta has said that data of the children orphaned due to Covid-19 has been uploaded on Bal Swaraj Portal. It has come to the knowledge of the Commission that several print, electronic media, news portals collected the information and published reports disclosing the identity of many children. News portals circulated their reports on various WhatsApp groups.Gupta wrote that by making the identity of the children public, the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, is being violated. Anti-social elements, child trafficking groups, beggary groups and people with a criminal tendency may take undue advantage of it and may use the children in the wrong way. The children’s commission considers it a serious matter.He wrote that the district task force, district probation officer, district child protection officer, SJP child welfare committee, village child protection committee, monitoring committee should collect the information published/broadcast in news and the families in which such children were now living should be counselled. Thereafter, a detailed report should be prepared and it should be made available to the children’s commission.Gupta has also urged the district magistrates to instruct the district probation officer, police department, child welfare committee to organise an orientation programme of the electronic media / print media and media portals in their respective districts, to ensure that the identity of orphaned children is not disclosed and statutes of the Juvenile Justice Act are not violated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/child-rights-body-to-dms-stop-identity-disclosure-of-orphans-in-media-101622742912533.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Apprise Centre of shortage of mucormycosis drugs, HC tells Maharashtra govt||Considering the shortage of medicines in the state for treating mucormycosis, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has asked the state government to apprise the Central government about the situation, as there are 669 active cases of the fungal infection in the state and there have been 124 fatalities as sufficient quantity of the medicines were not available to treat the patients.A division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Balchandra Debadwar, while hearing the suo motu public interest litigation (PIL), based on news reports highlighting issues pertaining to Covid management in Marathwada and North Maharashtra and other Covid related issues including the treatment of mucormycosis patients, was informed that the fungal infection had claimed 124 lives in the region till date.Government pleader DR Kale for the state submitted that there were 669 mucormycosis patients in Marathwada of which 385 patients had been cured, while 124 succumbed as there was a shortage of the Amphotericin B drug which is used to treat the fungal infection. The court was also informed that while there was a requirement of 50,178 vials of Amphotericin B to treat active patients only 13,428 vials were supplied to the Marathwada region.Amicus curiae Satyajeet Bora, appointed to assist the court submitted that patients in Marathwada were being undertreated as they were being administered only one-two injections per day as against the requirement of four-five vials per patient per day. He informed the bench that there was a shortage of 70% of the required quantity of the drug.Additional solicitor General Anil Singh for the Central government informed the bench that between May 11 and 31, the Centre had 2.7 lakh vials of Amphotericin B out of which 68,660 were allocated to Maharashtra. He said that the vials were dispatched to Maharashtra, Karnataka and Gujarat as cases were relatively higher than other states.Singh then added that while companies manufacturing the drug had been asked to ramp up production, Haffkine Institute in Mumbai, a pharmaceutical company in Hyderabad and six more privately-owned companies had been granted a license to manufacture the drug to overcome the shortage. He added that as the manufacturing process took 20-25 days the centre expected a supply of over two lakh vials for the month of June. Singh also assured the bench that alternative drugs which can improve patients’ condition are also being sought to be included in the treatment for mucormycosis.In light of the shortage and the submissions by the Centre, the bench noted that the state had no option but to apprise the Centre seeking additional allocation of the drug. “We find Maharashtra will have to apprise the Union of India as regards to a growing number of mucormycosis patients and especially highlight the fact that in some parts of the state as like in Marathwada region, patients are dying due to shortage in the quantity of Amphotericin B. As patients are being administered inadequate doses, the mortality rate is quite high,” noted the bench in its order.Directing the state to provide details of the number of mucormycosis patients and recovered, number of deaths due to the infection along with number of Amphotericin B vials between June 2 and 9, the bench posted hearing of the PIL to June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/apprise-centre-of-shortage-of-mucormycosis-drugs-hc-tells-maharashtra-govt-101622742912000.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body may conduct clinical trials of Covaxin for teens||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday said it will soon start clinical trials on teenagers in the age of 12 to 18 years for indigenous vaccine Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV).According to BMC officials, they have written to the central government about them being ready for conducting clinical trials on children.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “We have written to the central government wherein we have shown our willingness to conduct clinical trials on children between the age of 12 to 18 years. We will now await further guidance from the central government on the same.”According to BMC officials, they will wait for the Central government to understand what should be the sample size and what should be the ratio of age group maintained for going ahead with the clinical trials for Covaxin.The Central government in mid-May 2021 had announced that it would start clinical trials on the age group of 2 to 18 years using Covaxin. Following this, it was announced that five medical institutions in Kanpur, Patna, Mysuru, Hyderabad and Nagpur had been approved by the ethics committee to conduct clinical trials on children between two to 18 years of age.Meanwhile, according to BMC officials, it will also have to keep a team of paediatricians ready for having the clinical trials conducted for those in the 12 to 18 years age group. The trial will be a basis on consent from parents of those undergoing trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-may-conduct-clinical-trials-of-covaxin-for-teens-101622742851974.html
03-06-2021||Bangalore||Google’s answer to “ugliest language” query was Kannada. An apology follows||Bengaluru: Google, the US-based search engine giant, on Thursday found itself at the receiving end of severe criticism over its search results that returned Kannada as the answer to a question on India’s “ugliest language”.According to the image shared widely on social media, the answer to a question, “What is the ugliest language in India?” was Kannada. “The answer is Kannada spoken by around 40 million people in south India,” according to a screenshot of the search results.The backlash from the Kannada language speakers, which is one of the national languages in the country, was so spontaneous that #Kannada was trending on microblogging site, Twitter across the country. Other hashtags like #KannadaQueenOfAllLanguages also continued to trend on Twitter.Google later deleted the response that had offended people, saying the search results weren’t always perfect.“Sometimes, the way content is described on the Internet can yield surprising results to specific queries. We know this is not ideal, but we take swift corrective action when we are made aware of an issue and are continually working to improve our algorithms. Naturally, these are not reflective of the opinions of Google, and we apologize for the misunderstanding and hurting any sentiments,” a Google spokesperson said in a response to Hindustan Times.But that was later. For hours, netizens and politicians from all major parties in Karnataka took to social media to criticise the Sundar Pichchai-led company.“Kannada language has a history of its own, having come into existence as many as 2,500 years ago! It has been the pride of Kannadigas all through these two-and-a-half millennia,” Arvind Limbavali, Karnataka’s minister for forest, Kannada and culture said in a twitter post.“If Kannada is now called ugliest language in India, it is merely an attempt by @Googleto insult this pride of Kannadigas. Demand apology from @Google ASAP to Kannada, Kannadigas. Legal action will be taken against @Google for maligning the image of our beautiful language!,” he added.“Home to the great Vijayanagara Empire, #Kannada language has a rich heritage, a glorious legacy and a unique culture. One of the world’s oldest languages, Kannada had great scholars who wrote epics much before Geoffrey Chaucer was born in the 14th century. Apologise @GoogleIndia,” PC Mohan, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of parliament from Bengaluru Central posted on Twitter.“This blunder is not acceptable. When it comes to language, whoever it is should be careful. Especially when it comes to Kannada, twice the care should be taken. Otherwise, there will be no surprise if the self-respect of Kannadiga’s that became a wave in just one hour, can turn into a Tsunami,” HD Kumaraswamy, former chief minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader said in a post in Kannada on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/googles-answer-to-ugliest-language-query-was-kannada-an-apology-follows-101622739912394.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar directs DCs to ramp up health arrangements at CHCs||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday directed the deputy commissioners (DCs) to ramp up their health arrangements at the community health centres (CHCs) and increase the number of children’s wards in advance to deal with possible impact of the third wave of Covid-19.Presiding over a meeting of DCs, the CM directed that the number of oxygen beds should also be increased along with keeping multidisciplinary teams conducting health checkups in villages on alert for better coordination.He said that an ambulance should be stationed round-the-clock at every CHC so that if required, a patient can be referred to the nearest district hospital. Every ambulance to be stationed near these CHCs should have a maximum life support system, Khattar said.Interacting with the media after chairing the review meeting, Khattar said strict cognisance of the complaints regarding private hospitals fleecing patients has been taken.“A random audit of private hospitals will be done. For this, district-level committees have been formed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-directs-dcs-to-ramp-up-health-arrangements-at-chcs-101622739492854.html
03-06-2021||Other||Govt wants to shift farm agitation from Delhi borders to Jind: Tikait||Reacting sharply over the recent FIRs registered against farmers in Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad for protesting against ruling BJP-JJP leaders, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday said the Union government is making all attempts to shift the epicentre of farm agitation from Delhi borders to Haryana’s Jind.Scores of farmers were camping at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders demanding repealing of Centre’s three farm laws and a legal guarantee of the minimum support price since November last year.Addressing the farmers in Jind, Tikait alleged that the Union government has directed Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to ask BJP-JJP leaders to visit Hisar, Fatehabad, Sirsa, Jind and other districts where farmers have already announced their boycott so that these districts become the centre-point of the farm agitation.“We have to understand the government’s game plan and farmers should visit Tikri, Singhu and Gazipur borders. The dharnas at toll plazas across state will continue but our focus is to increase gathering at Delhi borders,” he said.“Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and other leaders who are part of the government are visiting Jind, Hisar, Fatehabad and other districts so that the agitation can shift to Jind. The government wants to confine the protest to these districts,” he added.As per experts, Hisar has become the epicentre of farm stir against the three farm laws after clashes broke out between the Haryana Police and farmers during Khattar’s visit last month to inaugurate a Covid hospital.Then, police had booked 350 farmers and later the administration had agreed to withdraw FIRs against them after holding a meeting with farm leaders. When the farm agitation started in Haryana last year, Kuruksehtra was at its core, later Jind, which is the heart of farm agitation in Haryana, become the central point with major panchayats being conducted there by BKU leader Rakesh Tikait and other farm leaders.FARMERS PROTEST IN FATEHABADFarmers held protest in Fatehabad demanding release of two farmers of the 27 arrested by police on Wednesday night when they were protesting outside the Tohana Sadar police station demanding registration of FIR against Tohana MLA Devinder Babli.Farm leader Mandeep Singh Nathwan, who led the protest, said they had gheraoed Tohana Sadar police station and Jakhal police stations demanding registration of FIR against Babli for allegedly abusing farmers when they were protesting against him outside the civil hospital.“Police had detained 27 farmers, of which 25 farmers were released and police sent two farmers to Hisar jail after registering cases against them. We will not tolerate such behaviour by the police,” he added.TIKAIT, CHARUNI’S DIFFERENT VIEWS OVER FATEHABAD ISSUEBKU (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni and BKU spokesman Rakesh Tikait, who has emerged as the central figures of the farm agitation, have expressed different views over the Fatehabad incident.In a video message, Charuni said few people, who want to become heroes in the farm agitation, have betrayed the farmers by protesting outside two police stations in Fatehabad on Wednesday night demanding registration of FIR against Babli.“In a panchayat, we had unanimously decided on Wednesday that we will gherao all police stations in Haryana for two hours on July 7, if police fails to book Babli. But some leaders, who are trying to defame the agitation, protested on Wednesday night,” he added.Backing Nathwan and other protesters, Tikait said the young leaders can be misguided as they held protests on Wednesday instead of waiting for July 7.“These young farmers have been working to strengthen the farm agitation. We will counsel them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-wants-to-shift-farm-agitation-from-delhi-borders-to-jind-tikait-101622739192145.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Less than 1,000 cases reported in Haryana||After weeks, Haryana on Thursday reported less than 1,000 Covid-19 cases in a day bringing down the number of active cases to 12,688. The decline in cases after the peak period during the second wave of Covid is now in its fourth week.The state recorded 980 new cases, 2,889 recoveries and 71 deaths on Thursday, according to the medical bulletin.The day’s positivity rate was 2.49% and recovery rate went beyond 97%. About 44,000 individuals were tested for the virus on Thursday.North-western districts of Hisar and Sirsa led the charts with 1,260 and 1,229 active cases, respectively. They were followed by Gurugram with 957 active cases and Karnal with 939 cases. Nuh with 77 and Charkhi Dadri with 62 active cases were the lowest on the infection chart.With 900 virus caused deaths, Hisar district led in terms of causalities, followed by Gurugram (835), Faridabad (709), Karnal (507), Bhiwani (505), Rohtak (484), Ambala (483), Jind (458), Panipat (448), and Fatehabad (404).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/less-than-1-000-cases-reported-in-haryana-101622739021835.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Hisar ASJ sets aside grant of bail to remdesivir black marketers||Setting aside two orders of the Hisar chief judicial magistrate (CJM) granting bail to three persons accused of black marketing of remdesivir, administered to hospitalised Covid-19 patients, Hisar additional sessions judge (ASJ) Ved Parkash Sirohi has said that perpetrators of such crime deserve no sympathy of the court.In his May 31 order on a criminal revision petition filed by the Hisar police, the ASJ said while the Supreme Court has directed the government to take immediate steps to stop black marketing of remdesivir injections, the CJM has released three accused, who were caught red-handed selling remdesivir at exorbitant prices, on bail within 3-5 days.“Black-marketers of Covid medicines, especially remdesivir, have no pity on patients and their relatives. They have exploited the situation at the cost of lives of patients. They hoarded life-saving drugs and sold them at exorbitant rates taking undue advantage of the serious condition of poor patients,” the court order said.“Such crime is certainly against the society and perpetrators of such crime deserved no sympathy of the court. In cases where the offence is so heinous, the CJM had no jurisdiction to entertain the matter, the grant of bail by the CJM cannot be said to be justified from any angle,” the court order added.“The CJM’s May 5 and 11 orders granting bail to accused Arun Khurana, owner of Holy Hospital Medical Store in Hisar, and Parth Khurana and Mukesh Malik of National Medical Hall of Nagori Gate in Hisar suffered from illegality, irregularity and perversity and are set aside,” the ASJ said.As per court orders, Arun and Parth were allegedly caught red-handed selling remdesivir injections (100mg/vial) for ₹40,000 while its maximum retail price is just ₹3,400. Two more remdesivir injections were recovered from Parth’s car and four from the possession of Mukesh Malik.The accused were booked for commission of offence under Sections 18(A), 18(C) and 27(B)(ii) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, Section 51(B) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Sections 3 and 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 and Sections 420 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Malik was arrested on the basis of disclosure statement by Parth to the police during investigation. Parth told the cops that he had purchased three remdesivir injections from Malik for ₹30,000 each. The original bill and tax invoice of three remdesivir injections were recovered from Malik’s possession, the court order read.“The court said the offence under Section 18-A of the Drugs Act is triable by the court of sessions or special court. The court of additional sessions judge (2nd) has been constituted as special court for trial of such offences. Perusal of Section 36-AC of the Drugs Act also makes it clear that the application for grant of bail under the aforesaid Sections of the Drugs Act can only be entertained by the special court. Thus, the Hisar CJM had no jurisdiction to entertain the applications for grant of bail to the accused and she has acted beyond jurisdiction,” ASJ Sirohi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hisar-asj-sets-aside-grant-of-bail-to-remdesivir-black-marketers-101622738952214.html
03-06-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal reports 108 new Covid-19 deaths, 8,811 fresh cases||West Bengal's Covid-19 death toll rose to 15,921 after 108 more people succumbed to the disease on Thursday, the state health department said in a bulletin.The tally went up to 14,03,535 after 8,811 new cases of infection were reported, it added.In the last 24 hours, 16,938 patients recovered from coronavirus improving the discharge rate to 94.46%. So far, 13,25,834 people have been cured of the disease in the state.The number of active cases currently is 14,03,535, the bulletin said.Of the fresh fatalities, 30 were reported from North 24 Parganas district followed by 27 in Kolkata. The rest of the deaths were registered in several other districts, the bulletin said.Out of the 108 deaths during the day, 41 were caused due to comorbidities where Covid-19 was incidental.The 8,811 new positive cases included 1,842 from North 24 Parganas and 976 from Kolkata.Since Wednesday, 74,568 samples were tested for Covid-19 in West Bengal taking the total number of such examinations to 1,26,45,747, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-reports-108-new-covid-19-deaths-8-811-fresh-cases-101622736424214.html
03-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand second-worst performer in NITI Aayog’s SDG index||Jharkhand ranked second-worst among 28 states in the third edition of the SDG (Sustainable Development Goal) India Index 2020-21, while worst in the Zero Hunger parameter, according to the index report released by NITI Aayog on Thursday.Kerala retained the top spot, while Bihar featured at the bottom of the index. The SDG index evaluates the progress of states and union territories on social, economic and environmental criteria every year, officials said. Jharkhand’s overall scores across SDGs have improved marginally by three points to 56 out of 100 in 2020-21 from 53 in 2019-20, according to the report. Jharkhand was adjudged on 15 parameters and it saw improvement on 10 indicators. On the Zero Hunger parameter, Jharkhand slipped three score points compared to the index of 2019-20. The state scored meagre 19 on the parameter, which is the lowest in the country. In 2019-20, Jharkhand’s score was 22, according to the report. Belgian-born noted economist Jean Dreze said, “I have not gone through the report so far. So I do not want to jump to any conclusion. But, one thing I can say that the state government needs to pay attention to it, as the state’s malnutrition rate is very high. It should also work on improving the distribution system of subsidized food.” Asarfi Nand Prasad, a senior member of Right to Food Campaign, Jharkhand, said, “The figure doesn’t seem to be surprising, as the topic of hunger seems to be missing from the government’s priority list.” He said, “There are many households in Jharkhand, who are still deprived of ration cards. The government had identified 15 lakh households, who are not enrolled under NFSA. The state government is providing them green cards so that they could be provided subsidised rations. Till March, only nine lakh families out of 15 lakh had received the green cards.” Prasad further said Anganwadi centres are also not functioning properly and take home ration scheme is not operational at the centres due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Despite repeated efforts, the state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, who is also having a portfolio of food and public distribution system, could not be contacted for his comment on the report. However, the stare did marginally well on the No Poverty parameter. It improved by eight score points from 28 in 2019-20 to 36 scores in 2020-21. The state saw a major decline in the parameter of Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure. The state’s score dropped from 70 in 2019-20 to 37 in 2020-21. Besides, the state also slipped on the Decent Work and Economic Growth parameter from 70 score points in 2019-20 to 54 in 2020-21. General secretary of Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), Rahul Maroo said Covid-19 triggered pandemic largely impacted the sector in past one year. “Apart from this, the slow decision-making attitude of the state government has also impacted the growth. The Coal mining industry is major revenue generating sector but the auction of many mines is still pending,” he said. However, good thing is that Jharkhand has improved largely on the Good Health and Well Being parameter. The state’s score improved from 55 in 2019-20 to 70 in 2020-21, according to the report. Jharkhand’s performance on SDGs Indicators Scores-2020 Scores-2019 No poverty 36 28Zero hunger 19 22Good health & well being 74 55Quality Education 45 42Gender equality 51 34Clean water & sanitation 83 78Affordable clean energy 77 50Decent work & economic growth 54 70Industry, innovation & infrastructure 37 70Reduced inequality 65 64Sustainable cities & communities 71 57Sustainable consumption & production 55 36Climate action 25 27Life on land 71 99Peace, justice & strong institutions 70 67||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-second-worst-performer-in-niti-aayog-s-sdg-index-101622736491524.html
03-06-2021||Other||Bihar worst performer in NITI Aayog rankings||PATNABihar’s poor run with the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) India Index continued for the third consecutive time when the state was ranked the worst performer as per the third edition of the SDG India Index and Dashboard 2020–21 released by NITI Aayog on Thursday.Bihar, with 52 points, is ranked 28, the last among the bottom five states of Chhattisgarh, Nagaland, Odisha (61), Andhra Pradesh, Meghalaya, Rajasthan and UP (60), Assam (57) and Jharkhand (56). Kerala tops the chart.Bihar improved by two points to reach the score of 52 this year but was still adjudged the worst performer in Niti Aayog’s SDG India Index 2020-21, which evaluates progress of states and union territories on social, economic and environmental parameters.In 2019, Bihar was ranked 28 with 50 points and in 2018, it was ranked 27 with a score of 48. First launched in December 2018, the index has become the primary tool for monitoring progress on the SDGs in the country and has simultaneously fostered competition among the states and union territories by ranking them on the global goals.The third edition of SDG covered 16 goals on 115 quantitative indicators. Bihar, however, does not figure among performing states in any of the 16 goals including health, education, gender, economic growth, institutions, climate change and environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-worst-performer-in-niti-aayog-rankings-101622736372110.html
03-06-2021||Other||HC clears decks for recruitment of 1.25 lakh teachers||PATNAThe Patna High Court on Thursday cleared the decks for recruitment of nearly 1.25 lakh school teachers in Bihar, which has remained stuck for nearly two years.The court directed the state government to grant 4% reservation to the differently abled, including the visually impaired persons, as per the provisions laid down in the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995, as also the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, and give them additional time to apply.In 2019, the National Federation of the Blind (Bihar chapter) had filed a petition challenging the recruitment process on the ground that it didn’t reserve seats for them.The bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar said the process should be expedited to ensure publication of the merit list for recruitment of teachers in the state’s primary and secondary schools. The entire result, including those from the physically challenged category, would now be published together after completing the exercise in a month.Advocate Genera (AG) Lalit Kishore said the government agreed to give opportunity to candidates from the physically challenged category, who were eligible to apply by the cut-off date in the advertisement for recruitment (September 26, 2019 for middle and high schools and November 11, 2019 for primary schools) but could not apply. “They will be given 15 days to apply against the vacancies for the physically challenged, and after the processing of their applications, results will be announced for all,” he said.He also submitted a letter from additional chief secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar, which detailed the separate procedure to be followed for the physically challenged. The education department will publish the vacancies — as per recruiting agency, subject and category — on the web portal with clarity about the vacancies for the physically challenged. The advertisement will also be published in newspapers. Those who have already applied would not be required to apply.Counsel for the petitioners, Surendra Kumar Singh, said the court accepted their contention that the physically challenged, including the visually impaired, could not be treated as sub-category for reservation within reservation, as was done in the roster last time, leading to the petition. “The court accepted our contention and the government also agreed to this. It is already there in the Bihar gazette that reservation to the physically challenged will not be on the basis of caste, but on the basis of impairment. It will now be treated as a separate category as per the laid down provisions and the government will issue a separate notification for it. Just as there are categories for SC, ST etc. there will be one for the physically challenged. Earlier, the reservation roster did not have any mention of the category for the physically challenged and it had been tagged with the caste categories,” he said.The AG had earlier placed two options before the court, saying the government was committed to guaranteeing adherence to the reservation roster. While one option was to earmark 4% quota for the physically challenged, including the visually impaired, or keep 4% seats vacant till the final disposal of the case and go ahead with recruitment on the remaining 96% seats, if the court so permitted.Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, whose initiative for an early hearing in the case led to the verdict, welcomed the HC decision and said the government would try to expedite the recruitment process in keeping with the court order. “This is good for the teacher aspirants. The government will soon initiate the process for the differently abled,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hcclears-decks-for-recruitment-of-1-25-lakh-teachers-101622736371462.html
03-06-2021||Other||BJP puts its MLC on notice after his dare to Nitish||PATNAThe BJP has served a show cause on its MLC (member of Legislative Council) Tunna Pandey after his outburst against the Bihar government and chief minister Nitish Kumar in particular.“Tunna ji Pandey has been served a show cause notice and asked to reply to in 10 days,” said Vinay Singh, chairperson of state BJP’s disciplinary committee.Pandey, whose six-year term in the Legislative Council is scheduled to end on July 16, was served the notice after ruling NDA constituents Janata Dal-United (JD-U) and Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) raised the matter with state BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal. Tunna Pandey has been in the news over the past few days over allegations that ambulances donated by him from his local area development fund in Siwan were bought at exorbitant prices. A former minister, Vikram Kunwar, wrote to CM Nitish Kumar a couple of days ago demanding a probe into the procurement of 10 ambulances in Siwan district, purchased with funds provided by Pandey and former MLAs Ramesh Singh Kushwaha and Vyasdev Prasad.On Wednesday, Pandey has alleged that the chief minister was hand-in-glove with liquor smugglers since 2009. “I will ensure he lands in jail and will expose him,” he had said.The NDA government in the state enjoys a wafer-thin majority. It has 127 MLAs, five more than the majority mark, while the Mahaghatbandhan or the Grand Alliance (GA) has 110 MLAs in Bihar’s 243-member House. Pandey’s attack on the CM drew swift retaliation from the JD-U. “The BJP has been targeting the chief minister on and off. Nobody can prove corruption charges against Nitish Kumar. Pandey used to trade in liquor and is obviously peeved after Prohibition in the state,” said JD-U state chief spokesperson and MLC Sanjay Singh.Party’s national principal general secretary K C Tyagi hoped the BJP would not tolerate such acts of indiscipline. “We have been working [together] for decades and the BJP doesn’t tolerate such indiscipline. Nitish Kumar has been the leader of the NDA [in Bihar] for more than 15 years and he has been the choice of PM Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J P Nadda,” said Tyagi.Spokesperson of HAM-S, Danish Rizwan, too demanded action against the MLC, calling his remarks “highly objectionable”.However, Pandey remained undeterred. “Nitish Kumar is a circumstantial chief minister, as former MP Shahabuddin rightly said and received punishment for speaking the truth. He (Nitish) is not my leader. I am a BJP leader,” he said on Thursday. Pandey had earlier also questioned the state government’s decision not to allow Shahabuddin’s burial at Siwan, after he died of Covid early May this year at Tihar jail in Delhi, where he had been serving his sentence in connection with a murder case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-puts-its-mlc-on-notice-after-his-dare-to-nitish-101622736311516.html
03-06-2021||Other||2020 polls: BJP spent highest, RJD lowest among key players||PATNAThe Bhartiya Janata Party( BJP) was the highest spender in the 2020 assembly elections in Bihar, spending around ₹71.72 crore on campaigning and candidates, according to expenditure reports filed by political parties to the Election Commission of India (ECI) recently. BJP won 74 seats of the 110 seats it contested. Its ally Janata Dal (United), to which chief minister Nitish Kumar belongs, spent ₹22.67 crore. The party fought in 115 seats and won 43. On the other side of the aisle, the Rashtriya Janata Dal ( RJD), which is the main Opposition party, spent just ₹7.93 crore, far less than its ally Congress, which spent ₹30 crore.RJD had won 75 of the 144 seats it contested while Congress won just 19. RJD’s poll expenditure report is still not visible on the ECI’s website, but its treasurer and MLC Sunil Kumar Singh said the party had sent the report to the central poll panel within the stipulated time limit, which is within 75 days of the conclusion of polls.Compared to 2015 polls, BJP spent ₹30 crore less during the last year’s elections while RJD and JD(U) spent more. As per data, BJP spent over ₹100 crore in 2015 while Congress spent ₹18 crore and RJD ₹94 lakh. JD(U) had spent ₹13.97 crore in the 2015 assembly polls. Coming back to 2020 polls, the All India Majlis –E-Ittehadul- Muslimeen (AIMIM), which won five seats, has shown an expenditure of ₹3.14 lakh.The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which won only one seat, has shown an expenditure of ₹4.79 crore. BJP leader and MLC Devesh Kumar said his party and ally JD(U) declared their poll expenditure in a transparent manner but the expenditure information furnished by other parties, including RJD, appeared less convincing. “The EC should probe the election expenses furnished by the parties,” he said. RJD MLC Sunil Kumar Singh shot back. “RJD has been in opposition for long and gets small contributions. Whatever expenses were incurred by RJD have been shared. But some parties having deep pockets have understated their election expenses. It should be looked into,” he said. Headline: Election expenditureIntro: The central poll panel recently uploaded election expenditure reports submitted by parties for 2020 Assembly polls in Bihar 2020 pollsBJP: ₹71.72 crJD(U): ₹22.67 crCongress: ₹30 crRJD: ₹7.93 cr2015 pollsBJP: ₹100 crJD(U): ₹13.97 crCongress: ₹18 crRJD: ₹94 lakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2020-polls-bjp-spent-highest-rjd-lowest-among-key-players-101622736312116.html
03-06-2021||Pune||Wadettiwar’s unlock announcement creates confusion in Pune, BJP slams government||Pune: Pune will be in level 4 of the Maharashtra government’s plan to unlock the state in five phases though from when and how the decision announced by relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar is to be implemented led to confusion on Thursday. As Wadettiwar’s announcement created confusion after the Chief Minister’s office (CMO) issued clarification saying decision is yet to be taken, his rejoinders only added to the muddle by evening. To clear the confusion, local authorities in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and rural areas of the district had to clear the air saying there will not be any change in the current restrictions. According to Wadettiwar’s afternoon announcement, Pune district along with Raigad fall in Level 4 category considering its positivity rate is above five per cent while the occupancy of the oxygenated beds is less. The positivity rate of PMC and PCMC limits is around seven per cent, compared 13.54 per cent in rural parts of the district. This led to confusion among many, including traders, who thought they may have to once again shut down their shops. “I got a message about minister’s order from another trader saying Pune may face restrictions. I was scared,” said Leeladhar Mishra, a shopkeeper from Shivajinagar. Currently, standalone non-essential shops are allowed to operate in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad between 7 am and 2 pm on weekdays while essential shops are allowed for the same hours throughout the week. However, in rural parts, only essential shops are functioning with the district administration planning to take review of the situation by June 10. While announcing the unlocking process, Wadettiwar said that Pune district falls under Level 4 category in which positivity rate is between 10%-20% and the occupancy of oxygenated beds is more than 60% and hence the restrictions would continue. This premature announcement created confusion as it contradicted existing relaxations. The opposition in Pune slammed the announcement made by the cabinet minister. “There is clearly a lack of clarity about the unlocking policy in the state government. They have given rights to district level authorities without considering minor things. While defining a policy all the criteria should be taken into account without creating confusion amongst common people,” said Girish Bapat, Member of Parliament from Pune. Siddharth Shirole, BJP legislator from Shivajinagar, criticised the MVA government. He emphasised that by this time the state government should have had a clear strategy for unlocking. “This is not the first time that unlock is taking place. So, over the period of a year, the state government should have thought about the proper and scientific method of unlock. Every decision has been creating confusion amongst people and business community,” said Shirole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/wadettiwars-unlock-announcement-creates-confusion-in-pune-bjp-slams-government-101622735831472.html
03-06-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,819 fresh Covid cases, eight deaths||Pune: As per the state health authorities, Pune district reported 1,819 fresh Covid positive cases and eight deaths in the last 24 hours. The eight deaths included five in Pune rural, two in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and one in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). PMC has so far reported 485,874 Covid cases and 6,844 deaths till Thursday. PCMC 244,690 cases and a total of 1,763 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 291,733 total cases so far and 4,130 deaths due to the infection. In Pune district, there are a total of 1.022,297 million Covid cases. Of this, 0.983,056 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 12,798 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 26,443 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 25,617 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 5,486,206 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 94.73%. Across Maharashtra, 15,229 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 307 deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.68%. The state health department stated of 35,774,626 laboratory samples, 5,791,413 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 16.19% patients till Thursday. Currently, 1,566,490 people are in home quarantine and 7,055 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-819-fresh-covid-cases-eight-deaths-101622735351422.html
03-06-2021||Pune||State CET cell gears up preparations for admission process||Pune: After the Centre cancelled the CBSE class 12 exam and the state planning to cancel its format also for this year, the latter is likely to go ahead with the common entrance test (CET) for various degree courses, including engineering. The Maharashtra CET cell department is gearing up preparations to conduct the CET exams and waiting for the instructions by the state government. Meanwhile, education experts have questioned the move of CET exam when class 12h exam has been cancelled. The state has already clarified its plan to conduct CET for class 11. “The class 10 exams are cancelled and it is declared that for class 11 admissions CET exams will be conducted. Now we are preparing for CET exams though awaiting the order from the state authorities. With most districts under the lockdown, no decision is yet taken about CET exams,” said Chintamani Joshi, commissioner, state CET cell. “Student safety is our first priority and we cannot suddenly declare about any CET exams to be conducted. Post receiving guidelines on holding the CET exams from the state government, exams will be held within a month,” he said. Education experts have raised concern over the further admission procedure for class 12 students. Prof Radhakrishna Mundada, a retired engineering professor and education expert in entrance exams, said, “We don’t understand what the central or even the state government is planning to do with the students’ career. They are cancelling class 12 exams, but planning CET exams. The authorities should take a firm decision on the admission process as it is related to the students’ career opportunities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-cet-cell-gears-up-preparations-for-admission-process-101622734871469.html
03-06-2021||Indore||MP man held for shooting neighbour's pet dog dead in Indore||A 53-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for allegedly shooting his neighbour's pet dog dead, after the canine bit his wife in Madhya Pradesh's Indore, police said.Narendra Vishvaiyya was arrested under section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle, etc) of the IPC, Dwarkapuri police station in-charge Manish Mahor said.The accused, a resident of Sudama Nagar, was angry that the dog had allegedly bit his wife, and shot the animal with his licensed rifle on Wednesday night, the official said.A bullet hit the animal on the neck, killing him on the spot, he said.The accused had claimed that the dog had also bit others in the locality, the official said, adding that if the accused's claims are found to be true, appropriate legal action will be taken against the pet owner as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/mp-man-held-for-shooting-neighbour-s-pet-dog-dead-in-indore-101622734233077.html
03-06-2021||Dehradun||Char Dham yatra may begin soon in phases, says Uttarakhand minister||Dehradun: The Char Dham pilgrimage may soon be opened in phases, first to people living in Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts where the four Himalayan shrines are located, Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said on Thursday.Satpal Maharaj said the government is considering allowing the Char Dham yatra first for locals of the three districts, in the second phase for people from other districts of the state and finally, for pilgrims from outside the state.A pilgrimage to the Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri, and Gangotri shrines is collectively called Char Dham yatra. Tens of thousands of pilgrims join the yatra annually, which starts from Yamunotri in the west. It then proceeds to Gangotri and finally to Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east. Last year, over 1.45 lakh pilgrims visited the Badrinath shrine, 1.34 lakh visited Kedarnath, 23,837 pilgrims went to Gangotri and 7731 pilgrims visited Yamunotri.“I met chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Wednesday and discussed this issue. After the Covid curfew is lifted on June 8, we have plans to open yatra in a phased manner. But this time we will regulate the pilgrim influx and not allow any crowding. RT-PCR test will be a must for all the pilgrims”, he said.He conceded that there had been no decision on lifting the lockdown imposed in the state and the government will take the next steps to open the Char Dham yatra only if the Covid cases and deaths continue to decline in the state and curfew, in place till June 8, is not extended. Satpal Maharaj said they are also reviewing the medical facilities along the Char Dham routes such as availability of medical oxygen and other related facilities to ensure pilgrims don’t face any difficulties during medical emergencies. The Tirath Singh Rawat government had announced the decision to put off the Char Dham pilgrimage on April 29 due to a surge in Covid cases. The yatra was scheduled to start on May 4. This year, only portals of these shrines were opened for ritual worship by the local priests.The decision to postpone the yatra was taken amid fears that it could turn out into another superspreader after the Mahakumbh in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar. The high court, which had taken a harsh view of the state government’s failure to take adequate steps at Haridwar, had later also pointed out videos on social media that suggested even the priests at Kedarnath and Badrinath temples weren’t following the Covid protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/char-dham-yatra-may-begin-soon-in-phases-says-uttarakhand-minister-101622734452175.html
03-06-2021||Other||Minor among 3 dead in mobike collision on Dehu road||PUNE: A minor boy is among three people killed in a collision of two motorbikes on Tuesday evening in Dehu road.The deceased have been identified as Sunil Dadarao Kare (22), Mangesh Sanjay Kudgir (17) and Mahood Lakshman Kejgir (19), all residents of Dongale Pimple area of Parbhani, according to the police.The complainant in the case was identified as Malayya Iraya Swami (42), a resident of Kaspate Vasti in Wakad. He was riding with his uncle when the accident took place. The three men were riding on one motorbike while the complainant and his relative were riding another motorbike, near Shinde petrol pump in Dehuroad.Kare was booked for driving negligently, causing grievous injuries to the complainant’s uncle, and minor injuries to the complainant.Bodies were sent for post mortem and their families were informed by the local police.A case under Sections 304(a) (causing death due to negligence), 279, 337 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), along with Section 184 of Motor Vehicles Act was registered against one of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-among-3-dead-in-mobike-collision-on-dehu-road-101622733551350.html
03-06-2021||Other||32-year-old remanded to police custody for duping 58-year-old woman using sleight of hand in Hadapsar||PUNE A 32-year-old man has been remanded to police custody on Thursday, for duping a 58-year-old woman using sleight of hand in Hadapsar.The arrested man was identified as Swapnil Lalwani (32), a resident of Kalepadal. He was produced in a local court and remanded to police custody.The incident happened on May 4 between 12 noon and 1:30pm, at an ATM near the Bank of Maharashtra branch in Hadapsar.The complainant, a resident of Handewadi, had gone to the ATM to withdraw money. However, before she could use the machine, the man convinced her that it does not work. He then pretended that he was not able to withdraw cash either and suggested that they both go to another ATM nearby, according to the complaint.When the two reached the second ATM, the man deceitfully saw the confidential code the woman was entering on the machine. He then used sleight of hand to swap the ATM card that the woman had in her hand and put a duplicate card in its place, according to police.The man then used the card and the code he had seen to withdraw ₹15,000, according to the police.A case under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/32yearold-remanded-to-police-custody-for-duping-58-year-old-woman-using-sleight-of-hand-in-hadapsar-101622733311327.html
03-06-2021||Other||PMC contractors accused of shoddy road work in effort to meet monsoon deadline||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is being accused of “shoddy” pre-monsoon road repair work by civic activists and the opposition parties.Activists are demanding that the PMC carry out work as per the Standing Technical Advisory committee’s (STAC) recommendations.PMC had set a deadline to stop all road digging by May 31, to and complete all resurfacing before the monsoon begins. The PMC also undertook the replacement of drainage and water pipe lines across major roads in the city. However, due to the pre-monsoon showers, contractors have not been able to complete the work and are now accused of finishing it in a hurry, hence, the shoddiness.Civic activist Vivek Valenkar, said, “As per the Bombay High court order, PMC formed the STAC under the chairmanship of a former PWD secretary and the committee has recommended a scientific standard procedure for road work. However, it is not followed. If the work is undone in the monsoon, PMC should take action against the concerned officials.”The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) held an agitation in front of the PMC main building on Thursday, accusing the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of continuing the digging even after the pre-monsoon deadline.Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We have given instructions to inspect the work where people registered complaints. If the contractor is found guilty, s/he will face action. Besides that, I have given orders to all officials to check the work quality. If they find any substandard work, the contractors will face action.”Formation of STAC committee Roads in Pune city witnessed major pothole formation in 2005-2006. PMC received a lot of criticism from the media, general public and elected representatives for the poor condition of the roads. Subsequently, a public interest litigation, number 111 of 2006, was filed by an NGO against the PMC. The Bombay High Court directed the PMC to constitute a technical advisory committee of experts in the field of road engineering and construction to advise the PMC in matters of road design, construction, quality aspects, specifications, and maintenance management.The STAC, under the chairmanship of A B Pawar, former secretary of PWD and past president of the Indian Road Congress, submitted a report to the PMC in 2012-13. What STAC recommended* Oversized metal layers of 150 mm thickness after compaction * Sized metal layers of 75 mm thickness after compaction is.* 50 mm grout treatment over these two layers.* 50 mm BM layer to be laid above the metal, and 25 mm bituminous concrete layer a wearing coat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-contractors-accused-of-shoddy-road-work-in-effort-to-meet-monsoon-deadline-101622732591199.html
03-06-2021||Other||Rajiv Gandhi zoo’s in-situ breeding programme has six endangered Giant Indian Squirrels thriving in captivity||PUNE The Giant Indian Squirrel, also known as the Malabar Giant squirrel or “Shekru”is the state animal of Maharashtra.Six such squirrels now exist in a 100 sqm facility at the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Research Centre at Katraj, all in their natural habitat.According to the statistical data shared by the authorities, there have been only 10 Shekru births in captivity across India, with the Pune zoo recording three born in captivity.To facilitate a successful breeding programme, the zoo built an off-display facility in 2019. “This facility has all the natural attributes where we have three male and three female Shekrus, all healthy,” said Dr Rajkumar Jadhav, director, Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Research Centre.The zoo plans to expand the programme as the population of Shekru is declining due to poaching and habitat loss. “We have earmarked land for the expansion project to increase the population,” he added.“We were identified as a participating zoo, as part of 73 zoos identified by the Central Zoo Authority for India for an exclusive conservation and breeding programme for the Shekru. The programme began in 2008,” said Jadhav.In 2014, the Pune zoo did not have a population of Shekru, so took in two rescued female Shekru, and then requested for a male from a farm in Gadchiroli. “It was only in 2016 that we found one pair compatible and in 2017, we had our first birth. After that, every year until this year, we have had successful births in the very first in-situ breeding programme in India,” said Jadhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rajiv-gandhi-zoo-s-in-situ-breeding-programme-has-six-endangered-giant-indian-squirrels-thriving-in-captivity-101622732471256.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 15,229 daily Covid-19 cases, 307 fresh fatalities in last 24 hours||Maharashtra on Thursday reported 15,229 new Covid-19 cases as the state’s tally reached 5,791,413 cases, according to data from the state government. Also, 307 patients succumbed to their infections on the day, which pushed the death toll to 97,394.As many as 25,617 people were discharged in the last 24 hours. So far, 5,486,206 people have recovered from the disease. Active caseload currently stands at 204,974, the data showed. Meanwhile, the capital city Mumbai reported 985 new infections of the coronavirus disease on the day and 27 related fatalities. With this, the Covid-19 tally reached 708,026 and the death toll further climbed to 14,907 in the country’s financial capital, the latest data showed. Also, 897 people recovered in the city, taking the total recoveries to 675,193, according to a bulletin from the Mumbai corporation.Medical workers in the state tested 260,032 samples in the previous 24 hours for the disease and so far, 35,774,626 tests have been conducted in the state.The state has been witnessing a declining trend of daily new cases and has been reporting less than 20,000 fresh infections daily since last Sunday. However, on Wednesday, there was a marginal spike in the daily new cases with 15,169 new cases after witnessing over 14,000 new cases previously on Tuesday. Fresh infections have been on the decline in Mumbai too with the city reporting 666 new cases on Monday, the lowest this week. However, the city too saw a spike in new cases on Wednesday after 923 people tested positive.Among the cities, Pune recorded 465 new Covid-19 cases, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 203 new cases, Nagpur recorded 139 new cases, Thane recorded 134 new cases and Navi Mumbai recorded 91 new cases. Earlier in the day, the Maharashtra government announced a five-level unlock plan following a meeting within the state disaster management authority. According to the plan, all restrictions would be lifted from around 18 districts that have less than 5 per cent positivity rate and less than 25 per cent occupancy of oxygen beds. These districts also form the first level. However, the Mumbai city and suburbs have been placed in the second level of the unlock plan, the government said.According to the data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 23,052,074 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, comprising 18,400,557 first doses and 4,651,517 second doses, have been administered to beneficiaries in the state as of 7am on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-15-229-daily-covid-19-cases-307-fresh-fatalities-in-last-24-hours-101622731134418.html
03-06-2021||Kolkata||Ex-Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay responds to Centre’s notice||West Bengal’s former chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay has responded to the Union home ministry’s show-cause notice sent to him for missing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting on May 28.Officials at Nabanna, the West Bengal government’s secretariat in state capital Kolkata, said Bandyopadhyay sent his reply on Thursday afternoon. But they refused to divulge the contents of the letter.The Centre sent the show cause notice to Alapan Bandyopadhyay on 31 May, insisting that his decision to miss the meeting convened by Prime Minister Modi during the PM's visit to Bengal in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas was a violation of the Disaster Management Act 2005.Also Read: Bengal BJP divided over Centre’s notice to ex-CS, politicians’ arrestThe notice was issued after Bandyopadhyay, a 1987 batch Indian Administrative Service officer, decided to retire on May 31 rather than avail the three month extension granted to him by the government.The soft-spoken bureaucrat was caught in the middle of a political firestorm after chief minister Mamata Banerjee decided to skip PM Modi’s meeting held in Bengal after she learnt that there was a change in the format of the meeting. She later told reporters that Bengal BJP leaders were also invited to attend the meeting that was originally scheduled as a one-on-one between her and PM Modi. Alapan Bandyopadhyay and other senior Bengal officials also didn’t attend the meeting.Alapan Bandyopadhyay’s transfer orders from New Delhi came soon after Prime Minister Modi, ordering the IAS officer to report to the Centre’s department of personnel and training on May 31. The order to transfer Bandyopadhyay to the Centre was unusual; he wasn’t even told which post he would hold in the central government. Besides, he hadn’t asked for the transfer and wasn’t empanelled to hold any senior position at the Centre.Mamata Banerjee sought to insulate her official and declined to release him. On Monday morning, she also wrote to Prime Minister Modi to request that the unilateral transfer order, issued without consulting the state government, should be withdrawn. When she didn’t get a response to her letter, Bandyopadhyay decided to retire from the civil services.Mamata Banerjee, who announced Bandyopadhyay’s decision to retire, said she had decided to hire Bandyopadhyay as special adviser to the chief minister on a three-year-term.The Centre, which had initially suggested that it would initiate action against him for not packing up his bags and coming to Delhi, issued the show cause notice under the Disaster Management Act under a provision that requires everyone to abide by any direction given by officials conconcerned during a disaster.“By this act of abstaining himself from the review meeting taken by the Prime Minister, who is also the Chairman of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas as part of his visit to cyclone affected areas in the state of West Bengal, Sri Alapan Bandopadhyay, chief secretary, government of West Bengal, acted in a manner tantamount to refusing to comply with lawful directions of the Central government and is thus violative of Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act 2005,” said the letter signed by Ashish Kumar Singh, under secretary to the Government of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/exbengal-chief-secretary-alapan-bandopadhyay-responds-to-centre-s-notice-101622731115216.html
03-06-2021||Other||Residents complain of huge rush of hawkers on Sinhgad road||PUNE It has been a daily issue for residents of Sinhgad road - major encroachments on the road and footpaths by vegetable and fruit vendors, and other hawkers. “Due to the strict restrictions and lockdown, people were at home and would only come out for shopping of essential goods. Now as the unlock process started there is a huge rush of vendors and hawkers on Sinhagad road. Starting from Dandekar Bridge chowk till Dhayari Phata chowk, there are hundreds illegal hawkers who have either encroached on the road or are on the footpaths,” said Ramesh Vidhate, secretary, Sinhgad Road Residents Forum. “Already there are spots where the road is dug up for pipeline work. So, Sinhgad road has become narrow. Due to these roadside vendors, daily traffic jams are happening in the mornings. We have written to the PMC to take some action,” added Vidhate.Another Sinhagad road resident, Avinash Pasalkar said, “I go to work in the morning when there is a traffic jam on both sides due to these hawkers. They should be moved off the road and the digging work needs to be completed soon.”Sinhgad road ward officer Sambhji Khot said, “There is continuous action being taken on hawkers and illegal roadside vendors. We will check again and take the necessary action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/residents-complain-of-huge-rush-of-hawkers-on-sinhgad-road-101622730791185.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||A reason enough for me to worship my grandmother||My grandmother, Ikchha Bai, who left for her heavenly abode in 1992, never took care of us; she never cooked for us, never washed her own clothes or fetched water from the well for her own use and never did any household work throughout her life. Instead, she demanded everything of daily use from my mother and before that from my grandbua (my grandfather’s widowed sister) who stayed with us. Any delay in providing her supplies would attract her ire. Yet, all of us, including our entire village and people from adjoining villages, respected her. The sole reason for this was her love for nature. She had no formal education but learnt to recite the Ramcharitmanas. She used to spend the whole day taking care of trees and reciting Ramcharitmanas. She used to worship Lord Shiva and plant flowers to offer fresh ones along with the bel patra to the idol. She loved plants so much that she sold her silver jewellery to buy a mango orchard spread over eight acres in our village in spite of grandfather’s resistance. She maintained a beautiful kitchen garden. She planted trees of commercial and medicinal importance such as neem, babool, sheesham, ber, kaith, tamarind, bel, amla, guava, banana, lemon, tulsi, and aloe vera on a piece of land adjacent to our house. She was habituated to worshipping and observing fasts for plants such as the banyan tree (Vat Savitri Vrat on Amavasya of the Jyesth month); amla tree (Anwla Navami on Shukla Paksh of the Kartik month); banana tree (every Thursday); besides tulsi and bel (everyday). She would break her fast under the banyan and amla trees with the meal she cooked for herself under the trees. She was in the habit of tying rakhees to trees on Raksha Bandhan. Once, my mother burnt her finger while cooking and she treated her with aloe vera pulp. She would cry if a mango or any other tree fell after maturing due to a storm and would scold us if we plucked leaves and flowers. She would get angry with my uncles on learning that they had used chemical fertilisers for increasing productivity instead of compost (organic manure) made at home. Once, I asked the reason for her strong love for plants. Pat came the reply: Trees are real friends of human beings. They continuously and tirelessly work for us. They release oxygen necessary for our survival besides providing fruits. We get foodgrains, vegetables and flowers from plants. She would tell us that trees, shrubs and herbs are the ornaments of Mother Earth, and it is our bounden duty not to make her poorer by cutting or not growing these. She would profess that purity of soil, water and air is to be maintained at all costs for the survival of humanity. She was an environmentalist in her own right. In fact, each one of us should strive to become plant lovers like her, or more than her, to ensure the survival of human civilisation and to escape from the wrath of climate change. This single reason is more than enough for me to worship my grandmother. May her pious soul rest in peace. My respectful tribute to Sunderlal Bahuguna, the Chipko Movement leader and one of India’s finest environmentalists, on the eve of World Environment Day. The writer is the vice-chancellor, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-reason-enough-for-me-to-worship-my-grandmother-101622730671780.html
03-06-2021||Other||Monsoon over Maharashtra between June 5 and June 15: IMD||PUNE According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the southwest monsoon has advanced over parts of Kerala and will begin there on Thursday. IMD meteorologists, on Thursday, said that the southwest monsoon will advance over Maharashtra between June 5 and June 15.As of Thursday, the northern limit of the Monsoon passes through Kochi and Palayamkottai in Kerala.Conditions are favourable for the advancement of the monsoon over Maharashtra, as well as other states, said the weather department.Dr DS Pai, scientist and head, climate research and services, IMD Pune, said, “The normal date for onset over Maharashtra is between June 5 and June 15. The conditions are favourable for further advancement.” Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at IMD Pune, said that even though the monsoon is not yet here in Maharashtra, rainfall will continue in the four subdivisions.“Many places in the four subdivisions across Maharashtra will experience rainfall with thunderstorms and lightning till June 5. The advancement of monsoon is favourable. However, its progress may depend on various factors,” said Kashyapi.Southwest monsoon is likely to advance into the remaining parts of the south Arabian Sea, some parts of the central Arabian Sea, remaining parts of Kerala and Lakshadweep, some more parts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, some parts of coastal and south interior Karnataka, Rayalaseema and some more parts of the south and central Bay of Bengal by June 5, said IMD officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monsoon-over-maharashtra-between-june-5-and-june-15-imd-101622730071082.html
03-06-2021||Pune||Pune airport transports over 10 crore doses of vaccines across the country since January 2021||Pune: The Pune airport has played an important role as the hub for distribution of Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Covishield vaccine across India with more than 10 crore doses of vaccine being transported between January 12 this year and May 27. The doses were transported through various airlines from Pune airport to different destinations in approximately 9,052 boxes, weighing 289,465 kilogrammes, according to a press release issued by Press Information Bureau (PIB). Among the destinations, vaccines have been transported to Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Bhopal, Goa, Jaipur, Port Blair, Vijayawada, Bhubaneshwar, Patna, Lucknow, Chandigarh, Leh, Karnal, Hyderabad, Guwahati, Ranchi, Jammu, Cochin, Dehradun, Srinagar and Trivandrum. The Lohegaon airport in Pune has also transported vaccines internationally with around 216,000 doses (570 kgs) of Covishield vaccine taken to Suriname, Saint Kitts, St. Vincent and Gernadines, Antigua and Barbuda, St. Lucia by chartered flight in February 2021. PVC Vaccine approximately 161 pieces (3,670 kgs) was transported to Kolkata and Covid-19 testing kit were transported from Pune airport to Delhi, stated PIB release. The vaccine transportation began on January 12, 2021 when country’s first batch of Covishield vaccine doses left for 12 different cities in seven passenger and two chartered cargo flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-airport-transports-over-10-crore-doses-of-vaccines-across-the-country-since-january-2021-101622729051044.html
03-06-2021||Pune||Pune administration allows 20% oxygen for industries, manufacturing units say it’s inadequate||Pune: The state government has permitted oxygen production units to divert up to 20% of the generated stock to industries and reserving 80% for medical use. The decision was taken after review of the spread of Covid infection, recovery rate and requirement of medical oxygen across the state during the last week of May. The industries association has welcomed the government’s decision, but maintained that the allocation was much less compared to the demand sought by many manufacturing and fabrication industry based in Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune. Sandeep Belsare, president, Pimpri-Chinchwad Small and Medium Scale Industries Association, said, “We have been demanding this relief since long and had even met deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. It is a good decision, but 20% is less as the industry requires more oxygen for functioning. Oxygen is needed for laser cutting, profile cutting, auto-mechanical and furnace industry. Many industries were shut for 40 days because of oxygen requirement. Currently, how many tonnes of oxygen the industry is getting is still unclear but the picture will be clear tomorrow (Friday). PCMC alone requires 100 tonnes of oxygen per day.” The decision by Pune district administration came a day after the state government allowed 20% oxygen use for industries. Bhushan Sahani, Sahani Gas Industries, Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), Bhosari said, “Everybody is aware that 80%-90% of oxygen is used by industries in normal course and only 10%-15 % goes for medical purpose. The industries are closed for two months for want of oxygen. It is now a very small portion which is being released for the industry and there will be a big shortage in the coming days. The government should help the industry and increase allocation if the Covid patient count is coming down.” Mahendra Talegaonkar, owner, Talegaonkar Profile Private Limited, said, “The allocation of 20% is very less as we need around 40%. We are into steel plate cutting industry and cannot survive without oxygen. We have got plasma machines so that we can make up for the losses, but we need oxygen for cutting work. We hope the oxygen allocation is scaled up in the next few days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-administration-allows-20-oxygen-for-industries-manufacturing-units-say-its-inadequate-101622728570973.html
03-06-2021||Pune||PMC introduces white coal option to cremate bodies||Pune: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is encouraging the use of white coal (briquettes) at crematoriums after people in the neighbourhood complained about thick smoke and pollution.Following the rise in Covid fatalities, the use of wood to cremate bodies has increased. During the Covid pandemic peak period, PMC used white coal to cremate bodies at Vaikunth crematorium after residents complained about pollution.Now, the civic body is making efforts to provide residents the option of environmentally friendly white coal along with electrical and gas facilities at crematoriums.Of the 24 cremation facilities across the city, 10 are electrical and 13 are operating on gas. Three crematoria have both electrical and gas facilities.Residents in the neighbourhood of Vaikunth crematorium registered complaints of pollution as last rites increased due to spike in Covid cases. Later, PMC cremated 589 Covid bodies in April-May using white coal option and spent around ₹15 lakh.Public awarenessShriniwas Kandul, chief of the electrical department, PMC said, “We are planning to introduce white coal option to people to cremate bodies. It is environment friendly and cost effective as compared to traditional wood. We have kept this option open at Vaikunth crematorium and have started public awareness campaigns.”Kandul said that white coal cannot be made mandatory as people’s sentiments and emotions are involved. “We will use posters and banners which will give information about white coal use and its benefits to the environment. On public demand, we will provide white coal at Vaikunth crematorium through a supplier,” he said.Regarding the proposal of corporators Smita Vaste and Saraswati Shendge of Navi peth-Parvati ward to provide white coal at crematoriums, Dr Kalpana Baliwat, PMC assistant medical officer said, “The proposal was sent to health department for opinion and we had given a positive response and mentioned that it is a good environment friendly alternative to traditional firewood.”Mangesh Dighe, PMC environment officer, said, “It is a good alternative to save trees and protect our environment. But, we cannot make it compulsory as it involves people’s sentiments. Any social change takes time just like when we started electrical and gas facilities at crematoria decades ago.”Cost and eco-friendlyTo cremate a body using traditional firewood, it takes 280 to 300 kilograms of wood. The total cost is around ₹4,500 to ₹5,000 along with transportation. It creates air pollution. However, white coal costs ₹2,500 per body, generates more heat, cremation takes place faster and pollution levels are lower as compared to wood.White coalIt is biomass briquettes made from agro forestry waste, agriculture waste or biomass such as sugarcane bagasse, forestry gleanings, wood chips and shavings, castor seeds shells, rice husk and paddy straw, coir dust, wheat straw, mustard waste, bajra cobs and groundnut shells. It is gathered and compressed under large pressure into briquettes which is converted into biofuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-introduces-white-coal-option-to-cremate-bodies-101622726770963.html
03-06-2021||Pune||Pune cops carry injured woman on makeshift stretcher to hospital 4 km away||A team of policemen walked 4 km carrying a woman on a makeshift stretcher to a hospital after she was found injured near rail tracks in the Western Ghats section between Khandala and Karjat stations in Maharashtra.The woman is now recuperating at a government hospital in Pune and is reported to be in a stable condition, officials said on Thursday.According to the railway police, the incident took place on Monday when the woman, Asha Waghmare (42), was found lying beside the tracks near Jamrung in the ghat section.A team of four-five policemen rushed there and carried the woman on a makeshift stretcher made of saree and bamboo sticks in the hilly section.They later used an ambulance to rush her to a primary health care center in Karjat, around 120 km from Mumbai."On Monday, we received information from the Lonavla railway station master that a woman was lying near the tracks in the ghat section near Jamrung," Lonavla railway police sub-inspector Vishnu Gosavi told PTI.Since the spot was 20 to 22 km away from Lonavla, officials from the Karjat railway station, which was relatively closer to the spot, were informed, he said.A team of policemen and porters from the Karjat railway station immediately to the spot.The woman, who had received injuries on her back, was found lying near the tracks. Since it is a hilly terrain with a deep gorge on one side, it was difficult to arrange any transport to take her to hospital, said Gosavi."Hence, the policemen, without wasting any time, prepared a makeshift stretcher with a saree and bamboo sticks and walked at least 4 km carrying the woman to reach Palasdhari railway station," he said.In the meantime, an ambulance was called at the Palasdhari station."From there, the policemen ferried the woman in the ambulance to a hospital in Karjat. She was later taken to the government-run Sassoon General Hospital in Pune for further treatment," he said.The woman is now recuperating at the hospital, the official said, adding that she is a resident of a nearby hamlet in the ghat section."As per information provided by the woman, she got injured after being hit by a running train at a curve in the ghat section while she was trying to cross the railway tracks," the official said.Her family members were tracked and informed about the incident, he said.A senior railway police official lauded the rescue team, comprising policemen P M Sarkale, D K Gangurde, M P Gaikwad, P A Turdar, and a Homeguard."They did a commendable job and would be rewarded," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-cops-carry-injured-woman-on-makeshift-stretcher-to-hospital-4-km-away-101622724450535.html
03-06-2021||Kolkata||Bengal eateries allowed to open for 3 hours with vaccinated employees: Mamata||With the Covid-19 situation improving in West Bengal, the state government on Thursday decided to allow restaurants to open for three hours in the evening, provided people working there are vaccinated, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said.The government is also thinking of allowing shopping malls to open with 25 per cent workforce after the ongoing Covid related restrictions come to an end on June 15, she said at a meeting with representatives of various chambers of commerce at the state secretariat."Covid-19 contagion is declining in West Bengal following the imposition of restrictions. Restaurants can be open for three hours in the evening from 5 pm to 8 pm provided the people working there are vaccinated," Banerjee said.However, it is not immediately clear from which date the eateries can start operating.The CM said that her government was mulling the option of vaccinating domestic helps in the same way it has planned to inoculate hawkers, bus conductors, vendors and others. Altogether 1.4 crore of people in West Bengal have been inoculated so far, she said.At the meeting, Banerjee also urged representatives of the chambers to help the government in vaccinating the population of the state."The government cannot single-handedly vaccinate everyone. I will urge you to come forward and help us to inoculate the people," she said.Banerjee also sought their help in relief works in districts ravaged by Cyclone Yaas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-eateries-allowed-to-open-for-3-hours-with-vaccinated-employees-mamata-101622723476748.html
03-06-2021||Lucknow||BSP sacks 2 MLAs including its legislative party leader Lalji Verma for anti-party activities||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Thursday sacked its Uttar Pradesh legislative party leader Lalji Verma and another MLA for anti-party activities during the recently concluded panchayat polls.A party statement issued here said, "Two MLAs - Lalji Verma and Ram Achal Rajbhar - has been sacked from the party for anti-party activities during panchayat polls."Verma has been removed from the post of legislative party leader and Shah Alam alias Guddu Jamali will replace him in the state assembly as party leader," .While Verma is BSP MLA from Katehari seat, Rajbhar is an MLA from Akbarpur seat --both in Ambedkar Nagar district of the state.The newly appointed legislative party leader Shah Alam is party MLA from Mubarakpur seat in Azamgarh district.The party also said these two sacked leaders will not be invited to any party programmes in the future and they will also not be given party tickets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bsp-sacks-2-mlas-including-its-legislative-party-leader-lalji-verma-for-anti-party-activities-101622722900062.html
03-06-2021||Other||Covid-19: BHU conducting sero survey in Varanasi, other east UP districts||A team of researchers and scientists of Banaras Hindu University’s (BHU’s) zoology department, along with Biosense Technologies, India, is holding a sero survey in 10 districts of eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP) to find out how many people have developed antibodies against Covid-19 infection. The 74-member team headed by professor Gyaneshwar Chaube of zoology department started sero survey around a fortnight ago. The survey will also cover Azamgarh, Ballia, Mau, Jaunpur, Ghazipur, Sonbhadra, Bhadohi and Mirzapur, with special focus on Varanasi,he said. So 1,000 samples will be collected in Varanasi against 500 in each of the other districts. Also Read | UP board class 12 exams 2021 cancelled due to COVID-19 situationProfessor Chaube said the survey will be completed by mid-August. “After that, a detailed report will be prepared and sent to Prime Minister’s Office and the Union ministry of health and family welfare,” he said. The report will also be shared with an international science journal, he added.Prof Chaube said the team is also collecting data and doing surveillance to get an idea of a possible third wave. The team had conducted a similar sero survey during the first wave as well.To be sure, Uttar Pradesh government is set to launch its sero survey in the state from tomorrow, June 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-bhu-conducting-sero-survey-in-varanasi-other-east-up-districts-101622722691286.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to unlock in 5 phases: What will remain open and what will be closed||Maharashtra on Thursday decided to go for a 5-level unlock strategy as the Covid-19 numbers in the state slowly recede. The plan was approved in a meeting of the state disaster management authority, which was chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.The categorisation has been done on the basis of positivity rate and status of occupancy of oxygen beds in the districts, state minister Vijay Wadettiwar said after the meeting. The areas which will come under level 1 (positivity rate less than 5%) will be free from all the restrictions. Around 18 districts will come in this category.Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 15,169 new coronavirus cases and 285 deaths in a span of 24 hours, the state health department said. With the addition of 15,169 fresh infections, the state's caseload rose to 57,76,184, while the fatality count increased to 96,751, the department said.Here's what all will remain open and what will remain closed:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-unlock-in-5-phases-what-will-remain-open-and-what-will-be-closed-101622718919300.html
03-06-2021||Bangalore||K'taka govt immerses unclaimed ashes of Covid victims as per Hindu traditions||The Karnataka government has performed mass immersion of ashes (asthi) of Covid-19 victims in the Cauvery river, aimed at ensuring dignity in death.Urns containing ashes of over 500 deceased from Bengaluru that were unclaimed were immersed into Cauvery river near Belakawadi in Malavalli taluk of Mandya district on Wednesday as per Hindu traditions, officials said.This was said to be the first such large-scale immersion of ashes in the state during the pandemic.The ashes were said to be largely from the open cremations sites on the outskirts of the city that were set up by the government when the Covid fatalities peaked last month and pressure was building up on crematoriums.With no one turning up to collect the urns containing ashes of their deceased family member, despite repeated requests, the government had decided to take up the responsibility of immersing the ashes.The mass immersion of ashes was performed by a battery of priests, in the presence of Revenue Minister R Ashoka, Mandya District-in-charge Minister K C Narayana Gowda and senior officials.Ashoka, who himself participated in the rituals, said it will be replicated across the state to ensure dignity in death."When I saw reports about bodies being thrown into river Ganga it pained me. I didn't want it to happen in our state. No body should be left out as an orphan body, Deputy Commissioners, Assistant Commissioners and Tahsildars in every district have to ensure that final rites are performed and if burnt ashes are immersed. I will issue orders to this effect," he said.Final rites of people belonging to other communities have been performed as per their traditions, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-govt-immerses-unclaimed-ashes-of-covid-victims-as-per-hindu-traditions-101622721030889.html
03-06-2021||Indore||Indore Police seizes 4,500 litres of poisonous liquor, nabs 3||Indore police on Tuesday seized around 4,500 litres of poisonous liquor after conducting a raid on an illegal liquor distillery in a forest area here.The police also arrested three persons in the case. The accused have been identified as Jitendra, Bharat, and Banti.Addressing a press conference today, Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP), Mhow, Puneet Gehlod, said that the informer had given a tip-off about the operation of an illegal liquor distillery in Banjari village of Khudail police station area.Acting upon the information, the police nabbed the three accused. However, one of the accused managed to escape from the spot.Around 4,500 litres of liquor being prepared in 22 drums, including 230 litres in two drums of illegal and poisonous liquor prepared on the spot, was seized."Urea was being mixed in the liquor due to which it had become poisonous. It could have killed many people but due to the prompt action by the police. It was caught before reaching the market," the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-police-seizes-4-500-litres-of-poisonous-liquor-nabs-3-101622720749092.html
03-06-2021||Bhopal||35 MP districts reporting less than 10 Covid-19 cases per day: Minister||As many as 35 districts in Madhya Pradesh are now reporting less than 10 Covid-19 cases in a day, state Home Minister Narottam Mishra said on Thursday.Talking to reporters here, he said the Covid-19 recovery rate in the state has now improved to 97.13 per cent.As per the state health department, the recovery rate was 96.3 per cent on June 1."There are 35 districts where less than 10 cases of Covid-19 are being reported now and even the infection rate has come down to one per cent in the state," Mishra said.The minister, who is also the state government's spokesman, however, did not name those districts.The Covid-19 infection rate in the state was 1.54 per cent on June 1, as per government data.The number of active cases has also now come down to 14,186, Mishra said.There were about 20,000 active cases in MP on June 1, according to the health department.The minister said MP is now ranked 19th in terms of the viral infection in the country.The state had earlier listed on 5th, 7th and 9th places, according to government data.As on Thursday morning, the state reported 846 new Covid-19 cases, while 3,446 people recovered from the disease, Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/35-mp-districts-reporting-less-than-10-covid-19-cases-per-day-minister-101622720634713.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid orphans decline adoption offers in HP, find support in relatives||At 16, he knows life is not going to be easy for his nine-year-old sister and him. Their world came crashing down in May when they lost their parents within a span of a few days to Covid-19 in Jogindernagar sub division of Mandi district as the second wave of the pandemic peaked in Himachal Pradesh. Of the 15 children orphaned due to the pandemic in the hill state, five are from Mandi district, four from Una, three from Hamirpur, two from Kangra and one from Solan district. Also read: PM Modi interacts with students, days after cancelling Class 12 examTaking on responsibility one day at a time “I know there will be a lot of responsibility. A thousand thoughts come to mind, but I’ve decided to focus on my studies,” says the teenager, who is still recuperating from the coronavirus infection along with his sister. At present, the brother and sister live with their 65-year-old paternal grandmother. The siblings flatly reject the idea of undergoing adoption. “No, I would not consider that. My sister is very young, but she understands. Our parents have left a house for us. We will stay with our maternal uncle eventually. He comes to visit us regularly,” he says. Jogindernagar sub-divisional magistrate Amit Mehra, who recently visited the family, said the children will be provided all benefits under government schemes. “People of their village have also been helping them and we have been getting a lot of calls for adoping the girl, but a decision will be taken after consulting the family once the children are back to the best of their health,” Mehra said. Counselling and regular touch for siblings Another pair of siblings from Fatehpur sub division in Kangra district lost their parents to Covid-19 within a week. The mother of the 15-year-old boy and his seven-year-old sister died on April 29 in Ludhiana, where they lived, and the father succumbed to Covid complications at home on May 5. Kangra district programme officer, Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS), Ranjeet Singh said the children are living with their paternal uncle at present. “They are in shock. We are in regular touch with their extended family and the counselling of the children is still on,” he said. Singh said the girl has been enrolled in a local school in Class 2 and her brother will be admitted in Class 11. The government is considering to enroll them in a Navodaya Vidyalaya, a government boarding school. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said the siblings have been registered for government schemes and will be extended benefits of the foster care programme. Their 22-year-old cousin said the children would continue living with relatives. “We will not give them up in adoption. They are family and will live with us,” she said. State govt schemes for security of kids Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said his government was committed to ensuring the welfare of such children and has initiated schemes for their security. Under the CM’s Bal Seva Yojana, they will be provided ₹3,500 a month each of which ₹2,000 will be given by the Centre and ₹1,500 by the state government. The government will give priority to such children in childcare centres provided they are willing. They will be given admission in Navodaya Vidyalayas, Sainik and Central Schools. He said that orphan girls will be given priority in admission in Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas. He said that the state government will provide ₹51,000 to orphan girls under the Mukhyamantri Kanyadaan Yojana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-orphans-decline-adoption-offers-in-hp-find-support-in-relatives-101622720052360.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||People want Covid-19 vaccine, not Kejriwal's criticism: Sisodia to Centre||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre, accusing the ruling party members of not addressing the real issue. Sisodia said the BJP leaders are busy criticising Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal."The people want Covid-19 vaccine, not Kejriwal's criticism. The BJP leaders always criticise Kejriwal when asked about the vaccine. They should let people know why they sent vaccines abroad? Our children were dying here," said Sisodia at a press conference.Also Read: Delhi records 487 new Covid-19 cases, 45 deaths; positivity rate below 1%The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader also said that vaccination centres of many state governments are shutting down, whereas private hospitals are getting the Covid-19 shots. "What happened to ₹36,000 crore allocated for Covid-19 vaccines?" he asked.The AAP has been accusing the Centre of a "vaccination scam". "The Delhi government wants to vaccinate all its youth free of cost. If there are no vaccines for this purpose, how are vaccines available at private hospitals," Sisodia asked.Delhi on Thursday recorded 487 fresh Covid-19 cases, lowest since March 16. The positivity rate stood at 0.61%. 45 patients died due to the disease in the last 24 hours in the national capital, according to Delhi health bulletin.On March 16, Delhi had recorded 425 cases and on March 17, the tally was 536, according to official data.Meanwhile, India's coronavirus cases on Thursday increased by 134,154 as the number pushed an overall tally to cross the 28.4 million mark. The death toll was 337,989 as 2,887 people lost their lives to the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/people-want-covid-19-vaccine-not-kejriwal-s-criticism-sisodia-to-centre-101622716621994.html
03-06-2021||Other||3 new caves in Nashik’s Pandav Leni complex; ASI to launch extensive survey||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has found three more caves in the Trirashmi Buddhist cave complex, also known as Pandav Leni, near Nashik, Maharashtra. This discovery in May has led archeologists to believe that there could be more hidden and unseen caves in the same area. Considering this possibility, the ASI is planning a thorough survey of the hill.Trirashmi caves are a group of 24 caves dated between 1BC and the 6-7AD. The caves are on a vertical face of the hill and are a tourist attraction. ASI staff discovered the three new caves during the cleaning process.“After the discovery of the caves, a detailed report has been submitted to the Aurangabad circle office. Two of the 3 caves were discovered when the cleaning work was on. We are planning to do a detailed survey of this mountain to check if there are more hidden caves,” said Rakesh Shende, senior conservation assistant of ASI, Nashik. A further search led the team to the third cave.Also Read | Maharashtra man held for sexually harassing wife; holding her in confinementThe Trirashmi Buddhist caves complex was first documented in 1823 by Captain James Delamaine and is now an ASI- protected site.A preliminary examination has led archeologists to believe that these could be older than the Trirashmi caves. Atul Bhosekar, director of Mumbai-based Trirashmi Research Institute of Buddhism, Indic Language and Scripts, said an extensive study of these caves may redefine the chronology of Buddhist caves in Maharashtra.“Whatever we could gather from archeological parameters, historical records, and a comparison with the nearby caves, such as Kanheri near Nashik, Karle-Bhaje near Pune, it appears that these newly discovered caves are in the rudimentary stage of building. Our prima facie guess is that these three caves were built before the other caves. An extensive study and proper documentation have to be done for us to ascertain the accurate age of these caves,” he said.“There could be still 2-3 more caves in this area that are yet to be discovered. The entire Trirashmi mountain has to be scanned in a proper way. There are 2 factors behind why these caves remained hidden for so long. The first documentation of the complex was done in 1823. At that time, there must be a dense forest in that area. Now also, people visit the caves or directly go to the top of the mountain. There are caverns that remain hidden in the bushes and the trees from the human eye. The third cave which we discovered was very difficult to reach,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-new-caves-in-nashik-s-pandav-leni-complex-send-asi-on-extensive-search-101622719032213.html
03-06-2021||Kolkata||Bengal BJP divided over Centre’s notice to ex-CS, politicians’ arrest||The Centre’s notice to former West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay for skipping Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting on Cyclone Yaas and the arrest of four politicians, including two ministers, on corruption charges have divided opinion within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s state unit, people aware of the matter said.A section of BJP leaders back the Centre in both cases but another, comprising the older leaders, feels they have turned public sentiment against the party within a month after Trinamool Congress (TMC) swept back to power in the state. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee appointed Bandopadhyay as her chief adviser on Monday after allowing him to retire on the last day of service despite his transfer to Delhi and the extension granted to him. On the same day, the Centre sent Bandopadhyay the notice under Section 51(b) of the Disaster Management Act for skipping the meeting. The section provides for up to two-year imprisonment.Banerjee has accused the BJP of political vendetta following its defeat in the state and on Wednesday said the state will stand by Bandopadhyay, who is expected to reply to the notice on Thursday. Also Read | BJP ups ante against ruling party, alleges malpractice in distribution of vaccinesFormer bureaucrats have spoken up against Bandopadhyay’s alleged harassment as the hashtag #Modi against_ IAS_IPS trended on social media amid calls for Banerjee as the Prime Minister.A state BJP leader, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the notice and the arrests of the four have turned public sentiment against them. “People did not like the sight of senior TMC ministers being dragged to jail days after taking the oath. Questions were also raised about legal procedures. Our Central leadership has said only the leader of the opposition Suvendu Adhikari will speak in public and brief the media on the Bandopadhyay episode. We are keeping silent.”The Central Bureau of Investigation arrested ministers Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, legislator Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee on May 17 in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation videos that purportedly showed them taking money for alleged favours to a fictitious firm. They have since been released on bail.TMC has linked the arrests to BJP’s defeat in the assembly polls and questioned why did not CBI arrest Adhikari and Mukul Roy, who were also seen in the sting videos, and have since defected from the TMC to the BJP. Another BJP leader said Bandopadhyay and his younger brother, Anjan, the editor of a news channel who died of Covid-19 two weeks ago, have been popular in the state. “They came from a village and rose in life. Both were brilliant students. Bengal’s people, especially students and youths, are seeing this as harassment of a Bengali bureaucrat. Most of the social media messages are talking of regional politics. This is a throwback to the outsider campaign that Banerjee used against BJP central leaders from Delhi and Hindi-speaking states during the polls,” said the second leader, requesting anonymity.TMC lawmaker Abhishek Banerjee questioned why Bandopadhyay, who is managing the Covid pandemic, has been sent the notice under the Disaster Management Act. “Show cause letters should be sent to all parties, including mine, and the BJP for campaigning during the elections. When people were supposed to stay at home, we saw the Prime Minister saying he was overwhelmed by the turnout at his rallies. The Election Commission should be served a notice for holding an eight-phase poll during the pandemic,” he said during a visit to cyclone-affected areas on Wednesday.BJP leader Ritesh Tiwari blamed the “same Left-liberals, intellectuals and section of the media that backed TMC during the polls” for the latest campaign against BJP. “This media did not report that on Tuesday the Centre released ₹7,000 crore for Bengal under the Jal Jeevan Mission as promised by Modi during the election. We lost the polls, but the Prime Minister kept his promise because he does not blend politics with administration.”TMC lawmaker Sukhendu Sekhar Roy accused the BJP of using all means to see the back of Mamata Banerjee after failing to win the elections. “The BJP could not project a Bengali as its chief ministerial candidate. Yet its Hindi-speaking leaders quoted, often wrongly, lines from Tagore’s poems to woo voters. Though this made them a laughingstock, these leaders were convinced that BJP would win 200 seats. Now, they are using all sorts of tactics with an aim to somehow make Mamata unpopular.”Former bureaucrat Jawhar Sircar said people of Bengal never believed in regionalism, but it appears the Bengali sentiment has been hurt.Udayan Bandopadhyay, a political science professor, said it does not matter whether a bureaucrat is a Bengali or a non-Bengali but the manner in which Bandopadhyay has been sent one letter after another may prompt people to feel that he is being victimised because he is a Bengali. “This is a matter of perception.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-bjp-divided-over-centre-s-notice-to-ex-cs-politicians-arrest-101622718671080.html
03-06-2021||City||Maharashtra man held for sexually harassing wife; holding her in confinement||A man has been arrested for allegedly sexually harassing his 41-year-old wife and confining her at home with their three daughters for over one and half years in Maharashtra's Solapur district, police said on Thursday.The police raided the house in Zende Gulli area of Pandharpur city on Monday and rescued the woman and her daughters, while her husband has been arrested under section 376 (rape) among other relevant provisions of the IPC, an official said.The matter came to light when the victim managed to throw an SOS note outside her home, which was picked up by a woman and the police were alerted, the official said.The Nirbhaya squad of the Pandharpur city police kept a vigil on the house and rescued the victim and the girls, aged between eight to 14 years, following a verification, he said.During the probe, the victim told the police that she had been forcibly confined inside a room in the house for over one and a half years for failing to give birth to a boy, he said.In her complaint, the victim also stated that her husband sexually harassed her and forced her to have multiple abortions, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-man-held-for-sexually-harassing-wife-holding-her-in-confinement-101622718117707.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 487 new Covid-19 cases, 45 deaths; positivity rate below 1%||Delhi recorded 487 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, pushing the cumulative infection tally in the national capital to 1,427,926, according to the state government's health bulletin. The death toll in the national capital rose to 24,447 after 45 fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the bulletin. Thursday's numbers mark a further decline from the 576 cases recorded a day ago.Delhi's Covid-19 test positivity rate has now dropped further to 0.61% - the fourth consecutive day that it has stayed below the 1% mark. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), a consistent positivity rate below 5%, for a period of at least two weeks before an outbreak, is recommended before the area can be considered to be completely under control. Delhi’s positivity rate has remained below the stipulated mark for two weeks now.According to the Delhi health department bulletin, a total of 80,046 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Thursday, of which 487 came back positive. The numbers show an increase from the 73,451 samples that were tested on Wednesday, of which 576 were positive.The number of fatalities in Delhi, too, came down drastically on Thursday, falling to 45 from over 100, a mark that was breached after three days on Wednesday. At the peak of the fourth wave, Delhi reported scores of deaths every day, witnessing the highest single-day spike on May 3, when 448 people succumbed to the disease in a span of 24 hours.The Delhi health department further shows that 1,058 patients were discharged from hospitals in the national capital in the last 24 hours after they were cured of Covid-19. As many as 38,126 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the last 24 hours, of which 30,047 received the first dose while 8,079 received the second. Government data shows that 5,498,931 people have so far been vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi, while the number of active cases has come down to 8,748||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-487-new-covid-19-cases-45-deaths-positivity-rate-below-1-101622713970130.html
03-06-2021||Jaipur||BSF foils infiltration bid, seizes heroin worth ₹270cr along Pak border||The Border Security Force (BSF) foiled an infiltration attempt by suspected smugglers from Pakistan along the International Border (IB) in Rajasthan’s Bikaner district on Thursday and recovered 56 kg of heroin, worth over two hundred crores of rupees, in the process, a top BSF officer said. Rajasthan shares a 1,037km long border with Pakistan.In the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, BSF sensed suspicious movement at the Border which was followed by firing of warning shots by the sentry, forcing the smugglers to flee. During a search after the incident, 54 packets of suspected Heroin, weighing over 56 kgs approximately, were recovered. The 127 Battalion of BSF guards the Bondli border outpost falling under Khajuwala police station.BSF inspector general (IG), Rajasthan frontier, Pankaj Goomer told HT that near zero visibility on the Indo-Pak border caused by rains and heavy sand storms have led to a spurt in attempts to push drugs and arms by nefarious elements from across the border.Goomer said the value of the seized drug is likely to be around ₹270 crore in the international market. A case has been registered against unknown smugglers. The director general (DG) of BSF Rakesh Asthana congratulated the jawans and announced a reward of ₹5 lakh to the vigilant troops for the “biggest” seizure of contraband at the Rajasthan frontier, said the DIG (deputy inspector general) of BSF’s, Bikaner sector, Yashwant Rathor.Smugglers’ common modus operandi is to hurl packets of drugs across the border, which are picked up by their local associates and passed on to couriers, who take it to distributors in different cities, a BSF intelligence officer said, seeking anonymity.In the recent past, the security agencies have also discovered tunnels along the border used by smugglers. They also sneak in through gaps in the fence during storms in summer and dense fog in the winter. Rajasthan has become a major part of the route used for transporting drugs including heroin. Smugglers use different routes to enter India, choosing between Punjab and Rajasthan, depending upon the heat on a particular border, DIG Rathor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bsf-foils-infiltration-bid-seizes-heroin-worth-rs-270cr-along-pak-border-101622717230974.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Emotions run high as devotees see bullet-hit bir of Guru Granth Sahib||Devotees jostled for a darshan of the bullet-hit Guru Granth Sahib’s holy saroop as the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) displayed it in the Golden Temple complex for three days from Thursday in the run-up to the 37th anniversary of Operation Bluestar on June 6. The saroop, which was installed in the sanctum sanctorum at that time, was hit by a bullet during the army action in 1984. Also read: Khaira among 3 rebel AAP MLAs join Congress In a first, the SGPC announced on Wednesday that it will display the saroop and the bullet that hit it for public viewing. The Shiromani Akali Dal-dominated SGPC move comes in the backdrop of the political heat the SAD leadership is facing over the 2015 sacrilege incidents and is being seen as a bid to blunt the Congress attack in an election year. Flowers were showered on the saroop as it was carried from Akal Takht to Shaheedi Asthan of Baba Gurbaksh Singh, where it was installed for darshan. As word spread, devotees gathered to catch a glimpse of the handwritten saroop. Shown binding and page of contents Since its pages have lost strength with the passage of time, it was not opened fully fearing that pages may get damaged. Devotees were shown the binding and the page of contents. The hole made by the bullet was clearly visible. Following the ceremony, Akal Takht head granthi Giani Gurmukh Singh showed the saroop to the media and emotions ran high when SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur displayed the bullet. LED screens installed at various points around Akal Takht provided live feed for devotees. The event was telecast live on social media for those who could not visit the shrine. Shocking and distressing sight: Devotees Dalbir Singh of Patiala, who had come to pay obeisance along with his wife and son, said: “So far, we had only heard from preachers about the holy bir being attacked in 1984. Finally, today we have seen it. It’s painful,” he said. Another follower, Amandeep Kaur, a newlywed from Ajnala, said: “I was aware of the army action at Darbar Sahib and Akal Takht Sahib, but not on the holy saroop. Seeing it is shocking and distressing. We never got justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/emotions-run-high-as-devotees-see-bullet-hit-bir-of-guru-granth-sahib-101622716211677.html
03-06-2021||Patna||BJP notice to Bihar leader who said he will expose chief minister Nitish Kumar||The Bihar unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Disciplinary Committee has asked party MLC (member of legislative council) Tunna ji Pandey to explain his recent utterances against the Bihar government and chief minister Nitish Kumar.“Tunna ji Pandey has been served a show cause notice and asked to reply to the notice in 10 days,” said Vinay Singh, chairperson of the disciplinary committee.Pandey, whose six-year legislative council term is scheduled to end on July 16, was served the notice after NDA allies Janata Dal-United (JD-U) and Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) raised the matter with the BJP state president. Senior party leaders said Pandey was most likely to be expelled “as the party leadership doesn’t want to affect the alliance unity in this fragile scenario.”The NDA formed the government in the state with a wafer-thin majority. It has 127 MLAs, five more than the majority mark, while the Mahaghatbandhan or the Grand Alliance (GA) has 110 MLAs in Bihar’s 243-member assembly. Many political observers and some critics maintain that the JD-U’s less than impressive performance in the polls has weakened Kumar’s position inside and outside the alliance.The issue threatens to snowball into a major political crisis in the NDA with JD-U leaders threatening to expose saffron party leaders. “The BJP has been targeting the chief minister on and off. Nobody can prove corruption charges against Nitish Kumar. Pandey used to trade in liquor and is obviously peeved after prohibition in state,” said JD-U state chief spokesperson and MLC Sanjay Singh.Party’s national principal general secretary K C Tyagi hoped that the BJP would not tolerate such acts of indiscipline. “We have been working [together] for decades and the BJP doesn’t tolerate such indiscipline. Nitish Kumar has been the leader of the NDA [in Bihar] for more than 15 years and he has been the choice of PM Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J P Nadda,” said Tyagi.Spokesperson of HAM-S, Danish Rizwan, too demanded action against the MLC calling his remarks “highly objectionable”.Undeterred by the notice, the BJP MLC on Thursday said, “Nitish Kumar is a circumstantial chief minister. He is not my leader. Former MP Shahabuddin received punishment for speaking this truth. I have no connection with Mahagathbandhan, I am just a BJP leader.” Pandey had earlier also questioned the state government’s decision not to allow Shahabuddin’s burial at Siwan, after he died of Covid in May this year.Tunna Pandey’s name has come up in another allegation of corruption against the state administration. Former state minister Vikram Kunwar wrote to CM Nitish Kumar a couple of days ago demanding a probe into the procurement of 10 ambulances in Siwan district, purchased with funds provided by Pandey and former MLAs Ramesh Singh Kushwaha and Vyasdev Prasad.On Wednesday, Pandey alleged that “chief minister was hand in glove with liquor smugglers since 2009. I will ensure he lands in jail and will expose him,”. The BJP MLC also said he was not afraid of speaking the truth. “I can speak against anybody, whoever he may be.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bjp-show-causes-bihar-mlc-for-opening-front-against-cm-nitish-kumar-101622714950693.html
03-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 532 new Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths||Jharkhand reported 532 new Covid- 19 cases on Thursday and 11 more deaths, a Health Department bulletin said. The state has so far reported 3,38,915 cases and 5,011 deaths.The new cases were detected after testing 59,510 samples. Twenty of the 24 districts reported zero fatalities during the last 24 hours, while a door-to-door campaign in the rural areas is on to detect and treat cases.Ranchi reported the highest number of deaths at seven. Two deaths were reported from East Singhbhum and one each from Deoghar and Dhanbad.Jharkhand now has 7,307 active cases, while 3,26,597 patients have recovered.The mortality rate remained at 1.47%, higher than the national average of 1.20%.The recovery rate among the Covid-19 patients in the state improved to 96.36%, above the national average of 92.50%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-records-532-new-covid-19-cases-11-deaths-101622709807793.html
03-06-2021||Noida||Noida cops, Google Maps help reunite differently-abled boy with family||A 16-year-old differently-abled boy who had left home in a village in Sambhal district three months ago and landed in a Noida shelter home was on Wednesday reunited with his family, officials said.The reunion was made possible following a counselling session at the shelter home and efforts of the Noida Police's Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU), who traced the boy's remote village using Google Maps, they said.Three months ago, the boy stated that he had left his home in Manni Kheda village of Aligarh district without informing his parents and wandered his way to reach Noida in Gautam Buddh Nagar, a police spokesperson said.“He landed here at Sai Kripa Shelter Home and during a counselling session recently was asked about his family. The differently-abled boy somehow managed to tell the names of his mother, father and village to the counsellor,” the spokesperson said.“After this, the AHTU in-charge inspector Devendra and his team got to work and even used Google Maps to locate the village mentioned by the boy. The boy had said the village was in Aligarh but it turned out that the village was in Sambhal district,” the official said.However, the task was still not complete.To ensure that the child actually belonged to Manni Kheda village, the AHTU team contacted the local Nakhasa police station in Sambhal and through them reached out to the village headman.“When the information was shared with the headman, he confirmed that a boy of the same name as this one lived in the village but had gone missing three months ago,” the police spokesperson said.The AHTU team sent the boy's picture to the village headman who also contacted the minor's family after which it was confirmed that the boy staying at the shelter home in Noida was indeed the one missing from Manni Kheda, the official said.The boy's father reached Noida on Wednesday to take back his son to their home and necessary legalities were being carried out, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-cops-google-maps-help-reunite-differently-abled-boy-with-family-101622709026922.html
03-06-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata gets vaccine bus that will go to markets to inoculate priority groups||A bus was turned into a Covid vaccination centre, which will travel to different markets of Kolkata to vaccinate priority groups, including vegetable and fish sellers, who cannot go for inoculation leaving their businesses for hours.The 'vaccination on wheels' initiative was launched by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Thursday in cooperation with the Health and Transport departments of the West Bengal government, minister Firhad Hakim said.An air-conditioned bus was provided by the Transport Department for vaccinating priority groups at the different markets."Since these people cannot go to a vaccination centre leaving their business for several hours, we decided to bring the facility to their doorsteps," Hakim told reporters after the inauguration of the programme at Posta Bazaar, the largest wholesale market of vegetables and groceries in the city.He said that the number of buses used for the purpose will be increased soon."There are several buses available and using these, we can vaccinate the people at the markets itself," he said.Minister for Women and Child Development and Social Welfare Shashi Panja said that the Posta Bazar Merchants' Association, transporters and porters had written to her, seeking vaccination of these people."I am happy that the vaccination on wheels programme in the state was inaugurated from here," she said.Transport Secretary Rajesh Sinha, Municipal Commissioner Binod Kumar and WBTC Managing Director Rajanvir Singh Kapur were present at the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-gets-vaccine-bus-that-will-go-to-markets-to-inoculate-priority-groups-101622709019740.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||89 people succumb to black fungus in Delhi: Health minister||Delhi has a total of 1,044 cases of Mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, as of Thursday morning, news agency ANI reported quoting health minister Satyendra Jain. So far, 92 people have been recovered from the fungal infection prevailing in Covid-19 patients, while 89 others succumbed to the disease.Mucormycosis is a fungal infection that usually affects the mouth, nose, and eyes, and may then spread to the brain. With the rise in Covid-19 cases during the second wave, the Mucormycosis case also saw a rapid rise in the infection, adding to the challenges of the health care system.However, with the dip in the overall nationwide Covid-19 tally, cases of black fungus also seem to be falling.Mucormycosis is caused by exposure to mucor mold, which is commonly found in soil, air and even in the nose and mucus of humans. It spreads through the respiratory tract and erodes facial structures. Sometimes, doctors have to surgically remove the eye to stop the infection from reaching the brain.Also Read | First case of Black fungus detected in children from Karnataka; condition criticalThe infection has a high mortality rate, however, it is not contagious. Uncontrollable diabetes and excessive use of steroids during the Covid-19 treatment are some of the leading causes of black fungus.The recovery of patients has been hit by the severe shortage of Amphotericin-B, a key drug being used to treat patients with black fungus. Earlier the government declared the infection an epidemic and made it mandatory for state governments to report the cases to the Centre.So far, the Centre has taken control of the medicine and has been allocating based on the number of cases reported in each state or union territory.As of Tuesday, Delhi has received only 4,670 vials of the drug; each patient needs 50 vials of the medicine per week on average.The early signs of the disease include extreme headache, facial swelling, facial deformity, formation of black crust around the nose area and nasal blockage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-89-people-succumbs-to-black-fungus-in-delhi-health-minister-101622706803830.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Khaira among 3 rebel AAP MLAs join Congress before Capt leaves for Delhi||In a shot in the arm for chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh just before he off for Delhi on Thursday to meet the Congress committee looking to resolve infighting in the Punjab unit, Aam Aadmi Party rebels Sukhpal Singh Khaira, Jagdev Singh Kamalu and Pirmal Singh Dhaula joined his party in Chandigarh. Minutes before his departure from the helipad, a tweet from the Punjab Congress handle announced: “Capt Amarinder Singh before leaving for Delhi today welcomed Sukhpal Singh Khaira, MLA and former leader of Opposition, and his two AAP MLA colleagues, namely Maur MLA Jagdev Singh Kamalu and Bhadaur MLA Pirmal Singh Dhaula into the party fold.” Also read: Capt to meet Congress panel today to resolve infighting in Punjab unitAfter quitting the AAP, Khaira, a former leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly, founded the Punjab Ekta Party. He is also a former member of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. Kamalu and Dhaula are first-time MLAs. Have Sonia’s approval, says Capt Capt Amarinder said that the induction of the three leaders has been approved by Congress president Sonia Gandhi. “Since the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge of Punjab, Harish Rawat, and state unit chief Sunil Jakhar are busy in the consultation process with the three-member committee in Delhi, their blessings will be sought in a few days,” the chief minister said. He said the Congress stood strengthened with the joining of the three leaders. Patiala member of Parliament and the chief minister’s wife Preneet Kaur was present during the simple joining ceremony in Chandigarh. “The MLAs who have joined recently shall be a big asset to the party,” she said. CM staving off rebellion within partyCapt Amarinder has been staving off rebellion within his party with his detractors, including Navjot Singh Sidhu, Partap Singh Bajwa, Pargat Singh, Surjit Singh Dhiman and Shamsher Singh Dullo, raising questions over his handling of the sacrilege and police firing cases of 2015, inaccessibility, inadequate representation to Dalits and other backward classes and over-dependence on the bureaucracy. The detractors are pushing for course correction before the state goes to the polls early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khaira-among-3-rebel-aap-mlas-join-congress-before-capt-leaves-for-delhi-101622705770285.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Dera chief undergoes CT scan, back in Rohtak jail||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, 53, underwent a CT scan at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, on Thursday morning after he complained of stomachache. A PGIMS official said Ram Rahim was brought from Sunaria jail at 6am. “His condition is stable. We have examined him and conducted a CT scan. The report is awaited,” the official said. Also read: Supreme Court gives Centre 2 weeks to decide Class 12 evaluation criteriaRam Rahim was sent back to Sunaria jail near Rohtak under tight security after the scan. On May 12, he was brought to PGIMS after his blood pressure dipped in the jail, but he was taken back to the prison the next day. At that time, he had refused to undergo the Covid-19. Got parole to meet ailing mother last month On May 21, 2021, the dera chief was granted emergency parole in police custody from sunrise to sunset to meet his ailing mother at a private hospital in Gurugram. Before this, he was given a day’s parole on October 24, 2020, to meet his mother. State jails minister Ranjit Singh had justified the parole at that time saying: “There is a provision under the law that if there is an emergency in the family of the convict, he is allowed to visit his family under police protection.” The dera chief was sentenced to 20 years in jail in August 2017 for raping two followers. In January 2019, he was sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati, who was shot dead in October 2002 outside his house after his newspaper, Poora Sach, published an anonymous letter narrating how women were being sexually exploited by Ram Rahim at the Dera Sacha Sauda headquarters in Sirsa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dera-chief-undergoes-ct-scan-back-in-rohtak-jail-101622702770018.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Capt to meet Congress panel today to resolve infighting in Punjab unit||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh is expected to meet the three-member committee constituted by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to resolve the infighting in the party ahead of next year’s assembly polls in the state. The chief minister is scheduled to reach Delhi on Thursday afternoon for the one-on-one meeting with the panel, comprising leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former Delhi Congress president Jai Prakash Agarwal. Also read: Focus on your constituency, help Covid-hit people: Preneet to Navjot SidhuThe central committee has already met Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, most ministers, MLAs, MPs, heads of frontal organisations and former state presidents of the party over the past three days. Detractors pushing for course correctionDuring these meetings, Amarinder’s detractors, including Navjot Singh Sidhu, Partap Singh Bajwa, Pargat Singh, Surjit Singh Dhiman and Shamsher Singh Dullo have raised questions over his handling of the sacrilege and police firing cases of 2015, inaccessibility, inadequate representation to Dalits and other backward classes and over-dependence on the bureaucracy. The detractors are pushing for course correction before the state goes to the polls early next year. Party unit restructuring pending The chief minister has the support of a majority of the party legislators and the committee members have also ruled out any leadership change. Though there is talk that the party high command’s peace formula could include the appointment of two deputy chief ministers, several MLAs and MPs who have met the panel said this is news to them. The restructuring of the Congress’ organisational set-up has also been pending for the year and a half. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had dissolved the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee and all district committees in the state in January last year, retaining state unit president Sunil Jakhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-to-meet-congress-panel-today-to-resolve-infighting-in-punjab-unit-101622697249438.html
03-06-2021||Patna||A day with Tika Express in Bihar tells a worrying story of vaccine hesitancy||A Tika Express comprising auxiliary nurse midwife Suganti Kumari and data operators Gagan Kumar and Santosh Kumar was able to vaccinate only nine persons at Dagarua primary health centre (PHC) in Bihar’s Purnia district on Tuesday, summing up the worrying status of Covid vaccination drive in rural areas of the state. The Tika Express is a mobile van that carries healthcare staff to far flung areas offering free vaccination at site to residents and it was at a Purnia village to vaccinate people aged 45 years and above on Tuesday.Suganti Kumari and her team were joined by ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) Soni Kumari by 10 am at the vaccination camp they had set up at a government school in Dumra, where some village farmers were harvesting paddy.An hour later, one Gurudev Vishwas came to get vaccinated but was made to wait since at least 10 recipients were needed to ensure a vial of vaccine, once opened, doesn’t go to waste. The vaccination team and the local ward member, Mustaque Alam, stepped out to find willing recipients, but came back empty handed an hour later.While refusing to be vaccinated, a villager told the team, “Even if the DM (district magistrate) comes here, we won’t get vaccinated. We are ready to die of Covid but not of the vaccine.”50-year-old Md Mohsin, a villager, said the vaccination drive was part of a “deep-rooted conspiracy”. Another co-villager alleged that the “conspiracy” was to make people “sterile”. He even taunted the ANM and the team before leaving.Till 4 pm, only nine people took jabs. But Suganti Kumari was happy. “We are ahead by one number today compared to yesterday, when only eight people took the vaccine at Dubaili village.” She also thanked God for saving her and the team from the taunts and humiliation and left for Dagarua PHC to report.This is the everyday reality of the vaccination drive in Bihar’s rural areas.Purnia district magistrate (DM) Rahul Kumar tweeted to express his disappointment. “Our ground forces are working tirelessly to reach far-flung areas. It is disheartening to see some rumours going around about vaccination. I request all those who are reading this to educate at least 20 people about the importance of the vaccine. Don’t fall prey to misinformation,” the DM tweeted.Purnia civil surgeon Dr S K Verma said they were seeking help from religious leaders and other opinion makers in the society to convince people for vaccination.Block health manager (BHM), Dagarua, Shivendra Kumar says the Tika Exprss was way behind its original target. “The target was to get 200 people vaccinated through Tika Express. However, now it is reduced to just 100. We do our best, but we can’t force people to get vaccinated.” He also did not rule out wastage of vaccines in the process.The Tika Express initiative, launched on May 25 in the Purnia district, has only managed to give out 1,594 jabs, including 1,579 jabs of the first dose and 15 of the second. That too, when there are as many as 14 vaccination vans in the district.Till June 1, as per Bihar health department, 10,490,522 persons have been administered both doses of the Covid vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/a-day-with-tika-express-in-bihar-tells-a-worrying-story-of-vaccine-hesitancy-101622695389392.html
03-06-2021||Other||VKSU latest to go under additional charge, V-C sent on leave||Most of the universities are currently without a full-time vice-chancellor, and the latest to go under additional charge of a serving vice-chancellor is the Veer Kunwar Singh University (VKSU), Ara, whose incumbent V-C Devi Prasad Tiwari to proceed on compulsory leave by the Governor’s office on the charges of preventing inquiry into alleged financial irregularities ordered by the Raj Bhawan and till the completion of inquiry. Magadh University V-C Rajendra Prasad has been given the additional charge of VKSU. Governor is the ex official chancellor of state universities in Bihar.“Not allowing investigation by the committee constituted by the Raj Bhawan is a serious charge of gross indiscipline and highly condemnable. It shows you don’t want the investigation to be completed, which is highly objectionable,” Robert L Chongthu, principal secretary to the Governor, wrote to Tiwari.Earlier, Raj Bhawan has served show-cause to Tiwari, to which he responded. However, the Chancellor’s office did not find it satisfactory.This is not the first time in Bihar that a V-C has been asked to proceed on compulsory leave or unceremoniously ousted. Also Read | A day with Tika Express in Bihar tells a worrying story of vaccine hesitancyEarlier, there was an inquiry ordered against MU V-C by the Raj Bhawan. The post of MU registrar Is also under additional charge after the previous incumbent was removed. The registrar of Pataliputra University is holding the charge of Magadh University as well as Patna University. At present, most of the universities in Bihar are under additional charge, with one vice-chancellor holding charge of four universities or one registrar holding charge of three universities. Even principals are holding charge of two-three colleges. Lalit Narayan Mishra University’s (Darbhanga) V-C SP Singh has been given the additional charge of Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU), Pataliputra University and Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University -all in Patna.Besides Singh, TM Bhagalpur University VC Neelima Gupta is also holding the additional charge of Munger University, while BRA Bihar University VC Hanuman Prasad Pandey holds the additional charge of Nalanda Open University (NOU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vksu-latest-to-go-under-additional-charge-v-c-sent-on-leave-101622693468661.html
03-06-2021||Patna||Post cyclone Yaas, Bihar begins crop loss assessment, including for sugarcane||Bihar agriculture department is assessing farmers’ loss caused by cyclone Yaas and is likely to also compensate sugarcane and vegetable farmers for damages this time, say officials.“Earlier, farmers were not offered any relief from the government against loss of sugarcane due to the natural disturbances,” said an officer familiar with the issue.State agriculture minister Amarendra Pratap Singh said farmers will be compensated for damages not only to standing crops like maize, paddy, moong (green gram), til (sesame) and oilseeds, apart from fruit crops like mango, litchi and banana, but also for vegetables and sugarcane. “The survey has begun and a detailed report will be submitted to the disaster management department for compensation by the end of this month,” Singh said.Cyclone Yaas, which made its landfall on the coast of Odisha on May 26, ravaged Bihar for two days on May 27 and 28, leading heavy rains with strong winds, claiming at least seven lives. Officials of the agriculture department said that maize and moong crops were damaged extensively in the cyclonic rains. “However, vegetables, particularly those growing on vines, suffered a major blow due to prolonged accumulation of water in the fields,” said an officer.“The department has asked all the district magistrates (DMs) to submit the details of crop damages in two specified formats. The block development officers will do the groundwork and the district agriculture officer will forward the same to the DMs for verification. The DM’s view is must as the compensation would be doled out from the disaster management department,” said another officer, adding that the entire exercise is expected to be completed by the end of June.The agriculture minister said the department was sensitive towards the miseries of farmers, who were already facing the odds due to the outbreak of Covid pandemic, and will do everything to help them tide over the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/post-cyclone-yaas-bihar-begins-crop-loss-assessment-including-for-sugarcane-101622692389368.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||All doctors put in one category due to war-like situation during Covid-19 pandemic: HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday dismissed with costs of ₹5,000 a plea challenging the Delhi government's decision to put doctors of varying seniority and departments in one category for Covid management duties, saying the step was taken in view of the "war-like situation" at the time.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said that the May 16 notification issued by the Delhi government was a "temporary in nature" and based "purely upon public need and looking at the grave exigencies" prevailing in the city due to Covid-19 pandemic."It was a war like situation when the impugned order was passed," the bench added.It said at that time there was a call for duty by all teaching and non-teaching doctors as well as medical students and thus, the May 16 order was "absolutely just and fair"."There is all power, jurisdiction and authority with the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) to issue an order, like that of May 16, in view of the grave exigencies in the city."There was no want of jurisdiction on the part of GNCTD when it issued the impugned order," the bench said and added "we see no reasons to interfere with the Covid-19 management by GNCTD".The court also said that the present plea was not in public interest by any stretch of the imagination and it appeared that the petitioner doctor "wants exemption from Covid-19 duties" which cannot be given "irrespective of the speciality or branch of medicine".On this aspect, the petitioner's lawyer -- Payal Bahl -- said her client was not seeking any exemption from Covid duties.Delhi government additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal clarified that the May 16 order/notification did not change anyone's seniority or hierarchy and was issued only for better management of manpower for Covid-19 duties.The petitioner had challenged the order on the ground that it was issued without concurrence of the Lt Governor as was required under the GNCTD Amendment Act which came into force from April 27 onwards.The bench said that in peculiar facts of the present case and the temporary nature of the notification which was issued in view of the public need and grave exigencies prevailing at the time, the order did not violate any provisions of the GNCTD Amendment Act.Later in the day, the same issue -- challenge to the notification -- was raised before a single judge by an association representing medical officers in the city.Justice Rekha Palli informed the association's lawyer that a similar plea has been dismissed earlier in the day by a division bench.However, the lawyer sought time to go through the division bench order and the court listed it for hearing on June 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/all-doctors-put-in-one-category-due-to-war-like-situation-during-covid-19-hc-101622689589726.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Isolated thunderstorms likely today, says IMD||Delhi is likely to see isolated thunderstorms and gusty winds on Thursday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Thursday is likely to be at 23 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 38°C.The minimum temperature on Wednesday was 22°C, and the maximum temperature was 37°C. Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Thursday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 116. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 143.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air is in the moderate category as forecasted. Surface winds are strong and east south-easterly. Isolated thunderstorms with gusty winds are likely in Delhi for the next two days and local lifting of the dust is likely. The short-lived dust spike is likely to improve by following the rain and the washing out process. AQI is forecasted to stay in the moderate category with PM10 as the lead pollutant for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-isolated-thunderstorms-likely-today-says-imd-101622688729022.html
03-06-2021||Patna||Covaxin trials on children begin at AIIMS Patna: All you need to know||Trials of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines manufactured by Bharat Biotech, Covaxin, began on children between the age of two and 18 at Patna's All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) after the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gave clearance for the same on May 11.“We began the children’s trials by administering the vaccine on three volunteers in the 12-18 years age group,” said Dr Lokesh Tiwari, the additional professor and head at the department of paediatrics and one of the investigators in the trials at AIIMS-Patna.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"Children in the 12 to 18 years age group will be given the shots first. We will then proceed with the 6-12 years category before inoculating children in the two-to-six-years age bracket,” said Dr CM Singh, professor of community and family medicine and the principal investigator of the trial.As many as 54 children had registered at the institute for the trials of which 16 were in the 12-18 years age group.Here is all you need to know about Covaxin trials on children:- The DCGI's nod to conduct clinical trials in children came on May 11. "Covaxin has been approved by the DCGI, for Phase II/III clinical trials in the age group of 2 to 18 years." Niti Aayog member VK Paul had announced.- Physical examination and real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) were conducted on children before administering the vaccine to check for Covid-19 antibodies or any other pre-existing diseases.- Both doses of the vaccine will be administered to 525 healthy volunteers at an interval of 28 days. “There is no specific target on the number of volunteers given to any centre participating in the research. We hope to enrol 100 child volunteers for the trial,” Dr Singh said.- All volunteers will be given a conveyance reimbursement of Rs1,000 per visit to the hospital, the doctor added.- India started the world's largest vaccination drive on January 16 this year in a phased manner. Healthcare workers were given vaccines first, vaccination of the frontline workers started next on February 2, and the next phase of the drive began on March 1 for those above the age of 60 and for people aged 45 and above with specific comorbidities. India launched vaccination for all those above 45 from April 1 and the third phase of the vaccination started on May 1 for the beneficiary in the 18-44 age group.- Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Serum Institute's Covishield and Russia's Sputnik V are being used to inoculate Indians. Covaxin and Covishield are being manufactured in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covaxin-trials-on-children-begin-at-aiims-patna-all-you-need-to-know-101622682933613.html
03-06-2021||Lucknow||Arrests should be last option for police: HC||Holding that indiscriminate arrests are a gross violation of human rights, the Allahabad high court has held that arrest should be the last option for the police, and it should be restricted to those exceptional cases where it is imperative or custodial interrogation is required.While granting anticipatory bail to one Jugendra Singh, a police constable, on May 28, Justice Siddharth cited a 1994 case — Joginder Kumar vs State of Uttar Pradesh — in which the Supreme Court had referred to a National Police Commission report that said arrest is a chief source of corruption in the police.“Personal liberty is a very precious Fundamental Right and it should be curtailed only when it becomes imperative. According to the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, the arrest of an accused should be made,” the apex court had said in the 1994 case.Singh was arrested on charges of taking bribe. His counsel submitted that there was no forensic report establishing this, nor was any money seized from him. Investigation is still underway, and the applicant apprehends that he may be arrested, Singh’s counsel said.But the state’s counsel said the allegations being serious, Singh shouldn’t get anticipatory bail. “The apprehension of the applicant is not founded on any material on record. Only on the basis of imaginary fear, anticipatory bail cannot be granted,” the state counsel added.However, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case and considering the nature of accusation and applicant’s antecedents, and also the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the court accepted that Singh was entitled to anticipatory bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/arrests-should-be-last-option-for-police-hc-101622678841867.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||Jain visits under-construction health projects||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday visited sites of multiple health infrastructure projects, officials said.In a series of tweets on Wednesday, Jain shared details about the status of the projects, including one related to Covid-19 care. He also shared picture of the sites.“Visited the new under-construction building of Acharya Shree Bhikshu Hospital with the PWD team. Instructed to escalate the 270 beds of the new building to 400 beds. These 400 beds will be made fully dedicated to Covid treatment in the coming time,” he said.In another tweet, he shared details about a project at Madipur and said efforts were being made to finish construction by next year.“In view of re-modelling Delhi’s health infrastructure, a new hospital at Madipur is being constructed by the Delhi Govt. Visited the construction site. The work is going at a good pace,” he tweeted.Jain also visited the new under-construction building of Guru Gobind Singh Hospital on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jain-visits-under-construction-health-projects-101622675797403.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Season’s ambassador||Seasons dominate his life. This is in the nature of his occupation, which depends on the month of the year.It’s early June and hawker Sant Ram is carrying purple jamuns on a straw basket perched upon his head. Many avenues of New Delhi are lined with jamun trees, and jamuns have already started falling on the ground with their distinctive thud, making the earth purple, and slippery for pedestrians. But Mr Ram’s jamuns aren’t from Delhi, he says categorically, here in central Delhi’s Jangpura.“Yes, jamuns have started growing but it’s still early in the season, and the ones you see in Delhi trees are very sour.” Mr Ram gets his jamuns from the wholesale market in Azadpur. “These ones have come from Gujarat, and they are sweeter.”But jamuns are a part of Mr Ram’s life only for a few months. He stations himself in a corner of the street, and with the basket still on his head he unfolds the typical proceedings of his year.“In March and April I sell phalse. Later on I sell kakdi for 15 days. Then I sell jamun from May to September. And from October to March, I sell shakarkandi.” In between, Mr Ram also visits his village in Badayun, UP, and works on his family-owned farm for a few months.In his early 30s, he describes his life as a river passing through different ghats (banks) “but rather than meeting the sagar (sea), it goes back to its starting point and starts the same journey again.” Mr Ram has been living this life since 2014, when he first arrived in Delhi. Earlier, he would be a farmer in his village.A few hours after this encounter, when it has become dark, Mr Ram is sighted again in a nearby neighbourhood. The basket on his head is now empty. All the jamuns are sold. “I’m going back to my room in Sarai Kale Khan.” He walks away, and fades into a blur. Next morning he’ll wake up at 4 again, and board an auto rickshaw with four other colleagues. They’ll head to Azadpur, where he’ll buy a fresh stock of jamuns after having a breakfast of chai and biscuits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-season-s-ambassador-101622675252448.html
03-06-2021||Lucknow||8 of a family dead as blast triggers building collapse||Eight people of a family, including four children aged between two and 14 years, were killed and seven others seriously injured in a double-storey building collapse, triggered by a mysterious blast in Uttar Pradesh’s Gonda district late on Tuesday night, senior police officials said on Wednesday. Initial police investigation suggested the building collapsed after an LPG cylinder exploded in the house, but further probe is on to ascertain the exact cause.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked the Gonda district magistrate to probe the incident and submit a report to the state government, according to an official statement. The statement also said the chief minister expressed grief over the deaths. He directed officials to ensure the best possible treatment for the injured and assistance to the families of the deceased.Gonda superintendent of police (SP) Santosh Kumar Mishra said the incident occurred at Thatherkapurwa locality under Wazirganj police station limits at around 10.30pm on Tuesday.He said the locals told the police that they came out of their houses after hearing a blast. People trapped under the debris were pulled out with the help of locals and rushed to a local hospital where eight were declared dead on arrival while seven others were undergoing treatment, he added.He said the deceased were identified as Nishar Ahmad, 35, his wife Sayrunisha, 35, their three children aged 14, 12, and two years, Nishar’s sister Rubina Bano, 32, his younger brother Shamshad, 28, as well as Nishar’s elder brother Irshad’s 11-year-old son. Irshad was injured in the incident along with his father Noorul Hasan, 60, Nishar’s fourth child aged eight years, and other relatives, including Alisha, 32, Gulnaaz Bano, 22 and two children aged 12 and 11 years.The SP said a team of forensic experts and bomb squad had been called to examine the spot thoroughly.“Forensic teams are collecting samples from the site and a probe has been ordered into the incident,” the SP said.Experts had been asked to give their report at the earliest to ascertain the reason for the blast, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/8-of-a-family-dead-as-blast-triggers-building-collapse-101622674610896.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||‘Utilise domestic vaccine manufacturing capacity’||he Delhi high court on Wednesday said the Centre was not being able to utilise the vaccine manufacturing capacity in India, remarking that “some people should be charged for manslaughter if they are sitting on untapped potential”.“There is a lot of scope and infrastructure which is available for manufacturing of vaccines. This untapped potential has to be utilised... People from abroad are coming. You have good vaccines in India. You handhold these vaccine manufacturers and take them all over India and tell them this hub is available and use this. There is an emergency,” the division bench of justices Manmohan and Najmi Waziri told the Centre.“There is a palpable disquiet in the country. Everybody needs the vaccine. You have sovereign powers,” the court said, asking as to why it was necessary to test a vaccine being manufactured in India when exemptions are being provided to the same vaccine that is imported from outside the country.The court said that the government can “dispense” the process due to the unprecedented situation. “You are just sitting on it and sticking by the rulebook when the rulebook itself says in emergent circumstances you can do that. If you had approved it... and taken a policy decision, surely the vaccine would be available in the bazaar,” the court said.The court’s remarks came on a plea by Delhi-based pharmaceutical firm Panacea Biotec seeking release of its arbitral award money for manufacturing Sputnik V vaccine in India in collaboration with Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which was opposed by Centre's counsel Rajesh Ranjan.The application was filed seeking to modify a July 2020 order, by which the firm had undertaken not to press the execution of an arbitral award, running into crores of rupees, passed in its favour and against the Centre.The company, in its fresh application in a pending matter, has sought release of the arbitral award saying it needs funds at the earliest in the larger interest of humanity as it has already manufactured trial batches of Sputnik V in collaboration with RDIF and the process of manufacturing scale-up batches is on.The Centre, opposing the plea, contended that the manufacturing of Sputnik V will not benefit the country as it will be for global supply by RDIF.Additional solicitor general Balbir Singh, appearing for the Centre, said they have come to know that capital investment is provided by RDIF and currently, the tests have been conducted and samples of Panacea have not been approved.He said no licence has been granted to it and referred to a recent statement made by RDIF and Dr Reddy’s that they have not authorised anyone to manufacture the vaccine in India, adding that the Centre can source the Sputnik V vaccine from Dr Reddy’s only and the raw material for the vaccine would come from Russia.The court said, “How much time will you take? All you have to do is match sample A with sample B…We need to have crores and crores of vaccinations on a daily basis”.Singh disputed the suggestion and said that the law does not permit this, only to be told by the court, “Law has to be with logic. Your point is that if X is coming outside India, we will allow it. But the same X which is made in India is not allowed, especially in this pandemic situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/utilise-domestic-vaccine-manufacturing-capacity-101622673359278.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Focus on your constituency, help Covid-hit people: Preneet to Navjot Sidhu||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s detractors continued to target him before the three-member committee set up by the Congress to resolve the infighting in the party even as his MP wife Preneet Kaur advised former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu to focus on his assembly constituency and help fight coronavirus. Preneet, who met the central panel headed by leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge in New Delhi on Wednesday, said that Sidhu has the responsibility to look after his constituency during the pandemic. “He needs to put in strong effort to ensure that his area and Punjab are safe. If he has any grievances, he should take them up with the chief minister and the party high command,” she told reporters after her one-on-one meeting with the committee on the day posters surfaced in Amritsar that Sidhu was “missing” from his assembly constituency. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former MP Jai Prakash Agarwal are the other members of the committee. The Patiala MP’s subtle dig at Sidhu, who has been targeting Amarinder on social media, about the latter’s absence from his Amritsar East assembly constituency came a day after he stuck to his guns before the central team. The former minister has not been seen in his area for weeks and is spending much of his time in the chief minister’s assembly constituency, Patiala. Sidhu, who has consistently accused Amarinder of shielding the Badal family and blamed him for the botched-up probe in the Kotkapura police firing case, had told the media after his one-on-one meeting on Tuesday that his stand remains unchanged. Capt to meet panel todayAmarinder is scheduled to meet the central committee, which has already held meetings with most ministers, MPs, MLAs and other party leaders over the past three days, on Thursday. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi has also been calling up the state leaders, including ministers and MLAs, for direct feedback on the internal fight in the state unit. Preneet was among the 30-odd party leaders, including cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, Rajya Sabha MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo, MLA Surjit Singh Dhiman and Kulbir Singh Zira and former state unit president Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, who met the panel. Detractors speak their mindBajwa conveyed to the committee that party workers in Punjab were feeling demoralised because they had been ignored and power was concentrated in the hands of bureaucrats. “The party needed to make the chief minister get rid of retired bureaucrats appointed in government organisations and appoint party leaders in their place, remove the advocate general, and correct the case combination by giving adequate representation to SC, OBC and Hindu leaders in the cabinet and other key positions to galvanise the cadres,” he said during his 45-minute meeting with the panel. Dullo also alleged political patronage to mining, transport and liquor mafia in the state, claiming that a large number of party MLAs and other leaders have direct or indirect business interests in these sectors. “Traditional Congress leaders have been sidelined and party-hoppers from SAD and other political parties were being promoted. Similarly, Hindu leadership is also on the margins in the party now. I spoke my mind before the committee,” he said after the meeting. Both Bajwa and Dullo have been carrying out no-holds-barred attacks on Amarinder for the past two years and upped the ante further following the legal setback in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case. Dhiman is also learnt to have been unsparing in his criticism. Advocating leadership change, he blamed the CM’s style of working for the government’s failure to fulfil its poll promises. Besides pressing for strict action in sacrilege cases, some MLAs also complained to the committee about bureaucrats calling the shots and the chief minister’s inaccessibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/focus-on-your-constituency-help-covid-hit-people-preneet-to-navjot-sidhu-101622666594898.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||Teenager stabbed to death in south Delhi, cops nab four for his murder||A 19-year-old man out to buy a birthday cake for his father was stabbed to death allegedly by four men in South Delhi’s Ambedkar Nagar on Tuesday night -- a crime that was captured by a CCTV camera, police said.Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), said the murder was the result of a personal feud between the victim, Kunal, and one of the suspects, Gaurav. “Kunal and Gaurav liked the same woman and that had led to a conflict between them,” the DCP said. The woman in question had nothing to do with the murder, the officer said.Since Kunal’s family was aware of the conflict, they mentioned it to the investigators after the murder. That helped the police apprehend all four suspects, including Gaurav-- all of whom are aged below 20.On Tuesday evening, Kunal left his home to buy a birthday cake for his father when the four suspects intercepted him around 9pm and repeatedly stabbed him. Someone alerted his family and he was rushed to Max Hospital in Saket where he was declared brought dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/teenager-stabbed-to-death-in-south-delhi-cops-nab-four-for-his-murder-101622665926305.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||IMA’s Ludhiana chapter serves ₹10 crore defamation notice on Ramdev, seeks FIR||The Ludhiana chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Wednesday served a ₹10 crore defamation notice to Ramdev over his alleged derogatory remarks against allopathic system of medicine. Also, the local chapter filed a complaint with Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal seeking an FIR against the yoga guru. In the police complaint, the IMA members sought appropriate action against Ramdev for endangering the lives of people by spreading rumours about allopathic medicine system, misguiding people, misuse of information and technology and promoting Coronil medicine for treatment of Covid-19 without any scientific proof.They said Ramdev has defamed the medical fraternity on different occasions and has even challenged the authorities by stating that “no one has guts to arrest me”.IMA, Ludhiana, president Dr Saroj Aggarwal said, “Allopathy respects all medicine systems, but his remarks are derogatory and are not acceptable. Doctors have always led from the front in any epidemic or pandemic. More than 1,200 doctors have lost their lives in the fight against Covid-19.” Association patron Dr Manoj K Sobti said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given the tag of frontline warriors to doctors and Ramdev has defamed them through his statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/imas-ludhiana-chapter-serves-rs-10-crore-defamation-notice-on-ramdev-seeks-fir-101622666227233.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Proposal on jobs for Cong MLAs’ sons not taken up in Punjab cabinet meet||The proposal to appoint sons of two Congress MLAs as a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) and a tehsildar was not taken up in the Punjab cabinet meeting on Wednesday. Chief minister Amarinder Singh chaired the meeting that was held through video conferencing. Of the 34 items, including the Punjab Pay Commission report, for discussion, only three were taken up since the state government’s focus is in Delhi where the three-member high-powered committee is listening to the grievances of dissenting ministers and MLAs, it was learnt. The cabinet gave its approval to carving out Malerkotla as the 23rd district of the state, as was announced earlier by Amarinder Singh. The CM on Eid-ul-Fitr (May 14) had announced the decision to make Malerkotla a full-fledged district, fulfilling a long-standing demand of local residents. The council of ministers also gave the go-ahead for upgrading Amargarh sub-tehsil, as a sub-division/tehsil. Malerkotla district will consist of three sub-divisions — Malerkotla, Ahmedgarh and Amargarh — which will have 192 villages, 62 patwar circles and 6 kanungo circles. The cabinet authorised the CM to approve the creation of new posts for offices of 12 departments viz. police; rural development and panchayats; social justice and minorities; agriculture and farmer welfare; social security and women and child development; health; education (primary and secondary) ; social security, employment generation; industry and commerce; food, civil supplies and consumer affairs; and finance. The cabinet also approved creation of special purpose vehicle (SPV) for operation and maintenance of large multi-village surface water supply schemes across the state. The SPV will be a utility company ‘Punjab Rural Water (Utility) Company’ under the water supply and sanitation department. The council of minister also accorded approval to open an account in the name of the SPV, with seed money of ₹25 crore allocated from the World Bank funds (64%) and state budget (36%) to support its functioning for first five years. The water supply and sanitation department is in the process of executing five new multi-village surface water supply projects covering 612 villages of Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts, and another project covering 408 villages in the fluoride-affected blocks of Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib districts. These projects are under construction. Another project, covering 39 villages of Rupnagar district (Nurpurbedi block) affected by iron/arsenic, was commissioned in 2019. Besides, a project in Moga district, based on the design, build operate and transfer (DBOT) model, was completed in January 2021 at ₹218.56 crore, benefitting 85 villages. The SPV will institutionalise mechanisms and SOPs for timely billing and collection to the contractor(s) for bulk water usage and provide social, institutional and technical support to the gram panchayat water supply committees, cluster level committees and scheme level committees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/proposal-on-jobs-for-cong-mlas-sons-not-taken-up-in-punjab-cabinet-meet-101622665931571.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Cong politicised sacrilege in last four years: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday said that the Congress government in the last four years only politicised the sensitive 2015 sacrilege incidents which “were deeply painful” and their party will ensure justice in the matter if voted to power in 2022.The SAD chief was in Kharar to inaugurate a 25-bed Covid care centre set up by party leader Ranjit Singh Gill who said the air-conditioned facility is equipped with oxygen concentrators and is manned by trained medical staff. Sukhbir said the Congress could not be trusted with ensuring justice in the sacrilege cases. “When desecration took place in Punjab, the SAD-led government started investigation but the Congress and others demanded that the case be handed over to the CBI. Upon coming to power, the Congress took the case back from the CBI and failed to make any headway,” he said. “I want to ask people like Baljit Singh Daduwal as to how he became president of the Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee. The BJP government has even nominated members to the committee at Daduwal’s instance” Sukhbir added. Instead of waging a fight against Covid-19, the government is indulging in a “kursi ki ladai” (fight for chair), the SAD chief claimed. He slammed the Congress government for failing to “regulate private hospitals which were fleecing people”. “The government failed to open Covid centres at the block level and has even refused to purchase vaccine directly from the manufacturers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-politicised-sacrilege-in-last-four-years-sukhbir-101622665930795.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||PRTC floats tenders for buying 255 new buses after transport dept’s nod||The Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) has floated the tenders for purchasing 255 new buses as part of its fleet after getting the final nod from the state transport department. With the addition of these buses, the PRTC will replace the old ones which are running beyond their life span. “The corporation is wasting money in repairing and maintaining the old buses. The new buses will help PRTC save money and provide better transport facilities,” said a senior official of transport department. The buses will cost the corporation nearly ₹60 crore, he said. In a meeting chaired by chief minister Amarinder Singh on May 26, PRTC chairman KK Sharma informed that the transport department delayed clearing of the file on adding new buses. On the CM’s direction, the principal secretary (transport) gave accord to the corporation for the purchase. “The expenses on purchasing and fabrication will be borne by PRTC only. The corporation is also mooting a plan to take a bank loan of ₹32 crore,” another official said. PRTC managing director Bhupinderpal Singh said, “The technical bid will be opened soon so that the chassis can be purchased so as to complete fabrication work at the earliest.” Presently, the corporation is running a fleet of 1,113 buses, including 150 hired ones, in its nine depots – Ludhiana, Kapurthala, Chandigarh, Patiala, Bathinda, Budhlada, Barnala, Faridkot and Sangrur. The new PRTC buses will be fitted with GPS (global positioning system), CCTV (closed-circuit television) cameras, public information system and fuel-monitoring mechanism to keep tabs on wastage and pilferage of diesel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prtc-floats-tenders-for-buying-255-new-buses-after-transport-dept-s-nod-101622665927163.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Militants gun down BJP leader in Kashmir’s Tral||Militants shot dead a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillor in the Tral area of Pulwama district in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday. Kashmir IG Vijay Kumar said at least three militants opened fire on municipal committee chairman Rakesh Pandita who was visiting his friend at Tral Payeen. Pandita was rushed to a hospital where he died, the IG added.A woman identified as daughter of Pandita’s friend was also critically injured in the attack, he said. Police said Pandita was residing in a secure accommodation in Srinagar and was provided with two personal security officers. “The councillor was not accompanied by the PSOs during his visit to Tral. Police and security forces have cordoned off the area and a massive search operation has been launched to nab the assailants, “ Kumar said. BJP spokesman Altaf Thakur condemned the killing of party leader. “Such attacks won’t stop BJP leaders from serving the people. He said attacking unarmed people is an act of cowardice. “The police must track down the culprits and punish them accordingly,” he added. People’s Conference chairman Sajjad Lone also flayed the killing. “Yet again gunmen attack a non-combatant. This gun is a curse. Since the day this menace came into Kashmir, what have we seen. In a nut shell, total disempowerment of Kashmiris,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/militants-gun-down-bjp-leader-in-kashmir-s-tral-101622665807627.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||Hospitals see a rise in cases of post-Covid complications||After Delhi witnessed a massive surge in Covid-19 infections in the second wave, patients are now returning to hospitals with not just the fungal infection, mucormycosis, but a myriad of symptoms, city doctors said. Extreme fatigue, lethargy, body and joint pain, brain fog, and fever are the most common, but there have also been cases of pneumonia, collapsed lungs, heart attacks, and strokes.Mumbai: Post-Covid complications on rise among kids, say doctorsCases of mucormycosis, referred to as black fungus, have shot up across the country with the disease being declared an epidemic in Delhi and several other states. So far, at least 848 cases of the infection have been reported by Delhi hospitals.But doctors say that nearly 15-20% of hospitalised Covid-19 patients return with some complications; and that some who were not hospitalised when they got Covid may need hospital care for a second bout of health problems. “I would say around 15-20% of the hospitalised Covid-19 patients are returning with some or the other health problem. The number of people experiencing long Covid symptoms could be higher because many with lethargy, fever, body and joint ache might not be coming back to hospitals,” said Dr Vivek Nangia, head of the department of respiratory medicine at Max hospital, Saket. Long Covid has been described as a range of symptoms such as fatigue, headache, loss of smell, dizziness, chest pain, fever, depression that Covid-19 patients may experience up to 12 weeks after recovery.Covid vaccination drive: 238 mn doses per month needed to meet Dec targetFever, rare infectionsDr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant of internal medicine at Indraprastha Apollo hospital, said almost 80% of the current hospitalisations are because of complications arising out of Covid-19. He added that many patients were coming in with high grade fever ranging between 102-104 degrees Fahrenheit, seven to 14 days after recovering from Covid-19. “Now, the fever can be because of the increased inflammation due to Covid-19 or it could be because of secondary infections. People must visit a doctor if they have persistent fever. We are seeing bacterial and fungal infections causing pneumonia. Aside from mucormycosis, I have also seen rare infection like nocardia (which can affect the lungs, brain, and skin) that usually affects those who are immuno-compromised,” Chatterjee said.DiabetesUse of steroids to treat Covid-19 patients has also led to many people developing high blood sugar, and for many, it is unlikely to be resolved, said Dr Anoop Misra, chairman, Fortis-CDOC Centre for Diabetes, Metabolic Diseases and Endocrinology. He said seven of every 10 new diabetes patients who consulted him last month were linked to Covid-19.“Over 90% of the new-onset diabetes cases linked to Covid-19 was because of the use of steroids which drives up the blood glucose level. Among these people, there are some who have family history of diabetes, are obese, were pre-diabetics. Diabetes induced by steroids in these people is unlikely to resolve. It may resolve in those who are not overweight and do not have other risk factors for diabetes,” said Dr Misra.He added that it was a fast-changing scenario and the numbers were likely to reduce this month as steroid use has gone down. He said the use of steroids was also leading to fluctuations in blood pressure that could lead to heart conditions.Lung diseasesDr Nangia has also been treating patients with secondary pneumonia caused by bacteria and fungus developed after recovering from Covid-19 penumonia. At the post-Covid clinic, he said that he gets patients who are unable to get off oxygen even after weeks of being discharged from the hospital.“Today, I saw a 25-year-old patient who was unable to get off oxygen six weeks after she was discharged. This is because of fibrosis or scarring of the lung tissues. Now, theories state that the fibrosis resolves on its own after several weeks without any specific treatment. But, there are likely to be some people who will have permanent fibrosis as well,” said Dr Nangia.The damage to the lungs, especially during the inflammatory phase of Covid-19, also makes the tissue prone to injuries. “Another serious post-Covid complication is pulmonary embolism where a clot blocks the blood supply to the lungs. It can be life-threatening with patients dying within minutes, if the clot is big,” he said.He said that people with sudden chest pain, breathlessness, and drop in oxygen saturation should go to hospital.Heart ailmentsDr RR Kasliwal, chairman of cardiology department at Medanta hospital, said those who have recovered from Covid-19 should carefully monitor their heart for six months to a year.“We’ve been seeing people develop heart dysfunction, high and irregular heart rhythm,” he said. This is in addition to some people who get heart attacks due to clotting in the inflammatory phase of Covid.“After recovering from Covid-19, people should not sit at home and gain weight, but they should also not jump back in. They should go slow, start with light workout and then scale it up,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hospitals-see-a-rise-in-cases-of-post-covid-complications-101622664722926.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||78 succumb to Covid-19 in Haryana, maximum in Sirsa||Seventy eight people succumbed to Covid-19 in Haryana on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 8,461 and fatality rate to 1.11%, according to the health bulletin. The fresh count of cases also dipped to 1,171 in the past 24 hours during which 42,675 samples were taken. Gurugram recorded 83 new cases, Faridabad 127, Sonepat 62, Hisar 102, Ambala 49, Karnal 66, Panipat 14, Rohtak 33, Rewari 15, Panchkula 50, Kurukshetra 39, Yamunanagar 96, Sirsa 127, Mahendergarh 21, Bhiwani 25, Jhajjar 28, Palwal 40, Fatehabad 86, Kaithal 35, Jind 28, Nuh 28, and Charkhi Dadri 17. There were no reports of the fatalities in four districts, while Sirsa district recorded the highest nine fatalities followed by Gurugram and Hisar with eight each, Ambala, Charkhi Dadri, Palwal and Mahendergarh with two each, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Yamunanagar and Panchkula with three each, Rohtak six, Fatehabad and Bhiwani seven each, Kaithal, Jhajjar and Jind four each, Nuh one. Meanwhile, till June 1 there were 84 fatalities due to the black fungus in the state. Of the total 951 cases of black fungus in the state, 746 patients are under treatment and 121 had been cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/78-succumb-to-covid-19-in-haryana-maximum-in-sirsa-101622665687181.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Travelling safe during Covid pandemic: Transmission in taxi, bus and auto||A person is almost 300 times more likely to contract the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) sitting in an air-conditioned (AC) taxi with a passenger, who is Covid positive, than she is sitting in an autorickshaw, a recent study by two scientists at the Johns Hopkins University (JHU), Bloomberg School of Public Health, Department of Environmental Health and Engineering, found.The probability of catching the infection is reduced by 250% in a taxi with the windows rolled down (non-AC) compared to one where the air conditioning is on. The researchers calculated that the risk in both types of taxis was reduced by 75% when the vehicles sped up from zero to 120km/hour.The study titled “Risk analysis of different transport vehicles in India during COVID-19 pandemic” by Darpan Das and Gurumurthy Ramachandran was published in the peer-reviewed journal, Environmental Research, on May 11. While Das is a postdoctoral fellow at JHU, Ramachandran is a professor in the environmental health and engineering department. The researchers calculated the chances of contracting Covid-19 infection in four vehicles common to Indian metropolises —AC taxi, non-AC taxi, bus and auto rickshaw— using a range of ventilation rates (air exchanges per hour) taken from previous studies and found that autos were the safest of the four options. All scenarios accounted for the presence of one index patient in the stationary vehicle and with everyone — five travellers in each of the vehicles except the bus, which seated 40 — wearing a mask (surgical or cloth).Compared to the auto, the risk was 86 times higher in a non-AC taxi and 300 times more in an AC taxi (probability of infection: 0.000199, 0.0171, 0.061 respectively). A person was 72 times more likely to contract Covid-19 in a non-moving bus with its windows open and seating 40 people (probability of infection: 0.0143), compared to an auto surrounded by four others, including the index patient.The researchers used the Wells-Riley model of airborne transmission of infectious diseases, which has been previously used for understanding transmission of tuberculosis and measles. This model, used to calculate the effect of ventilation on transmission, assumes that the air contains doses of the infectious virus, and the air is well-mixed. The model predicts that the concentration of doses of infectious virus will tend to be high in small, poorly ventilated rooms, and it would be lower in larger, better ventilated rooms. “As an input to the model, we have considered different viral emission rates from the infected person—two to134 quanta/hr (amounts of airborne virus per hour) based on different activities such as singing, talking etc. Because of the small volume of the vehicles, it was assumed as a well-mixed room,” Das explained. In the auto, five people (including the driver) sit beside each other in greater proximity, but on account of ventilation – the rate at which the air volume changes, or air exchange rate – the probability of infection is the least. In a bus, with 40 people seated, the probability of infection is higher on account of lesser ventilation. In the model used by the researchers, irrespective of where the traveller sits, everyone is exposed to the same air and thus, the same risk factor inside the vehicle (while it is stationary and moving).In their study, Das and Ramachandran assume that infectious aerosols are evenly distributed throughout the vehicle’s interior volume of air, and are removed by ventilation, vehicle air filtration, gravitational deposition, and viral inactivation. The probability of infection is related to the number of airborne viruses inhaled.“Due to the airborne nature of the virus, apart from six feet distance and masks, ventilation is also an important parameter to restrict the transmission of SARS-CoV-2,” Das said.“This is not to say that auto rickshaws are completely safe. We’re saying that auto rickshaws are comparatively safer, if you have a mask on,” he said.Using a risk estimator developed last year by US-based researchers studying a super-spreader event in the United States, Das and Ramachandran found that when the vehicle increased its speed from zero to 120 km/hr, this led to a decrease in the probability of infection by approximately 75% in both the AC and non-AC taxis, and the probability of infection reduced to 0.0043 for non-AC taxis and 0.0153 for AC taxis.The researchers, however, did not calculate by how much the risk factor reduced if the bus is in motion but said over an email interview that it was likely to reduce. The paper also stated that the probability of risk is likely to remain the same in an autorickshaw whether it is stationary or in motion, because of its design.The duo is now working on estimating risk of passengers in rail and air travel. “The ongoing pandemic has presented an opportunity to reconsider and redesign ventilation systems in public transit vehicles and also the role of mass transit to not only reduce risk of infection during this time, but also reduce exposure to PM 2.5 and other air pollutants for the future in a sustainable manner,” said Das.The researchers also calculated the risk of a traveller in these four transportation modes from exposure to particulate matter (PM) 2.5, which are tiny particles of pollutants in the air that cause respiratory diseases and poor visibility. They found that the risk factor was the opposite of that for Covid-19. The risk of exposure to pollutants was lowest for AC taxis, followed by non-AC taxis, buses and auto rickshaws.“In a non-Covid-19 scenario, when exposure to PM 2.5 is higher, it is ideal to travel in an AC taxi, compared to an auto. But in a Covid-19 scenario, which is far more dangerous, auto rickshaws are preferable,” said Das.Das explained: “These are two competing risks. In case of Covid-19, the risk increases with a set of actions such as closing windows and reducing circulation but in case of exposure to PM 2.5, the risk reduces with these actions.” “It is an interesting study, which is based on modelling, especially since we plan to open up the lockdown gradually in the future. We already know that ventilation can reduce the spread of the virus. From a regulatory point, we can ask people to roll down their windows while travelling in public transport. Of course, this becomes difficult in monsoon,” said city-based pulmonologist Lancelot Pinto, who was not involved with the study. “Now that we are dealing with hypothesis that the virus is airborne, there is a chance that a previous passenger leaves a trail of virus in the taxi,” said Pinto adding that the study pointed to the fact that masking up, preferably in an N95 mask, remained essential to any mode of public transport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/travelling-safe-during-covid-pandemic-transmission-in-taxi-bus-and-auto-101622664909992.html
03-06-2021||Other||Farmers to gherao police stations on June 7 against FIRs||A day after Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) legislator from Tohana, Devender Babli faced farmers’ wrath while on the way to the civil hospital to take part in a programme, police on Wednesday registered two FIRs against farmers at Tohana city police station.In the first FIR, police booked 10 farmers under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing any public servant in discharge of public functions), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 506 (criminal intimidation ) among others of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 51 (B) of the Disaster Management Act. The second FIR was under similar sections against Kulwant, Gyan, Butta Singh, Vijender and Machender for stopping the SUV of MLA Babli and hurling abuses at him.Will gherao police stations: CharuniBKU (Charuni) national president Gurnam Singh Charuni said that they will gherao the state police stations if police fail to lodge an FIR against the Tohana MLA.The farmers led by Charuni were protesting in Tohana, demanding the registration of FIR against MLA Babli by June 6. The farmers also held a meeting with the local administration which ended without any positive outcome.Charuni asked police to lodge FIR against Babli on attempt to murder and rioting charges and accused him of using abusive language against farmers.“If police fail to register an FIR, we will gherao police stations across state on June 7, take out shav-yatra in Babli’s constituency on June 10 and 11 and final rites will be performed at his native village,” said Charuni. “Babli made murderous attempt on the protesters and instead of registering an FIR against him, police have booked innocent farmers,” Charuni added.After the Tuesday incident, Babli had said he will urge party leader and deputy CM Dushyant Chautala and Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar to strengthen law and order in Haryana.“If such unruly elements get emboldened they can start taking lives. We need to stop this,” he added. At the time of filling of this report, around two dozen farmers were detained for gheraoing the Tohana City police station on Wednesday.Vij warns of action A day after the attack on Babli, Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij warned farmers of action.Speaking on the issue at his Ambala residence, Vij said, “We have given a warning in the past as well that staging a protest is their right, but we will not let them take law ino their hands. Clashes like yesterday (Tuesday)’s will not be tolerated.”MLA Babli had faced strong opposition from farmers and the windshield of his SUV was also allegedly smashed, following which a case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-to-gherao-police-stations-on-june-7-against-firs-101622664787216.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Understanding how Covid infection spreads in modes of public transport||A person is almost 300 times more likely to contract the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) sitting in an air-conditioned (AC) taxi with a passenger, who is Covid positive, than she is sitting in an autorickshaw, a recent study by two scientists at the Johns Hopkins University (JHU), Bloomberg School of Public Health, Department of Environmental Health and Engineering, found.The probability of catching the infection is reduced by 250% in a taxi with the windows rolled down (non-AC) compared to one where the air conditioning is on. The researchers calculated that the risk in both types of taxis was reduced by 75% when the vehicles sped up from zero to 120km/hour.Govt to start course for O2 tanker driversThe study titled “Risk analysis of different transport vehicles in India during COVID-19 pandemic” by Darpan Das and Gurumurthy Ramachandran was published in the peer-reviewed journal, Environmental Research, on May 11. While Das is a postdoctoral fellow at JHU, Ramachandran is a professor in the environmental health and engineering department.The researchers calculated the chances of contracting Covid-19 infection in four vehicles common to Indian metropolises —AC taxi, non-AC taxi, bus and auto rickshaw— using a range of ventilation rates (air exchanges per hour) taken from previous studies and found that autos were the safest of the four options. All scenarios accounted for the presence of one index patient in the stationary vehicle and with everyone — five travellers in each of the vehicles except the bus, which seated 40 — wearing a mask (surgical or cloth).Covid vaccination drive: 238 mn doses per month needed to meet Dec targetCompared to the auto, the risk was 86 times higher in a non-AC taxi and 300 times more in an AC taxi (probability of infection: 0.000199, 0.0171, 0.061 respectively). A person was 72 times more likely to contract Covid-19 in a non-moving bus with its windows open and seating 40 people (probability of infection: 0.0143), compared to an auto surrounded by four others, including the index patient.The researchers used the Wells-Riley model of airborne transmission of infectious diseases, which has been previously used for understanding transmission of tuberculosis and measles. This model, used to calculate the effect of ventilation on transmission, assumes that the air contains doses of the infectious virus, and the air is well-mixed. The model predicts that the concentration of doses of infectious virus will tend to be high in small, poorly ventilated rooms, and it would be lower in larger, better ventilated rooms.“As an input to the model, we have considered different viral emission rates from the infected person—two to134 quanta/hr (amounts of airborne virus per hour) based on different activities such as singing, talking etc. Because of the small volume of the vehicles, it was assumed as a well-mixed room,” Das explained.In the auto, five people (including the driver) sit beside each other in greater proximity, but on account of ventilation – the rate at which the air volume changes, or air exchange rate – the probability of infection is the least. In a bus, with 40 people seated, the probability of infection is higher on account of lesser ventilation. In the model used by the researchers, irrespective of where the traveller sits, everyone is exposed to the same air and thus, the same risk factor inside the vehicle (while it is stationary and moving).In their study, Das and Ramachandran assume that infectious aerosols are evenly distributed throughout the vehicle’s interior volume of air, and are removed by ventilation, vehicle air filtration, gravitational deposition, and viral inactivation. The probability of infection is related to the number of airborne viruses inhaled.“Due to the airborne nature of the virus, apart from six feet distance and masks, ventilation is also an important parameter to restrict the transmission of SARS-CoV-2,” Das said.“This is not to say that auto rickshaws are completely safe. We’re saying that auto rickshaws are comparatively safer, if you have a mask on,” he said.Using a risk estimator developed last year by US-based researchers studying a super-spreader event in the United States, Das and Ramachandran found that when the vehicle increased its speed from zero to 120 km/hr, this led to a decrease in the probability of infection by approximately 75% in both the AC and non-AC taxis, and the probability of infection reduced to 0.0043 for non-AC taxis and 0.0153 for AC taxis.The researchers, however, did not calculate by how much the risk factor reduced if the bus is in motion but said over an email interview that it was likely to reduce. The paper also stated that the probability of risk is likely to remain the same in an autorickshaw whether it is stationary or in motion, because of its design.The duo is now working on estimating risk of passengers in rail and air travel. “The ongoing pandemic has presented an opportunity to reconsider and redesign ventilation systems in public transit vehicles and also the role of mass transit to not only reduce risk of infection during this time, but also reduce exposure to PM 2.5 and other air pollutants for the future in a sustainable manner,” said Das.The researchers also calculated the risk of a traveller in these four transportation modes from exposure to particulate matter (PM) 2.5, which are tiny particles of pollutants in the air that cause respiratory diseases and poor visibility. They found that the risk factor was the opposite of that for Covid-19. The risk of exposure to pollutants was lowest for AC taxis, followed by non-AC taxis, buses and auto rickshaws.“In a non-Covid-19 scenario, when exposure to PM 2.5 is higher, it is ideal to travel in an AC taxi, compared to an auto. But in a Covid-19 scenario, which is far more dangerous, auto rickshaws are preferable,” said Das.Das explained: “These are two competing risks. In case of Covid-19, the risk increases with a set of actions such as closing windows and reducing circulation but in case of exposure to PM 2.5, the risk reduces with these actions.”“It is an interesting study, which is based on modelling, especially since we plan to open up the lockdown gradually in the future. We already know that ventilation can reduce the spread of the virus. From a regulatory point, we can ask people to roll down their windows while travelling in public transport. Of course, this becomes difficult in monsoon,” said city-based pulmonologist Lancelot Pinto, who was not involved with the study.“Now that we are dealing with hypothesis that the virus is airborne, there is a chance that a previous passenger leaves a trail of virus in the taxi,” said Pinto adding that the study pointed to the fact that masking up, preferably in an N95 mask, remained essential to any mode of public transport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/understanding-how-covid-infection-spreads-in-modes-of-public-transport-101622663851248.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana earns ₹861 cr stamp revenue in April-May||The Haryana government has collected stamp duty revenue of ₹861 crore in the first two months of the current financial year. Additional chief secretary (ACS), revenue, Sanjeev Kaushal said the state has collected stamp duty of ₹803 crore and registration fee of ₹57 crore from April 1 to May 31. A total 74,299 deed registrations were done during this period. Kaushal said the work of collecting the stamp revenue was done by the deputy commissioners and tehsildars during the pandemic. He said revenue of about ₹22 crore was collected from Ambala, about ₹5 crore from Bhiwani, about ₹4.92 crore from Charkhi Dadri, ₹79.82 crore from Faridabad, ₹11.20 crore from Fatehabad, about ₹366 crore from Gurugram, about ₹33 crore from Hisar, ₹23 crore from Jhajjar, about ₹15 crore from Jind, about ₹21 crore from Kaithal, about ₹52 crore from Karnal, about ₹20 crore from Kurukshetra, about ₹32 crore from Panchkula, about ₹36 crore from Sonepat, about ₹17 crore from Yamunanagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-earns-rs-861-cr-stamp-revenue-in-aprilmay-101622663946826.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Four government schools from Ludhiana among best-rated in Punjab||Four Ludhiana schools are among the 75 best government schools in Punjab, list of which was released by state education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Wednesday. The schools were chosen on the basis of overall grading of schools considering results, infrastructure, co-curricular activities, contribution of school management committees and public and attendance of the students.All the four government schools are from rural areas. Government Senior Secondary School, Jagraon, (Girls) will get a reward of ₹10 lakh, Government High School (GMS), Rajjowal, will receive ₹7.5 lakh while GMS Birk and GMS Jaangpur will get ₹5 lakh.The overall grading will help to improve quality of education in the government schools as it provides an equal platform for teachers and principals for a healthy competition.The Jagraon school had a strength of 1,290 students last year and this year, 237 new students enrolled, including 200 from private schools. The school has 10 smart classrooms and WiFi facility. Principal Gursharan Kaur said, “For the last four years, our entire staff has been making efforts to enhance the facilities in school. With the help of the community, we have done colour coding of the school building and then, the education department sends funds to improve infrastructure in the school.”At Rajjowal school, there were 83 students in Class 10 last year and all of them had scored above 95% in the board exams. The school has a strength of 356 students now and efforts are on to increase it, said school headmistress Seema Gupta. “Our students participate in all online competitions and we ensure that they stay motivated. We have come up with buddy groups and our teachers reach out every student to help. To engage students during summer break, we have organised camps and received an overwhelming response,” she added. “I have decided to use this reward amount to set up a badminton court for girl students,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-government-schools-from-ludhiana-among-best-rated-in-punjab-101622663766967.html
03-06-2021||Other||NTSE results: Five Ludhiana Class 10 students get perfect score in baseline test||As many as 532 students in the district scored above 80% marks in the National Talent Search Exam baseline test held online on May 31, the results for which were declared on Wednesday.Of total 22,573 Class 10 students in Ludhiana district, 10,266 appeared in the test, while 12,307 students skipped the same.As per the sources, the test was supposed to be conducted for students who scored over 70% marks in the general category and 55% in SC/ST in Class 9. But the online link was eventually opened for all students of Class 10 and teachers were directed to motivate students to take the test. In a 45-minute duration, the students were asked to solve 15 questions each from mental ability test (MAT) and scholastic aptitude test (SAT).Five students from different schools here scored full marks (30/30), while 20 students scored 29 marks out of 30 in the baseline test.As per the result list, Manjot Kaur of Government Senior Secondary School, Hargobindpur; Dileep Ahirwar of Government Senior Secondary School, Dhandra; Raghav Puthela of Government High School, Salem Tabri; Jashanpreet Kaur of Government High School, Sehjomajra; and Herleen Kaur of Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School scored 30/30 marks.To make maximum students clear the NTSE exam, schoolteachers started free online coaching from April 1. The authorities are planning to identify certain students from this test, and the district resource persons will further train them for the next test scheduled in November.Last year, 25 students (two from government schools) had cleared the NTSE Stage 1 test and appeared in the second stage in February this year.Sanjeev Thapar, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Punjab Agricultural University, said, “Over 29 students of Class 10 have scored above 80% marks in the baseline test. Now, they will be provided training at district level to help them clear the scholarship test in to be held in November.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ntse-results-five-ludhiana-class-10-students-get-perfect-score-in-baseline-test-101622663708100.html
03-06-2021||Other||Tepid response: Ludhiana MC encourages meat shop owners to use slaughter house facility||Even though it has been three months since the slaughterhouse at Hambran Road was made operational by the municipal corporation in February, only a few shop owners are using the facility currently.While the officials stated that it is so due to the pandemic, the meat shop owners said that there are certain shortcomings in the project related to transportation of meat, storage, availability of ‘Halal’ meat, etc.Given the tepid response, the officials have started conducting meetings with the meat shop owners to encourage them to use the facility. Joint commissioner Swati Tiwana organised one such meeting at the Zone ‘B’ office on Tuesday evening.Sanjeev Kumar, president of the Non-veg Shopkeepers’ Association, said,” There are around 3,500 meat/chicken shops in the city. There are issues related to transportation as the slaughterhouse is situated at one corner of the city and all shopkeepers cannot take the birds there daily. There are a few other issues related to marking of birds, storage, availability of ‘Halal meat’ etc. We have also asked the authorities to reduce the rate of slaughtering as the contractor is charging ₹10 per bird.”Meanwhile, the MC officials stated that efforts are being made to resolve the issues and a visit to the plant, along with the members of meat shopkeepers, will be organised soon for the same.MC joint commissioner Swati Tiwana said,” A meeting was conducted to encourage the shopkeepers to get the meat slaughtered at the modern and hygienic facility. The shopkeepers apprised us of their grievances and efforts will be made to resolve their issues soon.” Illegal slaughtering is being done at different parts of the city including Khud Mohalla, Giaspura, Barewal, Haibowal, Shiv puri, Tajpur road among other areas.Hanging fire for over a decade, the slaughterhouse project worth ₹19.5 crores was completed in January last year. The facility is capable of slaughtering 2,000 poultry birds and 1,000 goats, sheep, and pigs, per hour in two shifts of eight hours each. The MC general house has fixed ₹150 for slaughtering a goat/sheep, ₹10 for a poultry bird, and ₹100 for a pig. The officials said the facility also has an effluent treatment plant, preservation and chilling facility, and a blood processing unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tepid-response-ludhiana-mc-encourages-meat-shop-owners-to-use-slaughter-house-facility-101622663706987.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Aide of Ludhiana cop facing charges of drug peddling lands in STF net||A man said to be a close aide of sub-inspector Amandeep Singh Gill, who is facing charges of drug peddling, has been arrested by the Ludhiana special task force (STF). The accused has been identified as Gurbakhsh Singh alias Gaurav Sharma, 35, of Kila Raipur. The STF was chasing him for the last one year.STF in-charge Harbans Singh said they arrested the accused from Kohara Chowk in Machhiwara on Tuesday. The accused was produced in a court on Wednesday, from where he was remanded to two-day STF custody for questioning.Gaurav, along with Balbir Singh, dismissed head constable and private driver of SI Amandeep Singh Gill, who was the Division Number 2 SHO, used to nab suspects at the behest of Gill.His name emerged in the case after the STF arrested three persons — Satvir Singh of Jassowal, Gaganpreet Singh alias Gagna and Harpreet Singh alias Peeta of Patti Jalal on February 24, 2020. They were nabbed and set free by the errant SHO.Inspector Harbans Singh said the trio had confessed that they were on February 11, 2020 caught with 20gm heroin. They were taken to Division Number 2 police station, where they were kept in illegal custody for three days. The accused also added that SHO Amandeep Singh Gill had set them free after accepting bribe from their kin without registering an FIR. The SHO had kept their Maruti Suzuki Swift car, mobile phones and 20gm heroin recovered from them with him.Harbans said the remaining accused were arrested in the case, while Gaurav was on the run.The STF had arrested SI Amandeep Singh Gill and his aide Ajay Kumar on February 18, 2020 and recovered 10gm heroin from their possession. A case under sections 21, 59 (2), 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused at STF police station in Mohali.Later, the STF had recovered 50gm opium from the house of SHO and ₹40,000 from the residence of Ajay Kumar following the information provided by the accused.Meanwhile, in another case, the STF arrested one Lalit Kumar alias Tipu, 29, of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar of Tarn Taran following a tip-off. The accused runs a tour and travel business. He is already facing trial in 10 cases of drug peddling. The court remanded the accused in two-day STF custody.The STF in-charge said that accomplices of the accused — Kamaljit Singh, 32, of Kabir Nagar in Daba and Bhupinder Singh Bhinda, 42, of Amar Nagar — were caught with 2.17kg heroin on February 27, while Tipu was at large till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aide-of-ludhiana-cop-facing-charges-of-drug-peddling-lands-in-stf-net-101622663655635.html
03-06-2021||Other||‘Heroes of cycling’ feature in campaign to mark World Bicycle Day||Ahead of World Bicycle Day, Hero Cycles celebrated everyday heroes who have inspired others by their motivational journeys and exhorted many more to take up cycling for fitness, sport, environment or just the love of it.The company has unveiled an initiative to celebrate these ‘Heroes of Cycling’ as a part of its ongoing ‘Road pe Dikhegi, Tabhi Chalegi’ campaign that has helped shape a dialogue around the need for take up cycling and a bicycle-friendly infrastructure in cities.From a pre-teen girl in (Gurugram), a teenage homeschooler in Bengaluru and a 21-year-old professional mountain biker in Shimla, to a woman who in 2015 cycled 300km in a day, the multi-platform social media initiative shares the stories of common people from all over India who pedal to work, have pursued cycling as a profession, do it stay fit or just for fun.In its fourth year, World Bicycle Day, celebrated on June 3, draws attention to the benefits of using the simple, affordable, clean and sustainable means of transportation.A total of 30 inspirational stories in the last 30 days were featured on Hero Cycles’ social media handles as part of the initiative.Avira Bhatt, 11, took the cycling community by storm after covering 40 km before she turned 10. Explaining her special connection with cycling, Avira says, “Ever since I was young, I have loved cycling – everything about it has been a pleasure. As I grew older, I realised its physical and mental health benefits. Over the years, people have shifted towards motorised transport even though they know how harmful it is for the environment. Cycling can truly change your life…I urge you to start doing it today.”A resident of Bengaluru, a metropolis notorious for traffic snarls, 17-year-old homeschooler Nihar Thakkar is an avid fan of public transport, cycling and walking, and is working to create an app that increases the modal share of cycling in neighbourhoods by creating safe infrastructure and community engagement programmes. “As someone who is under 18, I can’t drive; my bicycle gives me the independence and freedom I want. Cycles have no emission, and they are super quiet. I think we all should cycle a lot more,” the ebullient teenager says.Mountain bikers Lakshay Jangid from (Jaipur), a pro MTB stunt rider and world champion and Akshit Gaur from Shimla, the U-19 National MTB Champion, are “emotionally attached” to cycling which they deem as “a way of life”. They have urged people to pedal for daily commute to work or buying groceries as cycling keeps one healthy and happy.Ritu Mehta of Ludhiana, who cycled to the Wagah border and Golden Temple to complete a 162-km run in only 9.5 hours in 2021, concurs, “Thanks to cycling for I got to explore those parts of Punjab where one can’t reach by car. Cycling is a source of happiness and has become a major part of my life. I encourage you to make it an essential part of your schedule.”The month-long activity has helped generate a positive discourse on the need for mainstreaming cycling, particularly at a time when a devastating pandemic is raging through our cities, making the use of public transport unsafe.“We aim to tell latent bicycle lovers that there is enough inspiration around them to ditch inaction. The campaign aims to provide a platform to them to voice their demands and concerns,” says Rohit Gothi, CEO, Hero Cycles Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heroes-of-cycling-feature-in-campaign-to-mark-world-bicycle-day-101622663654640.html
03-06-2021||Other||Haryana: Growers elated as sunflower seeds fetch rates above MSP||Avtar Singh, an elderly farmer from Kurukshetra’s Padlu village, is elated. For the first time in many years, he has been able to sell sunflower seeds above the minimum support price (MSP).Of the 35 acres under sunflower crop, he has harvested 10 acres so far and has been able to sell the produce at ₹6,300 per quintal to private traders against the government’s MSP of ₹5,885.Another farmer, Mandeep Singh of Langar Chhanni village of Kurukshetra said earlier sunflowers growers had to face a lot of trouble while selling the crop. “We even had to sit on protest and block road several times to sell our produce to government agencies on MSP. But for the first time in many years, sunflower seed is being sold above the MSP,” he said. According to farmers, this is the best year for oilseed growers as earlier mustard also fetched ₹1,000-1,500 more than the MSP of ₹4,650. “I had also sold mustard at around ₹1,500 than the MSP in April. Now, I have grown sunflower on this land and am expecting to earn around ₹1.20 lakh per acre from both the crops within a period of eight months,” said Mandeep.He said after harvesting sunflower, he will grow paddy and the third crop will be harvested in October. Though government agencies also started procuring sunflower seed on MSP from June 1, farmers are not interested in selling their produce to them. “We are ready to procure but why will the farmers sell their produce to government when private agencies are paying them more?” said Vijay Dhillon, HAFED’s manager at Shahbad grain market. Interestingly, most farmers, commission agents and officials of government’s procurement agencies are not aware of the reasons behind the sudden jump in prices of oil seeds. Many farmers and arhtiyas believe that the hike is temporary as the government is trying to woo the farmers. The farmers believe that the prices have jumped only because they have MSP otherwise the private traders will force farmers to sell their produce at lower rates. “In absence of government support, farmers cannot get good price. That is why vegetable growers are being forced to sell their produce at negligible prices,” said Krishan Kumar, a farmer from Shahbad. As per the figures of state government, sunflower is grown on around 15,500 hectares in the state and this year, the government has set a target of procuring 13,784 MT of sunflower seed at the eight purchase centers set up in Kurukshetra, Ambala and Panchkula districts. “Around 8,400 farmers have registered themselves on the Meri Fasal Mera Bayora portal to sell their produce to the government. But we don’t think that the farmers will sell it to government till they are getting more than the MSP,” said a senior official from Hafed. However, oilseed traders said the skyrocketing prices of edible oil is behind the rise in prices of all oil seeds. According to them, this may last for a few more months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryanas-sunflower-growers-elated-as-seeds-fetch-rates-above-msp-101622663650458.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Woman gives birth to baby girl at railway platform in Ludhiana||A woman passenger travelling from Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua to Chhapra in Bihar delivered a baby girl at platform number 1 of Ludhiana railway station on Wednesday. The women team of Railway Protection Force (RPF) helped her during the childbirth.Rajesh Agarwal, divisional railway manager (DRM), Firozpur, said Jammu Tawi Bhagalpur Amarnath Festival Special arrived at platform number 1. “Sub-inspector Rita Devi, along with constables Dholi Yadav and Priya of special team Sakhi under Suraksha Kavach campaign, was checking the train. Meanwhile, they found a pregnant woman passenger, Havanti Devi, 24, travelling in coach S2, who was in need of urgent help,” he added. Sensing the emergency, the RPF team alighted her from the train and called an ambulance to send her to hospital for delivery. SI Rita Devi said that after the woman developed labor pain, her team made arrangements to help her in childbirth. “We couldn’t wait for the ambulance as her condition was deteriorating, which would have proven fatal for both the woman and her baby. We helped her deliver the baby at the platform. The woman gave birth to a healthy baby girl,” she added.“The ambulance was taking time to reach the railway station, so constable Dholi Yadav hired an auto and took her to civil hospital for further treatment,” the SI said. The DRM said that both the newborn and mother are healthy. We have informed her husband about the childbirth, he added. Division’s largest station has no ambulance serviceLargest railway station of Firozpur division, Ludhiana junction, has no ambulance service. The railway station is dependent on 108 service, NGOs and other hospitals to send patients or accident victims to hospital. A ticket checker had lost his life due to non-availability of ambulance when he had to wait for hours before reaching a hospital after losing one of his legs on April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-gives-birth-to-baby-girl-at-railway-platform-in-ludhiana-101622663649255.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Captain inaugurates 50-bed paediatric Covid care ward in Ludhiana’s CMCH||Preparing the state for a possible third wave of the pandemic, Punjab chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday virtually inaugurated a 50-bed paediatric Covid care ward at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) here as a partnership initiative between the hospital and the Police Public Foundation. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was also signed in the chief minister’s presence for setting up two oxygen plants in the district, for which 20 firms have donated ₹1.2 crore. Also read: Covid-19: Four steps that can help India avoid a third waveThe two plants will become functional at CMCH and Krishna Charitable Hospital within six to eight weeks, according to CII former president Rahul Ahuja, who inked the pact on behalf of the industry with the two hospitals. Terming the collaborative initiatives of the state’s industry, society and police “wonderful gestures”, the CM said the pandemic was a major challenge and the state had to be prepared for the worst. “Though nobody knows yet if there will be a third wave in India, Punjab is making all efforts to gear up for another possible surge, which could affect the children more,” he added. Captain urged the industry to motivate their employees to get vaccinated for their own protection and that of all Punjabis. Lauding the industry’s role in supporting the state government’s fight against Covid, the CM said the industry in Punjab had always been at the helm of extending a helping hand in every crisis. Vardhman and Oswal industries had helped with oxygen supplies when cases were at the peak at around 9500+ a day, he recalled. Though the cases had declined to 2,184 as of June 1, it was not possible to ascertain how long the crisis will continue, he said, adding that Punjab will win and come out of this. Amarinder also congratulated the Punjab Police Fund for the new Covid ward, for which it has provided financial assistance for medical infrastructure, as per the MoU signed by it with CMCH. The hospital has provided space, manpower, administrative and technical support for setting up of the ward, which is a Level-2 facility. Patients in this ward will be provided treatment at concessional rates, with 20% of the beds being reserved for the poor and needy. The ward is fully functional and equipped with all necessary infrastructure – beds, cardiac monitors, and oxygen concentrators. The ward has been completed within a month of signing of the MoU. The Punjab Police have gone beyond the call of their duty and done a lot of humanitarian work, including distribution of food and the recently launched ‘Bhojan Helpline’ to ensure that nobody goes to sleep hungry in the state, said the CM. CMCH director William Bhatti thanked the Ludhiana citizens for once again coming out to help in these testing times, while chief secretary Vini Mahajan said the public and industry support, along with the contribution of the private health sector, proved to be a major asset in the state’s fight against Covid. DGP Dinkar Gupta said the initiative to set up the special ward was taken forward by Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal after an appeal was made by CM to leaders of industry and business. Police Public Foundation’s senior vice-president Neeraj Satija steered the initiative, along with RN Dhoke, ADGP, enforcement directorate, who heads Police Public Foundation — a registered society. Virus claims 5 lives, infects 285Five persons died, while 285 persons tested positive for Covid in the last 24 hours in Ludhiana.Among the dead are four women aged 50 and above from Haibowal Kalan, Kitchlu Nagar, Hussainpura and Boparai Kalan. A man, 65, from Shimlapuri was the fifth victim. The total number of positive cases in Ludhiana since the beginning of the pandemic is 84,622, including 2,007 deaths. There are 3,604 active cases in the district at present, while 79,011 have recovered.Meanwhile, four fresh cases of black fungus were reported in the district, taking the cumulative count of cases to 82 on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/captain-inaugurates-50-bed-paediatric-covid-care-ward-in-ludhiana-s-cmch-101622663648316.html
03-06-2021||Other||Gym owners stage protest at over 20 locations in Ludhiana||Lambasting the state government for allegedly discriminating against the health industry, Gym Ekta Welfare Association staged a protest at over 20 locations in the city seeking permission for reopening of gyms on Wednesday. The gym owners and their staff protested at Bharat Nagar Chowk, Gill Chowk, Issa Nagar Pulli, Jamalpur Chowk, Dugri Canal Bridge, Jalandhar Bypass, Sherpur Chowk, among other areas. Holding banners and raising slogans against the government, they rued that the gyms have been closed for over two months now even as the administration is relaxing the curfew norms for different sectors, and they have been struggling to earn bread and butter for their families. They added that the government has turned a blind eye to their situation. Blaming the government for the suicide committed by gym owner Varinder Kohli in the city last month, the gym owners stated that the government is pushing them and their staff towards starvation and indebtedness. They stated that the gyms had been closed for five months last year and now when their business was slowly coming back on track, the government ordered their closure on March 18.Monu Sabharwal, president of Gym Ekta Welfare Association, said, “There are around 800 gyms in the city and over 80% of them are being run on rental properties. The owners are struggling to pay the fixed charges including rent, electricity bills, etc. The government has also failed to provide any relief to the sector.” The gym owners stated that liquor vends are allowed remain to open but the gyms, where immunity is boosted, have been closed. Navneet Singh, president of Punjab Gym Welfare Society and owner of Aura gym, and Ramesh Bangar, director of Gym Ekta Welfare Association, stated that the government should at least allow gyms to remain during the curfew relaxation period so that they can earn a livelihood otherwise many other gym owners will also be forced to commit suicide due to financial constraints in the coming days.”“We are ready to follow all the norms and guidelines, but the government should at least give us a chance to earn a livelihood,” said Bangar. Sabharwal said that if the government fails to provide any relief till June 10, they will be forced to raise a state-level agitation.Various leaders from political parties including Shiromani Akali Dal, Aam Aadmi Party, and Lok Insaaf Party extended support to the protest organised by the gym owners. Few Congress leaders including Kulwant Singh Sidhu assured the protesters that the matter will be taken up with the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gym-owners-stage-protest-at-over-20-locations-in-ludhiana-101622663647146.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||Juhi Chawla’s 5G case hearing interrupted by man singing her songs||An unidentified person disrupted proceedings of the Delhi high court three times on Wednesday... until he was muted and finally thrown off the online hearing because the participant did not stop singing songs from popular movies of actor Juhi Chawla -- one of the plaintiffs in the plea being heard by the judges.The person first sang the song “Ghoonghat ki aad se dilbar ka” from Chawla’s 1993 movie Hum Hain Rahi Pyar Ke as soon as she joined the proceeding on Wednesday. Justice JR Midha directed that the person’s account be muted in the virtual hearing, but the person started singing once again; this time, it was a song from the 1995 movie Naajayaz.Chawla was attending the hearing from South Africa. A day before, she shared the link of the court proceedings on her Twitter account.Eventually, the user was thrown out of the digital hearing, but mere minutes later, another song came on -- presumably by the same participant through another account before this user too was banished.Justice Midha ordered court officials to identify the person, share the details of the disrupter with the Delhi Police, and issue a contempt notice.The HC, which was hearing a case filed by Chawla on the potential damage of setting up 5G wireless network in the country, said on Wednesday the plea by the actor and two others was “defective” and filed for “media publicity”. Justice Midha, who reserved the order on the case, said the issue should have been taken up with the central government, instead of directly approaching the courts.The court also questioned why 33 parties were made defendants in the plaint.“It is not the sweet will of the plaintiff to join as many parties and cause of action... It is a defective plaint. This suit has been filed only for media publicity and nothing more than that. It is very shocking,” the court noted.On Monday, Chawla and social workers Veeresh Malik and Teena Vachani moved the HC court, alleging that 5G technology threatens to provoke serious radiation impact on humans and permanent damage to natural ecosystems. “Plaintiff has no personal knowledge of the plaint. I am surprised...,” the judge said.To be sure, the World Health Organization says no adverse health effect has been “causally linked with exposure to wireless technologies”.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Department of Telecommunications, said the suit was an ill-conceived litigation, adding that the plaintiffs need to show how the technology is wrongful.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing private telecom companies, also argued that launching 5G technology was a policy of the government and as a policy, it cannot be a wrongful act. He too said it needs to be proven how the issue is a public nuisance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/juhi-chawla-s-5g-case-hearing-interrupted-by-man-singing-her-songs-101622663438684.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Govt move to sell vaccine at a premium to private hospitals raises eyebrows||Punjab government’s move to sell Covaxin procured under the state quota to private hospitals has raised eyebrows as it makes a profit of ₹660 per dose in the name of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Further, the private hospital profits ₹500 per shot as the customer pays ₹1,560 for each jab. Interestingly, Corporate Social Responsibility by definition has philanthropy at its core, which in this case, is nowhere visible. Of the one-lakh vials it procured recently, the state government sold at least 20,000 to private hospitals across the state at a rate of ₹1,060 per dose that had cost it ₹400. Reports gathered from the field suggest that the private hospitals are charging at least ₹1,560 per shot from the people. Officials involved in the drive claim the government has created a different bank account in the name of Vaccination CSR Fund and private hospitals deposit the money in this account only. State authorities involved in the procurement of vaccine maintained that the additional money collected from the private hospitals will be used to purchase vaccine. “We have purchased it at a rate of ₹400 and are giving to the private hospitals at a rate which they would have paid had they bought it from the directly from the manufacturer. Private hospitals are depositing the money in the CSR Fund account created only to purchase vaccine,” said state’s nodal officer for vaccine and senior IAS officer, Vikas Garg. In their communication, private hospitals were told by the vaccine manufacturers that they can’t supply them vaccine at least before six months. The vaccine was purchased by the state government for 18-45 years category and private hospitals are now administering it to anybody above 18 who has booked a slot. The move is seen as an attempt of the state government to make profits when people are striving hard to get jabbed amid shortage of vaccine at the government-run centres. Public and the health experts have criticised this move, questioning how can the government collect money in the name of CSR Fund. “How can state make money out of this? It’s shameful that when the state-run free vaccination centres had to be closed due to shortage of vaccine, govts are making profits. The justification that the fund will be used for procuring the vaccine is like using money collected by loot for the welfare of people,” said Dr Balbir Singh, an eye surgeon and health activist from Patiala. He was also former state convener of the AAP. A 32-year-old lecturer in a private college in Jalandhar said she had no option but to pay ₹1,560 for the jab at a private hospital as government centres have run out of the vaccine. “I was surprised to know that the state has sold these doses to private hospitals. If it was the state quota, why common people should pay for it,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-move-to-sell-vaccine-at-a-premium-to-private-hospitals-raises-eyebrows-101622663469277.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Worries mount over drastic drop in Bhakra reservoir water level||Water in the Gobind Sagar lake, the reservoir of Bhakra dam, on Wednesday reached 1,505.39 feet, 56 feet lower than what was on a corresponding day last year. The dam can be filled up to 1,680 feet. Worries are mounting as the reservoir has only 10% of the 9.27 billion cubic metre water it can store. Any further dip in the level will lead to shutting of powerhouses and water to the partner states. However, the top management hoped that the monsoon expected t hit the region by mid-June will replenish the dam. Power generation at dam’s powerhouses has been cut by 20% to manage the grim situation and regulate the outflows. Bhakra dam has a total power generation capacity of 1,415 megawatt (MW). To manage the reservoir level 14,000 cusecs water is being released from the dam against an inflow of 20,000 cusecs. Release of water to the partner states (Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan) for irrigation and drinking purposes, so far, has been curtailed marginally and the impending scenario will be discussed in the meeting of partner states in the technical committee meeting expected on June 4 (Friday). The reservoir also supplies potable water to the three north Indian states, along with national capital New Delhi. Water from the dam irrigates 160 lakh acres agricultural land. “We have moved a proposal for the technical committee meeting to discuss the scenario which is worrisome. Hopefully it will take place on June 4 or in the upcoming week,” said a senior officer in the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB). Normally filling season starts on May 20 and continues till September 20, during this time, inflow crosses one-lakh cusecs. “But as of now, the inflow is very less, which is a cause of worry,” said a senior officer of the BBMB, adding that 50% of water in the reservoir comes from the melting of glaciers. It needs mention that 30% of the irrigation is fed by canals and a major chunk of water comes from Bhakra. “At least 13,000 cusecs water is supplied to Punjab and 10,000 cusecs each to Haryana and Rajasthan. Paddy growing states (Punjab and Haryana) wants supply of water from next week as the preparations for sowing has begun and the state governments have allowed transplantations from June 10,” said a senior officer. SILT REDUCES WATER-HOLDING CAPACITY At least 23% of the reservoir’s is filling capacity has silt, due to which the dam fills and empties at a faster pace. The reservoir is spread over an area of 168 sq km and silt coming in the reservoir is much more than expected when the dam was commissioned in 1963.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/worries-mount-over-drastic-drop-in-bhakra-reservoir-water-level-101622663226924.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Bargari sacrilege: KTF planned to kill accused dera follower, but SIT got him first||The banned Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) planned to kill dera Sacha Sauda follower Shakti Singh, who is an accused in three cases registered in connection with the Bargari sacrilege. However, the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases arrested him along with other accused before the KTF operatives could execute their plan, officials said. The SIT led by inspector general of police (IGP) Surinder Pal Singh Parmar had arrested six dera followers, including Shakti, on May 16 for Bargari sacrilege. While the two KTF operatives, who allegedly killed a dera follower in Bathinda last year, were arrested by Moga police on May 22. It was revealed during the interrogation of four KTF operatives arrested by Moga police in connection with a murder case. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harmandeep Singh Gill said that on the instructions of KTF’s Canada-based chief Hardeep Singh Nijjar, outfit’s operatives Lovepreet Singh, Ram Singh and Kamaljeet killed a dera follower in Bathinda last year. “Their next target was Shakti Singh. We are interrogating them to know whether there were more people on their list,” he added. A prominent dera follower, Manohar Lal, who was a member of 25 members committee of Dera Sacha Sauda and also father of Jatinderbir Singh Jimmy, who is an accused in Gurusar sacrilege incident, was shot dead in Bathinda in November last year. According to police sources, the dera followers accused in Bargari, Malke and Gurusar sacrilege cases are on the target of KTF. “While police were already alert, the KTF operatives were still working on plan to eliminate Shakti. But the SIT arrested Shakti in-between,” sources added. Shakti is now in judicial custody at Mansa jail. The SIT has claimed that Shakti was among dera followers who stole ‘bir’ of Guru Granth Sahib from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village and later scattered its torn pages near Bargari gurudwara to “avenge an alleged insult of Sirsa-based dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim by Sikh preachers” in 2015. Police remand of 2 dera men held in poster case extended A Faridkot court on Friday extended the police custody of two dera followers —Sukhjinder Singh Sunny and Baljit Singh —for pasting derogatory posters near a gurdwara at Bargari village in 2015. The SIT argued in the court that further police custody is required to recover a vehicle used by the accused in the crime, after which the judicial magistrate Tarjini sent them to two-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bargari-sacrilege-ktf-planned-to-kill-accused-dera-follower-but-sit-got-him-first-101622663167183.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Drug case: Man held, NCB to check his role in SSR case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested a drug peddler who is allegedly linked to drugs kingpin Parvez Khan alias Chinku Pathan. The agency is also checking his role in the drug case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR). The NCB on Wednesday said the accused, Harish Khan, was arrested from Bandra. His brother is also a drug peddler. Khan has been arrested in Chinku Pathan case. Pathan was arrested early this year from Navi Mumbai in connection with a drug supply case.Khan was arrested after NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede-led teams raided various places in Lokhandwala and Bandra.NCB sources said beside probing Khan in Pathan case, the investigators would also check his involvement in a drug case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Rajput’s body was found at his residence in Bandra in June last year.The agency recently arrested actor’s flatmate Siddharth Pithani from Hyderabad in the drug case. The actor’s two former servants were also grilled by the agency for several hours on Sunday. His bodyguard is also being questioned by the agency. Meanwhile, an accused arrested in a drug peddling case tried to commit suicide at the NCB office. The accused under the pretext of going to toilet consumed a toilet cleaner. He has been admitted to JJ hospital for treatment. The accused is said to be a habitual offender and was previously arrested by, but was out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/drug-case-man-held-ncb-to-check-his-role-in-ssr-case-101622662866318.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Restore Vijay Mallya’s properties worth ₹5,646.54 crore to clear bank dues: PMLA court||The special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court, in two separate orders passed within the past 10 days, has directed restoration of properties worth ₹5,646.54 crores belonging to Kingfisher Airlines and fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya, to the State Bank of India (SBI) bank and its consortium. This will enable banks to sell these properties which were attached by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) during the probe, and recover dues. The SBI heading the consortium of banks had approached the special PMLA court for release of the properties which were attached by the ED during the investigation into money laundering allegations against Mallya. The court held that the quantifiable loss suffered by the bank is ₹6,203 crores and the properties asked for restoration is insufficient to meet the loss, suffered by the banks. Hence, the court on May 24, ordered the release of the properties worth ₹4,234.84 crores, while on Tuesday the special court has ordered the release of the properties worth ₹1,411.70 crores. The properties which are now released include properties in UB City, Bengaluru worth ₹712.94, his under-construction flats in Kingfisher tower worth ₹564.25 crores, several pledged and unpledged shares and many other properties owned by Mallya through various companies in Bengaluru. The bank has raised a claim worth ₹6,203.35 crores with interest and sought the release of the properties to enable the recovery officer to proceed with the proceedings. The ED had given no objection certificate to the release of the properties to SBI. However, the plea was opposed by Mallya’s legal team and lawyers of the companies having an interest in these properties. Mallya’s legal team had challenged the jurisdiction of the PMLA court. It was argued that merely giving of a personal guarantee, does not connect Mallya in any way with the offence of money laundering or the proceeds of crime. “The property is not involved in money laundering, therefore this application is premature. The banks cannot ask for the sale of properties and the court cannot hand over the said properties. It is also clear that the said properties are not proceeds of crime. The said properties were acquired many years ago,” the defence argued opposing the plea of the bank. The court negated the claim of defence and said, at present, this court is not required to finally decide the criminal liability of the accused persons. “It is needless to mention that both Kingfisher Airlines and Force India Formula No. 1, companies were under the command and control of Dr Vijay Mallya,” the court noted while releasing the properties to SBI. “Despite the said poor financial conditions, the same company had transferred loan amount, which it received from the applicant’s banks to Force India Formula No. 1 Racing Team. The transferred amount was shown as payments for operating expenses of flight operations,” the court noted. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/restore-vijay-mallya-s-properties-worth-5-646-54-crore-to-clear-bank-dues-pmla-court-101622662746948.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Special court wants Vijay Mallya to come with clean hands||“Dr Vijay Mallya should come with clean hands,” a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court said in its order released on Wednesday, while referring to the contradicting statements over his arrival in India and when he is submitting himself to the Judicial System of India. Mallya is an accused in a bank loan default case of over ₹9,000-crore, involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines. The special court was hearing a plea of a consortium of 17 banks, led by the State Bank of India to restore properties which are attached by the Enforcement of Directorate during its investigation into money laundering allegations. The defence had taken uncertainty over Mallya’s return to India as a defense to counter SBI’s claim. Negating the claim, the court observed: “It is surprising to note that the legal team of Dr Vijay Mallya agitating and demanding from Enforcement Directorate an information as to when Dr Vijay Mallya is coming to India. In fact, the said legal team is required to take instructions from their client Dr. Vijay Mallya as to when he is submitting himself to the Judicial System of India. Ironically, the absconding accused himself asking the Court to get confirmation from the Investigating Agencies as to when they would secure the custody of accused himself. Dr Vijay Mallya should come with clean hands.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/special-court-wants-vijay-mallya-to-come-with-clean-hands-101622662746346.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Woman, lover arrested for killing husband and burying him in Dahisar||Dahisar police arrested a woman and her lover for killing her husband and burying the body in the house. The woman, Shahida Shaikh, was arrested on Tuesday while her lover Aniket alias Amit Mishra was nabbed on Wednesday. The incident came to light after the brother of the victim, Rayeez Shaikh, reported him as missing after Rayeez did not receive his call. When the brother called Shaikh to ask about Rayeez, she had told him Rayeez left town for work. Following this, the brother asked his friend to file a missing person report and left for Mumbai. Upon arriving in Mumbai, he learnt from Rayeez’s six-year-old daughter that Shaikh had killed Rayeez, dismembered his body and buried it in the house. The daughter also alleged that Shaikh had threated to bury her along with Rayeez if she told anyone about the incident. “We detained Shaikh and during interrogation she confessed to killing Rayeez,” said a police officer from Dahisar police station.According to the statement of the accused, Shaikh and Rayeez got married in 2012 in Uttar Pradesh and moved to Mumbai and have two children, a six-year-old daughter and two-year-old son. She further said that she fell in love with a neighbour and that Rayeez had caught them on a compromising position on May 24, which led to a fight. During this, the two allegedly picked up a knife and slashed Rayeez’s throat. They then chopped the body and buried it. “We have recovered the body and sent it for post-mortem. We are questioning the two accused. We have arrested them for murder under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code,” said Vishal Thakur, deputy commissioner of police, who has additional charge of zone 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-lover-arrested-for-killing-husband-and-burying-him-in-dahisar-101622662686338.html
03-06-2021||Other||World Bicycle Day: Sangam city docs pedal their way to fitness||: Sangam city doctors have taken up cycling as a perfect way to remain physically and mentally fit amid these pandemic times. Cutting across age and gender barriers, the medicos in Prayagraj are going for group cycling outings twice-a-week covering 40 to 60 km stretches each to de-stress and remain fit.The love for cycling among the doctors of Prayagraj began in November-December 2018—much before the Coronavirus took the world by storm—when around half-a-dozen of them including Dr Atul Dubey, Dr Jaivardhan Rai, Dr Arun Kant, Dr Yugantar Pandey, Dr Chhitij Srivastava, Dr Subodh Jain and Dr Pankaj Gupta formed a cycling group—Two Wheels Thrill— as a way to chill together and stay fit while taking a break from their hectic and often high-pressure workplaces.“Now we have 28 regular members in the group. While before the pandemic, we have even gone on cycling tours to Varanasi and Chitrakoot, but now during the pandemic, we prefer scenic destinations on the outskirts of the city like Shringverpur, Sujawan Dev temple, Maharishi Durvasa Ashram or even Kaushambi. These places allow us to cycle in peace while maintaining social distancing and building up our stamina and immunity,” said Dr Yugantar Pandey, former secretary of Allahabad Medical Association and a noted paediatrician.Dr Anil Shukla, former president of Allahabad Medical Association said, “Most of us in the group are aged between 45 and 65 years. Pandemic has been harsh on our fraternity, and we have lost many dear colleagues. Amid work stress and personal challenges, we found that cycling was a great stress buster and these twice-a-week cycling helped us gear up for the days ahead. So, during the pandemic, whenever the restrictions allowed us, this remains our favourite stay-fit mantra.” Women doctors of Sangam city too formed their own cycling group: Prayagraj Pacers. “I took part in the Indira Marathon in November 2018 in the above-45 age category and bagged third place. Pepped up, I along with Major Farah Deeba formed ‘Prayagraj Pacers’ and today we have 64 members aged between 34 and 60 years including 53 doctors,” said Dr Ritu Jain, a paediatrician.In place of long cycling tours, the women doctors prefer shorter cycling outings which they combine with running and yoga sessions. “Cycling is a perfect workout. It helps in increased cardiovascular fitness, builds muscle strength and flexibility, improves joint mobility and posture, strengthens bones besides decreased stress levels and fight body fat,” said Dr Ritu Jain.
03-06-2021||Other||UP bureaucrat to impart tips to trainee IAS officers||A bureaucrat posted at Uttar Pradesh’s Kheri district has been invited to share his experience with trainee IAS officers at Mussoorie.Posted as chief development officer (CDO) Arvind Singh would share his administrative experiences of rural development with about 150 trainee of 2019 batch IAS officers during a virtual training session to be held at Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA), Mussoorie on Thursday. Singh is one of the four invitees IAS officers from across the country who have been requested by Milind Ramteke, deputy director, LBSNAA to give tips to the fellow cadres . The other three invitee IAS officers include Saikant Verma from Andhra Pradesh, Manju from Rajasthan and Yogesh Kumbhejkar from Maharashtra. Singh said through his interaction with trainee IAS officers on Thursday, he would try to tell them how desired results could be achieved by utilising the existing system with a creative mind. Singh earned accolades through his innovative initiatives during the first Covid wave in the country.Singh utilized the self help group (SHG) women to prepare quality PPE kits. These kits were supplied not only among the Kheri health workers and police but also to the army.Similarly, his Operation Chaturbhuj initiative under the MGNREGA helped migrants to earn livelihood. The union rural development ministry lauded Singh for his innovations. His Operation Mamta gave a new boost to health services in tribal areas of Kheri while his active engagement in Operation Kayakalp gave a new look to basic schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-bureaucrat-to-impart-tips-to-trainee-ias-officers-101622661546257.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||₹1,500-cr ring road connecting 5 NHs to come up in Ambala||The state government on Tuesday approved a ring road project, worth ₹1,500 crore and connecting five national highways, in Ambala.The 39-kilometre road will be constructed that will work as a bypass to ease traffic congestion in the twin city. As per the plan, the ring road will start near Saddopur village on NH-152 (Ambala-Chandigarh highway) and will link with NH-72 (Ambala-Roorkee highway, now NH-344) at Handesra village. The villages the road will connect are Kakru, Mandor, Khatauli and Panjokhara Sahib.Similarly, the ring road from NH-72 will connect with NH-444A (Ambala-Saha highway) at Khudda Kalan. In between, villages like ​​Kalharhedi, Boh, Sharifgarh, Chandpura will be covered. Further, NH-444A will be linked with NH-44 (Delhi-Amritsar highway or GT Road) at Mohra village.The GT Road will finally connect with NH-65 (Ambala-Hisar highway) at Balana village of the city. In between, village areas like ​​Shahapur, Machounda, Machoundi, Meerapur, Ugara, Matedi Jattan, Saunda, Rupo Majra, Sarangpur will be covered.State govt to bear 50% project costThe project was earlier approved by Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari and now the state government has decided to bear 50% of the project cost, a statement from home minister Anil Vij’s office read.Vij further said that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will start the process of land acquisition of 177.75 hectares in the next 10 days. “I had met the Union minister and apprised him that the project will do away with traffic issues arising due to heavy vehicles in Cantt and City areas, and will give a boost to overall development,” said Vij in the statement on Wednesday. NHAI will reimburse the cost of land acquisition and shifting of utilities shared by the state government as and when the cost is recovered by NHAI by way of toll collection, an official notification read.‘Panacea for traffic jams’NHAI project director Virender Singh couldn’t be reached for a comment, but officials familiar with the project details said that on an average more than 30,000 heavy vehicles pass through Ambala every day and the ring road will be a panacea for traffic jams.Vehicles coming from Hisar, Chandigarh, Amritsar, bound for UP, Delhi, Uttarakhand or Himachal, will have an option to bypass Ambala. Similarly, traffic coming from Delhi or Yamunanagar going towards Punjab or Chandigarh will need not enter urban areas of ​​Cantt or City.The notification further added, “A digital display board will be installed at toll plazas showing the project cost, the amount recovered through toll collection and period of levy of toll for the project cost. The display will be dynamic and the amount recovered shall be updated as when any vehicle pays the toll.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1500cr-ring-road-connecting-5-nhs-to-come-up-in-ambala-101622661368901.html
03-06-2021||Other||Liquor vends to be closed at weekends in Mohali||Liquor vends in Mohali district will remain closed during the weekend curfew.District magistrate Girish Dayalan, exercising powers conferred to him under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, issued some modifications to the orders issued on May 7, 2021, which shall be effective with immediate effect until further orders.“To contain and manage Covid-19 and at the same time save and secure livelihoods, partial modification to previous orders has been made,” informed the DM.This comes a day after the administration scrapped the odd-even rule in markets, allowing all shops to operate till 5pm on weekdays.Restrictions regarding number of passengers travelling in personal vehicles stand withdrawn, however, they continue to be applicable on commercial vehicles/taxis. This was already announced by the Punjab government while extending the lockdown till June 9 last week.Covid monitors shall be appointed by market associations and their names prominently displayed. They shall be personally responsible for ensuring adherence to Covid guidelines.Services provided by self-employed persons such as electricians, plumbers, IT repairmen have been allowed.Private offices are allowed to open, but in order to avoid crowding and congestion, only 50% staff shall be called at any given time. Work from home should be encouraged by heads of all offices. The concerned staff/employees can travel to and from work only on production of their ID cards. Misuse will invite strict penal action.All private offices have to ensure that their staff/employees are tested regularly–preferably every two weeks. Any person showing symptoms should be asked to isolate and be tested immediately.Any violations shall invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/liquor-vends-to-be-closed-at-weekends-in-mohali-101622661366907.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Hungry to do well for India at Bristol Test, says wicketkeeper Taniya||After being controversially left out of the South Africa ODI series in March, wicketkeeper Taniya Bhatia has worked hard on her game and fitness to gain a spot in the India women cricket team for a one-off Test, three ODIs, and three T20Is against England, starting June 16.“It was a bit surprising to be dropped from the team against South Africa. But I always keep a positive mindset. I played for Punjab in the domestic one-day tournament in the meantime to get some runs under my belt. It did bring the confidence back,” said Chandigarh-based Bhatia, eyeing her Test debut at Bristol, England.Besides Bhatia, Jharkhand’s Indrani Roy has also been included in the Test, ODI and T20 squads for the England tour.After the Punjab tournament, Bhatia trained hard with coach RX Murali on her batting too. With just 121 runs in 15 ODIs and 166 runs in 50 T20s, Bhatia couldn’t match up to her reputation with the bat while playing for India.“I would have loved to score more runs in both the formats. It was not easy to train during the lockdown last year after the T20 World Cup in Australia. But when facilities opened up, I did work really hard on my batting with Murali sir. I am also excited to have Shiv Sundar Das as batting coach for India women team. I am confident of doing well against England in the batting department,” said the 23-year-old.She is a leading wicketkeeper for India in T20s with 44 stumpings and 23 catches. Amid no cricket practice with the red ball ahead of the Bristol Test, it would be a huge task for the Indian women to adapt to the conditions and get used to the format.“I am thrilled to be in the Test team and hope to make my debut in whites. We have not had any practice with the red ball, but I am sure we will get enough time to work on it ahead of the match. This is the real challenge of modern-day cricket. Making adjustments to different formats and to new conditions quickly is the need of the hour,” said Bhatia, who was presented the India Test team jersey at a Mumbai hotel by captain Mithali Raj and veteran speedster Jhulan Goswami during a session in coach Ramesh Powar’s presence.She is likely to get a tough contest from Indrani Roy, who was the leading scorer in the domestic one-day tournament with a tally of 456 runs. While Bhatia is likely to be handed the gloves for the one-off Test, Roy could make it to the limited overs side. “I am hungry to do well for India. Since I missed playing against South Africa, I want to make all the chances count and take tips from seniors on playing England pitches and conditions,” said Bhatia, who made her ODI and T20 debut in 2018.The batter who was once trained by former Indian cricketer Yograj Singh thinks that Powar is a goal-oriented coach whose skills will help the team pull-off good performances in England and in further tournaments ahead of the ODI World Cup in New Zealand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hungry-to-do-well-for-india-at-bristol-test-says-wicketkeeper-taniya-101622661248145.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Reliance on RAT in rural Maha indicates caseload may be higher||Shortly after receiving his first dose of the vaccine Ravindra Khaire, a pharmacist from the small town of Ramtek in Nagpur district, began to exhibit symptoms of the coronavirus disease: a persistent cough, low-grade fever and body ache. The 49-year-old went to a civic hospital for an RT-PCR test on April 20. The technician who collected his nasal and throat swabs told him that his report would reach him over a Whatsapp message in a few days. By April 28 however, Khaire’s symptoms had worsened and his oxygen saturation level fell below 90. He went to a private hospital where he was made to undergo a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) which confirmed that he was Covid positive. His RT-PCR test result came the following day.RTPCR or Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction is considered the most reliable laboratory test for detecting SARS-CoV-2. Experts say that an RT-PCR has a sensitivity of around 70%. An RAT, on the other hand, can be performed outside a laboratory. Its result shows up within 15 to 30 minutes. However, experts estimate its sensitivity to be around 50%, which means that a negative result isn’t necessarily correct. According to guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a positive RAT should be considered as a confirmed result but if a person tests negative on a RAT, he or she should undergo RT-PCR for confirmation.State health minister Rajesh Tope emphasised the use of RAT kits mainly in rural areas, where the laboratory capacities were inadequate or absent – as cases surged, laboratories that conducted RT-PCR tests were filled to capacity. Most districts began targeting containment areas, markets, and other crowded places for rapid tests, and health care workers also began to rely more on RAT kits in camps conducted in villages and primary health centres (PHCs), reserving RT-PCR kits for those who were symptomatic.In Nagpur district for instance, of the total 50,904 tests conducted in February 2021, 60.6% were RAT. In April, of the total 240,815 tests conducted, 60.92% were RAT. The reliance on rapid tests however decreased in May, as 60.9% of the 142,030 tests conducted were RT-PCR.Experts estimate that more than 40% of tests conducted in the state are with RAT kits. “Nearly 60% of these tests are RTPCR and the remaining 40% are RAT,” said state surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate. “Some districts may have a slightly different ratio, with more rapid tests. But we are following the ICMR guidelines which have now allowed upscaling of RATs wherever necessary,” he said.Simply put, through March and April, as Maharashtra led the number of Covid-19 cases in the country, it’s like that the number of cases was higher as more RAT kits were being used.Reliance on rapid tests ICMR’s testing advisory issued on May 4 recommended the upscaling of RATs to meet the overwhelming demand for testing, but in April, the health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had upbraided Maharashtra for not following the appropriate ratio of RTPCR to RAT kits (70:30): Maharashtra’s overall weekly share of RT-PCR test was 57.6% in the week April 7-13, compared to 70.3% in the week February 17-23.In Amravati district, officials issued orders to target vegetable vendors, milkmen, delivery persons, among others with RATs as a means to break the chain of the infection. The district’s lone government laboratory in the Sant Gadge Baba Amravati University has a capacity to carry out only 2,500 RT-PCR tests, which also explained the reliance of RAT kits. “At present, we are carrying out anywhere between 4000 to 5000 tests daily, of which nearly 60% are rapid tests,” said district health officer Dr Dilip Ranmale. The district has also been facing a shortage of the Viral Transport Medium (VTM) kits required for the collection, storage, and transport of samples. This has further pushed the dependency on rapid tests.Amravati’s district surveillance officer Dr Revati Sable said that the statistics of RT-PCR and RAT is dynamic. “Our RT-PCR count goes up when we have more symptomatic people. We are doing more rapid tests in containment zones, gatherings, marketplaces, and in patients who have to undergo medical procedures,” she said.In the Gadchiroli district which currently has over 1300 active cases, nearly 80% of the 1500 tests carried out daily are rapid tests. “The district’s only laboratory in the civil hospital had a capacity of carrying out only 500 RT PCR tests daily,” said district health officer Dr. Shashikant Shambharkar. “The capacity has been increased to 1000 just a few days ago,” he said.Shortage and delay Pune’s rural areas are currently facing a shortage of RAT kits.Rajendra Tukaram Meher is the sarpanch of Warulwadi village -- home to more than 15,000 residents -- in Junnar taluka, Pune district. The nearest government hospital which collects swabs is 22 kilometres far away. “In the last week of May, an old lady died due to Covid-19 and we had requested her family members to get tested. But the health officials said that there were no rapid antigen kits available. In another case a boy had tested positive and his family members, about 6-7 of them who live in the same house also wanted to be tested, but there were no kits available. They had to pay about ₹500 to get a rapid antigen test done from a private laboratory that offered home collection. Earlier the gram panchayat used to conduct rapid antigen testing camps, but due to the shortage of kits, we stopped holding the camp a month ago,” Meher said.Zilla Parishad Chief Executive Officer Ayush Prasad said that the shortage of RAT kits in the past month was due to a few reasons. “It is true that there is a shortage of rapid antigen testing kits. A batch which was supposed to come from Bangladesh failed quality control and was held back. Secondly, manufacturers hiked the price of kits from ₹57 per kit to ₹123 per kit. In Pune, the demand for RAT kits rose. During the months of January and February, our RT-PCR ratio had touched up to 90% and so to bring it down to 70%, we increased RAT testing, since we are required to maintain a 70-30 ratio. RAT provides instant results which helps in early isolation. In the beginning of May, we had distributed 100,000 RAT kits which were used up in two weeks.”Dr Deepak Selokar, district health officer, Nagpur, admitted to delays in RT-PCR reports until April this year as every public health centre and civic hospital in the district sent swabs for testing to two government-run medical colleges ( Government Medical College and Hospital in south Nagpur and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital in Central Nagpur) and AIIMS, Nagpur. “Given the enormity of testing samples from Nagpur city as well as rural Nagpur, sometimes we get the reports late,” he said.Seolkar said that the RT-PCR sequencing machines were increased from two to five; five more are expected at the government run medical college and hospital in Nagpur. Starting May, an average of 600-700 RAT and RT-PCR tests from 53 Public Health Centres, 10 rural hospitals and two sub-district hospitals from Nagpur rural are sent to these three Nagpur-based facilities every day for investigation. He said that local healthcare workers now advise home quarantine to those coming for RT-PCR test till the results come for avoiding further spread of the virus in case they test positive.Dr Chetan Naikwar, the chief of the Ramtek civic hospital that Khaire visited on April 20, said that mobile vans equipped with RAT kits go out to villages every day and carry out at least 30-50 tests. One mobile van consists of three-member team, who is given a training to collect swabs and use the test kits. “I personally coordinate the entire testing operation and ensure that villagers get the report instantly,” Naikwar said. Apart from this, ASHA workers visit homes every day to assess the situation on the ground and identify symptomatic patients if any. However, work is impeded because many posts of technical staff like lab technicians lie vacant.Breaking the chain of transmission If delay in receiving test results is one side of the coin, the other is that private labs are not getting enough clients in rural areas. Dr Dhawal Tiwari of Swami Yogiraj Hospital at Ramtek said that they hardly get one or two patients every day who approach them for testing as many villagers prefer government hospital for free testing. “We have no facility for RT-PCR test here and therefore we make do only with RAT,” said Tiwari. Each kit costs ₹600. “We hardly get any patients from neighbouring villages as mobile vans now go to almost all villages for such test,” he added.“The endpoint of testing is to break the chain of infection and immediately isolate people who have the infection,” said Dr. Abhay Chowdhary, head, department of microbiology, DY Patil University, Navi Mumbai. “RT PCR is definitely more reliable, but one should roll out whichever tests are available easily so that a large number of people can be tested,” said Chowdhary, former head of Haffkine Institute.This certainly held true for Khaire, who during the delay in receiving his results, went about his daily life. “I went shopping to buy vegetables and met people as usual without knowing that I was infected,” he said. “I repeatedly contacted the government hospital staff for the report. They kept telling me I would receive it soon over WhatsApp,” he said.Health officials said that there is a severe resistance against testing in the rural pockets. “People come down to abusing healthcare workers and even fists and blows at times,” said Shambharkar, Gadchiroli’s district health officer, adding that misleading messages forwarded on WhatsApp have become a problem. “The reluctance is widespread in the rural areas. They fear that if they test positive, they will be sent to a hospital. One WhatsApp forward spread a misleading message that people’s kidneys are being harvested illegally at the hospitals. We are trying our best to spread awareness and have asked the healthcare workers to bust such wrong information,” he said.Thus far, Maharashtra has carried out over 34 million tests; its current testing figure is 303,056 tests per million population. By comparison, Kerala’s average is 562,702 tests per million and Tamil Nadu’s is 402,623 tests per million population. “Kerala’s model of testing and early detection is a good one,” said Soumitra Ghosh, associate professor at the Centre for Health Policy, Planning and Management, Tata Institute of Social Sciences. “A dense state like Maharashtra should therefore be conducting many more tests per day. The thrust should definitely be on the RTPCR tests as the error margin is low.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/reliance-on-rat-in-rural-maha-indicates-caseload-may-be-higher-101622661246313.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||NGT forms committee to review environmental impact of inland aquaculture||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has formed a six-member committee to study the sustainability of inland aquaculture practices and submit a report on the same within three months. The move comes in response to a petition filed by Vanashakti, a city-based non-government organisation (NGO). The order was passed by the principal bench of NGT on Monday (May 31) and made public on Wednesday.The committee will comprise members of the Union environment ministry, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), Union ministry of fisheries, state fisheries department and a member from Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute. The committee will also undertake study of the existing consent regime under the Water Act, and suggest appropriate improvements for the same. Consent to establish and operate are granted for various industries by state pollution control boards based on compliance with the Water Act and Air Act, depending on the nature of the enterprise. Environment group Vanashakti had filed the petition last year against fresh water aquaculture being carried out in Vadivale Lake in Maval taluka of Pune district. Vanashakti alleged that this practice is against the principles of precautionary and sustainable development. Government policies which allow for such practices, Vanashakti said, do not consider the harmful impact of poultry manure, chemical manures and other waste products from poultry farms such as gizzards and chicken guts, chemical fertilisers and antibiotics, which are staples in aquaculture farming.“Aquaculture activities with modern techniques involve use of harmful chemicals. In the process, such chemicals are released in the lakes and other water bodies concerned. In the present case, permission has been given for aquaculture activities in Vadivale Lake in Pune district. The lake is a source of drinking water to nearby villages. Outfall of the lake is in Indrayani River which is source of drinking water for 28 villages,” NGT observed in its order, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT.A prime contention mentioned in Vanashakti’s petition is that the Coastal Aquaculture Authority Act (2005), which regulates aquaculture in coastal areas, lays down environmental safeguards for permitting such aquaculture, but there are no safeguards laid down for such activities in inland waters. “The applicants have submitted that the 2005 Act should apply to all aquaculture activities,” the green tribunal observed.In its final analysis, NGT concluded that there is a need to protect the environment in the process of aquaculture activities “in water bodies other than those covered by the Coastal Aquaculture Authority Act”, and has accordingly tasked the committee with forming new regulations for the same.“This is a positive step toward protecting freshwater lakes, which are often sources of drinking water for adjacent communities, from industrial pollution. We cannot allow sources of sustenance to be contaminated for commercial gains. The ecological and public health impacts need to be studied closely,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ngt-forms-committee-to-review-environmental-impact-of-inland-aquaculture-101622661126239.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Raj Kumar to hold PU V-C charge for 3 more years||Panjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar has been given a tenure extension for a period of three years from July 23 by the Vice-President of India, M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the chancellor of the varsity.He was appointed as the 13th vice-chancellor of PU in 2018, replacing former V-C Arun Kumar Grover.Meanwhile, the varsity in its official communiqué on Wednesday said that many first-time initiatives were taken during his tenure which include the integration of seven innovation verticals — SAIF/CIL Lab, CIIPP, Design Innovation Centre, Skill Development, Bio-Nest Incubator, Institute Innovation Council and DST Centre for Policy Research — for their efficient and coordinated working.Raj Kumar said, “Despite all the challenges, we were able to achieve much in academics and sports. This extension will give me another opportunity to complete academic works initiated by me in my first term as V-C. I will take all necessary initiatives to help the university scale greater heights.”The varsity is currently functioning without a senate, which is its governing body, as its elections were not held since August last year due to Covid-19 pandemic.Over the issue of senate election, the members of Goyal group had been at loggerheads with Raj Kumar ever since the polls were postponed for the first time last year.During Kumar’s tenure, PU won the prestigious Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (MAKA) Trophy for all-round performance in sports among Indian Universities in 2019 and 2020. PU also got the first position in the first Khelo India University Games organised by the Union ministry of youth affairs and sports during February-March 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/raj-kumar-to-hold-pu-v-c-charge-for-3-more-years-101622661067846.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Admissions without Class 12 scores will be difficult, say principals||The decision of the state education department to scrap Class 12 exams for the current batch has invoked mixed reactions from students, parents and educators. While students and parents felt the move has calmed anxious students who were worried about the status of their exams in the midst of Covid-19 pandemic, higher education institutes feel the lack of a common exam to gauge the merit of students will create difficulty at the time of admission.“Students opting for professional courses will have to appear for an all-India common entrance exam to be able to seek admissions. This, however, is not the case with admissions to state universities. We will wait for the government to give us clear directions on how to conduct admissions for undergraduate degree courses, which we will then share with affiliated colleges,” said an official from the University of Mumbai.On Wednesday, Maharashtra government decided to cancel Class 12 state board exams and an in-principle decision was taken in the state cabinet meeting after most of the ministers supported the move considering serious concerns over health and safety of the students. The state school education department on Wednesday moved a proposal to the state disaster management authority headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to take the final decision, officials said. A formal announcement is expected after the nod by the authority.The move comes a day after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) scrapped their respective Class 12 exams due to the ongoing pandemic.In case of professional courses, including medicine, engineering, architecture and law, all aspirants compulsorily appear for state-conducted or all-India common exams to be eligible for admissions. Admissions to most professional courses are based solely on the scores of the entrance exam. However, admissions to state universities depend on Class 12 marks, and principals feel that with no board exam, this process will face hurdles.Last month, in a meeting of city college principals with state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad, principals had suggested holding a common entrance test for all Class 10 students to gauge their merit, especially since these students have not appeared for exams in Class 9 and 10. “While such a common exam will be difficult to conduct for Class 12 students, there will need to be a common platform to ensure parity at the time of giving admissions,” said Neha Jagtani, principal of RD National College, Bandra.She added that admission to undergraduate degree college courses across the state is based solely on Class 12 marks, and with no mark sheet in hand, merit-based admission will face problems. “It is important for the government to ensure that whatever they decide, the students from different boards and branches (commerce, science, arts and vocational training) are graded at parity,” added Jagtani.Several autonomous colleges affiliated with the University of Mumbai had managed to conduct preliminary and internal unit exams for Class 12 students in the past few months. “We conducted unit tests as well as preliminary exams in both online and physical forms to ensure our students are prepared for an exam. With the Class 12 exams scrapped, we are hoping the government will allow us to hold entrance exams at least. Without a common base, it’ll be difficult to admit students to degree courses,” said Ancy Jose, principal of Nagindas Khandwala Autonomous College, Malad.Parents and students have been using various social media platforms to share their anxiety over the constant postponement of exams and the lingering ambiguity. “We’ve been preparing for Class 12 exams as well as other all-India common entrance tests for the past two years and are finally relieved to hear that the government has scrapped one exam. We can now focus on the entrance exams henceforth,” said Anvay Kalekar, a Class 12 student who is preparing for National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-admissions-without-class-12-scores-will-be-difficult-say-principals-101622661006726.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra announces Corona-free village contest, winners to get ₹50 lakh||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday announced “Corona-free village” contest in a bid to encourage implementation of steps to curb the spread of Covid-19 in rural areas. The rural development department (RDD) announced that prizes will be given to three village panchayats for doing good work in Covid-19 management in each of the six revenue divisions. The village panchayat that wins the first prize will get ₹50 lakh, second ₹25 lakh and third ₹15 lakh.The initiative came a few days after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s address where he spoke about Covid-free village drive to arrest the spread of Covid-19 in rural areas. Rural development minister Hasan Mushrif said such initiatives will help contain Covid-19 cases in rural hinterlands, which has become a cause of concern for the state government.“By such initiatives, there will be more awareness about Covid-19 and we will be able to stop it in villages. Everybody from the village must cooperate, and the gram sabha and sarpanch (village head) must take this initiative seriously,” Mushrif said. He added the competition will go on for a year and the villages will be judged by a committee on 22 parameters set by the department. RDD is expected to issue a government resolution outlining the parameter and other details for the contest soon.Under this competition, 18 villages will be given prizes, a total amounting to ₹5.4 crore. The minister added the villages that win the contest will get another incentive in the form of additional amount equivalent to the prize money as encouragement which will be utilised for development works in those villages.In the past, Maharashtra government had launched Clean Village competition during 1999-2004 which had evoked enormous response from villages in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-announces-corona-free-village-contest-winners-to-get-50-lakh-101622661006225.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||Teachers point flaws in CBSE Class 10 pattern, say can’t be applied to Class 12||Teachers and students have begun voicing concerns over what could be the alternative evaluation mechanism for students of the Class 12, after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) decided to scrap the annual school-graduating test due to the Covid-19 outbreak. One of the options on the table is following a formula in place for Class 10 students, but several stakeholders caution that the same yardstick cannot be used for senior students, for whom the scores could impact prospects of higher studies.The Union government on Tuesday announced the cancellation of Class 12 CBSE board examination after discussions at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.On May 1, the education board announced an assessment pattern for Class 10 students. This included two specific aspects: how an individual student’s final score will be calculated, and how the scores of all students will be standardised based on the school’s performance.Individual student scores will be calculated on the basis of a student’s performance in a unit/periodic test, the half-yearly or mid-term exam, and the pre-board examination. These together will account for 80 marks while the rest 20 will be based on internal assessments that were likely completed by most schools as part of the usual board exam evaluation in the run-up to March.But, in particular, it is the standardisation formula that has invited concerns. Standardisation -- meant to ensure results are in “consonance” with a school’s performance -- will need to be done by selecting a reference year from the past three years, when students on average scored the highest marks.When the final marks of the students are drawn up, the schools will need to ensure that the average marks in each subject are within 2 marks of the subject-wise average reference year marks, and that the overall average of the five core subjects do not surpass the total in the reference year.Several teachers and students called these policies flawed, saying that they are unfair to meritorious high scorers whose marks will likely be standardised downwards based on the average performance of their school.The Delhi high court on Tuesday issued a notice to CBSE over a plea filed by an NGO, Justice For All, which said that the moderation policy would be “an injustice to the students as the performance of school [is] not relatable in any manner with the performance of the student”.Experts also pointed out that unit tests and mid-terms are not uniformly marked among schools, with some using tougher yardsticks in their school tests, as compared to the Board’s marking.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said: “Since we are only allowed a variation of plus or minus two marks, this leaves high-performing students at a disadvantage as internal tests are marked more strictly than boards. Our past data has shown us that in an 80-mark paper, more students score in the range of 70-80 in their board exams as compared to the pre-board exam of same marks.”In effect, this will leave students in a school that normally follows a harsher policy in unit- and mid-term tests at a disadvantage to peers where the assessments may be more liberal.Joshi pointed to the standardisation problem, saying schools can only have the same number of students in different ranges of marks for different subjects as its reference year. Which means, if there were 10 students who scored over 90% in the reference year, there cannot be more than 10 students in the over-90% score band this year as well.Ameeta Mohan, principal of Amity International School in Pushp Vihar, said that though the moderation policy is necessary, the board could provide additional relaxation in the cap for highest marks. “There have been cases in Class 12 in the past, where a student got 33% in their pre-boards but scored in the range of 65-70% in the final exams. This is why we recommend that the cap of increase in marks [from reference year] be increased from 2 to 4 in Class 12,” she said.Many schools that endorsed the existing scheme said it needs to be tweaked for Class 12.RP Singh, principal of RPVV Surajmal Vihar, a top performing government school in the city, said: “Moderation policy has been in practice for long. My personal opinion is that Class 11 results should be considered for board results. Even while considering Class 10 marks, CBSE must consider only the main subjects of Class 10 for Class 12 results.”School administrators pointed to several other reasons why the Class 10 method cannot be used for assessment of Class 12 students as the school-leaving students were often also engaged in appearing for college admission tests during their pre-board exam season – a pressure that their younger peers do not have.Mena Mittle, vice-principal at Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh, said the introduction of multiple attempts for Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) was also a factor.“A Class 10 student takes his pre-boards more seriously than a Class 12 student who has to appear for various competitive examinations in the same period for higher education. If we were to give 40% weightage to pre-board exams, school results will fall drastically affecting high-performing students as well. Schools cannot adopt the Class 10 evaluation pattern for Class 12 students,” she said.“Students tend to give their best for the board exams and not internals. So if we are assessed on the basis of our Class 12 internals, it may affect our grades,” said Twisha Kacker, a Class 12 student at The Indian School.“In Class 12, marks of no subject should be awarded on the basis of average marks of other subjects,” Mohan said.Experts said CBSE could consider internal scores of classes 10 to 12 and the Class 10 board exam results for the Class 12 results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teachers-students-say-class-10-assessment-plan-flawed-should-not-be-used-for-class-12-results-101622660946898.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project runs into snag due to land acquisition issues||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pet project — the bullet train corridor between Mumbai and Ahmedabad — could miss its deadline of December 2023 due to difficulty in land acquisition in Maharashtra.The 508.17-km bullet train project or high-speed rail corridor consists of 155.76-km stretch in Maharashtra, 348.04 km in Gujarat and 4.3 km in Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The estimated cost of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project is ₹110,000 crore, of which ₹88,000 crore will be funding from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).The National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL), an entity formed by the Railway Ministry to build the project, has invited tenders for the construction of stations, viaducts, river and road crossings in Gujarat. As per the initial estimates, the project was supposed to be ready by December 2023, but since the land acquisition is not yet completed, the construction of the train corridor has not yet begun in full swing in Maharashtra. NHSRCL officials are tight-lipped about the completion of the project in Maharashtra. Suneet Sharma, chairman of Railway Board, while interacting with media personnel online on Wednesday said due to land acquisition concerns in Maharashtra, the completion target in the state cannot be determined.“Work on the bullet train corridor is going on in full swing in Gujarat. However, there are land acquisition concerns in Maharashtra. In Palghar, Thane, BKC (Bandra Kurla Complex) and the under-sea tunnel that we will be making for the project, land acquisition is yet to be completed. We can only invite work tenders once the acquisition is done. A target frame line cannot be set on as of now,” said Sharma. He added, “We are constantly discussing with the Maharashtra government regarding the land availability for the project.” Earlier in January, NHSRCL had invited final bids for the construction of the BKC railway station, which will be the first station of the high-speed railway corridor between Mumbai and Ahmedabad. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had earlier questioned if the bullet train project was of any benefit to Maharashtra. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has appeared to be non-committal on the project ever since it came to power. The ruling Shiv Sena has taken the stand that it would not allow land acquisition for the project if local people are not willing to give their land for the same. The party on Wednesday questioned the need of the project. “Right now the nation is going through the Covid-19 pandemic and even local trains are not operating. Once local trains start, services should be increased. Who needs the bullet train project? The priority is metro and monorail services for the city. There should be a give and take policy,” said Arvind Sawant, Sena chief spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiahmedabad-bullet-train-project-runs-into-snag-due-to-land-acquisition-issues-101622660946269.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Nana Patole slams BJP over OBC reservation||Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole has blamed former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis for the cancellation of Other Backward Class (OBC) reservation in local body elections by the Supreme Court, and said Fadnavis has harmed the interest of OBC communities across the country. He also accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at Centre of destroying federalism and claimed that the Congress will restore it after coming to power in 2024. Patole, who was in Navi Mumbai on Wednesday, also announced that he will quit his party post in three years to enable others to get an opportunity. He said, “The opposition leader is misleading not just Maharashtra but India’s OBC community. He started it all by first not allowing Nagpur zilla parishad elections for two years through a simple order. No constitutional process was followed for the appointment of administrator. As a result of this, other zilla parishads too went to court realising they too will get time. The high court then ordered that OBC reservation cannot be above 50% and asked for census to be conducted.” He added, “After the election, some people went to the Supreme Court. In its basic order rejecting the reservation, SC asked for empirical data of OBCs. The Central government is not giving it, and the Union home minister, in Lok Sabha, said that OBC census will not be conducted.” Patole claimed this is not a loss for just the OBC community in Maharashtra but that of the entire country. “The BJP has taken away the constitutional right of OBCs under Article 340, to destroy them politically, socially, economically and educationally. This is the result of the Central government breaking the federal system in the country. The state government should have the right to take this decision.” He also took pot shots at the government over fuel price hike and accused it of burdening the common man with various taxes and then doling out small amounts to take credit. Congress to push for poll for speaker’s postThe Congress party will push for election of Assembly speaker on the first day of the monsoon session, beginning on July 5. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Wednesday, after a meeting of party’s ministers, said they will discuss this with the other two ruling parties. The post of speaker has been vacant for the past few months after Patole resigned in February. The meeting of Congress ministers was held at Sahyadri guest house on Wednesday evening to discuss various issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nana-patole-slams-bjp-over-obc-reservation-101622660826229.html
03-06-2021||Other||Plea in Delhi high court challenges CBSE Class 10 assessment pattern||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the response of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on a plea challenging their evaluation pattern for Class 10 students.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Union education ministry, the directorate of education, Delhi government and CBSE, seeking their stand on the issue that was raised by an NGO, Justice for All.The petition filed through advocate Khagesh Jha argues that the process of calculating the marks was “unconstitutional and requires to be modified”.On May 18, HT reported that several schools in the national capital have raised concerns over the alternative evaluation method formulated by CBSE for Class 10 students, after their board exams were cancelled on April 14 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. An association of over 400 Delhi private schools has also written to the CBSE requesting it to review the marking scheme.On May 1, the CBSE released a special marking scheme for Class 10 students stating that their results will be tabulated based on their performance in unit tests, half-yearly examination, and pre-board examination conducted by schools.The board, however, said each school should keep a check on “inflation of marks” and award marks in consonance with its best performance in Class 10 in the last three academic years--2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20.Challenging the pattern, the petition said, “The policy of moderating the average marks assessed by the school, based on the historical performance of the previous average result of the school, in terms of the best overall performance would be injustice to the students as the performance of school is not relatable in any manner with the performance of the student.”It has also said that moderating the marks in consonance with the overall average score of the district, national and state average “was absolutely unreasonable, illogical and punitive for the students of a school which would appear in the board exams for the first time”, with no previous data of performance. The NGO has alleged that it can also lead to the manipulation of marks and exploitation, extortion of the students and parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/plea-in-delhi-high-court-challenges-cbse-class-10-assessment-pattern-101622660767347.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||Why start centres if you can’t give Covaxin: Delhi HC to govt||The Delhi high court on Wednesday asked why the Delhi government opened more Covid vaccination centres with “much pomp and splendour” when it did not have the doses to ensure both doses of Covaxin within the stipulated 4-6 weeks window.The court, hearing two pleas by residents saying that they were not getting the second dose of Covaxin, issued a notice to the government, seeking its stand on whether it can provide the second dose of the vaccine, manufactured by Bharat Biotech, before expiry of the incubation period between the two doses.“Why did you (Delhi government) start it (vaccination) if you were not sure you can provide the second dose also? You should have stopped. When Maharashtra did not have a vaccine, they stopped the process because they knew that it would not have the second dose and the vaccine will lose it’s effect,” justice Rekha Palli observed.“You opened so many vaccination centres everywhere with so much pomp and splendour and now you say you don’t know when the second dose would be available,” the court said.To be sure, vaccines are supplied directly by the Centre for people above 45 years of age, and directly by the manufacturer according to a quota decided by the Centre for the 18-45 age group.The court also issued notice to the Centre to make the second dose of both vaccines -- Covaxin and Covishield -- available in the Capital.One of the petitions was moved by lawyer Ashish Virmani, who received the first dose of Covaxin on May 3 and since May 29 has been unable to book a slot for the second jab. He went to Meerut in Uttar Pradesh to receive the second dose, advocate Pallav Mongia, representing Virmani, told the court.During the hearing, Delhi government’s additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal told the court that the matter of getting stocks was being discussed, and that even he was yet to receive his second dose since there was a scarcity of Covaxin.Aggarwal said he will seek instructions on when the stock of Covaxin will be available, and whether those who got the first jab can be provided the second dose within the stipulated time of six weeks.The matter will be heard on Friday.The pleas have contended that while Covaxin is made available in other states, Delhi is being deprived of Covaxin doses. People who got their first shot in Delhi, have to travel to other cities to get the second dose.The Capital is confronted with a major shortage of vaccines, especially Covaxin, which has forced the city government to temporarily suspend 368 vaccine centres for the 18-45 age group. While 720 vaccine centres for the 45+ age group are functional, Covaxin is being given only to people who have their second dose scheduled.But the Delhi government currently has only one days’ stock of Covaxin even for the 45+ age group, the government’s vaccine bulletin said on Wednesday. The city government has been seeking help from the Centre in scaling up vaccine supplies to Delhi for over two weeks now.In June, documents seen by HT showed that the Delhi government was supposed to receive 96,300 doses of Covaxin directly from the central government and another 91,960 doses will be available for procurement from manufacturers.“It is extremely concerning because for the 18-45 group, vaccine doses are not scheduled to arrive before June 10. The crisis is getting worse as a large number of people in the 18-45 group who took Covaxin early last month are scheduled for their second dose now. We appeal to the Centre to intervene and expedite supply,” said Atishi, MLA of Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/why-start-centres-if-you-can-t-give-covaxin-delhi-hc-to-govt-101622660766813.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Over 5,000 children in Maharashtra lost parents to Covid-19, state announces scheme||As many as 5,331 children in Maharashtra have lost at least one parent over the past 14 months, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Of them, 162 have lost both their parents while 4,481 have lost their fathers and 691 lost their mother to Covid-19. In view of this, the state government on Wednesday announced a special scheme for such children. Under this scheme, they will get a certain amount of money on attaining 21 years of age.Taking cognisance of social media posts about illegal adoption of the children orphaned due to the Covid-19 infection and acting on the Supreme Court’s direction, the state had formed district-wise task forces to identify such children last month. The task forces, over the past four weeks, have identified the children who have lost one or both parents. The counting is still going on and the number of affected children could go up, according to state officials. The state cabinet on Wednesday gave nod to the special scheme where ₹5 lakh will be deposited in the name of the children who have lost both their parents in the form of fixed deposit. When these children turn 21, the money along with the interest accrued will be transferred to their bank accounts. Children who have lost both or one parent after March 1, 2020 due to Covid-19 will be eligible for the scheme.Woman and child welfare minister Yashomati Thakur said the state will take full responsibility of the children. “Twelve of the children who have lost both their parents have been brought to the child care institutions (CCI). The government machinery will be in constant touch with the children who are under kinship parenting of their relatives to ensure their well-being. The financial aid given under Bal Sangopan Scheme will also be hiked to ₹2,500 soon,” she said.The minister also said that the government is extending the age limit to 23 years to allow these children to stay in CCI and added that such children will be given skill development training so that they can stand on their feet.Bhandara district leads in the chart with 507 children losing one parent, while the number is 464 in Pune and 431 in Solapur. Mumbai has 159, Thane has six, and Aurangabad has 331 children who have lost at least one parent. The highest number of children who lost both their parents is from Solapur at 21.District administrations with the help of child welfare committees (CWC) help such children with counselling, fixing responsibility of their parenting to relatives, as well as ensuring financial aid, custody to CCIs and legal adoption, if needed. “As the basic principle of the Juvenile Justice Act (JJ Act), we prefer the custody to remain with extended family. Family care is important for their upbringing. Such children in custody with relatives, such as uncle or grandparents, are given financial assistance of ₹1,125 per month under our Bal Sangopan scheme. In case such custody in the extended family is not possible, the children are brought to CCIs by following due process,” said an official from the department.Dr Vijay Khomane, woman and child welfare officer of Solapur district, said, “The number of such children in our district is high for two reasons — first, the district has reported a high number of Covid-19 deaths and second, we have rigorously identified the children. The children were traced up to village level by obtaining names of people who died due to Covid-19 over the past 14 months. The children who have lost both their parents will be brought before CWC before deciding on their possession, and assistance to be extended to them,” he said.Child rights activist Santosh Shinde said the state should endure guardianship properly. “We welcome the scheme launched by the government, but there should be proper monitoring of these children at least for the next 10 years. We have witnessed in many such previous natural calamities including the earthquake of Latur, that the children in kinship parenting face hardships. There are cases of trafficking of girls orphaned due to such calamities. There are cases of bogus beneficiaries in Bal Sangopan scheme and its repetition should be avoided while extending it to these children,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-5-000-children-in-maharashtra-lost-parents-to-covid-19-state-announces-scheme-101622660766227.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Cop, three others arrested for duping jeweller of ₹1.25 crore||Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrested a police constable and three others for allegedly duping a jeweller and escaping with gold bars worth ₹1.25 crore.The arrested cop, Khalil Kadar Shaikh, is attached to local arms division and his partners — Ravindra Kunchikurve, Santosh Nakte and Mahesh Jadhav — are from Sewri.According to the police, the incident took place on Monday evening when the jeweller, Bharat Jain, and his employee M Kamble were heading to Jain’s factory on a scooter with a bag carrying gold bars weighing 2.5 kilograms. They were stopped by Shaikh in Byculla and asked for the scooter’s papers. While Jain was taking out the papers, the accused took the bag and escaped, said a police officer. Jain then lodged a complaint with Byculla police station.Crime branch launched a parallel probe and managed to get details of the scooter from CCTV footage. Following the leads, they arrested four accused. The crime branch has so far recovered over 1 kilogram of gold worth ₹52 lakh, and handed over the accused to Byculla police station for further investigation, said a crime branch officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cop-three-others-arrested-for-duping-jeweller-of-1-25-crore-101622660706773.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||CRZ clearance process for coastal road project to begin this weekend||With more than 54 per cent of the coastal road passing through Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ), the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has informed that the process of seeking CRZ clearance for the project is slated to begin by this weekend.Around 7.29km of the 13.43km road comes under CRZ while 10ha of mangroves will be affected. The 13km coastal road from Kharegaon to Gaimukh will divert the goods traffic on Ghodbunder from Gujarat and JNPT.The corporation has submitted a Detailed Project Report (DPR) to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for further approval. The cost of the entire road is ₹1,251Cr and MMRDA will be funding the project.The proposed road is 40m in width and has a 500m tunnel with an open sky ramp. The total length of the tunnel with the ramp is 1.24km.A TMC officer said, “Out of the 13.43km, we already have acquired 2.27km of land and need to acquire 10.71km. Out of this 10.71km, 1.9km is forest land and has around 10ha of mangroves. As per the CRZ norms, we will be acquiring a non-forest land equivalent to the mangrove area for compensatory afforestation against the mangroves that will be affected. Moreover, the entire road that passes through CRZ will be constructed as an elevated corridor to minimise the damage to the environment.”As per the DPR, 6.14km of the road is outside CRZ, 2.87km is in CRZ 2, 2.51 km in CRZ mangrove buffer zone and 1.91km in CRZ 1.The officer added, “We will send the proposal to the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management authority for the CRZ clearance by the weekend while the land acquisition process will also begin.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/crz-clearance-process-for-coastal-road-project-to-begin-this-weekend-101622660706196.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||See if more than four can be registered on Cowin: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Wednesday asked the Centre to look into the registration of more than four persons at a time on the CoWIN application for the Covid-19 vaccines.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said that a limited number of people in the family might have smart phones and hence many people will not be able to operate the application.“What is suggested is that there are ways to make it user friendly.. even four, you may have reason but look at the ground situation... somebody may not have a smart phone in a family of 4. It may be family of 10. What happens to other 6,” the bench said.It said that most people are relying on the CoWIN app, observing that walk-in vaccinations are not happening everywhere. The court also questioned as to what policy was there for the disabled people between the age group of 18-44 also.“How will they be disabled. You look into it. We don’t want stereotype answers,” the court told the Centre’s counsel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/see-if-more-than-4-people-can-register-on-cowin-delhi-hc-to-centre-101622660647938.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Black fungus cases cross 200 mark in Chandigarh hospitals||The number of black fungus cases crossed the 200 mark in Chandigarh on Wednesday. According to health authorities, eight patients, including three from the city, have succumbed to the fungal infection at local hospitals.Mucormycosis, or black fungus, is a rare but serious type of fungal infection that requires medication or removal surgery. It is being reported among people who have recovered from Covid-19, as the virus potentially weakens the body’s immune response. The rate is much higher among those with diabetes or those who have taken steroids during Covid-19 treatment.As on Wednesday, there are 201 patients, including 147 at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). While 50 patients are being treated at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, three are admitted to Healing Hospital and one to Mukat Hospital. Among these patients, 25 are from Chandigarh and the remaining 176 from other states.“Even before the pandemic, rates of mucormycosis in India were about 70 times higher when compared to the rest of the world,” said Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti, head, medical microbiology, PGIMER. Dr Chakrabarti said a drop in new cases will be seen with consciousness about glycemic (sugar) control and reducing the use of steroids.“Covid imbalances your immunity. We have seen that up to 42 days post Covid infection, people can acquire mucormycosis. People who have recovered, especially those with diabetes, should wear masks at least for a month, even at home,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-fungus-cases-cross-200-mark-in-chandigarh-hospitals-101622660646788.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||No. of containment zones reduced as cases decline||The decline in the Covid-19 cases in the Capital after the fourth wave – which was the worst so far – reflects in the number of micro containment zones too, government records showed.For the period between May 10 and 15, Delhi had an average of around 56,000 active micro-containment zones. During this phase, Delhi had an average of 75,777 active cases, government records showed, of which around 65% were located in containment zones.On May 31, the number of micro-containment zones in the city fell to 19,677. Of the 12,901 total active cases recorded on that date, 9,924 (77%) were located in containment zones, said a report prepared by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), a copy if which HT has seen.Containment zones are sealed premises or areas with restricted physical access. They are put under scaled up surveillance by district teams. A more intense monitoring system applies to cases in containment zones as against general home isolation, with periodic tests of other residents. Essential goods are delivered to their doorstep. Containment zones can be de-notified only after 14 days of not recording any new case at a stretch.Initially, the city used to have much larger containment zones – entire lanes and blocks, which government officials said led to a large number of complaints from people who were not affected by the virus and still had to bear the brunt of restrictions on free movement and economic activities. Back then, most containment zones had 10 or more active cases and 300 residents on average. And they could be de-notified after 28 days of not recording a new case.“The old policy was difficult to implement as well as adhere to, a lot of people started providing incorrect addresses while getting tested for Covid-19 fearing that if they tested positive, it could lead to a containment zone in their locality. The micro-containment zone strategy has largely resolved these problems,” said a senior government official who did not wish to be identified.In November, each containment zone in Delhi on average had three active cases. Currently, each of them on average has 1.98 active cases, said government data – suggesting Delhi has travelled a decent distance in terms of aggressively creating micro containment units from the point this strategy was adopted.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said: “Micro-containment has been a very effective strategy in terms of arresting the spread of the disease. The government should continue with this strategy each time there is an uptick in cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-of-containment-zones-decrease-with-a-drop-in-number-of-cases-101622660647326.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||Nine-day judicial custody for Sushil||A Delhi court on Wednesday dismissed the city police’s application seeking three days custodial interrogation for wrestler and Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, saying that no new ground has been stated by the probe agency to justify the remand.Metropolitan magistrate Rashmi Gupta sent him to nine days in judicial custody, saying that Kumar and his co-accused Ajay Kumar Sehrawat have already been interrogated by the police for 10 days.The two accused were produced in the court on Wednesday at the end of four days in police custody.Advocate Pradeep Rana for Sushil Kumar opposed the police custody and argued that the reasons given in the fresh remand application were similar to the ones given on Saturday. He contended that his client had already had been taken to various alleged hideouts.Rana argued that 10 days in remand have already been taken on the same ground by the probe agency.Noting these submissions, the court said, “It has been admitted on behalf of the counsel for Kumar that the accused persons have already been taken to Bhatinda for the purpose of recovery of mobile phone and they have also already been taken to Haridwar for the purpose of recovery of DVR and clothes.“It is pertinent to mention that the accused persons have already been in police custody remand for a period of last 10 days. It has been correctly submitted on behalf of accused persons (Kumar and Sehrawat) that no new ground has been raised for seeking further police custody remand of three days.”The Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award winner has been booked for murder, abduction and criminal conspiracy in the murder of wrestler Sagar Rana, 23, a former national junior wrestling champion.Kumar was absconding since, and Delhi Police announced a cash reward of ₹1 lakh for any information that leads to his arrest.It is believed he may have left Delhi for Haridwar, then Rishikesh, and also been in Punjab. Both the accused were arrested on May 23 in Delhi’s Mundka area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/olympian-sushil-kumar-sent-to-9-days-in-judicial-custody-101622660527391.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s active case load down 82% in three weeks||Even as the daily death toll due to Covid-19 again went into double digits on Wednesday, the tricity’s active case load was recorded at 4,204, an 82% drop from the peak of 24,201 registered three weeks back on May 12. With nine fatalities, it was after six weeks that the tricity had logged a single-digit death toll on Tuesday. However, on Wednesday, 14 people succumbed to the virus, including eight in Mohali and three each in Chandigarh and Panchkula.Meanwhile, 337 people tested positive, including 153 in Mohali, 134 in Chandigarh and 50 in Panchkula, down from 399 on Tuesday.The active case load has seen a steep decline in the past few days, with the number of people being cured and discharged remaining higher than those testing positive.On Tuesday, 897 patients were discharged in the tricity, as compared to 337 who tested positive. Mohali recorded 441 recoveries, followed by 361 in Chandigarh and 95 in Panchkula. The number of active cases stood at 2,263, 1,251 and 690, respectively.While recovery rate was recorded above 95% across the tricity, daily positivity rate remained below 5.5%, pointing to a receding second wave.Mohali admn allows elective surgeries; P’kula mulling tooWith the easing of pressure on healthcare facilities, the Mohali administration on Wednesday allowed all government and private hospitals in the district to restore elective surgeries.“However, it should be ensured that Level-3 capacity for Covid-19 is not compromised,” said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. Level-3 refers to facilities for critical patients, which include ICU and ventilators.Meanwhile, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula, said: “With declining number of Covid patients, pressure on oxygen and ICU beds has eased. Now we are looking at gradually starting other health services. Consumption of oxygen has also come down to about 6 MT from 10 MT per day.”Experts say it will take at least two weeks before the daily death toll also comes down and stabilises at the levels seen before the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-active-case-load-down-82-in-three-weeks-101622660526941.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||Man stabbed to death in South Delhi||A 19-year-old man out to purchase birthday cake for his father was stabbed to death allegedly by four men in South Delhi’s Ambedkar Nagar on Tuesday night -- a crime that was captured by a CCTV camera, the police said.Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south) said the murder was the result of a personal conflict between the victim, Kunal, and one of the suspects, Gaurav. Both were identified only by their first names.“Kunal and Gaurav liked the same woman and that had led to a conflict between them,” the DCP said. The woman in question had nothing to do with the murder, the officer said based on the initial inquiry.Since Kunal’s family was aware of the conflict, they mentioned it to the investigators after the murder. That helped the police apprehend all four suspects -- Gaurav, Roop, Sohil and fourth person, whose name police withheld. They are all unemployed persons, aged below 20 years, the DCP said.Kunal, who cleared class 12 and was unemployed, lived with his family in Madangir.On Tuesday evening, he left his home to buy a birthday cake for his father when the four suspects intercepted him around 9pm and repeatedly stabbed him.Someone alerted his family and he was rushed to Max Hospital in Saket where he was declared brought dead.The police subsequently registered a murder case at Ambedkar Nagar police station and began searching for the suspects. The crime branch held Gaurav and Roop, while the local police apprehended Sohil and the fourth person.The police said two knives, allegedly used in the killing, were purchased through an online shopping app. One of those knives has been recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-stabbed-to-death-in-south-delhi-101622660466216.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||200,000 people prosecuted in lockdown; most fines pending||Nearly 200,000 people were prosecuted during the lockdown between April 19 and May 25 in Delhi for not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, of which 171,154 (86.6%) were fined for either not using a mask or wearing it incorrectly, shows data accessed by HT. Reports further showed that enforcement agencies in the city have been unable to recover at least 86% of the fines imposed against these challans during the said period.In Delhi, the district administrations, the Delhi Police and the municipal corporations (MCDs) are the agencies responsible for enforcing lockdowns and ensuring Covid appropriate behaviour among citizens. Data showed that between April 19 and May 25, the Delhi Police issued 97,374 challans, the district magistrates (DMs) and their teams issued 93,723 challans and the MCDs prosecuted 6,480 people.But, data of the fines collected by the district administrations and the MCDs show that of the total fines worth ₹17.18 crore imposed on violators, only ₹2.54 crore has been recovered for the said period.Isha Khosla, DM (north) said the reason why enforcement agencies have not been able to recover the fines is because a majority of the voters do not have cash with them when they are caught. On November 19 last year, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) increased the fine from ₹500 to ₹2,000 for not wearing a mask in public or at workplaces.“The idea is not really to extract money from people. It is rather to spread awareness and ensure strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour and lockdown rules. Slapping a challan acts as a deterrent to a great extent, even if the money is not paid by the violator on the spot. Besides, we have also observed that compliance to Covid rules improved significantly ever since the fine for not wearing a mask was imposed. So, the amount is also justified that way,” said Khosla. She has deployed 35-40 teams in the north district to conduct such enforcement activities.The north district issued the second highest challans (13,883) after Shahdara district (13,904) between April 19 and May 25. While the north district could recover only 2.4% ( ₹6,88,000) of the ₹2.7 crore worth fines imposed, Shahdara managed to recover ₹7,24,500 of ₹2,78,08,000, which accounts for 2.6% of the total fine amount.Another DM, who did not wish to be named, said there are only two ways in which a violator can pay the penalty amount. One, by paying it on the spot in cash and second by paying it in the court.“Many violators ask us if e-wallets such as Google Pay, UPI, Paytm etc are accepted. But, there is still no provision for online payment of challans issued for violation of Covid appropriate behaviour. So, we have no option but to issue a challan under section 188 of the IPC, which then goes to the police,” said the DM.A Delhi Police official explained that all such cases are then forwarded to the city courts. “The process is same as is with unpaid traffic challan. All these cases end up in the court, which then conducts hearings and disposes the cases. But, there is a huge pendency in the courts regarding challans due to the sheer volume of the prosecutions,” said the police official.Ankita Chakravarty, DM (south) said enforcement has not been much of a problem this time. “This Covid wave was so grave that there was fear among the people in general. The compliance was way higher than the previous lockdowns because of the severity and the number of Covid-19 cases,” she said.“But now, as the heat is rising, wearing a mask is not possible all the time because it gets really sweaty inside. Hence, the mask-wearing compliance is slightly dropping these days. It might also be because the cases have plummeted. That is why, I have deployed at least 10 teams who make sure people do not put their guard down,” said Chakravarty.A sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of New Delhi district, which prosecuted the highest number of people across all categories during said period, said the refusal of people to pay the challan has increased, because of which the number of FIRs registered in their district has also spiked.“When there was a lockdown during the third wave of Covid-19 in Delhi in November, New Delhi district had registered around 202 FIRs. During this lockdown, between April 19 and May 25, at least 1,757 FIRs have been registered in the district,” said the sub-divisional magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nearly-200-000-violated-covid-rules-in-lockdown-most-fines-yet-to-be-recovered-101622660408771.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Soon, rent authority to resolve tenancy issues in Chandigarh||The landlord-tenant relations, often marked by long legal disputes and incessant bickering, are set to find a resolution mechanism with the Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approving the Model Tenancy Act on Wednesday. The Chandigarh administration will adopt the Act, being a Union Territory, said Uma Shankar Gupta, additional secretary, estates. It will replace the existing tenancy provisions of the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act 1949. The Act clearly delineates the rights and duties of the landlord and tenants, and provides for speedy adjudication mechanism. It will facilitate an overhaul of the legal framework with respect to rental housing, which would help spur its overall growth. “It will enable creation of adequate rental housing stock for all the income groups; thereby addressing the issue of homelessness. Model Tenancy Act will enable institutionalisation of rental housing by gradually shifting it towards the formal market,” said a senior UT official. The Act is also expected to facilitate unlocking of vacant houses for rental housing purposes. DC will act as rent authorityThe district collector will be designated as the rent authority. An independent body with exclusive jurisdiction over tenancy issues, it will regulate the landlord-tenant relationship and provide a speedy adjudication mechanism for all disputes. Currently, rent-related disputes are resolved by civil courts, where the pendency rate is high. Appeals against the authority’s orders will be made in the rent court, headed by a senior judicial officer, and the case will have to be disposed of within 60 days. Against a rent court order, an appeal can be filed with the rent tribunal. Notably, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, in the areas to which this Act extends, only the rent court and no civil court shall have jurisdiction relating to tenancy issues. A rent court may consist of two members to be appointed by the UT administration in consultation with the high court. All agreements to be registered with it All the rent agreements will have to be submitted to the rent authority. The landowner and the tenant will have to separately file the particulars about the tenancy agreement within a month of the agreement. Currently, these can be registered at the sub-registrar’s office. After reviewing the agreements, the authority will give registration numbers. It will publish online information and registration numbers of all tenancies. Both tenant and landlord are responsible for maintenance under Act. The rent agreement will define their responsibilities. Cutting off or withholding essential supplies or services is prohibited. In case the landlord does not accept rent, it is to be deposited with the rent authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/soon-rent-authority-to-resolve-tenancy-issues-in-chandigarh-101622660408187.html
03-06-2021||Other||BJP accuses Delhi govt of paralysing MCDs||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday accused the AAP-led Delhi government for financially crippling the three municipal corporations by not only stopping the release of funds but also reducing the corpus amount due to the civic agencies. The BJP, which is the main opposition party in Delhi, accused the government of not helping the corporation-run hospitals during the pandemic, shutting down vaccination centres and not giving compensation to the Covid-19 warriors employed with the three corporations who died while on duty.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “Ever since the AAP came to power in Delhi, it has tried to financially cripple the corporations. The government’s budget in the last seven years has increased from ₹37,450 crore to ₹69,000 crore.But despite the provision for ₹6,828 crore in the budget last year, the corporations were given ₹6,172 crore.”Last year, the mayors of the three corporations had to stage a sit-in protest for over 10 days outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence demanding funds, said Gupta.The BJP said since the pandemic started, 111 corporation employees--57 from north corporation, 38 from south corporation and 16 from east corporation--have lost their lives while on duty. Gupta said, “Why is the government discriminating against corona warriors employed with the corporations? Why is there no compensation for them?”BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, who is also the Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, said the state government wasted precious time by delaying permission to corporation-run medical facilities to treat Covid patients. Bidhuri said the government closed vaccination centres run by the corporations. The BJP alleged lakhs of elderly people and those with disabilities did not get pension due to the Delhi government. New Delhi MP Meenakshi Lekhi said, “Pension given to old people or widows was not released by the state government, despite getting records from the corporations. This (pension) could have been of great help to them during the crisis. We demand that the pension be released immediately to beneficiaries.”Mayor of north corpororation Jai Prakash said, “Five years ago, the pension given by the corporations was discontinued after the Delhi government said that it will pay. We had given the list of beneficiaries to the government. But now, the beneficiaries are not getting the pension.” Despite repeated communication, the Delhi government spokesperson did not respond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-accuses-delhi-govt-of-paralysing-mcds-101622660406204.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||Starting June 5, Delhi to plant 33 lakh sapling this year, says Gopal Rai||Delhi will start a massive tree plantation drive from June 5 and will plant at least 33 lakh saplings across the city this year, environment minister Gopal Rai said on Wednesday. “On the occasion of World Environment Day, the Delhi government will launch a mega plantation drive and this year, we will plant around 33 lakh saplings of trees and shrubs,” Rai said addressing a digital press conference. He said in a bid to combat pollution levels, especially PM 10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres) which is essentially dust, the plantation this year will focus on roadsides, where dust is more. Rai said the central government had set the city-state a target to plant 15 lakh saplings last year, but the Delhi government exceeded that target and ended up planting 32 lakh saplings. This time, the Centre has given Delhi a target of planting 18 lakh saplings. Linking the recent shortage of medical oxygen in the capital, at the peak of the second wave of Covid-19, to the need for more trees, Rai said, “Delhi saw an oxygen shortage during the Covid pandemic and the government made efforts to bridge the gap and it was successful. Covid cases are decreasing on a daily basis but there is only one way to reach a permanent solution for this problem and that is to plant trees on a large scale.” Delhi had reeled under a shortage of medical oxygen as Covid cases shot up in April and the first two weeks of May, as the second wave of the pandemic caught the city unprepared. But medical oxygen, experts said, is made by separating the oxygen from other gases and impurities found in air by repeated steps of compression, filtration and purification. It reaches more than 99.5% purity and is rigorously tested before being okayed for use. More trees will not have an impact on this process, they said.“Building our immune system is extremely important to combat coronavirus, which is why last year, we had started planting medicinal plants and herbs that increase immunity, such as amla, neem, guava, aloe vera and tulsi,” Rai said. “Last year, the Delhi government’s nurseries also provided 6.60 lakh plants free to people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/starting-june-5-delhi-to-plant-33-lakh-sapling-this-year-says-gopal-rai-101622660346149.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra decides to cancel HSC exams||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided to cancel the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) examinations for Class 12 students. An in-principle decision was taken in the state cabinet after most ministers supported the move, considering serious concerns over the health and safety of the students. The state school education department on Wednesday moved a proposal to the state disaster management authority headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to take the final decision, officials said. A formal announcement is expected after the nod by the authority. School education minister Varsha Gaikwad indicated that they are in favour of cancelling the Class 12 examinations. She said their priority is the health and safety of students and has also welcomed the Centre’s decision to cancel the CBSE Class 12 exams declared on Tuesday. Around 1.5 million students appear for the Class 12 exams in the state every year.The state government has already decided to cancel the Class 10 (SSC) examinations due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation. It has also decided to promote the students by evaluating their performance in Class 9 and 10.“There are 1.5 million students who will appear for examinations and they also require a large number of teaching and non-teaching staff to complete the examination process. We are not in a state to take such a big risk considering the Covid cases across Maharashtra, hence it was decided to cancel exams this year,” said a senior minister, wishing not to be named.On Tuesday, in a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it was decided the CBSE Class 12 exams would not be held this year. A few states such as Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, too, have cancelled their Class 12 examinations. “We informed the state cabinet about the decisions taken by the Central government and a few states pertaining to Class 12 exams. We have moved a proposal to the state disaster management authority to take a decision in this regard as all such decisions have to be approved by it considering the unprecedented situation,” Gaikwad said on Wednesday after the state cabinet meeting. “Our stand on this issue has been clear since the beginning. Health, safety and mental stress of the students need to be considered before taking such a decision. We had clarified our stand in a meeting of education ministers of all the states chaired by the defence minister Rajnath Singh and have also welcomed the decision of cancellation of Class 12 exams. The same has been proposed before the disaster management authority,” she clarified when asked further. “The school education minister placed a proposal of cancelling the Class 12 board exams and all the ministers expressed their support, owing to the prevailing Covid-19 conditions. It was then decided that it should be approved by the disaster management authority as epidemic disease act was invoked in the state and accordingly the high court will also have to apprise about the decision as it is hearing petitions related to exams,” said a senior official, privy to the development. Class 12 examinations were scheduled on April 23 and were cancelled till May-end, owing to a surge in Covid-19 cases and subsequently, the lockdown restrictions imposed to arrest the spread. The state government had last year invoked the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Disaster Management Act, 2005 to contain the Covid-19 situation and thus all decisions that are related to the pandemic will have to be approved by the state disaster management authority, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-decides-to-cancel-hsc-exams-101622660287313.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra may get 10 million doses of Sputnik vaccine from July, says health min||With Maharashtra’s bidding process to procure vaccines stuck and chances of it yielding any results slim, the state health department has now moved into talks with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories for the supply of Sputnik vaccine. Health minister Rajesh Tope and senior department officials held a virtual meeting with the representatives from the company on Wednesday to discuss the supply of stock. Tope said that the talks would “materialise” and the state could get 10 million doses of Sputnik each month from July. Maharashtra government had floated an Expression of Interest (EoI) last month but only intermediaries claiming ties to the manufacturing companies responded. However, so far, they have not been able to establish their connection with the vaccine companies stalling the whole process. With the roadblock in the bidding process, the department decided to hold talks with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, who has the sole distribution right of the first 250 million doses of the vaccine in India.“Dr Reddy’s is the sole authority for the first 25 crore doses so we have to go seriously through them. Something will materialise for Sputnik soon. I held a detailed meeting with them today morning with senior officials and their representatives. We have discussed at length the queries. They will be supplying [but] in June, the quantity could be less. However, from July, August September, it would be 1 crore per month,” Tope said, adding that talks are yet to formalise.Tope hinted that the tendering process is unlikely to yield any result. He said that there is no clarity from the intermediaries that have responded to the state’s bid. “There is no clarity on the response they (interested companies) have sent. So, let us wait for a few days. We have exchanged letters but we have not got the details we have sought. No concrete decision can be made based on this,” he said.Though Maharashtra is at the top in the country in terms of the doses administered since the drive began, the state government has said it is not getting enough supply from the Centre, thereby slowing down the immunisation in the state. On May 13, the Maharashtra government suspended its inoculation for the 18-45 category as there was not enough vaccine stock for the second dose of beneficiaries over age 45. It diverted some of the stock it purchased for inoculation of the 18-45 age category. If the state gets an adequate amount of vaccines in June, it is expected to resume the inoculation drive for people between 18 and 45 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-may-get-10-million-doses-of-sputnik-vaccine-from-july-says-health-min-101622660286731.html
03-06-2021||Other||118 Delhi institutions served notices for mosquito breeding on their premises||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has issued notices and challans to 118 educational institutions for mosquito breeding in their premises, said mayor of the civic body Anamika Mithilesh on Wednesday. She also announced to release Gambusia fish, which feeds on mosquito larvae, in ponds and water bodies located in the jurisdiction of the municipality. Mithilesh said the south municipality was taking all efforts to prevent vector-borne diseases — dengue, malaria and chikungunya — in the city and added that regular fumigation and spraying of anti-larvae medicine will also be intensified. “Instructions have been issued to the public health department of the SDMC to conduct special drives to check mosquito breeding in households, government and private buildings, offices, schools and other institutions,” said the mayor. “The department has inspected as many as 484 educational institutions and found mosquito breeding in 118 of them. Legal notices and challans were also issued to these 118 educational institutions. We will continue these surprise checks to control vector borne diseases,” Mithilesh said. According to data provided by the civic bodies, 29 cases of dengue have been reported till May 29 this year while only 19 cases were reported during the same period last year. The total number of dengue cases last year was 1,072 while it was 2,036 in 2019. Meanwhile, the Capital has reported only four cases of chikungunya till May 29 this year, while 11 cases of the vector borne disease were reported during the same period last year. In 2020, the city had 111 cases of chikungunya while it was 293 in 2019. Till May 22 this year, Delhi reported eight cases of malaria while the number was 19 till the same date last year. A total of 228 malaria cases were reported in Delhi last year compared to 713 such cases in 2019. On Wednesday, the SDMC mayor also released Gambusia fish in an artificial pond located at Civic Centre, headquarters of the south municipality. “Other than fumigation and spraying of anti-larvae medicine, Gambusia fish will be released in about 100 water bodies or ponds under the jurisdiction of SDMC. This fish can be released in ponds, water collection areas, water bodies and even in drains as it feeds on mosquito larvae and successfully eliminates mosquito breeding in water. Till now, Gambusia fish has been released in 46 water bodies under the SDMC area,” said Mithilesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/118-delhi-institutions-served-notices-for-mosquito-breeding-on-their-premises-101622660286208.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 15,169 new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 15,169 new Covid-19 cases. The state has been receiving below 25,000 cases for the past nine consecutive days. A total of 181,210 cases were recorded in the state from May 24 to June 2, which averaged 20,134 daily.In contrast, the state reported a total of 270,682 cases from May 15 to May 33, which averaged 30,074 daily.Mumbai, on Wednesday, recorded 923 new Covid-19 cases and 31 deaths, taking its death toll to 14,880.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) said the Covid-19’s second wave has peaked and it is declining. “We will witness cases going down further. We will also witness a decline in the mortality rates,” he said.Dr Satyendra Nath Mehra, medical director, Masina Hospital, Byculla, said, “Last month, we had 100 Covid-19 patients, while today there are just 10 of them.” Mehra said that strict lockdown coupled with the prohibition on gatherings and vaccinations have played a major role in the decrease of the Covid-19 cases.Mehra, however, warned that citizens will further have to take caution and adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour as the virus is still active. “The government needs to enforce this behaviour or else we are in trouble,” said Mehra.There are 2,16,016 active patients across the state, of which, Pune tops with 27,990 patients, followed by Kolhapur with 18,862 active patients.The death toll has now reached 96,751, with Mumbai leading with 14,880 deaths, followed by Pune with 12,651 deaths.Meanwhile, in Gadchiroli, an all-women group is performing the last rites of those who have died due to Covid-19 and those whose relatives have shunned away from taking charge of the body.The Mumbai police constable Rajendra Ghorpade on his birthday distributed ration kits to 501 specially-abled people. There are approximately 4,032 prisoners in Maharashtra who have been affected due to Covid-19 to date and 14 have succumbed to this virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-15-169-new-covid-19-cases-101622660226766.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||Sisodia attacks BJP for poor financial condition of MCDs||Deputy chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Manish Sisodia on Wednesday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of failing to efficiently run the three municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs).The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless” and said the Delhi government should release the ₹13,000 crore that was due to the civic bodies. While the AAP is in power in Delhi, the BJP rules all three municipal corporations. Delhi goes to municipal polls in 2022.“No public agency or corporation in Delhi has ever been asked by a court to sell its property and assets to pay salaries of employees. This is the first such instance. This situation would not have arisen if BJP had made dedicated efforts in managing MCDs,” Sisodia said, alluding to the observations of the Delhi high court, which warned the north MCD that it will start attaching the civic body’s properties, if it did not pay salaries and pensions on time.The north MCD told the court on Tuesday it has begun selling or leasing out 37 high value properties under its jurisdiction to generate revenue to clear employee salaries and pensions.“The Delhi government has continuously aided and supported the MCDs...Despite that, they have landed in an unprecedented mess. They (the BJP) have failed so badly that they should immediately resign from the MCDs,” Sisodia said.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “AAP leaders have a habit of issuing baseless statements and it is sad that senior leaders, such as Manish Sisodia, too have joined the chorus. The high court has never directed north MCD to sell its assets to pay salaries and pension. There is no doubt a permanent solution needs to be found for the financial crunch that municipal bodies are facing and that can happen only when the Delhi government releases a ₹13,000 crore that is due to the civic bodies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-put-mcds-in-unprecedented-mess-their-leaders-should-resign-says-sisodia-101622660226165.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||HC asks Maharashtra govt about preparedness to deal with fungal infections, third Covid wave||The Bombay high court (HC) has sought to know from the authorities as to what measures they propose to take to deal with issues pertaining to mucormycosis and aspergillosis and what are their preparations to deal with the third wave of Covid, which according to experts is likely to affect the younger generation in particular. The court also directed the authorities to ensure a sufficient supply of drugs for the new fungal infections which are found in Covid patients. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PIL) alleging improper Covid-19 management in Maharashtra and seeking directions on shortage of remdesivir, medical oxygen supply and other issues, was informed by the petitioners that while the issue of oxygen and Covid drugs was addressed, there was now a scarcity of drugs for the treatment of fungal infections such as mucormycosis (black fungus) and Aspergillosis.Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, while informing the bench of complying with its earlier directions, said that on May 31 BMC commissioner IS Chahal had conducted a conference with the civic chiefs of other municipal corporations in the vicinity to discuss the largely successful ‘Mumbai model’ of Covid management and the response by commissioners of other civic bodies was awaited. Kumbhakoni assured the court that the issue of lack of oxygen and Remdesivir supplies in the state has been addressed and situation was under control.Thereafter, the court observed, “On perusal of the affidavits, it appears that there have been significant improvements in the recent past so much so that supply of liquid medical oxygen and Remdesivir, being the immediate concerns raised before us in course of previous hearings, can be put aside for the time being; and the focus shifted to deal with newer diseases like mucormycosis and aspergillosis as well as the measures taken/proposed to be taken by the respondents to contain the third wave which, as per the opinion of experts, is likely to affect the younger generation in particular.” Kumbhakoni submitted that in-house manufacturing of Amphotericin B drug had been started at Haffkine Institute in Mumbai and it took 20 days to produce the drug. The first batch of 40,000 would be available by June 6.The bench also issued various directions in other PILs pertaining to spitting, wherein, it asked the BMC to frame a policy for effective implementation of anti-spitting rules during the pandemic.The bench also directed the state government to provide a ‘better version’ of special masks for speech and audio impaired persons for their identification while hearing another PIL and also sought to know from the state government the policy it has adopted for Covid-19 treatment of visually impaired persons for easy and ‘barrier free’ access to medical facilities, among other reliefs.The PILs will be heard next on June 8, except for the anti-spitting PIL which will be heard in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-asks-maharashtra-govt-about-preparedness-to-deal-with-fungal-infections-third-covid-wave-101622660106162.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Post-Covid complications on rise among kids, say doctors||The number of Covid-19 cases among children in the city has declined as compared to April when the pandemic curve was at a peak. However, the hospitals are now witnessing a surge in post-Covid complications among the recovered paediatric patients. In April, 4,351 children between the age group of 0-9 years contracted Covid-19. The number plunged to 3,139 in May as the overall cases of novel coronavirus reported a decline. Similarly, in April, 12,277 teenagers in the age group of 10-19 years were diagnosed with the infection which decreased to 3,139 the next month. This is as per the data availed from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Till May 31, 43,561 patients between the age of 0-19 have contracted the infection since the outbreak of the virus last year. The infection rate among children had doubled up post-February when the second wave started. However, there is a silver lining, as both - civic and private hospitals - are witnessing a dip in paediatric cases, which had become the biggest concern of the doctors in the second wave. Dr Bela Verma, head of the paediatric department at the government-run Sir JJ Hospital said that in April, they received 33 paediatric cases. However, last month, they got only eight cases. Similarly, the civic-run King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Parel has witnessed around a 40% drop in paediatric patients with Covid-19 infection. At present, they have only seven paediatric patients. Doctors at Surya Hospital claim that they have recorded 30-40% fall in the hospitalisation of paediatric patients. Dr Verma said, “In April, the rising cases of Covid-19 among children had become quite a concern for us. But now, hardly, we are getting any cases. Also, among the current cases, the severity of infection isn’t as acute as witnessed in April.”Doctors believe lockdown has played an essential role in controlling the spread of infection among children. Also, they have raised the demand for early vaccination among them.“I hope Covid vaccine trials in children, which are already in progress, succeed and children get the vaccine at the earliest. Allowing all paediatricians to give the vaccine will help in strengthening the immunity among children and curbing the infection rate,” Dr Sanjeev Ahuja, consultant paediatric at LH Hiranandani Hospital, Powai which is the first private hospital to install its own oxygen generating plant in Mumbai. Rise in post-Covid syndromesThough the infection rate among children has decreased, hospitals across the city are reporting a surge in cases of a post-Covid syndrome like Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS), Bell’s palsy—temporary paralysis of facial muscles, long fever, and breathlessness. Dr Ahuja said that he is receiving paediatric patients with MIS and Kawasaki like disease after four-six weeks of recovery. “This occurs after four-six weeks of recovery when the RT-PCR report comes negative and the body has anti-Covid antibodies. Such cases have increased recently. Prompt diagnosis and treatment with immunoglobulin, steroids and cardiac evaluation are the ways to treat the patients,” he said. The MIS has raised quite a concern among doctors. Doctors have observed that the maximum number of kids who are facing post-Covid syndromes are in the age group of 5-14. Many of them have cardiac-related issues. Asymptomatic and mildly infected patients are having post-Covid symptoms. “MIS is not dangerous or life-threatening but it affects some children badly. It is a condition where different body parts can become inflamed, including the heart, lungs, kidneys, brain, skin, eyes, or gastrointestinal organs,” said Dr Bakul Parekh, past president of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) and part of the paediatric Covid task force.Symptoms of MIS are fever for three to five days, severe abdominal pain, sudden drop in blood pressure and loose motions. “We have seen it in the first wave so, all the paediatric doctors have gained experience in handling such patients. Parents need to keep a watch on the recovered children if they keep having fever for more than three days. Earlier detection helps in better recovery of the children,” said Dr Neil Castellino, chief of PICU, Surya Hospital. The paediatric Covid task force has also taken note of the rising cases of post-Covid syndromes among children. “Twice in a week, we are holding meetings with the officials from the state government. We have submitted a module in handling infection rate among children and post-Covid complications among children,” said Dr Parekh. Dr Parekh cautioned against giving medicines over the counter without consulting doctors if the children are having red eyes, vomiting, having a convulsion, stomach ache, confusions, disorientations. “Such patients should be rushed to a nearby hospital immediately,” he added.Symptoms: FeverAbdominal painVomitingDiarrhoeaNeck painRashBloodshot eyesFeeling extra tiredTrouble breathingNew confusion||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-post-covid-complications-on-rise-among-kids-say-doctors-101622659986799.html
03-06-2021||Other||Cops attacked, injured by mining mafia in Chitrakoot||: Three policemen were injured when the police patrolling team came under attack from the mining mafia in Chitrakoot on Thursday morning.The constables Narendra Singh, Pankaj Yadav and Deepak Kumar were beaten up and their motorcycles were damaged. All the three have been admitted to a community health centre, said the police.SP Chitrakoot Ankit Mittal said that 12 persons were taken into custody and raids were going on to search others. “FIR has been registered under serious sections and condition of constables was stable,” he said.Patrolling team went to Mamsi ghat in Pahadi police station area on learning about the sand being mined illegally and transported on multiple bullock-carts. As the cops started making videos, the mafia and the men turned on the constables and beat them up. “Several bullock-carts were stacked up with illegally mined sand and video was being made to identify the people behind it,” said Mittal. Police personnel from several police stations were rushed to Mamsi ghat. The cops arrested several people who were trying to flee the scene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cops-attacked-injured-by-mining-mafia-in-chitrakoot-101622659986135.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Ask doctors of civil hospitals to visit jails regularly, HC tells Maharashtra govt||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked the state to consider having doctors visiting jails regularly on a rotation basis to overcome the shortage of doctors. The court has also asked the state to prioritise vaccination for those inmates above 45 years of age.The HC enquired about the measures being taken to address the issue of first-time offenders who have resorted to crime as they have lost their jobs and have no other means of income. The HC, while appreciating the measures taken by the prison authorities to decongest jails, suggested that more temporary jails should be set up to avoid over-crowding.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) initiated after HT reported of increase in number of jail deaths due to Covid-19, was informed by advocate-general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state that before the high power committee (HPC) meeting of May 7 and 11, only 1,201 prisoners had been released, but after the new guidelines were issued a total of 2,449 prisoners had been released.Kumbhaokini further stated that the number of Covid positive cases had also come down substantially from 311 to 114 in May and vaccination of inmates and jail staff had also been increased. He submitted that of the 33,832 prisoners 4,359 and 3,598 prison staff had been vaccinated.Prof Vijay Raghavan of Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), who is assisting the court, stated that while there was a circular that required doctors from the nearest civil hospital to visit jails regularly, it was not being followed diligently. The court sought a copy of the circular to pass orders asking deans of civil hospitals to abide by it.Kumbhakoni also informed the bench that in the period between April 4 to 30 around 17,725 FIR’s under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and 5,911 FIR’s under special laws had been registered across all districts in the state. The bench had sought the information to ascertain why the prison population across jails in the state had gone up. The bench also sought to know from the government as to why there was no dedicated civil hospital in Navi Mumbai and prisoners from Navi Mumbai and Taloja jails had to be taken to Sir JJ Hospital. When informed that there were civic hospitals, but as the rules did not permit inmates to be taken there, the court observed, “Why not change colonial rules of jail manual wherein civic hospitals cannot treat and admit jail inmates.”The court also asked the state to respond on the issue of first-time offenders who resorted to criminal activities as they had lost their jobs or their businesses had failed due to the lockdown and said that the state should approach the issue seriously.After the state assured the bench of responding to its queries and suggestions within a week, the PIL was posted for hearing next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ask-doctors-of-civil-hospitals-to-visit-jails-regularly-hc-tells-maharashtra-govt-101622659806738.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||How are societies holding Covid vax drives without door-to-door policy, HC asks Centre||The Bombay high court (HC) has sought to know from the Centre as to how some civic corporations were conducting door-to-door vaccination for senior citizens aged above 75, specially-abled and bed-ridden persons without any such policy in place. This comes after a petitioner informed the court that various civic authorities, in several states, had successfully implemented the drive, and urged that the Centre should devise a policy for the same. Meanwhile, the HC has asked the petitioners seeking setting up of a separate portal for booking vaccination slots in government and civic-run hospital in Mumbai to give their suggestions to the Central government. The court held that as the Supreme Court was seized of the issue, the petitioners’ demand for a booking itinerary and fixed time for booking slots would have to be considered by the Centre based on what the Apex court decides. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the petition seeking a direction to the Centre to put in place a policy for providing home vaccination for those who could not go to vaccination centres, was informed by additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Union of India that the expert committee set up to deal with vaccination issues would be giving its report in week. When the bench sought to know how private societies had organised vaccination drives for their members in tie up with private hospitals, petitioner advocate Dhruti Kapadia informed the court that while the Centre and state were awaiting a policy for door-to-door vaccination, some civic authorities such as Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation and a civic body in Ranchi had conducted door-to-door vaccination. Kapadia submitted that as no adverse effects were reported from these places, the Centre should not be hesitant in making such a policy. After hearing the submissions, the bench directed the petitioner to give the reports, she referred to, to Singh and said, “When private societies can organise vaccination drives for their members, take a further step and go inside the residence of those who cannot come out.” The bench then asked the Centre to consider the reports furnished by the petitioner and to submit the expert committee report by June 8. While hearing another public interest litigation (PIL) seeking setting up of separate portal for booking vaccination slots for Mumbai, the bench was informed by advocate Jamsheed Master for petitioner Yogita Vanzara, wife of advocate Rajesh Vanzara, that the CoWIN portal was giving slots for only one day and as there was no fixed time for booking, citizens were facing a problem in getting a slot. Master also pointed out certain instances wherein people had been given slots at Sir JJ Hospital but when they went there, they were told that vaccines were not available. He added that people had to keep tracking the opening of booking for the 31 vaccination centres which opened and got booked within a few minutes, thus making it difficult for the common man to get a slot. The advocate for another petitioner also pointed out that while private hospitals had sufficient vaccines available, there was a shortage at government and civic-run hospitals where vaccines were to be administered at subsidised rates or for free. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh assured the court that the manufacturing of vaccines was being increased and that from July more vaccines would be available. He submitted that a quantity of 55 million Covaxin and 20 million Covishield vaccine doses would be available by then, thus addressing the issue of shortage to a large extent. The court then observed that as the Apex court was also hearing a petition on similar issues, it would hear the PIL on June 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/how-are-societies-holding-covid-vax-drives-without-door-to-door-policy-hc-asks-centre-101622659746198.html
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Can’t permit repaired ventilators for treating patients, HC tells Centre||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has said that it will not permit experimentation of the ventilators which have undergone major repairs, in treating the patients and asked the Centre to get the faulty ventilators replaced by the manufacturer company. The bench also asked the Centre to hold the company liable after it was informed that a team of doctors would be visiting Aurangabad Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) to assess the ventilators on Thursday.The division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Balchandra Debadwar was hearing the suo motu criminal public interest litigation (PIL) initiated by it after news reports highlighted the issue of shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir, mismanagement at Covid facilities, profiteering and black marketing in the procurement of Covid drugs, high cost of treating black fungus infection, faulty ventilators being supplied by the centre to Marathwada, among others.In the previous hearing on May 28, the bench had taken strong objection to the fact that the Centre rather than condemning the company for supplying defective ventilators was trying to defend it by saying that the doctors and technicians in Aurangabad and other districts where 113 of 150 ventilators had been unboxed were not having proper knowledge on using ventilators. The Centre had also informed that the ventilators were from the Ministry of health and family welfare and not through the PM Cares Fund. The court had taken note of the report submitted by a team of eight doctors who worked in ICU’s and were adept at using ventilators that were supplied by other companies and directed the Centre to inform it of the action it proposed to take against the company which supplied the ventilators.On Wednesday, chief public prosecutor DR Kale informed the bench that a special meeting for conducting analysis of installation, commissioning and operation of ventilators provided to the states by the central government for Covid 19 management was held at GMCH on May 29. He also submitted that inspection of the DHAMAN-III model ventilator manufactured and supplied by Jyoti CNC from Rajkot by a staff well-versed with the operation of ventilators revealed that the ventilators had suffered a continuous breakdown. The report added that even after repairs and desaturation, water drain failure, non-proper User Interface (UI) and some other defects were detected. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Union of India informed the bench that two senior doctors from Delhi would be visiting GMCH on Thursday and would conduct an extensive inspection of ventilators and if the same were found to be dysfunctional even after inspection or repairs, the manufacturer would be held liable. He added that the manufacturer would be asked to replace the ventilators as they were in the one year warranty period.When Kale pointed out that the doctors at GMCH and other hospitals were apprehensive about using defective ventilators and did not want to be blamed for a casualty that may occur due to the use of such ventilators, Singh said that there would be no casualty as the manufacturer would have to ensure that the ventilators were up to desired operational levels.After hearing submissions, the bench noted, “We expect the Centre to be firm with the manufacturer in the event of defective ventilators and if we find it necessary, we would be directing the returning of defective ventilators. In such a situation it would be the responsibility of the Union Government that defective ventilators be replaced with functional new ventilators…”The court further observed, “In short, we would not permit experimentation of ventilators who have undergone major repairs, in treating patients since this would be causing risk/health hazard to the patients. If unfortunately, the use of such ventilators may cause loss of life, which should be averted.” Thus saying the bench sought the report of the team visiting on Thursday and posted a hearing of the issue on June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cant-permit-repaired-ventilators-for-treating-patients-hc-tells-centre-101622659687211.html
03-06-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan cabinet cancels board exams for RBSE’s class 10, class 12 students||Kota: The Rajasthan government on Wednesday decided to cancel the class 10 and 12 board examinations conducted by the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) in view of Covid-19 pandemic situation. The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot.Education minister Govind Singh Dotasara said the officials concerned had been told to formulate the system to be adopted to grade studentsSeveral states such as Haryana, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra have announced their decision to cancel the board exams after the Centre’s decision to scrap the class 12 board examination conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education.The minister said the government could look at the possibility of conducting the examinations at a later stage for students who want to sit for the board examination.There are nearly 21.58 lakh students in the class 10 and 12.The opposition has also welcomed the decision of the cancellation of board examinations. Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia said this is an appropriate decision.Meanwhile, Ashok Gehlot has also instructed officials to prepare a package for the kids who have been orphaned by Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cabinet-cancels-board-exams-for-rbse-s-class-10-class-12-students-101622659146700.html
03-06-2021||Noida||Noida sees a spike in May liquor sales amid pandemic||Just 23 days since liquor stores were allowed to open in Uttar Pradesh and despite the partial curfew in Gautam Budh Nagar, the district excise department earned ₹94.65 crore from liquor sales.The total sales in April this year (the curfew was imposed on April 29) got the department ₹90 crore and just ₹74 crore in May 2020 when the nation-wide lockdown was relaxed in the first week. “From May 11, the district allowed liquor stores to open between 10 am and 5pm. Last month, we got ₹94.65 crore which is 31% more than last May,” said district excise officer RB Singh.The state government collects ₹400 as duty from the sale of every bottle (750 ML) of Indian made foreign liquor, ₹260 per litre from the sale of country liquor and ₹90 from the sale of a single beer can. For foreign liquor, the rates are above ₹400 for each bottle depending on the brand.Noida and Greater Noida have a total of 524 active liquor stores. Illegal liquor“We seized 5,635 litres of liquor and 11 vehicles, registered 52 cases and sent 21 people to jail for selling or smuggling illegal liquor in the district in April and May combined. The liquor mostly was illegal because its sale was not authorised in Uttar Pradesh. Most of was from Haryana. The liquor seized will be destroyed,” said Singh.According to the liquor shop owners most of the sale has been directed towards the areas bordering Delhi.“The sale would have been better if we had more time to open the stores. The sale however in bordering areas like sector one, sector two, 16, 14 and 22, etc was very good. A number of stores had recorded eight times more sale than usual due to customers from Delhi,” said Ashok Yadav, who owns several stores in Noida and Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-sees-a-spike-in-may-liquor-sales-amid-pandemic-101622659086671.html
03-06-2021||Noida||Man arrested for impersonating as health official||Greater Noida: Police on Wednesday arrested a 35-year-old man for impersonating as a health department official and trying to extort money from a doctor who runs a private clinic in Dadri. According to police, the suspect, Satish Kumar who is a native of Khedi Bhanota village in Greater Noida, had visited the Dr Naveen Verma’s clinic and demanded money saying his clinic was not registered. Police said that the suspect was arrested from the spot.“The clinic management had first informed the health department about the suspicious person. The health department sent a team to Dadri and also informed police. Then a police team was rushed to the spot. The suspect claimed that he was associated with the office of district chief medical officer. However, Kumar failed to provide an identity card or any other evidence, following which he was arrested,” said Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer, Dadri police station. Based on the complaint of Dr Verma, a case was registered against the suspect under Section 384 (extortion) of Indian Penal Code, the SHO said. He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-impersonating-as-health-official-101622659086064.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||Snatcher who thanked his victims after robbing them held||Police have arrested a suspected snatcher who allegedly robbed at least 45 persons of their valuables and fled after bidding them “thank you” and “goodbye”. Police identified the snatcher as Ashish, who goes by a single name, and said he was released from jail two months ago and was mostly active in in Dwarka and its surrounding neighbourhoods. Explaining his modus operandi, police said he would stop his motorcycle a few metres from his victims after snatching their valuables, and would flee only after politely thanking them, said Santosh Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka).Another police officer, not authorised to speak to the media, said that Ashish did this to have a “distinct style” from the rest of the snatchers. “Since he was taking something from his victims, he told us that he wanted to be courteous as most of his victims were women,” said the officer.Ashish operated with a partner on a red motorcycle. His partner remains on the run, but has been identified, the police said. The DCP said that since early May, there were a spate of snatching in Dwarka and its surrounding neighbourhoods such as Bindapur and Begumpur.As the police began investigating the snatchings, they learnt that several victims described the snatcher in the same manner. “After snatching a gold chain or some other valuable from a victim, the snatchers would halt the motorcycle a little ahead and Ashish would then turn around to say a thank you and goodbye to the victim, who would by then be chasing after them, before riding away,” the second officer said.Police used CCTV footage from multiple crime scenes to finally zero in on the registration number plate of the motorcycle, but the vehicle was found to be a stolen one.Eventually, the police were able to traced one of the suspects, Ashish, to his cousin’s home in Dabri, from where he was arrested on Sunday.At his instance, the police also arrested one Abhinash Lal, who allegedly received the stolen gold items. “He also gave a few chains to his mother and cousin sister. We are trying to recover them,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/snatcher-who-thanked-his-victims-after-robbing-them-held-101622658966791.html
03-06-2021||Noida||No oxygen shortage in Ghaziabad; NGO launches free service in rural areas||Ghaziabad: The oxygen demand and supply situation in Ghaziabad has improved considerably.According to the figures of the district health department, the demand for oxygen is about 40933 cubic metres against the availability of 46,200 cubic metres.“Nine new oxygen plants will also come up soon to improve availability further. We are now focussing more on getting more people vaccinated and we have given approvals to three private hospitals to take up the drive,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.Max Hospital, Vaishali, opened its first? paid vaccination centre at Cambridge School at Indirapuram on Wednesday and vaccinated 1,000 beneficiaries in age groups 18-45 and 45+ against a target of 4,000.“We will now scale up vaccinations. A number of residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) are also approaching us to hold vaccinations. Inside the school, we set up 10 counters and they can be allotted to each RWA,” said an official spokesperson from the hospital.On Wednesday, the Ghaziabad district conducted vaccination of 11120 at government centres but the issue of ineligible beneficiaries booking slots and turning up at the two centres, meant for vaccination of parents, continued on Tuesday as well.According to official records, the two centres at DPSG, Meerut Road and Kailash Mansarowar Bhawan have a target of vaccinating 100 parents who have children below age of 12 years.“Yet again ineligible beneficiaries booked slots under the parents’ category and many also arrived without booking a slot. We turned them away. They are taking away slots of those who are eligible,” said an officer at the ‘Abhibhavak special’ centre at DPSG, Meerut Road.CMO Dr Gupta said that he will speak to senior officials about the issue.“We will also ask them to restrict ineligible people at the time of booking itself. Otherwise, the vaccination coverage at such centres will remain low,” he said.Non-government organisation Khalsa Help International (KIH) has committed to providing free oxygen to rural areas of Ghaziabad.The organisation, which ran the free “oxygen langar” at a Gurdwara in Indirapuram when the Covid-19 second wave was at its peak and faced an acute oxygen crisis, will send cylinders in vehicles.“We also have 15 vehicles that can ferry people to hospitals and the dead to cremation grounds, and supply ration,” said Gurpreet Singh, fonder member of KHI. The group launched two helplines - 9097041313 and 9097361313- for their service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/no-oxygen-shortage-in-ghaziabad-ngo-launches-free-service-in-rural-areas-101622658966123.html
03-06-2021||Noida||Noida school offers shots at discount; 24/7 site at varsity||The TRS Public School in Noida Sector 100 will serve as a walk-in vaccination centre for those in the 45+ age cateogry where the vaccines will be available at a subsidised rate. The Covishield vaccine will be available for those in the economically weaker section at ₹400, while for the rest it would be at ₹750. Other private centres offer the jab at a minimum of ₹850.GB Nagar Member of Parliament Dr Mahesh Sharma inaugurated the centre on Wednesday. The school also serves as a Covid care centre for patients with mild infections. The centre will be operated by an NGO called Noida Lok Manch along with the school management.The centre will be open from 9 am to 5 pm from Monday to Friday, and 10 am to 1 pm on Sundays. “Those with a BPL card (Below Poverty Line) can get the rebate. If they say they cannot present it, we will take a decision after a discussion on a case-to-case basis,” said Rishipal Singh Awana, chairman of TRS Public School.After liberalisation of the vaccine procurement scheme, private health centres have been allowed to determine their cost of vaccination as well as the mode of registration - walk-in or through the Co-WIN portal.Another 24/7 centreFrom Sunday, the district will get its second 24/7 drive-through vaccination centre at Sharda University in Greater Noida. It will be an on-spot registration site for those under the 45+ category, but those of 18-45 group will require prior appointment. The slots will open on Friday.“We have 10 booths throughout the campus where some booths will be for drive-through vaccination while others will be for on-foot vaccination. The vaccination centre will be run by Sharda Hospital,” said PK Gupta, chairman, Sharda Hospital.Dr Ajit Kumar, PR director of Sharda Hospital and University, said that they hope to vaccinate 1,000 people daily.Felix Hospital in Sector 137 is the other started 24/7 drive-through vaccination centre. The hospital also carried out a paid vaccination camps at Paras Tierea society in Sector 137 where as many as 250 residents got vaccinated on Wednesday.For kin of policeA two-day vaccination drive for the family members of Gautam Budh Nagar police was started at the Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar hostel in Greater Noida. As many as 1600 people were vaccinated here on Wednesday.“During the second wave of Covid-19, the district police was at the frontline to serve the people. From escorting oxygen supply from factories to hospitals to creating green corridors for ambulances during emergencies, police officials have helped save many lives. Hence, it is our moral duty to ensure that the police force as well as their family members are vaccinated on priority,” said Alok Singh, Commissioner of Police, Gautam Budh Nagar.Challenge remainsAs per GB Nagar District Magistrate Suhas LY, the district is still facing a trying time in getting people vaccinated. “At least 20-30% of people in the 45+ age group are still not coming forward to get vaccinated. This is a challenge, but we are hopeful that our sensitisation and awareness programmes will work. The district reported 21,00 total vaccinations on Wednesday, that includes as government as well as private centres,” he said.Dr Neeraj Tyagi, District Immunisation Officer, GB Nagar said that the government centres in the district vaccinated as many as 12,214 people on Wednesday, of which 9341 were from 18-45 age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-school-offers-shots-at-discount-24-7-site-at-varsity-101622658906077.html
03-06-2021||Delhi||Used gloves being sold as new; 6 arrested for racket||Delhi Police have seized 4,800 kilograms of surgical gloves from several scrap shops in south-west and outer Delhi between May 25-30, blowing the lid off a racket in which scamsters would pick up used gloves, wash them, repackage them, and then sell them, posing a potential public health risk.Six men, including a scrap dealer, have been arrested and the police suspect that the gang may have links with some hospitals and the government-approved vendors or companies involved in the collection and disposal of bio-medical waste.“Interrogation of the arrested persons has helped us identify a man who supplied used gloves to them. Our teams are conducting raids to nab him. His interrogation may lead us to bust the chain through which used gloves from hospitals or from the vendors authorised for discarding bio-medical waste were sourced by the gang members,” said a police officer involved with the investigation.Police officers said that the arrested scrap dealer, Lal Dass alias Lalu, told them that he purchased used gloves in bulk from the suspect (who is still absconding) at a rate ranging between ₹25 and ₹35 per kilogram, depending upon the quality and colour of the gloves. Lalu sold the gloves to the other arrested persons for ₹45 and ₹55 per kg. They washed, dried and repackaged the gloves in new boxes and sold them in the market with a profit margin between ₹100 and ₹120 per kg. The cost of one box of surgical gloves in the local market is between ₹200 and ₹400, depending upon the quality and brand.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka), Santosh Kumar Meena, said the first recovery of 848 kilograms of used gloves was made from two godowns in south-west Delhi’s Dabri and Bindapur on May 25, and three men were arrested. They were allegedly involved in washing, drying and repackaging used surgical gloves in the godowns. They also sold those gloves in the market.Police said the interrogation of the three accused led to further raids in a scrap market in Hiran Kudna near Mundka, from where 2,150kg of used gloves kept in plastic drums were seized on May 28. Two men were arrested during the raid. Their interrogation led to the arrest of Lalu and the recovery of 1,800 kg of used gloves from a godown in PVC market in Tikri Kalan, near Mundka, on May 30.Experts and medical professionals said that such a racket could not be run without the connivance of retailers and hospitals selling or using these gloves. They said it was not only a violation of the rules of disposal of biomedical waste but also posed a risk to the health of doctors and patients.Dr. Sumant Sinha, an officebearer of the Delhi Medical Association, said biomedical waste is collected from hospitals by government-approved vendors, and has to be dumped at designated sites for disposal. “The used gloves are shredded in machines and then autoclaved at a 130-140 degrees Celsius in special machines. The autoclaved plastic waste is washed and supplied to companies that recycle plastic waste and use them to make new plastic items,” he said.Dr. Avinder Sabharwal, owner of Jeewan Hospital in Maharani Bagh, said hospitals have their biomedical waste management systems and colour-coding instructions for segregating used gloves, masks, and other medical waste. “In no way should used should reach any scrap dealer. Using a discarded pair of gloves may cause serious infections and other diseases such as HIV and Hepatitis B to patients, especially those undergoing surgery,” said Sabharwal.All the six arrested were booked under sections 188, 269 and 440 of the Indian Penal Code. They were later released on bail, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/used-gloves-being-sold-in-market-delhi-police-unearth-racket-arrest-6-101622658786088.html
03-06-2021||Noida||Illegal call centre duping foreigners busted in Noida, three arrested||Police on Wednesday claimed that they busted an illegal call centre in Sector 62 that duped foreigners on the pretext of tax discrepancies. Police identified the alleged mastermind as Owais Alam from Moradabad native, and his alleged business partners Shahnur and Ankush Bahri.“They were provided data of foreigners mostly from the US, the UK and Australia. The suspects would reach out to them and claim to be local tax officers and had found tax discrepancies after which they would have the foreigners pay them through gift cards,” said joint commissioner of police (law and order) Luv Kumar.Police officials claim that the suspects reached out to at least 15,000 people over the past three months many of whom were duped.Police said that the servers and equipment at the office was registered in Alam’s name and the centre had a monthly turnover of nearly ₹1 crore.“Some servers have been removed from here and some were wiped off data. We are working on recovering it,” said assistant commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajneesh Verma.The call centre had 10 employees and police said they were verifying their role in the case. Police said they recovered electronic gadgets, documents and ₹39 lakh from the suspects.They were booked under relevant of the Indian Penal Code, including cheating, and the Indian Telegraph Act at the Sector 58 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/illegal-call-centre-duping-foreigners-busted-in-noida-three-arrested-101622658726062.html
03-06-2021||Other||After feedback sessions, top BJP leader leaves with two tweets praising Yogi’s Covid management, advises unity||Key Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) leader BL Santhosh, currently serving as the Bharatiya Janata Party’s national general secretary (organisation), completed a suspense-filled three-day feedback session with the Yogi Adityanath government’s ministers with two tweets and advice — both to the party and the government.The tweets praised Adityanath’s handling of the Covid situation, signalling the BJP high command’s backing of the UP chief minister, under fire from the Opposition and some of his party lawmakers for alleged mismanagement of Covid. Santhosh’s advice, both to the party and the government, was to project a united front, people aware of the matter said. While underscoring the need for unity, he also called for taking the achievements of the Narendra Modi and Yogi Adityanath governments to the people, they said.The two tweets by Santhosh praising Adityanath’s handling of the Covid crisis were interpreted by Yogi supporters as proof of the chief minister continuing to be in the good books of the RSS and party top leadership.The CM’s detractors emphasised that much shouldn’t be read into the tweets as the kind of one-on-one meetings that the top RSS leader holding a key post in BJP held over three days, were unprecedented. “I haven’t seen such feedback sessions being held anywhere,” an old party hand said, emphasising that there was more to the one-on-one meetings than met the eye.Before leaving for Delhi, BJP’s national vice president and UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh described the Yogi government’s handling of the Covid situation as “unparalleled”. Asked if changes were expected in the ruling party and some rejig of ministries might happen at the government level, a senior BJP leader, said, “The message of the central BJP leadership is clear. We can’t go into the elections looking like a divided house. That is the spirit behind those two tweets - first one praising Yogiji’s handling of the Covid crisis and then the second one praising him for vaccinating parents of children below 12 years.”“In one of the meetings, when told that there was an issue of co-ordination, Santhoshji made it clear that it was not the time to play the blame game,” the leader said. “With just about nine months to go for 2022 UP polls, any major shakeup is only a remote possibility. Maybe some strategic shifts might happen to streamline issues that may have come up during the three-day feedback sessions. But all stakeholders to the decision would be on board,” a BJP leader said, indicating that the party leadership was anxious to project a united front. Soon after his two tweets, Santhosh, who extended his stay for the third day, decided to meet mostly Lucknow-based leaders, including ministers and lawmakers. They included law minister Brijesh Pathak whom he met for the second time and Mohanlalganj MP Kaushal Kishore. Both Pathak and Kishore were among the first to flag issues of concern when the Covid second wave was at its peak. Pathak had slammed officials while Kishore had advised the government to prefer Covid management over panchayat polls. “It was an introductory meeting,” Kishore said while Pathak said the discussions centered on how to take the party’s outreach mission – named seva hi sangathan – forward. A meeting with party’s media coordination committee, too, was held with government spokesman and cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh and party spokespersons Harish Srivastava, Sameer Singh, Hero Bajpai, Alok Awasthi, Manish Shukla and a few others, including media in-charge Manish Dixit and co- media incharge Himanshu Dubey.In the interaction, the party leaders were told to put forth the party’s views effectively before the people and to the media.A BJP leader said, “The message is that like all political parties we, too, may have our differences. We can iron out our issues internally, but we go into the elections as one party. To me, it would indicate that unless the central leadership has a sudden change of heart, we are going into the 2022 UP polls with Yogiji as the chief minister,” the BJP leader said.“A BJP general secretary (organisation) won’t publicly humiliate his own party government. If there are issues, they would be sorted out internally. He has also met MPs and MLAs now,” a BJP leader said. Party’s rural focus, underlined by Santhosh first before the panchayat polls when he ordered holding of “gram chaupals” in Uttar Pradesh and again underscored after his review and feedback meetings, would continue. Midnight tweet“In five weeks, @myogiadityanath’s Uttar Pradesh reduced the new daily case count by 93 per cent. Remember it’s a state with 20+ Cr population,” Santhosh tweeted. “When municipality CMs could not manage a city of 1.5Cr population, Yogiji managed quite effectively,” Santhosh added, after two days of feedback collection featuring one-on-one session with key ministers who were called at the BJP office in Lucknow. The “municipality CM” jibe was in obvious reference to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, whose Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had contested the recent panchayat polls in UP and has indicated plans to contest the 2022 assembly polls in the state. AAP’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh has been active in the state, targeting BJP government’s handling of Covid and comparing it with Delhi’s Covid management. Morning tweet“UP Govt led by CM Sri @myogiadityanath decides to vaccinate parents of children below 12 years .. A wise move considering the logic that if at all third wave comes, it may affect children more. Parents will be around to look after more safely,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-feedback-sessions-top-bjp-leader-leaves-with-two-tweets-praising-yogi-s-covid-management-advises-unity-101622658606688.html
03-06-2021||Noida||Covid crisis: Six children orphaned, 44 lose either parent in Noida||Noida: At least six children have been orphaned while 44 others have lost either parent to Covid-19 in the past two months in Gautam Budh Nagar, according to data from the district Childline. Officials said that they are trying to help as many children as possible. “Most of the requests we receive are either for ration requirements or for help related to the education of the children. Any help goes a long way in such cases,” said Satya Prakash, programme manager, FXB India Suraksha, the NGO managing the district Childline.Prakash also said that they are urging people to report more such cases to helplines: 1098 (Childline), 112 (police), and 9870395200 (a special helpline for children under project Aasra).Project Aasra, the district police’s initiative, was launched on April 29 in the district to help minors who have lost parents to Covid-19 or those whose parents are affected by the virus and thus unable to take care of the children.Meanwhile, the Jewar MLA, Dhirendra Singh, has requested the GB Nagar administration to ask private schools to waive off one year fees for students who have lost parents to Covid-19.“Private schools should waive off fees for this academic year (2021-2022) for students whose earning parent has expired,” Singh wrote in his letter to district magistrate Suhas LY.“Such families are already finding it hard to cope up with the trauma of death. Supporting them financially with the education of their children will go a long way. There are several families in the rural belts that are struggling with losing earning members. We are trying to gather information about as many of them as possible,” said the MLA.Members of affected families said they are struggling to deal with the situation. “My 45-year-old brother, who was the main earner of the family, passed away on May 8 due to Covid-19. His son is a student of class 12 at a private school in Sirsa. Ours is a joint family and most of us were dependent on him. In such a situation, even a year ’s fee waiver would be really helpful,” said a 26-year-old resident of Bhatta Parsaul.Despite repeated attempts, the GB Nagar DM could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-crisis-six-children-orphaned-44-lose-either-parent-in-noida-101622658606097.html
03-06-2021||Pune||Covid lockdown restrictions remain at Lonavla, Khandala||The 7am to 11am lockdown restrictions remain in place at the twin hill stations of Lonavla and Khandala as Covid positivity rate stays at 22 per cent.“From 35% to 40%, it has dropped to 22%, The active cases since the last 10 days are 114. Total Covid cases in Lonavla is 3,412 and number of discharged is 3,192,” said Dr Sourabh Gharde, medical officer, urban primary health centre, Lonavla.The economy of the bustling hill station is badly hit with restriction on tourists since last one year.“There is a public demand to extend relaxation, but no course of action will be taken unless the positivity rate is under control,” said Somnath Jadhav, chief executive officer, Lonavla municipal council.To keep strict vigilance on outsiders, entry and exit check post are manned by officials.“People from Mumbai and Pune are regulars. Officials are on duty 24X7 to keep outsiders (tourists) away from the hill station,” said Dilip Pawar, senior inspector and incharge of Lonavla city police station.On Wednesday, Lonavla city police collected a fine of ₹13,500 on 27 inquiries.“Plastic shades for roofs are always in demand during the monsoon season. However, it is unavailable due to restrictions. The administration should allow such shops to reopen during the rainy season,” said Vishal Tilak, a resident of Lonavla.Sandesh Shirke, sub-divisional magistrate, Maval said, “The current restrictions are fine with the monsoon related work to be done in farms. Administration has considered shops selling pre-harvesting products under essential services, so no farm work will be impacted.Covid cases and fines collectedReason/inquiry: Fine collected in MayWithout mask: ₹63,100 from 170 violatorsRoaming without mask: ₹3,31,500 from 664 offendersInquiries on hotel: ₹30,000 from 27 floutersCovid updateCases reported on Thursday: 9Total cases: 3,412Total discharged: 3,192Positivity rate: 22%Source: Lonavla municipal council and police department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/restrictions-remain-at-lonavla-khandala-101622653266986.html
03-06-2021||Pune||Liquidator appointed for Shivajirao Bhosale bank||Following the cancellation of the Shivajirao Bhosale Cooperative bank’s licence by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the state cooperative department has appointed deputy registrar RS Dhondkar, as liquidator. Dhondkar took charge on June 1. Pravin Walvekar, a member of the Shivajirao Bhosale Bank Kruti Samiti, a group formed to ensure the rights of depositors with the bank, said, “The appointment of a liquidator has brightened the chances of insurance payments and investors can get their money at the earliest. The Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) is liable to pay upto ₹5 lakh within two months of filing a claim with the liquidator. We will push hard for liquidation of properties and the forensic report.” With the cancellation of licence and commencement of liquidation, the process of paying depositors as per the DICGC Act 1961, will be set in motion, as per the RBI order. According to the RBI, 98 per cent of depositors will receive full deposits and on liquidation, every depositor would be entitled to a deposit insurance claim amount of his/her deposits up to a monetary ceiling of Rs5 lakh, subject to the provisions of the DICGC Act. The RBI has, vide order dated May 28, 2021, stated: “Consequently, the bank ceases to carry on banking business, with effect from the close of business on May 31, 2021. The Registrar of Cooperative Societies, Maharashtra, has also been requested to issue an order for winding up the bank.” As many as 71,000 investors have fixed deposits of ₹5 lakh, while 8,000 investors invested more than ₹5 lakh in the form of various deposits. In January 2020, the Pune Police registered a case against Maharashtra State Legislative Council (MLC) member and bank chairman Anil Bhosale, bank director Suryaji Jadhav, chief accountant Shailesh Bhosale and chief executive officer, Tanaji Padwal. A case has also been registered against Bhosale’s wife Reshma Bhosale, who is also an accused in the case. The case was registered under sections 406, 408, 468, 471 and 34 of the IPC and the relevant sections of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/liquidator-appointed-for-shivajirao-bhosale-bank-101622651346938.html
03-06-2021||Pune||Bhandarkar Institute to organise special course on 18 chapters based on “Critical Edition of Mahabharata”||The Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, Pune (BORI) has brought a golden opportunity for those who want to get familiar with the contents of the Mahabharata grand epic. Through a special lecture series based on the ‘Critical Edition of Mahabharata’, 18 Parvans (Chapters) of the epic will be unfolded by the scholars. ‘Critical Edition of Mahabharata’ published by Bori in 1967 is a globally renowned publication when it comes to the textual study of Mahabharata. The critical edition takes into account various versions of the epic compiled over centuries, and it runs into 15,000 pages of a total of 19 volumes. “This is one of its kind courses unfolding the 18 chapters in Mahabharata. This series will be of 20 lectures. Many people think that they know a lot about Mahabharata but most of the time that knowledge is not based on what is actually mentioned in the texts of manuscripts. Not all can read the original texts. So, we want to unfold the authentic version of Mahabharata based on the critical edition. Through this series, the listeners will also get to know how the famous episodes in Mahabharata which are popularly known are actually presented in the books. When Mahabharata is presented on-screen, the theatre’s creative liberty is exercised. It may be suitable for that media, but we want to talk about Mahabharata which is based on the actual authentic text of the critical edition,” said Dr Gauri Moghe, coordinator of the course and who leads the culture index project of critical edition at BORI. Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, which was founded in 1917, and took up this herculean task in 1919 to create a ‘Critical Edition’ that, is a common account of Mahabharata. This project lasted for 48 years - from 1919 to 1966. For this project, many manuscripts were collected and collated from all across the country. They were in many scripts and languages. Each manuscript was analysed and compared stanza by stanza. In the final form, stanzas appearing in the greatest number of manuscripts were taken as the authentic account. “The critical edition of the Mahabharata is the most cherished creation of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute. It has been the most authentic source of reference for scholars around the world. We have been working on its cultural indexes. An index has been created for the natural sites such as rivers, mountains mentioned in the critical edition. We have also started work on the indexes of the characters mentioned in the epic. This entire work has been going on for 20 years and it will take many more years to get completed,” said Bhupal Patwardhan, executive chairman, Bori. The course on the 18 chapters of Mahabharata will commence from July 1st and a pre-registration will be required. “Distinguished scholars from the institute will conduct this course. We will announce the names of the speakers soon. A nominal registration fee will be levied because we do not have any other source of income to continue our research work,” said Patwardhan. *What is the Critical Edition of Mahabharata? The ‘critical edition’ is an common account of Mahabharata based on the numerous manuscripts collated from all across the country The critical edition has more than 13000 pages across 19 volumes. The work of the edition was started in 1919 and was completed in 1966 over the period of 48 years. Three generation of scholars worked on it, and it is a result of a critical synthesis of 1259 Manuscripts||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/a-glimpse-into-the-grand-epic-mahabharata-101622651285586.html
03-06-2021||Pune||Residents on the outskirts visit Pune to purchase non-essential items||Pune: Most suburban parts of the city have been witnessing heavy crowds since Tuesday following visits by neighbouring villagers. As per the district collectorate’s order, non-essential shops will continue to remain closed while essential shops will operate till 11 am in the rural areas of Pune district, including the three cantonment board territories. Though the restriction has left residents of rural areas unable to purchase goods, those living on the outskirts of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad visit the municipal areas to buy things. The rush of people has increased in Pimpri and Nigdi markets since the last two days with many from Mulshi, Shirur and Maval visiting the shopping areas. “Currently, the positivity rate of rural Pune is around 11%-12%, The restrictions will not be eased unless it comes below 6%. We had a meeting with the collector and will be focusing on random testing. Every week the positivity rate is coming down to 6% to 7%, so by next week it should come to 6%,” said Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, zilla parishad. Residents from three cantonment boards – Khadki, Dehu and Pune – have also demanded extension of shop timings and functioning of non-essential shops. “We are following the orders of the district magistrate and only essential services will remain open in KCB. There are a few incidents of flouting the rules and we have informed the police to look into it. Some recommendations have been sent to the district magistrate, but we are yet to receive new orders,” said Pramod Kumar Singh, chief executive officer, Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB). “The positive rate is 3.94% in KCB,” said BS Naik, health superintendent, KCB. Mansoor Shaikh, who has a rainwear shop in Khadki, said, “We have a wholesale shop and retail customers from Pune are calling to get stock, but the restriction is hurting our business with the monsoon season approaching.” Dehu Cantonment Board (DCB) chief executive officer Ramswroop Haritwal said, “We have got a presentation from various public organisations and will be sending it to the district magistrate. Since Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation is also open till 2pm, DCB residents are urging for shop timing extension.” Dr V D Gaikwad, Pune Cantonment Board’s resident medical officer, said, “We are admitting less patients every day here due which contact tracing has gone down. The positivity rate is 5.5%.”Board; Positivity rate Khadki Cantonment Board: 3.94% Dehu Cantonment Board: 6% to 7% Pune Cantonment Board: 5.5%Rural Pune: 11% to 12%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-on-the-outskirts-visit-city-to-purchase-non-essential-items-101622646125297.html
03-06-2021||Pune||Number of beds at COEP jumbo facility cut by 300||Pune: As the number of Covid patients has gone down, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has reduced the number of operational beds at the jumbo Covid facility on the grounds of College of Engineering Pune (COEP) to 400 from 700. According to the civic officials, there are about 270 patients admitted to the facility. Since last week, the positivity rate in PMC limits has been recorded below 10% and the number of active patients has come below 6,000. The availability of hospital beds for Covid patients has improved. “We have reduced the number of operational beds in the COEP jumbo facility by 300. The number of admissions has gone down. The number of patients in the facility has reduced below 300. During the last wave as well we had gradually reduced the number of operational beds as patients had gone down. It would be financially viable for the municipal corporation,” said Rajendra Muthe, PMC deputy commissioner. Post surge in Covid cases, the COEP jumbo facility was made operational again from March 22 with 55 beds for Covid patients, and with the number of patients increasing the facility functioned with 700 operational beds. With drop in daily caseload, the number of operational beds has been decreased. “Now there are 60 beds with ventilators, 140 ICU beds without ventilators and 200 oxygenated beds. The decision regarding the number of operational beds is taken by local bodies,” said Dr Shreyanch Kapale, dean COEP jumbo facility. As the number of active patients has come down, the availability of hospital beds in the city has improved. As of Wednesday evening, of the total 13,080 allotted Covid beds, 8,566 beds were vacant in PMC limits. After the first wave, as the cases had gone down the COEP jumbo facility was made non-operational in January 2021, but the structure was not removed from the ground. As the cases had begun to surge, the facility was reactivated after completing the electrical and structural audit. PMC officials said that for now only the number of active operational beds has been reduced. No further decision has been taken in terms of the overall operations of the facility. “The facility was made non-operational in January. At that time many had suggested that even the structure should be removed, but we kept it on standby and it came handy in March. So, we will wait and watch before taking any further decision,” said Muthe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/coep-jumbo-facility-operational-bed-count-reduced-by-300-101622638864812.html
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid dip breathes new life into Haryana’s health infra||With the number of new cases on the decline, 83% of oxygen beds and over 60% ICU beds in state’s hospitals are available  Following a sharp dip in daily Covid-19 infections and active cases, about 83% of oxygen beds across Haryana were vacant in government and private hospitals on Wednesday, according to the official data. As the demand for medical oxygen has also come down in the state, the number of ICU beds available has gone up. Till June 2, at least 61% of ICU beds were vacant in the state. There are 5,331 ICU and ventilator beds in all, of which 3,273 were available on Wednesday, the government data said. In Gurugram, of the total 996 ICU/ventilator beds, at least 668 beds were available, while in Karnal, all 284 ICU beds were occupied. Faridabad district has 813 ICU/ventilator beds in the main government and private hospitals, out of which 570 were available. Similarly, Panchkula district has 57 beds available, Rohtak 206, Hisar 182, Sirsa 109 and Ambala 86. Of the total 13,968 oxygen beds (other than ICU beds), 11,555 beds were vacant and 2,413 occupied on Wednesday. As many as 2,276 oxygen beds were available in Gurugram, 2,055 in Faridabad, 627 in Panipat, 351 in Rohtak, 558 in Ambala, 700 in Hisar, 336 in Karnal, 167 in Panchkula. As per the official data, on June 1 at least 11,414 medical oxygen beds were vacant even as 2,707 beds were occupied against 2,991 on May 31. Similarly, 3,124 ICU/ventilator beds were available and 2,238 occupied on June 1. Over 17,000 oxygen cylinders have been delivered to Covid patients in home isolation ever since the state government started this practice last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-dip-breathes-new-life-into-haryana-s-health-infra-101622627884675.html
03-06-2021||Other||24 arrested for assault on doctor in Assam’s Covid-19 care centre||The Assam police on Wednesday arrested 24 people for assaulting a doctor at a Covid Care Centre in Hojai district following the death of a patient a day earlier.“Twenty-four culprits involved in this barbaric attack have been arrested and the charge sheet will be filed at the earliest. I am personally monitoring this investigation and I promise that justice will be served,” chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted.A video of the incident shot on a mobile phone purportedly shows the group of people hitting the doctor with a broom, utensils and kicking him while he lay on the ground. The video went viral on social media.Also Read | Senior Assam police officer arrested for link to smuggling racketOn Tuesday, the Hojai unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) threatened to boycott outpatient department services in hospitals in the district if the accused were not nabbed before 7am on Wednesday.Following directions from Sarma, the accused were arrested around 4am on Wednesday.According to a letter by the Hojai unit of IMA to the deputy commissioner of the district, the mob damaged the building and also ransacked instruments at the centre.Health minister Keshab Mahanta said on Tuesday that attacks on doctors, healthcare workers, and other frontline workers will not be tolerated. “We will ensure security for them and anyone daring to touch them will be dealt with stringently.”The doctor, who sustained injuries on his chest, abdomen, back, has been admitted to Guwahati Medical College Hospital.The Assam Medical Service Association has asked all doctors and healthcare workers to wear black badges on Wednesday in protest against the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/24-arrested-for-assaulting-doctor-at-assam-s-covid-care-centre-101622619964222.html
