04-06-2021||Lucknow||Redefining fashion for sustainable living||Eco-friendly fabric, natural colours, traditional handicrafts, minimalism, sustainable living, conscious consumerism, upcycling and recycling are the buzz words these days. On World Environment Day (June 5), we spoke to a few in the industry about how we can make our daily fashion eco-friendly and do our bit in making a better tomorrow. According to fashion designer Manish Tripathi sustainable living, natural fabric production, upcycling and recycling are an imperative aspect of fashion scene today. “We are focusing on sustainable living by training women in rural belt to make and preserve traditional textile and natural handicraft work. Like we are producing silk without harming worms in Buxur, Bihar and women of rural Ghaziabad are making deity dresses in temples where everything is natural and eco-friendly. Besides, we are training them in recycling, upcycling used items like making table-runner out of saris, cushion covers and decorative items out of jeans, shirts and t-shirts,” says the Delhi-based designer who hails from Lucknow. Akhilendra Pratap Sonkar, assistant professor at National Institute of Fashion and Technology (NIFT), Raebareli, quotes Vivienne Westwood: Buy less, choose well, make it last. “Sustainable fashion is one of the latest trends which are accelerating in the current time, and the Indian fashion industry is not untouched. From mass fashion brands to high-end designer labels, this trend is all over the place. Conscious consumerism has given wings to it, and we see a lot of products which are made of eco-friendly materials in the market, today. A number of brands are coming up with products which are recycled or upcycled.” He mentions about greenwashing in which companies invest more time and money on marketing their products or brand as “green” rather than actually putting effort to ensure that it is sustainable. Lucknow-based fashion designer Pallavi Madesiya Yadav believes in international pattern and styling dresses with a desi touch. “Indian fabrics, natural colour and dyes, traditional handicrafts juxtaposed with international styling, pattern and fits is what’s we work upon. We believe that with fashion if we are able to bring dresses close to nature, we are making baby steps towards eco-friendly living. With these small steps we will achieve sustainable fashion in longer run.” Anushi Dwivedi, a science teacher at Loreto Convent, developed a hobby of making toys during lockdown. “I started making them for my granddaughter and realised need of safe toys for kids. “So, I started making them with natural wool and cotton fabric. Next, I want to give it a try from khadi fibers and for kids we need to be very safe. I’m trying to turn this as a small venture,” she said. Celebrity fashion designer Rina Dhaka, during a fashion show around R-Day in Lucknow had stressed on making eco-friendly fashion and fabric like khadi relevant on national ‘parvas’ and special days we need to bring them in our daily routine if we really want to make a difference and serve the Mother Earth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/redefining-fashion-for-sustainable-living-101622831359515.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid’s single-day tally drops below 100 across Chandigarh tricity after 3 months||The number of new Covid-19 cases on Friday dropped below 100 across the tricity for the first time in three months.Chandigarh recorded 88 cases, followed by 70 in Mohali and 66 in Panchkula, taking the total to 224, a significant drop from Thursday’s tally of 366.The tricity had breached the 200 mark for the first in the second wave on March 4. The following day, there was a slight dip to 197 cases, when the number of cases across the three jurisdictions was registered below 100.On March 6, the cumulative tally again went past 200 and has not dropped below this grim milestone since, peaking at 2,612 on May 10. Also, the number of cases in at least one of the three jurisdictions remained above 100 till the breather on Friday. Meanwhile, Panchkula reported no Covid-related casualty for the third time in four days, while Mohali and Chandigarh recorded three deaths each. At six, the cumulative death toll saw an uptick from Thursday’s four, which was lowest in seven weeks. The peak was recorded at 38 on May 5.The active case load has dropped to 3,502, from Thursday’s 3,994 and the peak of 24,201 recorded on May 12. Also, recovery rate stands above 95% across the tricity.“Because of testing and restrictions, the number of cases has gone down, but people should keep following Covid appropriate behaviour,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director of health services, Chandigarh. Weekend curfew to continueThe Chandigarh administration on Friday extended the weekend curfew from 5am on Saturday till 5am on Monday. The lockdown curbs are already in place on weekdays till 6am on June 9.During the weekend, all essential commodity shops will be allowed to remain open only for home delivery till 2pm. Kitchens of restaurants can remain open for home delivery till 10pm. All non-essential shops will remain closed.All non-essential movement is prohibited, but people can go for morning walk at parks from 6am to 9am. Other previous restrictions and exemptions have been retained.In Mohali, too, weekend curfew will remain in place, while Panchkula is also under lockdown till June 7.UT director education +ve againRubinderjit Singh Brar, director education, Chandigarh, has tested positive for Covid-19 for the second time. He had earlier contracted the virus during the first wave in September last year. Brar is also part of the 12-member committee constituted by the Central Board of Secondary Education to devise a method to evaluate the Class 12 students after their exams were cancelled.Brar has opted for home quarantine and continues to be in stable condition, stated a release. His office was sanitised on Friday and will continue to work at 50% capacity from Monday. While Brar is on leave, the charge of director school education and higher education has been given to Jagjit Singh, controller, printing and stationery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covids-single-day-tally-drops-below-100-across-chandigarh-tricity-after-3-months-101622831238798.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Midnight hunt leads to arrest after man calls police, threatens PM||A man called the police control room (PCR) around midnight on Friday and allegedly threatened to kill Prime Minister Narendra Modi, prompting a night-long search that ended with the caller’s detention in the early hours of the day, officers aware of the matter said.Several teams were formed to locate the caller, identified as Salman alias Arman, before he was traced to north-east Delhi’s Khajoori Khas, they added.An Intelligence Bureau (IB) and Delhi Police Special Cell team questioned the caller, who was later booked and arrested under sections 107 and 151 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) (apprehension of breach of peace and tranquillity of an area and arrest to prevent the commission of cognisable offences).A police officer, who asked not to be named, said a team engaged the caller in a conversation while another other traced his location to Khajoori Khas. Central agencies were also alerted about the call, the officer said.“The teams spotted him near Khajoori Khas Chowk and overpowered him. He was brought to the Khajoori Khas police station, where the IB and Special Cell officers are also questioning him. His identity has been established as Salman alias Arman, a resident of Loni in Ghaziabad. He appears to be a drug addict,” the officer added.A second officer said the interrogation team was trying to ascertain why Salman made the threat, and whether someone influenced him.During questioning, Salman told the interrogators that he was annoyed after being scolded by his family for taking drugs. “Salman said he wanted to go to jail, which is why he made that call. He was involved in a murder case in 2017. He was a minor at that time, and remained in the correctional home for boys for a year. He has not been involved in any other crimes,” the second officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/midnight-hunt-leads-to-arrest-after-man-calls-police-threatens-pm-101622830128534.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Power privatisation: Chandigarh to consult Centre on stay order||Before making its next move against the Punjab and Haryana high court’s stay on power privatisation, the Chandigarh administration will consult the Union Government.The administration is exploring a number of options, including a review petition in the high court or approaching the Supreme Court in the matter.“There is also a legal opinion that we can go ahead with the privatisation proceedings as the stay is not on the entire process but on a letter issued by the administration to the transaction adviser on fast-tracking the process,” said a senior UT official, requesting anonymity. The letter in question was issued by the special secretary, engineering, Chandigarh, to Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP, Gurgaon.On May 28, the Punjab and Haryana high court had applied the brakes on privatisation of the electricity department for the second time, and even pulled up the administration for its “undue hurry” during a raging pandemic. Earlier, the HC had stayed the process on December 1. After the UT approached the Supreme Court, it stayed the HC order and remanded back the case to it.The decision to privatise the department was taken on May 12, 2020, after directions from the Centre. As many as seven firms had expressed interest after the administration invited the bids in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-privatisation-chandigarh-to-consult-centre-on-stay-order-101622830518404.html
04-06-2021||Mumbai||‘MMR has lost 107.6sqkm of waterways and agricultural land’||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) has lost 107.6 square kilometre (sqkm) of waterways and agricultural lands along its coast between 1990 and 2019, according to preliminary results from an ongoing study by Pune-based NGO Srushti Conservation Foundation (SCF). The cumulative area is larger than Sanjay Gandhi National Park, which encompasses 103sqkm. The SCF study is led by Dr Deepak Apte, former director of the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), Due to increased rate of siltation over the past 30 years, Apte explained, these areas have now turned into mudflats or mangrove forests, leading to shrinking and even shallowing of the city’s creeks. About 47sqkm area has been lost in the Mumbai-Thane creek itself, which in the future may pose a threat to the area’s avian biodiversity (including flamingos). The coasts in Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Uran have all been affected by this process.“As a result, existing waterways and coastal lands may turn into extremely shallow swamps or even dry lands in many parts, which will become unfit for navigation, reduce their storm water drainage capacity, and render the habitats unsuitable,” Apte said, warning that there will also be consequences for urban flooding. Shrinking creeks spell bad news for Mumbai, especially at a time when previous studies have indicated rising sea levels of 0.5 to 3mm per year in the Arabian Sea, along with of extreme rainfall events in the foreseeable future.Simply put, shallow creeks cannot hold as much water; so even with a slight increase in sea level rise and precipitation levels, the combined impact of high-tide and heavy rainfall with lead to a spill-over of water into the city, disrupting the lives and livelihoods of coastal populations and exacerbating degradation of otherwise productive coastal lands. Apte recommended that the National Centre for Coastal Research (NCCR) under the Ministry of Earth Sciences be roped in for “drawing up a comprehensive plan for conservation/ restoration of the ecosystem using scientific study”. NCCR, in collaboration with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), last year developed a flood warning system called i-flows for Mumbai to mitigate adverse impacts during monsoons and extreme weather events.To be sure, this is not the first time that researchers have attempted to make an assessment of Mumbai’s shrinking waterways. As yet unreleased data from the mangrove cell under the forest department found that Thane Creek has shrunk by an average of 0.6sqkm every year between 1972 and 2020. The unpublished study also found that in a business as usual scenario, the mouth of the Ulhas river may entirely shut in the next 30 years, by 2050. Published studies, such as one from January 2020 in the Journal of Coastal Conservation and another by the Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON) and the BN Bandodkar College of Science, Thane, have also noted or demonstrated the siltation issue.“Considering the seriousness of this issue where the width of creeks are reducing owing to excess siltation, scientific removal of mangroves will have to be carried out to protect the original coastline. SCF’s findings seem to be accurate as mangrove cell has also carried out a similar internal satellite mapping study of Thane creek, which shows tremendous rise in mangroves with the width of these waterways decreasing. We are fine tuning this report and it will be published soon,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell) and executive director, Mangrove Foundation.SCF’s analysis shows that surface waters across Mumbai and Thane creeks along the eastern seafront dipped from 400sqkm in 1990 to just over 350sqkm in 2019. However, between 1995 and 2019, the average flamingo population, as reported by BNHS in multiple releases to the press, rose from about 20,000 in 1995 to about 120,000 in 2019.“Flamingos and migratory waders are presently benefiting from the shrinking waterways as their population increase is being witnessed in the same trajectory as the expansion of mudflats and mangroves. This in combination with high sewage load that MMR is pumping into the creek as well as warm water from refineries and power plants make it a perfect feeding ground, with nutrient rich flora and fauna,” said Apte.Another factor aiding the abundance of flamingos (in Thane Creek and satellite wetlands in Navi Mumbai) is the loss of other wetlands in MMR and Uran, which has reduced their available space. The Thane Creek, Apte said, is still relatively safer and cut off for the birds. However, once the accreted land is taken over by mangroves in combination with reduction in tidal prism during non-monsoon months, soft mudflats turn into hard and barren land. “Thus, flamingos could permanently move away from the area,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mmr-has-lost-107-6sqkm-of-waterways-and-agricultural-land-101622829557804.html
04-06-2021||Mumbai||Mahim cop suspended after externed criminal commits murder||An assistant inspector from Mahim police station has been suspended for alleged negligence and a lethargic approach towards duty. The police personnel failed to act against a hardened criminal externed from the city limits, who managed to return, molested a woman and committed murder.Assistant inspector Suresh Pandit Walvi, attached to the Mahim police station has been suspended by Dyaneshwar Chavan, additional commissioner of police (Central region), pending departmental inquiry.According to the police, Walvi failed to ensure strict preventive action against Richie Fernandes, 27, who has several criminal cases (of theft, robbery, etc.) filed against him. Fernandes was externed from city limits in 2019. Despite this, he was often seen in the Mahim area.On the night of May 27, the accused had a dispute with a footpath dweller, Masjid Yamin Khan, 18, over money. The fight escalated, following which, Fernandes assaulted and killed Khan on the footpath of Sion-Mahim Link Road in Mahim (West). Fernandes was immediately caught by the family members of the victim. “Fernandes had also molested a woman in November last year. However, he got bail. We took action against him four times for breaching the externment orders. But as he has no home or relatives, he would come back to this [Mahim] area,” said Vilas Shinde, senior inspector.Senior officers, however, suspended detection officer Walvi, observing he had no effective control over local criminals, and failed to strike a good rapport with the general public, shopkeepers, police Mitra and prominent people from the area. “He was suspended in order to send out a strong message among other police personnel that such a lethargic approach in duty won’t be tolerated,” said an officer.Some junior officers, however, believe that a punishment like suspension for an officer who was performing well is not justified. “A transfer or a strict warning could have been a better option,” an officer said requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mahim-cop-suspended-after-externed-criminal-commits-murder-101622829377865.html
04-06-2021||Mumbai||Education dept files case over fake recruitment notice on fake website||The education department of the state government has registered a case against an unidentified person for allegedly creating a fake website and publishing an advertisement for recruitment of teachers.The accused allegedly published a recruitment drive under the name of ‘Sarv Shiksha Abhiyaan 2021’ through a website — shikshaaabhiyan.org. The advertisement link has gone viral on various social media platforms since last few days.“The website claimed that the recruitment drive for teachers for secondary and higher secondary education, other teacher posts, and clerks was initiated by the government and sought details from interested candidates,” said Mumbai Police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police Chaitanya Siriprolu.Following this, many candidates submitted their details on the website. The education department learnt about it and issued a statement clearing the air, saying no such advertisement has been issued by the government and that the website is a fake one.“On Thursday, the education department submitted a complaint against an unknown person for creating the fake website. On the basis of the complaint, we have registered a first information report (FIR) under sections 419 (cheating by impersonation) and 511 (attempt to commit a serious offence) of the Indian Penal Code and section 66C (identity theft) the of Information Technology Act,” said Vishwanath Kolekar, senior inspector, Marine Drive police station.He added, “We have written to nodal officer concerned in cyber police to get the website blocked. The fake website could have duped people by taking money under the pretext of processing fees for the recruitment purpose. However, so far no one has lost money.”The investigators are also writing to the service provider to get the IP address used to create and operate the fake website, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/education-dept-files-case-over-fake-recruitment-notice-on-fake-website-101622829318469.html
04-06-2021||Mumbai||Indian tourists most concerned about polluted beaches, over-tourism: Survey||Governments have the responsibility to help make travel more sustainable, believe as many as 24% of the 18,327 people surveyed for international digital travel agency Agoda’s sustainable travel trends survey. At least 20% respondents said they themselves have to ensure it. The survey found pollution of beaches and waterways, and “over-tourism” in India were the top two concerns among the tourists. Single-use plastics and energy inefficiencies including overconsumption of electricity/water ranked third.The survey launched to mark World Environment Day on Saturday highlighted that tourists, globally, consider governments most accountable for making positive environmental changes around travel, followed by tourism authorities and individuals. Tourists from Indonesia and the United Kingdom were most likely (36%) to hold governments most accountable followed by those from China (33%), Australia (28%), Malaysia (27), and India (24%).Managing waste including using less single-use plastics, switching off air conditioners and lights when leaving accommodation, and looking for eco-friendly accommodation were some of the suggestions made by respondents when asked how they will make the post-Covid travel scenario better. “...when asked about what Indians associated the most with sustainability, the top three results were renewable resources (36%), natural cleaning products (32%), and eco-friendly design/furniture (31%),” the survey stated.Booking.com also came up with their sustainable travel report by conducting a research among a sample of 29,349 respondents across 30 countries and territories. The report revealed that 94% of Indian travellers think sustainable travel is vital, with 88% saying that the pandemic has made them want to travel more sustainably in the future.The survey revealed that 74% Indian travellers want to have authentic experiences that are representative of local cultures when they travel while 91% of them believe increasing cultural understanding and preservation of cultural heritage is crucial. “Around 56% of Indian travellers still believe that in 2021, there aren’t enough sustainable travel options available, with 63% admitting they get annoyed somewhere,” stated the survey.John Brown, chief executive officer of Agoda, said another thing that is clear is that while globally the message is governments need to take the lead on managing sustainable travel, there is recognition that some responsibility lies with people’s own behaviour. “This past year at Agoda, we have seen a shift in travel patterns as people, limited to domestic travel, explore lesser-known areas. If managed well, not only does this help support independent hoteliers and accommodation providers that rely economically on tourist dollars, but it can also help lessen the environmental burden on overcrowded areas.”The survey found 35% respondents from South Korea, 31% from India and Taiwan each were keener on the need to travel more sustainably. “It is concerning that many people see sustainable travel as less important today than they did before Covid-19, but I hope that is just a short-term effect, driven by people’s thirst to get back out there and travel any way they can,” Brown said.Ritu Mehrotra, regional manager, South Asia, Booking.com said, “Over the six years we’ve been conducting this research, it’s been inspiring to see awareness of the importance of sustainable travel consistently grow, both with our customers and now with our partners, too. We are constantly working towards supporting our partners in their efforts to become more sustainable by encouraging them to identify, implement and share their sustainability practices with us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indian-tourists-most-concerned-about-polluted-beaches-over-tourism-survey-101622829257787.html
04-06-2021||Other||Lucknow gurudwara officials help woman carry brother’s body to Varanasi||A 22-year-old Dubai resident, committed suicide when he was refused wages of the last six months by his employer. His body landed at the Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport, Lucknow, on Wednesday morning.What followed was nothing short of harrowing for the already grieving family. His younger sister came all the way from village Chandanpur in Varanasi to receive the body. After completing all the formalities, she pleaded with the authorities to arrange for a vehicle to carry the body back to Chandanpur, but they refused to help. She dialled numbers of ambulance providers but they demanded exorbitant amounts. “I only had only ₹1,000 with her but the ambulance was demanding more than ₹15,000,” the woman said.She kept waiting from 11 am to 4 pm at the airport with the body of her brother, for help from some quarter but none was forthcoming.Meanwhile, her cousin living in Uttamnagar, Gujarat got the number of Nirmal Singh, president, Alambagh Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee, from a social media site. Rani rang Singh up for help.Singh recounted, “I called the woman immediately and within half-an-hour our ambulance with five volunteers from Gurudwara reached the airport. I told her she is the daughter of this country and the sewadars coming to help her were her brothers. By 2 am, the body and the woman were reached to their residence by an ambulance. I have promised her more help as she has only a widowed mother to take care of her. We wanted to transfer some funds to her account but the girl refused any monetary help despite living in poverty.”However, the Alambagh Gurdwara Committee has contacted the gurudwara committee in Varanasi to provide all help to the family. Singh said, “The gurudwara will ensure that the girl doesn’t suffer. The girl is a graduate and we will try to arrange a job for her too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-gurudwara-officials-help-woman-carry-brother-s-body-to-varanasi-101622829197943.html
04-06-2021||Lucknow||Yogi asks for three-fold increase in daily jabs in Uttar Pradesh within a month||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked the officials concerned to increase the state’s daily Covid vaccination by three-folds in a month’s time.He also announced that sampling for a new sero-survey had begun in the state on Friday and its results were likely by the month-end.The state administered 3.82 lakh vaccine doses on Friday. Going by this figure, the three-fold target would involve administering over 10 lakh jabs per day.“So far, UP has administered 1.94 crore doses since the start of the vaccination drive. Among them, 27 lakh doses were given to youth (18-45 age group),” the chief minister said at a Covid-19 review meeting here.He also said the Covid recovery rate in the state had touched 97.4%.“On April 30, UP had 3.10 lakh active cases of Covid. Thirty-five days afterwards, the number has fallen to 22,877. So far, 16.52 lakh Covid patients have recovered in the state since the infection began in UP (in March 2020),” Yogi Adityanath said.Only 1,175 fresh Covid cases were reported in the state in the last 24 hours and 3,646 patients recovered during the same period, he said.He noted that partial corona curfew had been relaxed in 65 districts, which had less than 600 cases each. But the night curfew and the weekend curfew would continue statewide, he said, adding that the police and local administration in each district must enforce them well.He also said to the officials, “It is very important to do sero-survey to assess and analyse the Covid disease and the development of antibodies in the population. Carry out the survey well and fast.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-asks-for-three-fold-increase-in-daily-jabs-in-uttar-pradesh-within-a-month-101622829017967.html
04-06-2021||Other||Cops help pregnant woman to hospital, awarded by brass||Two cops on night duty proved to be angels in disguise for a pregnant woman, being carried to hospital in an auto which broke down on the highway late into the night.The two constables, Deepak Pandey and Jitendra Yadav, posted at the trans-Yamuna area Jari police outpost immediately arranged for another vehicle and escorted the family to the hospital where the woman gave birth to a baby boy. The cops were not only praised by the locals but senior officials also appreciated their efforts and awarded them.The constables were patrolling the highway at around 2 am on their motorcycle when they spotted an auto on the Rewa Highway. They found a pregnant woman in pain inside the auto with family members standing helplessly as no vehicle was available at that time. The family said that they were residents of Geenj Pahadi village in Bara area.The constables rushed towards Jari Bazar and managed to find the home of an auto driver. They woke up the driver and asked him to accompany them to the highway. The woman, Tanu Singh and her family were then shifted to the other vehicle with one of the constables while the other accompanied them on his bike. The woman was admitted to Jasra CHC where on Friday morning she gave birth to a baby boy. The family thanked the two constables for their cooperation which not only saved the life of the woman but also brought new joys in their lives.On Friday evening, ADG Zone Prem Prakash, IG Range KP Singh and SSP Sarvshreshtha Tripathi honoured the two constables and awarded them with a letter of appreciation. ADG Prem Prakash said the act of two constables is praiseworthy and worth appreciating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cops-help-pregnant-woman-to-hospital-awarded-by-brass-101622828897839.html
04-06-2021||Other||Flatted factory complexes to come up in Agra, Kanpur||Lucknow: The state government on Friday approved flatted factory complex for industrial cities of Agra and Kanpur and decided to improve industrial infrastructure in Lucknow and two other districts. Flatted factories are multi-storeyed complexes in which non-polluting industrial units can operate. This concept is adopted to ensure easy availability of land for industries. Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, MSME, informed that the state government had approved ₹51.13 crore for the flatted factory complex, one each in Agra and Kanpur. For the Agra project, the government has approved ₹26.41 crore and for Kanpur ₹24.72 crore. The Centre will provide financial assistance of ₹12 crore each for both the projects. The fatted factory complex model is adopted for non-polluting units permitted by industrial development authorities. Industries like readymade garments, handicrafts, woollens, hosiery, IT, carpet and other such units can come up in such complexes. The complexes are most likely to be four-storey buildings, including ground floor. A technical committee headed by additional secretary, union government, MSME ministry, has approved this project. This model would help MSMEs to start a business venture with less capital, Sehgal said. Sehgal also informed that for improving industrial infrastructure in Lucknow, Jaunpur and Farrukhabad, the state government had approved ₹21.54 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/flatted-factory-complexes-to-come-up-in-agra-kanpur-101622828057775.html
04-06-2021||Other||HC seeks Centre and Delhi govt’s responses on plea for CBI probe in deaths at Jaipur Golden hospital||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Friday sought the stand of the Centre and the Delhi government on a plea seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the death of 21 Covid patients at the Jaipur Golden Hospital in north Delhi’s Rohini on April 23-24.Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to Union ministries of home affairs and health and the Delhi government seeking their response by August 20 on the plea filed by eight families who have challenged the findings of a city government panel that the deaths had took place due to co-morbidities and not due to the shortage of oxygen.The court also asked the Delhi government to look into the aspect of providing assistance to the families of the deceased. It also asked the government to file an affidavit listing out the steps that it had taken to rehabilitate the orphans and extending help to the families who have lost their kin in the second wave of the pandemic.The judge initially said that a division bench of the high court is already considering the aspect of compensation for the families of the victims and that the petitioners should wait for the final report of the Delhi government on the deaths.However, advocate Utsav Bains, appearing for the petitioners, told the court that the division bench had asked similar litigants to take individual legal remedy. Delhi government’s counsel Aditya P Khanna told the court that government is already considering this issue and has set up committee to investigate the reasons for the deaths. He added that he would file a detailed affidavit listing out all the steps as asked by the court. The plea has contended that the cause of death of the patients was respiratory failure due to insufficient supply of oxygen and not comorbidities, as stated by a Delhi government committee in its report.Hindustan Times had first reported on May 4 the findings of a committee constituted by the Delhi government to collate the data of the deaths that had taken place due to the alleged shortage of medical oxygen for the purposes of compensation. On April 27, the Delhi high court had asked the Delhi government to provide a list of the people who had died due to the shortage of oxygen.Quoting the news report in HT, the petitioners said that they first got to know about the finding from the news report. The plea has said that there was complete inaction and failure of the city government to provide adequate supply of oxygen in spite of having knowledge that any shortage would be fatal for the life of Covid-19 patients and immediately cause their death.It alleged that the report prepared by Delhi government’s committee is “erroneous and has been prepared to favour the Delhi government”. “..the cause of the death of the deceased has been mentioned as respiratory failure by the doctors for the reason that proper oxygen supply was not given to the deceased on time. It is the case of the hospital that when the oxygen supply did not come on time the deceased were put on oxygen cylinders, however, the requisite pressure was not there and due to same, the patients died while suffocating for oxygen,” the plea readIt said that the authorities in the present case have rendered themselves not only liable to pay compensation to the families of the deceased victims but also for criminal prosecution under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The petition said that shockingly, the hospital authorities did not even inform the family members about the shortage otherwise they would have arranged for oxygen cylinders and this would have saved the life of their loved ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hcseeks-centre-and-delhi-govt-s-responses-on-plea-for-cbi-probe-in-deaths-at-jaipur-golden-hospital-101622827937680.html
04-06-2021||Other||Rain, thunderstorm in Delhi; 90 trees damaged||Light rainfall, coupled with a thunderstorm, lashed Delhi and parts of the National Capital Region (NCR) on Friday, with civic bodies reporting that over 90 trees were uprooted across the city due to the strong winds.Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said a western disturbance over Jammu & Kashmir and a cyclonic circulation over Uttar Pradesh resulted in strong winds and light showers. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the high humidity levels in the national capital and comparatively higher daytime temperatures led to the rain. “The maximum temperatures at the Safdarjung and Palam weather observatories were nearly 40 degrees Celsius today (Friday). The humidity levels at the Palam observatory touched 93%. This was another reason that caused the rainfall,” Srivastava said adding that a western disturbance passing over Jammu and Kashmir and a cyclonic circulation over Uttar Pradesh also prompted the change of weather. IMD’s initial recordings show that Safdarjung received 3.2mm rainfall, Palam received 9.4mm rainfall and Lodi Road received 1.6mm rainfall, as of 5.30pm. Some areas around the Palam observatory also reported a hailstorm around 6pm. The three municipalities (north, south and east Delhi municipal corporations) confirmed that Friday’s strong winds, with speeds of around 60km, and uprooted more than 90 trees in areas such as Kalkaji, Nizamuddin West, Dilshad Garden, Greater Kailash, Uttam Nagar, among others. Western disturbances are cyclonic storms originating over the Mediterranean that affect the weather in north-west and north India. Cyclonic circulation is the swirling motion of winds caused by a low pressure area, which--when it pulls warm moist air--results in overcast conditions and rainfall. On Friday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered to be representative of the city, was 39.5°C, a notch below what is considered normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature was one degree below ]normal at 26.1°C. The relative humidity recorded at the station was 64%. Even though the mercury remained below the 40°C-mark, the “feel-like”temperature in Delhi was 42-43°C, due to the high humidity. According to IMD, the “feel-like” temperature of a region is how hot or cold the human body feels as opposed to the actual temperature recordings. At the Palam observatory, the daytime temperature was 38.4°C, three degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature was 26.2°C. The relative humidity recorded here at 5.30pm was 93%. Met officials said the wind speeds in Delhi, Gurugram, Faridabad, Ghaziabad and Noida went up to 60kmph in the evening. The IMD forecast said strong winds and rain are likely to continue till late Friday, but it was unlikely to reduce the temperature on Saturday. “The thunderstorm is likely to stay only till Friday. We are also seeing that there is a possibility of another spell of rain around June 11-12, but we will be able to confirm that when we are closer to the date,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rain-thunderstorm-in-delhi-90-trees-damaged-101622827877757.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Petrol inches towards ₹100/litre in Mohali||Already at an all-time high, fuel prices continued to rise across the tricity, with petrol priced at ₹96.92 per litre in Mohali on Friday. After remaining stable for a couple of months, fuel prices have been hiked eighteen times in the past one month, rising by around ₹3 per litre since the beginning of May.In Panchkula, petrol was available for ₹92.38 on Friday, while it cost ₹91.14 in Chandigarh. Meanwhile, diesel was priced at ₹88.57 in Mohali, ₹86.05 in Panchkula and ₹85.32 in Chandigarh.With fuel rates being the highest in Mohali, the local petrol dealers there are facing the maximum brunt. “The disparity in rates between Chandigarh and Mohali has pushed business out of here. Many petrol pumps on the highway are on the verge of closing down, and those within the city are also reporting a massive drop in sales,” said Ashwinder Mongia, president, Mohali Petroleum Dealers Association. Mongia said fuel is mainly consumed by farmers and transporters in Mohali, and by increasing the prices, inflation in items of daily use can be expected. “If the Punjab government can reduce the disparity in liquor prices between Mohali and Chandigarh, then why can’t the same be done for fuel, which is a basic necessity?” he said.Petrol pump owners in Chandigarh are also reporting reduced sales. Colonel HS Kapoor (retd), the owner of a fuel station in Sector 21, said his sales have dropped by 50% as compared to that in February and March. He attributed it to both the hike in fuel prices and lockdown restrictions on vehicle movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/petrol-inches-towards-100-litre-in-mohali-101622827819562.html
04-06-2021||Other||Plantation audit report to be submitted by July, says Gopal Rai||Environment minister Gopal Rai on Friday said he has directed concerned stakeholders to complete the ongoing third-party audit of all the plantation works in the city at the earliest and submit the report by July. While addressing a press conference, Rai said officials have been asked to submit the report by July to ensure transparency and monitoring of plantation work. A third-party audit of plantation work undertaken by all green agencies in the state is being conducted by the Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, Forest Research Institute, Dehradun and Certification Engineers International Limited on the department’s direction. “The Delhi government is serious about monitoring and transparency of the plantation work. In a bid to ensure this, I have ordered a strict independent third-party audit of the plantation work across Delhi. The report of the audit should be submitted by July,” said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/plantation-audit-report-to-be-submitted-by-july-says-gopal-rai-101622827758418.html
04-06-2021||Mumbai||Global Covid vaccine bid: Mumbai civic body rejects nine proposals||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday said it has rejected all nine proposals it received for supply of 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses, as the suppliers did not submit required documents it sought from respondents to its global tender. The civic body is in talks with Dr Reddy’s for Sputnik vaccine doses. The BMC had invited global expression of interest (EoI) on May 12 for procurement of 10 million Covid vaccines directly from the international market. It extended the application window twice on May 18 and May 25 for a week. On June 1, the BMC closed the application window, stating that it had received nine proposals, of which eight were for supplying Sputnik and one company had offered to supply any approved vaccine. The BMC had also got a proposal to supply Pfizer and Astranzeneca vaccine. However, the Czech Republic-based company withdrew its proposal after Pfizer clarified it had not given any rights for distribution of its vaccine. Following this, last week, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and Dr Reddy’s Laboratory also issued a statement that Dr Reddy’s has the sole distribution rights for the first 250 million vaccine doses of Sputnik. It asked not to believe claims made by any third party. Considering these statements, and further as per its EoI condition, the BMC’s central procurement department (CPD) had asked the interested suppliers to submit documents to prove their link with the original manufacturers of the vaccine they propose to supply on Tuesday. The suppliers were given time till Friday, and considering they did not get any documents, CPD rejected all proposals. A senior official of the BMC said, “CPD has rejected all nine proposals, and all nine suppliers now stand to be disqualified from the process. We have also submitted a report on this to municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal’s office.” In a statement, the civic body said, “When contacted on Friday, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories have indicated their readiness to supply some stock of Sputnik vaccines to the corporation on an experimental basis by the end of June 2021. Further, discussions to procure a large stockpile of Sputnik vaccine are underway, and will be conducted for the next 8 to 10 days.” According to BMC officials, considering the cold storage facility of Sputnik has to be customised, it will first take a small number of doses on an experimental basis, and after that go for a large stockpile. Similarly, the government is also negotiating with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to get Sputnik vaccine doses for the state. The BMC official added, “Now, considering Dr Reddy’s Laboratory has the sole distribution rights of Sputnik in India, we have established a channel of contact with them. We will understand what they promise and in how much time to conclude whether we can procure vaccines from them. As of now, there are no plans to contact any other firm apart from Dr Reddy’s Laboratory.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/global-covid-vaccine-bid-mumbai-civic-body-rejects-nine-proposals-101622827697709.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Police assess threat to Sushil’s life before moving him to Tihar||City police and Tihar jail authorities are conducting a security audit and assessing the possible threat to two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar before he is taken to the prison to serve his judicial custody. Kumar, a suspect in the murder of a fellow wrestler in Delhi’s Chhatrasal Stadium on May 4, is currently in Mandoli jail, where new prisoners are lodged for 10 days before being shifted to Tihar, as part of measures taken to curb the spread of Covid-19.It has been alleged that the victim of the attack, Sagar Dhankad, had links with the gang run by Sandeep Kala, alias Jathedi.Kala is one of Delhi’s most wanted gangsters, and several members of his gang are in Tihar. Delhi Police’s third battalion — which is responsible for the safety of prisoners — has shared with jail authorities the names of at least 20 members of Kala’s gang who are in different sub jails across Tihar.Concern over Jathedi gang membersKala, from Jathedi village in Sonipat, carries a reward of ₹7 lakh for his arrest. Police suspect that he is currently operating from Dubai.Police have said investigations revealed that Dhankad had links with Kala. Further, Dhankad’s friend Sonu Mahal, who was assaulted during the May 4 incident, is Kala’s nephew.“We are checking the names of all people linked to Sandeep Kala gang, and the jails where they are kept. We will ensure that Kumar is kept isolated from these gangsters. Police have also alerted us. We are in touch with the police’s third battalion, which keeps a record of all jailed gangsters,” a jail officer, who asked not to be named, said.A second jail officer said that the Intelligence Bureau has also issued alerts to prison authorities regarding the threat to Kumar’s life. HT could not verify the officer’s claim till the time of going to print. Tihar jail director general Sandeep Goel said the prison department is ensuring proper security for Kumar, and has lodged him separately in a single cell in Mandoli. Kumar was arrested along with an associate on May 23.Kumar’s counsel, advocate Pradeep Rana, said they have written to the court about Sushil Kumar’s security. “It is through the media reports that we learnt about the person’s connection with a gangster. My client did not know this. There are many people who come to the stadium. We came to know later from media statements that one of them has criminal cases against him. So we informed the court. Currently, my client is in quarantine at the Mandoli jail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-assess-threat-to-sushil-kumar-before-shifting-him-to-tihar-jail-101622827638365.html
04-06-2021||Other||People more distressed with BJP than Covid: Akhilesh||Lucknow: Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav said on Friday that even as the BJP was busy in ‘thinking, contemplating, feasting, and resting’ while preparing for the UP assembly elections round the corner, people in the state were more distressed with the BJP government mismanagement and misrule than the Covid pandemic. “Under the government mismanagement people are not getting treatment for Covid and black fungus and a large number of lives have been lost. Now, when the BJP has realised that the power is slipping out of its hands, then the top BJP leadership, out of exasperation, is running between Delhi and Lucknow,” Akhilesh said in a statement. He said: “The truth is that both the BJP cadre and RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh) volunteers have gone into hibernation owing to their disregard by the party and the government. The BJP is unnerved. The situation is such that when a BJP envoy from Delhi tries to placate one leader in Lucknow, then someone else gets disenchanted. Intense activities are going on in the BJP to overcome differences that have cropped up.” Akhilesh said with both the government and the party were in disarray and the government was trying to mislead people with false Covid data and statistics and projecting a success story out of failure. “But now people can’t be fooled. They have decided to dislodge the BJP in the 2022 polls and bring back the SP government”, he said. Meanwhile, several people took membership of Samajwadi Party in the presence of Barabanki Sadar SP MLA Dharmraj Singh alias Suresh Yadav, at the party’s Sadar office in Barabanki on Friday. Welcoming the new members into the party Suresh Yadav said that the ruling BJP betrayed the youth, Dalits, backwards and minorities by showing them dreams but never fulfilling any of them. As most of the new members who joined were youths, he said that the Samajwadi Party had a large youth cadre who were constantly engaged in struggling for people. He said that in 2022 polls Samajwadi Party would return to power with full majority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/people-more-distressed-with-bjp-than-covid-akhilesh-101622827639111.html
04-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: TIFR scientists build model to project, schedule oxygen demand||A team of researchers at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Mumbai, have developed a digital tool to route medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients to avoid the shortage experienced during the second wave of the Covid pandemic. The oxygen supply crisis peaked in April in many parts of the country as hospitals ran out of medical oxygen that was needed to be supplied to severe patients of the coronavirus disease, forcing the Centre to first reduce and then reroute industrial oxygen all together to various states to manage the demand. The customisable planning tool, developed by the School of Technology and Computer Science (STCS) at TIFR, will help public health officials project the oxygen demand in metric tonnes for each district for a few days or weeks. Based on these projections and suppliers’ capacities and locations, they can use the tool to schedule their oxygen supply to different districts. For example, in Maharashtra, according to June 3 data of 15,229 Covid-19 cases, the model projects that the oxygen requirement for the state will be 887MT on Saturday, and reduce gradually to 725MT by next Thursday (June 10). In Mumbai, the projection is that oxygen requirement will drop from 41MT on Saturday to 37 MT by next Thursday. For Delhi, the projections are 155MT on Saturday. This will reduce to 95MT by next Wednesday (June 9). These are default projections made based on guidelines by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), public health officials from different states can input these details to get a customised projections and schedule for their state and districts. “The default assumptions are that 3% of all detected Covid-19 patients will become critical and require substantial oxygen support for about 18 days, as per ICMR guidelines. However, if a state is experiencing a more severe outbreak, they can customise the consumption pattern to better match their situation easily on the tool,” said Sandeep Juneja, professor and dean of STCS, who was part of the project. For each of these criteria, a range of variables are considered such as patients with severe disease are first admitted in non-ICU wards; the period between detection of case and start of non-ICU hospitalisation is same as that for patients with moderate disease (three days); after some time, these patients are transferred to ICU wards where the period between case detection and start of intensive care is 11 days and period of intensive care is 18 days. The model also takes into account the time taken to get oxygen tanks into each district from the suppliers. All these can be changed to suit the conditions on the ground. For the projections, they use a linear programming model, a mathematical optimisation to find the best possible solution for a problem. “It is a very simple model to build. We have made it available on our website for use and are updating the features to better meet user needs. States can input details and download the schedule easily. We have also provided basic guidelines on how to easily input data to suit your needs. The idea is to improve it and get more people to use it, especially as we prepare for a potential third wave,” said Juneja. Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said the model was promising and could potentially streamline the oxygen supply chain. “I have seen their model. It is based on operations research concepts and has the potential to streamline the huge logistics of oxygen transportation. Very promising,” said Kunte. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of Maharashtra’s Covid taskforce, said, “The need for oxygen changes every minute for severe and critically ill patients. The demand for oxygen depends on various factors and mathematical models may not necessarily work. The Supreme Court appointed national task force is also looking at this problem. In the third wave, our focus should be on zero deaths and preventing severe conditions, thus reducing the demand for oxygen altogether.”Dr Joshi said that as the size of population that is susceptible to the virus is shrinking, mitigation measures should be focussed on vaccinations and reducing the severity of the symptoms. “The severity of the third wave will depend on antibody prevalence, total exposed population from natural infection and vaccination and Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-tifr-scientists-build-model-to-project-schedule-oxygen-demand-101622827637784.html
04-06-2021||Mumbai||Go extra mile to treat every patient having Covid symptoms: Bombay HC to medicos||Ramesh Ghaderao, 49, an employee of the law and judiciary department, Mantralaya, succumbed to the Covid-19 infection on April 16, leaving behind his wife and two minor children. Though Ghaderao tested negative in the RT-PCR test, which he took on April 10, due to his deteriorating health he underwent a CT scan the very next day. The report showed that he was suffering from 92% of Covid-19 lung infection, having its level at 23 on a scale of 25. The Covid hospital refused to admit and treat him, on the grounds that he had tested negative in the RT-PCR test. After much coaxing and pleading the Covid centre at Thane, Ghaderao was finally admitted. However, it was too late and he passed away.In light of the incident, a petition came to be filed in the Bombay high court (HC) on April 26, seeking directions to the authorities to issue orders to hospitals and dedicated Covid centres not to insist on positive RT-PCR reports for getting admitted and treated. The petition filed by advocate Wilson Jaiswal also sought directions to the authorities, to ensure that hospitals and Covid centres admitted patients who had symptoms like cough, cold and fever and start their Covid treatment forthwith.On May 12, the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the petition, was informed by advocates Shekhani Shah, Satyaram Gaud and Rohan Khandelwal for the petitioner that like Ghaderao, Covid patients were being turned away by hospitals and Covid centres for want of an RT-PCR positive report and hence the petition sought a stop to such arbitrariness. The advocates also submitted that as a CT scan report was more accurate hospitals should be directed to accept it.The bench was also informed by the state that the Centre, through the ministry of health and family welfare, had issued guidelines in that regard on May 8 and the state would be issuing orders accordingly.On May 19 and 20, additional government pleader Geeta Shastri informed the court that on May 17 the state government had issued orders to hospitals and Covid centres to admit patients showing symptoms and had also ordered setting up of three types of wards for such patients. On June 2, the bench was apprised that the circular of May 17 had been sent to all hospitals and Covid centres and henceforth patients like Ghaderao would not be turned away.After hearing the submissions, the bench expressed satisfaction and urged the state government to take strict action against hospitals and medical centres who deny admission to any deserving patient by neglecting his clinical condition merely for want of a positive RT-PCR test report or any other compliance.“It can never be conceived that any person who has developed any of the common symptoms without any reason would approach for getting admitted in a hospital or medical centre,” the court remarked. The bench also opined that the medical fraternity should go the extra mile and attend to every possible patient who would have symptoms of being infected by the Covid-19 and provide all treatment and after thanking the petitioner for the eye-opener disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/go-extra-mile-to-treat-every-patient-having-covid-symptoms-bombay-hc-to-medicos-101622827518403.html
04-06-2021||Other||Rare snake rescued, released in jungle||MEERUT A rare Indian egg-eater snake (elachistodon westermanni) was rescued from a house in Kalagarh area on Wednesday and released in its habitat in the jungle. Kalagarh is situated on the border of Bijnor district and Jim Corbet National Park in Uttarakhand. Deepak Kumar, the man who rescued the snake, has been working as snake rescuer in the park since the past two years. He is part of Kalagarh forest department rapid response team for rescuing trapped snakes. Deepak said he received a call from a colony in Kalagarh on Wednesday about a snake in a house. “I rushed to the house and caught a 6-inch snake”, said Deepak on phone and added shared that “ it was a different snake”. Deepak shared that he had been rescuing snakes for several years , so he knew about them. “Initially, I thought it was a Prinked snake but was elated to finally discover that it was a rare Indian egg- eater snake, which was not seen for decades and considered extinct. “ Deepak said that it was a 6-inche juvenile with a yellow line from head to tail and he identified it by its characteristic of lifting its upper side high and making a shape of S after observing a threat to life. Besides, this snake also shakes its tail fast under threat. Prinked snakes also behaves in a similar way but the rescued snake was different in look was identified as Indian egg- eater. This snake is non venomous and feeds on birds’ eggs. Vinod Rishi, former additional director general ( ADG) of Wildlife, Government of India, said that it was a rare species which lived in tree holes, rock crevices, or bushes in dry deciduous and shrub forests. He said, “A close examination of photographs reveals that the rescued juvenile snake could be a rare Indian egg- eater and its discovery needs to be further explored to ensure its presence in the area”. Deepak claimed that the juvenile’s colour would change into black but the yellow line would remain from head to tail. He said that cobra, karait and other snakes also ate birds’ eggs along with rodents like rats and frogs. But Indian egg-eater fed only on birds’ eggs. He said that these snakes broke the egg inside their throat and spat out the skin after swallowing the fluids. Jim Corbet National Park’s warden R K Tiwari said, “We are excited by the discovery of this snake as the species was not seen in the area for quite a long time”. According to wildlife experts, Indian egg-eater snake has been listed in Schedule 1 of Wildife Protection Act-1972 because the species is rare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rare-snake-rescued-released-in-jungle-101622827458392.html
04-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Reduce gap between Covishield shots, urge students going abroad||For 28-year-old Shivangi Desai, her master’s course in science and business analytics starts in less than two weeks in a private university in the United States. However, Desai who is up for her first shot of the vaccine on June 5, will have to wait another three months to get the second dose of the vaccine which leaves her worried she might miss her chance to make it to class in time.“The Indian government recently decided to increase the gap between two shots of Covishield vaccine by 84 days. This means I won’t get my second shot until September, while my class begins on June 18. I can’t afford to miss my lectures,” said Desai, a resident of Ghatkopar. Many students in her place are worried that the three-month wait will eventually mean they miss the first half of their semester. “If I get my second dose by July, I’ll still get to travel to my university and manage to make up for lost classes,” she said.Desai added that while the summer session classes will begin in the online mode, students in India are facing time-zone issues and unable to attend lectures regularly. “Since this is a one-year course, I want the complete study experience with classmates and regular interaction with faculty, which will only be possible if I am on campus,” she said.Recently, state cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray announced a special vaccination drive for students who secured admissions in the universities abroad, on a priority. This move encouraged thousands of students to queue up at vaccination centres across the state and get their first dose. However, since at present, Covishield is the only vaccine recognised internationally, many are worried about not being able to make it for the start of the new academic year in international universities before September.“Covaxin shots can be taken within four weeks, but it is yet to be recognised internationally, whereas Covishield shots can only be taken with a gap of 84 days. We are sincerely requesting the state government to allow us students to take the second shot earlier, so we don’t miss out on our education,” said Anuja Patil, who has confirmed her admissions at the RMIT University, in Melbourne, Australia. Some students have approached Aaditya Thackeray as well as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray requesting them to help reduce the gap between their vaccine shots.Some students, including Desai, had to cancel their plans of making it to their destination country in the month of May due to travel restrictions and a ban on several international flights.While several students applying for a study visa have already finished the process, some are also still waiting for the process to re-start to first get a visa, and then travel to their chosen countries. “My visa interview took place on May 4, by the end of which I was asked to later submit the I 20 (certificate of eligibility for non-immigrant student status). It’s been over a month since I submitted the form but I’m yet to hear from the authorities about my visa,” said another student, on condition of anonymity. She added that her post-graduate course in Data Analytics begins in August, but without a visa and two shots of the vaccine, it’ll be difficult for her to travel.Apart from missing classes, students are also worried that any delay in physically joining the course in the chosen country might also affect their future chances of higher education or work permit. “By attending online classes I can keep following the course but if I don’t spend a designated period in the US for this course, I’ll be termed ineligible to apply for a work permit in the US, which is also a worry,” she added.Earlier this month, Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi wrote to the Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, highlighting the plight of students wanting to study abroad. “Some states like Maharashtra have understood the concern of students and opened up vaccination for such students to get their first dose on a priority basis but the problem is to get their second dose before July to enable them to travel on time,” said Chaturvedi in her letter dated June 1. She has requested the Union government to consider the case of such students on a “humanitarian” basis and help all those who need to report to their respective universities by mi-August to start higher studies in time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reduce-gap-between-covishield-shots-urge-students-going-abroad-101622827457686.html
04-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt to keep data of kids who get multisystem condition after Covid||With rising cases of Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in children (MIS-C) after Covid-19 recovery, the state health department will maintain district-wise records of children diagnosed with the health condition. The decision was taken after the Central health department issued a directive to all states and Union territories to submit weekly data of MIS-C cases.Children after four-six weeks of recovering from Covid-19 are developing this condition where different body parts including the heart, lungs, kidneys, brain, skin, eyes, or gastrointestinal organs suffer from inflammation. Doctors said though MIS-C can be fatal, most children get better with timely medical care.Last year too, there were several cases of MIS-C. However, these cases almost doubled during the second wave due to the rise in Covid-19 infection among paediatric patients, said doctors. Since doctors are not liable to report the data to the state government, there is no centralised data available with the health department. As a result, the Central government has decided to form a registry to gauge its prevalence.“At present, we don’t have cumulative data of MIS-C from all the districts. But according to a directive of the Central government issued on June 2, all states have been asked to submit the weekly data to the central health department. Thus, we will soon instruct the districts to submit the data,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer.MIS-C has raised quite a concern among doctors. Doctors have observed that a majority of the children who suffer post-Covid syndromes belong to the five-14 age bracket. Many have cardiac-related issues, while asymptomatic and mildly infected patients are having post-Covid symptoms.Doctors have welcomed the move of the Central government which would help in maintaining the district-wise centralised registry of MIS-C.“This might help to understand the prevalence of MIS-C district-wise and formulate policies accordingly. Covid-19 is ever-evolving, and therefore it is a good idea to maintain data which can also help in further studies and researches,” said Dr Bakul Parekh, former president of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) and part of the paediatric Covid task force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-to-keep-data-of-kids-who-get-multisystem-condition-after-covid-101622827397681.html
04-06-2021||Other||Amphotericin readily available in market, Centre tells Delhi HC||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Friday said it was surprised by the Union government’s submission that Amphotericin-B, one of the medicines used for treating black fungus, was readily available in the market.When the court said if the medicine was available in abundance there should not have been so many deaths, the counsel said people were not dying because of lack of medicines but “the disease itself is dangerous”.Central government standing counsel Kirtiman Singh, replying to the remark by the court that nearly one-third people affected by black fungus have died, said people are not dying for lack of medicines otherwise there would have been a lot of noise.The submission did not go well with a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, which said “there is already a lot of noise and if you choose not to hear it, that is your choice”.During the hearing the high court also expressed satisfaction over the guidelines issued by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) on possible treatment options for black fungus for which Liposomal Amphotericin-B is the drug of choice and asked the expert body to review it on regular interval.The court was informed by central government standing counsel Anurag Alhuwalia, appearing for ICMR, that the criteria for prioritising patients for administering Liposomal Amphotericin-B for treating mucormycosis (black fungus) is young patients and those in whom surgical intervention is not possible or incomplete.The ICMR latest guidelines were framed in pursuance to the court’s June 1 order in which the various questioned were posed relating to treatment for black fungus.The guidelines discuss all possible treatment options as well as preventive measures including appropriate management of co-morbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amphotericin-readily-available-in-market-centre-tells-delhi-hc-101622827398302.html
04-06-2021||Mumbai||Conduct medical exams online, students urge Maharashtra govt||Less than a week before exams are scheduled to commence, several students belonging to second and third-year medical, dental and para-medical courses have approached the state health education minister requesting that their exams be held online. The May circular of the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) had clarified that pending winter session exams will be conducted in the offline mode between June 10 and 30.“These exams have been postponed three times already, as it was not feasible to hold an offline exam for thousands of students at the time when the state is grappling with a pandemic. The situation is now worse with new Covid variants and emerging cases of black fungus. How is the state planning to conduct physical exams?” asked a student requesting anonymity. He added that students have repeatedly highlighted the need for these exams to be conducted in online mode, but the authorities have paid no heed.Usually scheduled to take place in the month of December-January, the second and third-year MBBS, BDS, and other para-medical and certificate course exams were postponed three times this year due to rising Covid-19 cases recorded across the state. From January this year, to February the exams were then scheduled to take place in April. However, due to the second wave of Covid-19 gripping the nation, these exams were once again postponed to the first week of June by the state government.“To appear for exams in the offline mode, we (students) will all have to travel to our college, then share hostel rooms with at least three other students and share bathrooms as well. What guarantee does the state or university give us that we will not contract the virus?” asked another student. Many have taken to Twitter to share their woes and reach out to more authorities for help.Last week, several student organisations wrote to officials in MUHS as well as the state government highlighting the plight of fellow students. While thousands of students are still in quarantine after getting infected, many have also lost close family members and are traumatised, said the letter. Conducting exams in the offline mode in such times could make the situation worse, students have said.Officials from MUHS, however, have assured maximum safety measures in place for the upcoming exams.In a previous circular, the National Medical Commission (NMC) had clarified that in case students are unable to appear for their MBBS exams due to their health status or travel restrictions, such students will be given the chance to appear for these papers at a later date by the examination authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/conduct-medical-exams-online-students-urge-maharashtra-govt-101622827337749.html
04-06-2021||Other||Sero-survey begins in 75 districts of UP||LUCKNOW: Sero-survey began in 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh on Friday to collect about 62,000 samples from people and test them in the lab. “We will collect about 62,000 samples for the sero-survey in Uttar Pradesh which will be one of the biggest surveys. The collection of samples will be completed by June 11,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health, in a press conference. In Lucknow, about 500 samples were collected from 22 different localities. Sampling was done in different caregories, including those who had tested positive in the first wave and those who tested positive in the second wave. Samples from slums will also be collected. Sero-survey is done to understand development of antibodies among the population. In Lucknow, samples were collected from Chandernagar in Alambagh, Bijli Pasi Ka Qila, Vidyawati Ward, Harihar Nagar, Khurramnagar, NK Road and Indira Nagar. People with symptoms of Covid were also tested for the same with antigen kits. In rural pockets, samples were taken from Gosainganj and Kakori. The samples will be tested in the microbiology lab at the KGMU. “The results of the sero-survey will help in preparing for the probable third wave and also plan the strategy for vaccination coverage in the state,” said Dr Sandeep kapoor, director, Healthcity hospital. In September 2020 the state health department had conducted serological survey in 11 districts in the state, including Meerut, Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Kaushambi, Prayagraj, Moradabad, Ghaziabad, Baghpat and Agra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/serosurvey-begins-in-75-districts-of-up-101622827277661.html
04-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 14,152 fresh Covid-19 cases; Mumbai sees 968||Maharashtra recorded 14,152 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, confirming a declining trend in the numbers of cases. The per-day caseload has remained less than 21,000 since the past one week. The tally now reached 58,05,565 since the outbreak of the virus last year.There are currently 1,96,894 active patients across the state of which Pune tops with 22,725 patients followed by Mumbai with 18,261 active patients. The number of people tested in the state was 2,56,769.The death toll stands at 99,771, with Mumbai leading with 14,922 deaths followed by Pune with 13,146.The total number of cases in the past seven days (May 28-June 4) in the state stood at 118,308, which averaged 16,901 new cases daily, while the total number of cases from May 21 to May 27 stood at 1,74,732, which averaged 24,961 cases per day.Mumbai on Friday recorded 968 cases and 24 deaths, taking the toll to 14,922.According to Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor, the government of Maharashtra on Covid-19 management, it indicates the decline in the transmission of the virus. “We will see more decline in the coming days but then for that daily monitoring is required. We need to remember that the Covid-19 virus is still present and can rise again. It can nullify all the gains that we have achieved due to the lockdown if we continue to remain casual and don’t adopt Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” said Dr Salunke.Ever since there were lockdown relaxations from this month, the state has seen crowding in many places, with many indulging in discarding the masks and not practising social distancing.Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic said vaccination of citizens should speed up significantly. “The government needs to enforce Covid-19 behaviour strictly, but at the same time, we need to speed up the pace of vaccination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-14-152-fresh-covid-19-cases-mumbai-sees-968-101622827217651.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Generations at work: Their love for environment knows no age||Whether they’re in their teens, in late 20s, or early 40s – age is no bar or barrier for these eco-warriors, who aim to leave behind a better planet for future generations! Driven by the thought to save the planet, even amid all odds, are a few denizens who have been safeguarding Nature. Be it collecting plastic waste, checking the deteriorating tree cover or making a conscious effort to reduce air pollution, their struggle to take care of the environment is a 365 day concern, and have got the spotlight from pandemic to show how crucial is the task to make our surroundings more liveable! One dream, one million trees“I have been diagnosed with asthma, and saw many around me develop breathing troubles owing to the appalling air quality in Delhi-NCR,” says 18-year-old Aditya Dubey, a Noida resident, who has so far planted 15,000 trees in the city! He has been involved in environmental causes throughout his teen years, and says, “It was the thought to support long term well-being of people that motivated me to start the initiative, Plant a Million Trees.” He has been distributing seed orbs, which are seeds wrapped in a small amount of fertilisers, and then coated with clay. “When they are put in the ground during monsoon, they have a higher chance of growing into trees. I’ve distributed about 1,80,000 seed orbs in and around the Capital, to various NGOs and even children’s hospitals under the campaign, Each One Plant One,” he adds. Dubey has also filed petitions against e-commerce companies using excessive plastic packaging and also against the rising air pollution in the Capital. He opines: “I believe every citizen of the country can contribute to making the environment cleaner for the future generations and we need to use more sustainable means to ensure our survival!” Education and environment go hand in hand!For Gurugrammer Nilay Agarwal, watching slums teeming with dirt and pollution, with kids begging and playing around, made him decide to do something for this cause. That’s when Vishalakshi Foundation, an NGO set-up by Agarwal, initiated the Clean N Green (CNG) project in 2020, to clean up dumpyards and convert them into green zones. He shares how they converted a dumpyard into a free school for kids, where more than 50 children are being taught by volunteers now! “Ours is a youth led organisation that is keen to promote education among the underprivileged while caring for the environment. We identified a slum in Gurugram’s Sector 48, which we cleaned using diggers and excavators and planted trees to make the area green. We’ve placed separate dustbins for biodegradable and non-biodegradable substances to promote cleanliness drive... Often, once we clean an area, people let it stay clean for a while before littering again. But by converting those areas into greener spaces for education of kids, we ensure they are treated with much more love and concern,” says Agarwal.His organisation also encourages the kids, who come to study, “to bring steel utensils during the food drives and thus eliminate the use of plastic plates and packaging to barely 20% of its original need”. Agarwal says, “We simply want to send a message that every small step counts towards protecting the environment!” A native nursery for Delhiites Amid the coronavirus crisis, environmentalist Vimlendu Jha’s NGO Swechha has been making efforts to raise awareness about native species of trees and vermicomposting while working on their Farm School, about 100kms from Delhi. “We are launching our native nursery at the school on this World Environment Day! The purpose of the Farm School, a hands-on academy on sustainability, is to engage the community at large, especially youngsters, on issues of resilience and finding long-term solutions to ecological degradation,” says Jha. Jha’s organisation, which has also been working for the cause of river Yamuna for decades, has hit a roadblock in that direction, due to the pandemic. He adds, “Delhi remains one of the most polluted Capitals of the world with over 200 days in a year having ‘bad air’ days. Yamuna still remains a sewer line, and it’s only getting worse by the day with the number of instances of high levels of ammonia in the river increasing every passing year. Pandemic has affected our work on ground, as trees can’t be planted on video calls, or river can’t be cleaned over Instagram!”Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/generations-at-work-their-love-for-environment-knows-no-age-101622825781686.html
04-06-2021||Other||Slight dip in Lucknow’s air pollution due to Corona Curfew: IITR report||HT Correspondentlkoreportersdesk@htlive.comLUCKNOW Though the state capital saw a slight reduction in air pollution levels due to the Corona Curfew, Gomti Nagar remained the most polluted area of Lucknow, as per the Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR), which released its ‘pre-monsoon-2021 report of assessment of ambient air quality of Lucknow on Friday. The RSPM concentration in the ambient air saw a decreasing trend from 2017 to 2020. This may be due to partial/complete lockdown, which may be attributed to lowered vehicular density on road, less consumption of petrol/ diesel fuel and complete/ partial closure of industrial establishments during lockdown periods, said the report. “The five years’ pre-monsoon data has been compared to find out the prevailing trend of air pollution in Lucknow and a slight change in the values may be attributed to some local environmental/climatic factors and curfew restrictions imposed by the government,” said the report. Among residential areas, Gomti Nagar recorded an average 128.7 microgram/cubic meter of the respirable suspended particulate matter (PM10) followed by Indira Nagar that recorded an average RSPM level of 124.5, in the report. The next is Vikas Nagar, with an average 117.3 RSPM level and Aliganj with lowest RSPM level of 111.9. “RSPM is of size 4 to 5 microns that settle inside human organs such as lungs when we breathe in polluted air,” said Dr AA Mahdi, HoD, biochemistry at King George’s Medical University. Among commercial areas, Charbagh with 143.8 RSPM levels remained the area with highest air pollution, followed by Alambagh 133.9, Chowk 121.1 and Aminabad 109.8. The Amausi industrial area recorded RSPM level of 152.5. The National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) has kept 100 microgram/cubic meter as the optimum value of RSPM in the air while WHO kept it at a maximum 50 microgram/cubic meter. None of the areas were within the NAAQS or WHO standards. “Pollutants in the air can directly be linked to diseases such as COPD, asthma and other respiratory disorders. A secondary result could be general weakness or even premature deaths,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director, Health City and Trauma Centre. The pre-monsoon ambient air quality assessment of Lucknow was carried out by the environmental monitoring division of CSIR-Indian Institute of Toxicology Research, Lucknow during April-May, 2021 PM2.5 level slightly upThe PM2.5 level, which refers to atmospheric particulate matter (PM) that have a diameter of less than 2.5 micrometers, was recorded a bit more than the limit prescribed by the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). In residential areas -- Aliganj, Vikas Nagar, Indira Nagar and Gomti Nagar, the 24-hour average concentrations of PM2.5 were in the range of 60.7 to 68.2 microgram/cubic meter while the NAQS prescribed limit is 60 microgram/cubic meter and WHO’s 25. In commercial areas like Charbagh, Alambagh, Aminabad and Chowk, the average concentrations of PM2.5 were in the range of 62 to 71.1 microgram/cubic meter with an average of 114.5. In industrial area Amausi, the average concentration of PM2.5 was 61.5 microgram/cubic meter. Increased noise pollution n residential areas, Aliganj, Vikas Nagar, Indira Nagar and Gomti Nagar, the day and night time noise levels were recorded between 67.0 and 70.7 (day time) and 55.4 and 60.0 (night time) dB(A), respectively. The values were higher than the prescribed limits of 55 and 45 dB (A) for day and night time, respectively. In commercial areas, Charbagh, Alambagh, Aminabad and Chowk, the day and night time noise levels were recorded between 67.2 and 79.0 and 52.3 and 61.3 dB(A), respectively. Noise level at all the commercial sites during day time were above the prescribed limits of 65 dB (A), as per the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/slight-dip-in-lucknow-s-air-pollution-due-to-corona-curfew-iitr-report-101622825477602.html
04-06-2021||Other||Ambala firm to manufacture anti-viral drug for mild Covid patients||A pharmaceutical firm based out of Ambala Cantonment has become first in Haryana to manufacture and sell Favipiravir, an anti-viral drug that can be used during treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 patients.On Thursday, M/s Mcneil and Argus Pharmaceutical Ltd, Rampur Sarhehri Road got permission from the state drug controller-cum-licensing authority, a day after it was approved by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI).The drug was evaluated in consultation with the subject expert committee as part of the accelerated approval process considering the emergency situation and unmet medical need in light of Covid outbreak for restricted emergency use in India, the DCGI had said.Chairman-cum-managing director of the firm, Bhai GD Chibber said they are already exporting the drug to Russia, China and other countries from last year and have now received the required approval for distribution for 400mg and 200mg composition in country.“Cost of per 400mg tablet will be ₹99 and ₹500 for 200mg and will be sold with a brand name Favimc,” Chibber said.On Saturday, state health minister Anil Vij is expected to visit the unit to oversee production and dispatch of the first batch for distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambala-firm-to-manufacture-anti-viral-drug-for-mild-covid-patients-101622825118120.html
04-06-2021||Other||Farmers block two roads in Hisar demanding release of young activists||Backing the protesters over their decision to gherao Jannayak Janata Party Tohana MLA Devender Babli’s house on Wednesday and demanding release of two youth farm leaders Ravi Azad and Vikal Pachar from Hisar jail, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesman Rakesh Tikait ad scores of farmers blocked Hisar-Rohtak highway near Ramayana toll plaza and another group blocked the Jind-Hansi road.The two activists were arrested from outside Babli’ s house by police on Wednesday. Tikait said they will open the highway after the safe release of both the farm leaders.“We demand release of the two young activists. We will not go anywhere from here until the administration ensures that our demand is met,” he added.CHARUNI CALLS FATEHABAD PROTESTERS ‘REBEL’, TIKAIT BACKS THEMBKU (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni and Tikait are at loggerheads over the Fatehabad incident.Tikait is sitting along with other protesters demanding release of two farm leaders while Charuni remained absent from the Ramayana toll plaza in Hisar.Calling the Fatehabad protesters “selfish and rebel”, Charuni had said that a few people who want to become heroes in the farm agitation have betrayed the farmers by protesting outside two police stations in Fatehabad on Wednesday night demanding registration of FIR against Babli.“Some people had gone against the decision of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leaders on Wednesday to gherao police stations across state on June 7 demanding registration of an FIR against Babli but these people gheraoed the MLA’s house on the same evening to sabotage the agitation,” he had said.But Tikait said those who had protested outside Babli’s house are their own people and have been actively participating in the farm agitation. “They went against SKM’s decision but we will realise their mistake. We will gherao police stations on June 7,” he added.A senior JJP leader, pleading anonymity, said Babli had met party’s state president Nishan Singh and deputy CM Dushyant Chautala in Chandigarh on Thursday and appraised them about the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-block-two-roads-in-hisar-demanding-release-of-young-activists-101622825058513.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||12 Haryana DCs shifted||The Haryana government on Friday shuffled deputy commissioners of 12 districts while issuing transfer orders of 42 IAS officers.As per the orders issued by the state government, Vinay Pratap Singh was posted as Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC), Vikram as Ambala DC, Anish Yadav as Sirsa DC, Mukul Kumar as Kurukshetra DC, AS Mann as Charkhi Dadri DC, Girish Arora as Yamunanagar DC, Mahavir Kaushik as Fatehabad DC, Shakti Singh as Nuh DC, Pradeep Dahiya as Kaithal DC, Lalit Kumar as Sonepat DC, Sushil Sarwan as Panipat DC, and Shyam Lal Poonia as Jhajjar DC.Among other transfers, Pankaj Yadav was posted as Ambala divisional commissioner, Sharandeep Kaur as Panchkula municipal corporation commissioner, Mukesh Ahuja as Gurugram municipal corporation commissioner, Dhirendra Khadgata as Ambala municipal corporation commissioner, and Manoj Kumar as Karnal municipal corporation commissioner.Dharmendra Singh was posted as administrator, HSVP, Panchkula; Rajesh Jogpal as administrator, HSVP, Hisar; and NS Banger as administrator, HSVP, Rohtak.Additional chief secretary, medical education, Alok Nigam was given additional charge of ACS, mines and geology. Managing director, HPGCL, Mohammad Shayin was given additional charge of director, mines and geology. Principal secretary, arts and culture, D Suresh was given additional charge of housing for all department.Director general, supplies and disposal, Nitin Yadav was given additional charge of secretary, employment. Gurugram divisional commissioner, Rajeev Ranjan was given additional charge of secretary, monitoring and coordination.Jagdeep Singh was posted as director general social justice and empowerment, Anshaj Singh as director elementary education, Rajiv Ratan as commissioner food and drugs administration, Sujan Singh as director Ayush, Mani Ram Sharma as special secretary home-II, Ashok Sharma as managing director warehousing corporation, Jitender Kumar-I as managing director Sugarfed, and Pradeep Kumar as administrator (HQ), HSVP, Panchkula.And Parth Gupta was posted as director, citizens resource information department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/12-haryana-dcs-shifted-101622824938676.html
04-06-2021||Other||7 Sirsa villages remain unaffected in second wave of Covid||Seven villages in Sirsa district remained unaffected by the second wave of Covid-19, which devastated many families across country.These villages are Makha, Musli, Budhi Mari, Dhani Sadha Singh, Dogranwali, Mori and Jorian. These villages have less than 5,000 population.Makha village sarpanch Veerpal Kaur said their village remained unaffected in both waves of the pandemic due to joint efforts made by the locals.“We are sanitising every village twice a week. The villagers have unanimously decided to ban entry of outsiders and everyone helped in imposing the decision. The locals purchased vegetables from farmers who in their villages. A few elderly people died in the village but none were affected by Covid,” she said.“The deceaseds’ families made announcements from temple speakers asking the villagers not to come for condolence prayers. The health department also conducted screening in the villages and Covid tests were conducted but not a single case was detected,” she added.Avtar Singh, of Dogranwali, said the locals have been asked not to go out of the village unless essential.“Even those running shops in the village go out of the village to fetch commodities only once or twice a month. Public gatherings and community celebrations are barred. Weddings are confined only to families of the bride and groom,” he added.Sukhbaj Singh, sarpanch of Budhi Mari village in Ellenabad constituency, said they have banned entry of every person in the village, who were not wearing a mask.“Youths sanitised the village and took out awareness campaigns asking locals to stay at home and go out only to bring animal fodder. We have prohibited playing cards at community centres and smoking hookah. All planned weddings were cancelled and villagers followed social distancing norms. We provided masks and sanitizers to people to restrict entry of the virus in the village periphery,” he added.Sirsa deputy civil surgeon Dr Budh Ram said seven villages in district have defeated the virus by implementing strict measures.“We provided every required help to the villages. The credit goes to villagers who took collective decisions to follow strict Covid guidelines,” the deputy CMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7-sirsa-villages-remain-unaffected-in-second-wave-of-covid-101622824938091.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s global bid to buy vaccines comes a cropper||The Haryana government’s move to purchase 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses through international bidding has fallen flat.With the last date for receipt of tender closing on Friday, no bid was received by the Haryana Medical Services Corporation Limited (HMSCL) which floated the global tender for buying vaccine on May 26.Officials said this has effectively put the onus back on the central government to buy vaccine in bulk and allocate to the states.Officials said keeping in view the scarce availability of vaccines, it was unlikely that a re-tender will be done to buy vaccines. The state government was banking on Russia-manufactured Sputnik V to make a bid as Sputnik is the only vaccine besides Covishield of Serum Institute of India and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech which has been granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI).However, even the Russians did not make a bid. China, which manufactured Sinopharm and Sinovac vaccines, was debarred from participating in the global tender in line with the restrictions imposed by the central government in public procurement from bidders of certain countries on grounds of defence or national security.“We made an effort to get the vaccine internationally despite low availability and prior commitments of Covid vaccine manufacturers, some of whom are yet to get a formal regulatory approval from the DCGI,” said an official.“However, it seems that the central government will have to play a proactive role in granting approvals and reaching out to vaccine manufacturers for purchase,” the official added. The state government expects delivery of over 9.50 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines including purchase of about 4.78 lakh doses for vaccinating people in the 18-45 age group.“There is now more demand from work population in 18-45 age category for getting vaccinated. The vaccine prioritisation strategy needs a relook,” an official said.SINGLE BID FOR AMPHOTERICIN WILL ALSO NEED CENTRE’S NODMeanwhile, only one entity has responded to the global tender floated by the HMSCL for buying 15,000 Amphotericin injections administered for treating patients of mucormycosis (black fungus).Officials said while the state government has decided to approve the single bid, the bidding entity will also need approval of the central government to allocate 15,000 Amphotericin vials to the Haryana government.“Amphotericin is a regulated commodity and the bidder won’t be able to provide the injections unless the allocation is approved by the central government,” officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-global-bid-to-buy-vaccines-comes-a-cropper-101622824818835.html
04-06-2021||Other||Ruckus in Jaunpur jail over death of inmate||VARANASI Inmates created a ruckus in the Jaunpur district jail on Friday evening after the death of a convict during treatment in a hospital on the premises. They indulged in brick-batting, set afire a blanket and beat up a cop, said a senior police official.The situation was tense but under control while heavy police force had been deployed around the jail, he said. A prisoner, Bagesh Mishra, 42, who was convicted of murder, was suffering from diabetes and respiratory problem. When his condition deteriorated on Thursday, Mishra was shifted from his barrack to the hospital. On Friday, his condition worsened. Thereafter, jail officials rushed him to the district hospital in Jaunpur and informed his kin. Doctors at the district hospital declared him brought dead, said the official.The deceased’s brother, Anil Kumar Mishra, reached the hospital along with his kin and accused the jail administration of negligence in providing treatment to his brother. Mishra confirmed that his brother had diabetes and some respiratory problem.As the information reached the jail inmates, they got furious. They went on the rampage and beat up a jail cop badly, said the official.Thereafter, divisional commissioner, Varanasi, Deepak Agarwal and IG (range) SK Bhagat reached the jail along with heavy police force. They monitored situation in the jail through drone. A senior officer said the situation in the jail was volatile, but it would be brought under control soon.Jail superintendent SK Pandey refuted the allegations by the deceased’s kin saying he regularly visited inmates under treatment in the hospital. “As Bagesh Mishra’s condition became serious, he was rushed to the district hospital by an ambulance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ruckus-in-jaunpur-jail-over-death-of-inmate-101622823137304.html
04-06-2021||Other||Suspected cattle smuggler lynched by mob in Mathura||AGRA A suspected cattle smuggler was allegedly shot dead and four of his accomplices injured when they were attacked by a mob comprising cow vigilantes in Kosi Kalan town of UP’s Mathura on Friday.The cattle were allegedly stolen from Hathras district and were being ferried to Mewat area of Haryana on a light commercial vehicle (LCV). “A man identified as Sher Khan, 50, was shot dead in the exchange of fire between the villagers and suspected smugglers,” informed Shirish Chand, SP (rural), Mathura. “Four injured accomplices of Khan are in custody. They have been referred to the district hospital for treatment. Half a dozen cattle were recovered from the spot and vehicle has been seized,” he stated. The suspected smugglers opened fire when they were chased by the villagers of Tumora. In retaliation, villagers fired at them and allegedly killed Sher Khan and thrashed his accomplices, said cops. The police rescued the injured ‘smugglers’ from the angry villagers and took them into custody while three others fled from the spot. The LCV was noticed by a villager, Baba Chandrashekhar, who informed other villagers. The suspected smugglers changed their route and started firing at the villagers who were chasing them. Chandrashekhar lodged a complaint against three named and five unidentified ‘smugglers’ at the Kosi Kalan police station. Those injured were identified as Anees, Rehman, Shahzad and Sonu -- all from Bulandshahr.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/suspected-cattle-smuggler-lynched-by-mob-in-mathura-101622823017353.html
04-06-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,464 new Covid cases, 20 deaths||Pune: On Friday, the state health department reported 1,464 new Covid-19 cases in the district in the last 24 hours. With 20 more deaths, the toll in the district went up to 13,206 and progressive cases up to 1.023 million Covid cases of which 0.987 million have recovered and 22,725 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Pune rural on Friday reported 836 new cases which took the progressive counts to 292,569 and with five more deaths the death toll went to 4,315. Pune city reported 372 new cases which took the progressive count to 486,246 and with 14 more deaths the toll went up to 7,021 while PCMC reported 256 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 244,946. With one more death, the toll went stood at 1,810. The state reported 20,852 patients discharged and 5,507,058 Covid patients discharged after full recovery until Friday. The recovery rate in the state is 94.86%. Also, 14,152 new cases and 289 Covid deaths were reported in the state on Friday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.7%. Of 36,031,395 laboratory samples 5,805,565 have been tested positive (16.11%) for Covid until Friday. Currently, 1,475,476 people are in home quarantine and 7,430 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-464-new-covid-cases-20-deaths-101622822777368.html
04-06-2021||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad inch closer to lifting of Covid curbs as active cases drop below 700||The number of active coronavirus cases dropped to 677 in Ghaziabad and 665 in Gautam Buddh Nagar on Friday, official data showed as the two adjoining districts in western Uttar Pradesh inched closer to lifting the curfew-like restrictions.The state government had through an order recently announced relaxations on the outdoor movement of people and on non-essential services in districts having less than 600 active cases.The restrictions get automatically lifted once the active cases in a district drop below 600, the order had stated.Meanwhile, two more people succumbed to Covid-19 in Gautam Buddh Nagar while one died in Ghaziabad with the death toll in the two districts reaching 455 and 447, respectively, according to UP's Health Department data for a 24-hour period.Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 53 new cases that pushed its overall tally to 62,585, with 655 active cases while 116 patients recovered from the infection, the data showed.Ghaziabad's overall case tally surged to 55,199 with 26 new cases, while it had 677 active cases even as 75 patients recovered during the 24-hour period, it showed.The overall recoveries reached 61,475 in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 54,075 in Ghaziabad.Meanwhile, the number of active Covid-19 cases in UP reached 22,877 from 25,546 on Thursday while the death toll surged to 21,031 on Friday, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-ghaziabad-inch-closer-to-lifting-of-covid-curbs-as-active-cases-drop-below-700-101622822437838.html
04-06-2021||Ranchi||Tiger dies at Ranchi zoo, samples sent for testing||A 10-year-old tiger died at Ranchi’s Bhagwan Birsa Biological Park after suffering from fever on Thursday night, officials said on Friday, adding that the animal tested negative for Covid-19. However, its samples were being sent for advanced testing. The park, that was now left with nine tigers, procured Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits to test the carnivores for Covid-19. “...we are sending swab, blood samples and (a) lung (of the tiger) to IVRI (Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly) for detailed investigation, and to find out if the animal was infected with any coronavirus like disease,” said O P Sahu, a veterinary doctor at the biological park. He added that the tiger’s blood test suggested liver and kidney infection and its RAT was conducted on Friday morning. However, RAT has been found to be less accurate than polymerase chain reaction tests, that are considered the gold standard for detecting Covid-19. The scare of animals being exposed to coronavirus was not new. Earlier this May, eight Asiatic lions at a Hyderabad zoo tested positive for Covid-19. It was the first such instance in the country, prompting the Centre to order closure of all national parks, sanctuaries, and national zoological parks. The infected lions were isolated and have since recovered, while similar cases have been reported from other parts of the country. In the recent tiger’s death, a four-member veterinary doctors’ team on Friday conducted its postmortem examination. The tiger was brought to Ranchi from Bengaluru’s Bannerghatta Biological Park in November 2014, officials said. As per available information, the tiger was suffering from fever on Tuesday, that subsided after medication. On Wednesday, the tiger did not eat well. “It did not eat at all on Thursday. Then, we called an expert from Ranchi Veterinary College and a vet from Tata Zoo. We also consulted vets in Hyderabad. The animal was given saline. But, it did not survive,” said the park’s director, Y K Das, adding that the tiger was genetically weak. “It was suffering from health issues. Its liver and kidney were comparatively weak,” he said. Notably, the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) has sent guidelines and advisories to zoos, ranging from prevention to sample collection to detection in suspected cases to safety protocols for animal keepers, amid surge in Covid-19 cases. According to the United States Centre for Disease Control (CDC) and Prevention, there is currently no evidence that animals play a significant role in spreading coronavirus infection to humans. It said in an advisory on its website that more studies were needed to understand if and how different animals can be affected by Sars-CoV-2, and if Covid-19 can spread from people to animals in some situations, especially during close contact. When asked why a test for the disease was not conducted as per the CZA’s directions, Das said the tiger did not show Covid-19 symptoms. “...we tried to test it for Covid-19, but the test kit was unavailable. Then, we procured it from outside, which was delivered on Thursday night,” he said, adding that the tiger was isolated since the onset of fever. “We have procured 24 test kits and Covid test will be conducted of all carnivores,” Das said. Praveen Kumar, an assistant professor at Ranchi Veterinary College who examined the tiger, said by the time it could be tested for Covid-19, its condition deteriorated. “We gave saline to the animal with difficulties, as its vein were not found. The Covid test kit was brought but the test could not be conducted on Thursday night, as diluents were missing in the kit,” he said, adding that he does not suspect it to be coronavirus. Meanwhile, DS Srivastava, a former state wildlife board member, blamed the park for negligence. “The tiger fell seriously sick amid Covid-19 pandemic. Why was the test not done at the first stage? Even if the tiger was not suffering from coronavirus, why it was not given proper treatment from specialist doctors?” he questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/tiger-dies-at-ranchi-zoo-samples-sent-for-testing-101622821877238.html
04-06-2021||Other||Cabinet approves one-month additional salary to doctors, health workers||Strap: the cabinet also gave go-ahead to one-time settlement of energy department, under which rural households could pay their dues in installments without interest HT Correspondenthtjharkhand@hindustantimes.comRanchi: Jharkhand cabinet on Friday approved one-month additional salary to doctors and health staff involved in Covid related duties and also nodded one-time settlement scheme of energy department in a bid to provide relief to rural consumers for paying their dues.The state cabinet, which approved as many as 32 proposals, also gave go-ahead to floating solar power plant on water bodies, under which a 100megawatt floating solar power plant will be set up at Ranchi’s Getalsud dam in the very first phase of the scheme, officials said.Cabinet secretary Vandana Dadel said the cabinet also approved the remuneration enhancement to mid-day meal cooks. “Now, they would get remuneration of ₹2,000 per month, as cabinet has approved the increment proposal of ₹500, which will be effective from April 1 this year. This will put a burden of ₹39.79 crore annually,” she said.The proposal of salary revision for doctors, teaching and non-teaching staff of Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (RIMS) according to seventh pay commission has also been given cabinet nod. The RIMS doctors, teaching and non-teaching staff have been demanding for their salary revision.Jharkhand Bijli Vitaran Nigam Limited’s (JBVN) one-time settlement scheme has approved by the cabinet. Dadel said, “This is very important. Under the scheme, rural domestic consumers will get an opportunity to clear their dues. Rural domestic consumers will be able to pay bills in installments without interest.”The state cabinet gave its nod to withdraw the special duty imposed during the Covid pandemic last year. However, excise duty has been increased, which might impact on liquor retail price.The state’s liquor storage and wholesale rules 2021 has also been approved under which private parties would also be allowed for wholesale of liquors.EOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cabinet-approves-one-month-additional-salary-to-doctors-health-workers-101622821817296.html
04-06-2021||Other||BJP expels rebel MLC||PATNAThe BJP expelled its recalcitrant MLC Tunna Pandey on Friday, a day after he was served a show cause following his utterances against chief minister Nitish Kumar.“You were served a show cause notice by party’s disciplinary committee chairperson Vinay Singh. Despite this, you issued a statement that shows you do not respect party’s guidelines. Therefore, you are removed from the party with immediate effect,” said a letter issued by BJP’s state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal on Friday.After getting the show cause, Pandey had met late former Siwan MP Mohammed Shahbuddin’s son Osama at their residence. Talking to media persons, he had said, “I have been given 10 days time to reply… This is not the first time I have got the notice. It has happened many a time. At the most, they will remove me from the party. Party does not run my expenses and I do not aim to contest polls as well. I am not afraid of anybody.” Pandey was elected to the Legislative Council from local body quota in 2015 and his term ends on July 16, 2021. Of late, he has been flirting with the RJD. In fact, one of his brothers, Bachcha Pandey, is RJD MLA from Barharia seat. Pandey had attacked Nitish Kumar for alleged high-handedness and remarked that the mandate of last assembly polls was in favour of Tejashwi Yadav. “But Nitish Kumar became the chief minister only because of changed circumstances,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-expels-rebel-mlc-101622821697345.html
04-06-2021||Other||Teachers’ recruitment: Day after HC order, govt notifies dates for persons with disability||PATNAA day after the Patna High Court order, Bihar’s education department on Friday issued the notification to give opportunity to the differently abled candidates, including the visually impaired, to apply in the sixth phase of recruitment of teachers for the primary, secondary and higher secondary schools. The government has come up with a separate procedure only for those candidates from the different abled category who could not apply in 2019. The district education officers (DEOs) will make the available the vacancies — as per recruiting agency, subject and category — on the web portal with clarity by June 9, while the candidates could apply from June 11 to June 25 at the recruiting agency concerned or through post. After the receipt of applications, they will be screened, and the recruiting agencies concerned will proceed further as per the laid down provisions to prepare the revised merit list. The recruiting agencies at the panchayat, block and district level had earlier prepared the merit list, but after the court stay on recruitments in 2020, things got stuck. The Patna HC had on Thursday cleared the decks for recruitment of nearly 1.25 lakh school teachers by giving relief to the petitioners, the National Federation of the Blind Bihar branch, which filed a petition against denial of 4% reservation the differently abled as per the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995 as also the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. The appointment had remained stuck for nearly two years and the court did early hearing in the case on the request of education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary. The minister said he would like the process to be completed at the earliest, without any further wrangles. “The government also has to carry out seventh phase recruitments. But before that, the sixth phase has to be completed, hopefully in the next couple of months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teachers-recruitment-day-after-hc-order-govt-notifies-dates-for-persons-with-disability-101622821637932.html
04-06-2021||Other||CM tasks DMs, SPs to hold fortnightly meet to resolve land dispute||PATNAChief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday asked district magistrates (DMs) and the superintendents of police (SPs) of to review and dispose cases of land disputes in their respective districts every fortnight to bring down crimes in the state. Kumar was holding a high-level review meeting on law and order through video conferencing. All senior officers, including chief secretary Tripurari Sharan, director general of police SK Singhal and DMs and SPs of all districts, joined the meeting. Listing out measures for speedy disposal of land related cases, the CM said land disputes were the major reason behind crimes in Bihar. “Besides the DM-SP meeting, subdivisional police officers (SPDOs) and SDOs shall hold meeting with circle officers and station house officers (SHO) once in a week to speed up the disposal process. As per officials, nearly 60 per cent of violent crimes in the state have their roots in land disputes. Keeping this in view, the CM had earlier asked the revenue and land reforms department to complete fresh survey and settlement of land records at the earliest. The CM also directed the officials to properly review all cases of crime so that the guilty are not let off. “Night patrolling must be intensified and women police personnel be posted at all police stations across the state,” he told the DGP, adding that information gathering at village level shall be reinforced without any delay. The officers were also told to ensure speedy trial of all important cases. “Investigation of all cases shall be backed up with scientific based analysis so that the cases stood in the law of court,” said the CM. The opposition parties, during the last assembly session, had cornered the state government on the law and order situation, alleging that the crime had doubled last year as compared to 2005 when the RJD-led dispensation ruled the state. Opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had claimed that the number of cognisable offence cases was 97,850 when the RJD rule ended in 2005, but the number rose to 1,96,911 cases in 2018 during NDA regime, registering a 101.2 per cent of growth. The CM had, however, disputed the contention, and cited data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) to claim that the crime had come down in Bihar over the last few years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cm-tasks-dms-sps-to-hold-fortnightly-meet-to-resolve-land-dispute-101622821637273.html
04-06-2021||Other||Temple trust braces for third wave; to set up 60-bed paediatric Covid hospital||PATNAThe Mahavir Vatsalya Aspatal, managed by the Mahavir temple trust, will set up a 60-bed dedicated paediatric Covid-19 hospital on its premises next month to cope with the challenge posed by a possible third wave of coronavirus that could target children. The trust’s initiative comes before Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted on Friday that arrangements at neonatal ICU, paediatric ICU and special newborn care units of government medical college hospitals and district hospitals were being improved in anticipation of the third wave affecting children. The Mahavir Vatsalya Aspatal has found support from a Chennai-based NGO, One More Breath, which has offered assistance. The support was routed through top government functionaries, who said the resources could be best utilised by the trust, which already runs five hospitals — the Mahavir Cancer Sansthan, Mahavir Arogya, Mahavir Vatsalya, Mahavir Heart Hospital, Mahavir Eye Hospital and the Mahavir Agrasen Sewa Samiti, a child and maternity hospital in Begusarai. “The NGO has committed to provide us hospital beds and equipment like nebuliser, infusion pump, suction pump, Bipap machine, oxygen concentrators, etc.,” said Kishore Kunal, secretary of the Mahavir Temple Trust. “We are arranging ventilator support on 35-40 beds besides providing other allied items to set up the requisite infrastructure by next month,” he said. “We are installing a separate elevator on the back side of our existing hospital building to access the second floor, exclusively for paediatric Covid-19 patients,” Kunal said. The ₹2 crore 60-bed dedicated paediatric Covid-19 hospital project was in addition to the existing 70 non-Covid bed hospital, including a 40-bed neonatal ICU. Philanthropy in Covid times amid dwindling earning The trust, which manages the over 300-year-old iconic Mahavir temple in Patna, is not untouched by the pandemic. Its annual earning through donations has taken a severe hit due to the temple’s closure during the lockdown. “Our average annual earning through the temple is ₹20 crore (approx.), which we primarily use to support our five not-for-profit hospitals. Our earnings were almost nil during the pandemic. We have been compelled to take a bank loan of ₹4 crore against our fixed deposit, the first time in the last decade,” said Kunal. The financial crunch during the pandemic notwithstanding, the Mahavir temple trust has gone ahead with its philanthropic activities. It has been supplying free medical oxygen cylinders to those infected by coronavirus and under home isolation. It also provides refilling facility of small oxygen cylinders free of cost. The initiative was launched last month during the peak of oxygen crisis that lasted almost a fortnight in Patna, claiming precious lives, forcing the Patna High Court to take cognizance. At a time when the 91 hospitals empanelled by the government in Patna to treat Covid-19 cases put up house-full boards, the trust opened its doors to cure Covid-19 patients at its Mahavir Arogya Sansthan. It earmarked 40 beds for Covid-19 patients and extended treatment at rates fixed by the government, when many other private health facilities took it as an opportunity to mint money, charging arbitrary rates from patients. The Patna district administration has already issued show-cause notices to 12 of the 31 private health facilities presently under its scanner. “We have registered FIRs against four private health facilities for overcharging patients and got five other hospitals to refund excess payment to relatives of patients. Inquiries are on in several other similar complaints,” said Richie Pandey, Patna’s deputy development commissioner, also the senior nodal officer, treatment cell of Covid-19, constituted by district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh. The trust had donated ₹1 crore to the Bihar Chief Minister Relief Fund in March last year as soon as the first case of Covid-19 was reported in the state, said Kunal. It also partnered with the government in inoculating people against Covid-19 free of cost between January and April 30, after which the government stopped free supply of vaccines and asked non-government facilities to approach vaccine firms directly for supplies. Ironically, government red tape has delayed its efforts to revive vaccination at its hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/temple-trust-braces-for-third-wave-to-set-up-60-bed-paediatric-covid-hospital-101622821577252.html
04-06-2021||Pune||First time after second wave, 7 of 15 PMC wards have zero micro-containment zones||Pune: Following a drastic drop in the number of Covid cases, the city’s active micro containment zones have fallen from 56 to 28 within a week. As of Thursday, the city has 28 active zones of which six are in building, 10 in societies and 12 others. The fall in city’s positivity rate also facilitated its ease in the lockdown restrictions earlier. As of now, almost half of the city’s wards, which is seven out of the 15 wards do not have any active micro containment zones. According to the information from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), as of Thursday, seven wards have the least number of active zones which is almost half the number of wards within PMC limits. This is for the first time since the second wave of Covid receded that half the wards have no active zones. The wards that have zero zones are Warje-Karvenagar, Kothrud-Bawdhan, Dhole Patil road, Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori, Bhawani Peth, Bibwewadi and Kondhwa Yewelewadi. While the highest number of active zones is present on Sinhgad road and Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar wards which have nine active zones each. Micro containment zones intend to stop the spread of infection by restricting public movement. Santosh Warule, assistant commissioner of Warje-Karvenagar, “The criterion for an active micro containment zone is five or more positive cases. In such a situation, to control the number of cases we effectively implemented contract tracing in our ward especially among high-risk contacts. Also, by declaring societies as micro containment zones the outside facilities including daily household maids and parcel services were hampered which made people follow Covid appropriate behaviour properly.” Additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “We have crossed over 11 lakh vaccinations in Pune city and we have only 28 micro containment zones. Also, we have only two per cent active cases of Covid. This is a big positive news after the city faced the huge surge in the second wave.” Micro containment zones in the city A week ago, the city reported 56 active micro containment zones which has reduced to 28. Wards without micro containment zones Warje-Karvenagar Kothrud-Bavdhan Dhole Patil road Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori Bhawani Peth Bibwewadi Kondhwa Yewelewadi Wards with only one active zone Kasba-Vishrambaugwada Aundh-Baner Shivajinagar-Ghole road Ahmednagar road-Wadgaonsheri As of Thursday, Pune city has 20 micro containment zones in 6 buildings, 10 societies and 12 others||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/first-time-after-second-wave-7-of-15-pmc-wards-have-zero-micro-containment-zones-101622820558538.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Ready to face whatever the court decides: Gautam Gambhir on drug hoarding case||Cricketer-turned-politician Gautam Gambhir told reporters on Friday that he’s ready to face the Delhi high court’s decision in the ongoing Fabiflu hoarding case, adding that his foundation will keep on working for the people.“The matter (Distribution of Fabiflu drug) is in the court. Whatever the court will decide, I am ready to face it. All I can say is Gautam Gambhir Foundation will keep working for people,” ANI quoted Gambhir as saying.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament from East Delhi had been found guilty of unauthorisedly stocking and distributing Fabiflu pills to Covid-19 patients by the Delhi government's drug control department. The drug controller told the Delhi high court on Thursday that Gautam Gambhir Foundation had committed an offence under Drugs and Cosmetics Act as it was found stocking medicine in an unauthorised manner. The court has listed the manner for further hearing on July 29.On May 7, the Delhi high court while hearing a plea filed by Deepak Kumar, sought a first information report (FIR) against Gambhir and directed the Delhi Police to carry out an investigation. The court also asked the drug controller to probe deeper into the case.The drug controller gave Gambhir and his foundation a clean chit in its report submitted before the court on May 31.“If your Drug Controller is not interested in doing the job, then we will ask that he be removed and let somebody else take over. What investigation? This is trash. There is no legal basis to it,” the court had said.The court also criticised the politician for causing a shortage of essential medication, adding that there are other ways of helping people."You (Gautam Gambhir) did charity and tried to help the people, but in that you caused a shortage because of which genuine patients could not get the medicine. There could have been other ways of helping people," the court said.The court has asked the drug controller to take action against the individuals in its report “so that an example is set”, directing it to submit a status report on the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ready-to-face-whatever-the-court-decides-gautam-gambhir-on-drug-hoarding-case-101622820012402.html
04-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 14,152 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours; 973 in Mumbai||Maharashtra reported 14,152 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department bulletin issued on Friday evening. The Covid-19 daily update issued for the Greater Mumbai area on this day shows that the city reported 973 fresh cases in the preceding 24 hours. The state recorded 289 new deaths in the same duration, of which 24 were in Mumbai. Both the infection tally and the number of new deaths on Friday came down from yesterday, which saw the state clocking over 15,000 new cases.Also Read: Maharashtra prepares five-level unlock planThe state has been logging under 25,000 cases for the past nine consecutive days now. A total of 181,210 cases were recorded in the state from May 24 to June 2, which averaged 20,134 cases daily. In contrast, the state reported a total of 270,682 cases from May 15 to May 23, which averaged 30,074 daily.Maharashtra reports 14,152 new #COVID19 cases, 289 deaths and 20, 852 recoveries in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 1,96,894Total cases: 58,05,565Total discharges: 55,07,058 pic.twitter.com/mEX2FhHspPAccording to the Maharashtra health department, the cumulative infection tally in the state has now been pushed up to 5,805,565, while 5,507,058 patients have been cured of Covid-19 in the state till now. Of these recoveries, 20,852 were recorded in the preceding 24 hours.Also Read: Mumbai: BMC orders banning of political hoardings, banners at vaccination centresIn Mumbai, 1,207 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals on Friday, showing that no active cases are currently in the city. The recovery rate of Mumbai is estimated to be 95%. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in its Covid-19 daily report, pointed out that the overall growth rate of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai from May 28 to June 03 was merely 0.13%.There are currently 31 active containment zones (slums and chawls) in Mumbai, and 126 active sealed buildings, which have been instituted to further check the spread of the coronavirus in the city.In view of the improvement in the state’s Covid-19 situation, the government is planning to lift lockdown restrictions, albeit via a five-level unlock plan. It has decided to categorise districts and cities based on their testing positivity rate and occupancy rate of oxygen beds. Those coming under level 1 are likely to be freed from all restrictions. The proposal was discussed in the state disaster management authority (SDMA) meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Districts and cities under level 2 are likely allowed to open up all activities, but they may face restrictions on timings or number of people. Mumbai is likely to be part of level 2. State relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar also clarified that local trains will not be allowed to run, as of now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-14-152-new-covid-19-cases-in-last-24-hours-973-in-mumbai-101622817690194.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t have the heart to give them up for adoption: Kin||A four-year-old boy and his three elder sisters, aged 7, 11 and 16, of Jhoju village in Charkhi Dadri district lost their 40-year-old father, a former army personnel, and their 69-year-old grandfather, also a retired soldier, to Covid-19 in May. Their aunt, a housewife, is now looking after the four children at her in-laws’ house at Kadma village of the district. Also read: 17 girls among 30 children orphaned due to Covid in Haryana“My brother retired from the army in 2019 after his wife died of an illness. We lost our mother soon after. My brother and father were bringing up the four children but with both of them succumbing to coronavirus within eight days, there was no one else to look after them. They have no financial support to continue their studies. My eldest niece is a student of Class 12, and the youngest nephew is in kindergarten. I don’t have the heart to give them up for adoption,” said the aunt, breaking down. “My husband and I had also tested positive,” she added. Charkhi Dadri deputy commissioner Rajesh Jogpal, who was transferred as part of an administrative reshuffle on Friday, said the administration is aware of the four children and they are among the 13 kids who have been orphaned in the district. “They are entitled to the financial assistance announced by the state government and the needful is being done,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-have-the-heart-to-give-them-up-for-adoption-kin-101622819357826.html
04-06-2021||Other||PMC reinstates heritage conservation committee; first meeting on June 10||PUNE The Pune municipal corporation (PMC) has reinstated a heritage conservation committee, to oversee all heritage work undertaken as per the latest development plans.The committee will advise the municipal commissioner on all areas of historic, aesthetical, architectural and cultural significance.The last heritage committee was constituted in 2010.The new committee has Chandrakant Dalvi as chairman, along with representatives from the Town Planning commission of Pune Division, the Archaeological Survey of India and the Archaeology department of the Government of Maharashtra. Shirish Kembhavi (architect), Mandar Lavate (historian) and Bal Kulkarni (structural engineer) are also on the committee.The civic body has prepared a new draft list of heritage structures, as well as architectural and natural monuments in the city. This list totalled 251 structures in 2000, while in 1996, the list had 244 structures. This committee will help get listed heritage buildings restored in the best possible manner.“The first meeting will be held on June 10, 2021. We have just been appointed and will try to understand the future plans for maintaining the heritage structures of the city,” said Dalvi.Shirish Khembhavi, architect and conservationist, said, “The job of the heritage committee is to scrutinise the development of the listed heritage structures according to the new DC rules. There are some works still in progress, like that of Lal Mahal, which we will take an overview of once we convene the meeting.”PMC’s heritage department has so far worked on restoration and conservation of Kedari wada, Tulshibaug’s Ram mandir, SP college, Bhandarkar Institute, Gokhale Institute, the Chaturshrungi temple and Nana wwada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-reinstates-heritage-conservation-committee-first-meeting-on-june-10-101622818817154.html
04-06-2021||Pune||PMC issues notices to 172 private hospitals for overcharging Covid patients||Pune: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department has issued notices to 172 private hospitals for overcharging Covid patients. The civic administration has been instrumental in refunding those who were billed in excess. PMC has been assessing hospitals for their role in overcharging patients based on citizen complaints for the past one year. It has now once again swung back into auditing the hospital billing as part of the citizen grievance redressal mechanism process.Assistant health officer Manisha Naik said that since the outbreak of the second wave in March, the number of complaints regarding overcharging has gone up and PMC is scrutinising each complaint. “The health department is receiving at least 25 complaints daily and we have acted upon all of them till now. We received complaints against 222 hospitals and notices have been issued to 172 of them. Of them, 90 cases have been addressed, 27 billing have been re-audited, ₹20 lakh has been refunded and 15 complainants could not be traced,” she said.The health department had issued a notice to a prominent hospital for overcharging 34 patients. When there was no response from the hospital, the department issued a licence cancellation notice and the hospital refunded ₹22 lakh to patients.Even as the state government has capped Covid treatment in private hospitals under three categories, PMC received several complaints about overcharging by the private hospitals. Hence, PMC launched audit of private hospital bills since March 2021. It was observed that some hospitals overcharged for the treatment under the pretext of other services. The bill amount was charged between ₹2 lakh and ₹8 lakh per person.PMC health department chief Dr Ashish Bharti said, “We are going to examine every pre and post Covid hospital admission bill.” District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said that he has issued guidelines to government institutions seeking audit of Covid bills and refund patients. The collector has sought detailed report on total cases of overcharging, refund status and pending figure to be submitted within seven days.Four docs booked for overcharging Covid patientThe Pimpri-Chinchwad police on May 31 registered a case against four doctors attached with a private hospital in Chakan, for overcharging a Covid-19 patient of ₹1.5 lakh. The patient, a resident of Ozar in Pune district, was admitted to the hospital and charged ₹2.5 lakh towards ventilator, ICU, medication and allied charges. An audit conducted by a panel under Chakan rural hospital superintendent Nanda Dhavale revealed that the bill amount was Rs1.5 lakh more than the actual cost. Later, the Chakan rural hospital superintendent lodged a complaint against the four doctors and an FIR was filed against the doctors under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 188 (disobedience) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-issues-notices-to-172-private-hospitals-for-overcharging-covid-patients-101622817677067.html
04-06-2021||Other||Incomplete road work in Pimple Gurav has residents fearing the monsoons||PUNE Partially completed roads in Pimple Gurav, Pimpri- Chinchwad have left residents fearing the worst as heavy pre-monsoon showers signal the onset of the monsoons.Major roads within Pimple Gurav have either been dug up for concretisation or for drainage work.As per the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) 28 roads in Pimple Gurav have work on as of June 4. Pimple Gurav, Pimple Saudagar, and Wakad were included in an area-based development project for smart city. (see box)Mahesh Jagtap, corporator said, “It’s now more than one year that road work is going on in Pimple Gurav. The work under PCMC’s smart city project is going on at a snail’s pace. Every day I am receiving complaints from residents and shopkeepers. Even after having permission to continue work during the lockdown, the work never picked up pace. Concerned officers are not focusing on speeding up work.”Bharat Barambhe, a regular commuter from Sangvi to Pimple Gaurav said, “The condition of the roads is in a bad state. With relaxation timings extended, things are becoming more chaotic due to traffic and traffic jams.”Residents fear the start of the monsoon season.“We have evening showers every day for the last few days,” said Rohan Dofe, who has a grocery shop in Pimple Gurav.Vijay Bhojane, additional city engineer of PCMC, said, “We are making sure that prople don’t face any commuting problem during the rains. The development work is on track and we will try to finish it early.”Smart area-based developmentPimple Saudagar, Pimple Gurav and Wakad have been included under the area-based development project of the Smart City.The estimated cost of the project is ₹344.54 crore.The smart roads will comprise pedestrian pathways, a bicycle path, storm water drains, LED street lights, traffic signage, smart toilets, and landscaping. Two parks are also under redevelopment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/incomplete-road-work-in-pimple-gurav-has-residents-fearing-the-monsoons-101622815757013.html
04-06-2021||Pune||Sassoon hosp conducts 100 mucormycosis surgeries, 83 in May alone||Pune: The 100th surgery for mucormycosis has been successfully performed at Pune’s Sassoon General Hospital on June 3. The hospital run by the state government has been at the forefront of the fight against not only Covid, but post-Covid mucormycosis also. According to the doctors who treated patients down with the black fungus at the hospital, it was found that most of these cases were found in Covid-19 recovered patients. They said that apart from steroids given during Covid treatment, the fungus easily enters the body through the nose of patients with co-morbidities (diabetes, hypertension, cancer) and low immunity. The fungus later infects the eyes and brain, causing the patient to lose sight or life. More than 201 patients have been admitted to Sassoon hospital since the onset of mucormycosis and the 100th surgery was carried out on June 3. On an average about 7-8 new patients were being admitted to the hospital daily, according to the hospital staff. Dr Sameer Joshi, head, ENT department, said, “To be specific, we have performed 118 mucormycosis surgeries of which 110 were of ENT alone since mucor affects the ENT first. We have reported only one death due to the black fungus till now. Most of these surgeries happened post the second wave in April, and 83 of these operations happened in May alone. We are operating 11 patients on a daily basis. As of Monday, we will have only four patients on the waiting list. This is probably the highest number of surgeries performed by any hospital in the state. However, only after three months can we say if the surgery was a success since through surgery it we remove the dead tissue and over 90% of the fungus, but 10% is still present in the body which is invisible to the naked eye. So, we continue to prescribe amphotericin even after surgery. We also have a few patients who come to us for post-operative surgery. Only two of these 118 were non-Covid mucor cases which were due to cancer.” The mucormycosis surgeries included FESS (Functional Endoscopic Sinus Surgery) plus skull base surgery, also two craniotomy, two cancer patients and 11 patients who underwent surgery due to fungal infection in the blood vessels of the brain and four patients who underwent surgery due to fungal pus in the brain. Most of these surgeries were performed under the government’s MJPJAY (Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana) scheme and also the injections required for the treatment were provided under the government scheme. As these complicated surgeries require multi specialists, a team of doctors from the hospital’s Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT), ophthalmology, medicine and anaesthesia departments performed the surgeries. Maharashtra has declared the disease as a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and so every case is recorded. As of now, the state has recorded over 5,000 mucormycosis cases since March 2020. The state government has also capped prices for the treatment of mucormycosis and suspected patients in private and charitable hospitals. It has made it mandatory for them to display the rates and explain the same to patients and their relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sassoon-hosp-conducts-100-mucormycosis-surgeries-83-in-may-alone-101622815396925.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Labourer comes to rescue of siblings orphaned due to Covid in Ambala||After their father died of a cardiac arrest in 2019, their 32-year-old mother was bringing them up single-handedly till the second Covid-19 wave claimed her life in Ambala in March, leaving the two children orphaned. The 15-year-old girl and her 11-year-old brother are now being looked after by their 36-year-old maternal uncle, who is a labourer and the sole breadwinner of a family of nine that includes his elderly parents, wife, two children, an unmarried brother. Also read: 17 girls among 30 children orphaned due to Covid in HaryanaAccording to the district health department, the children’s mother tested positive on March 10, and she died of acute respiratory distress syndrome three days later at MM Medical College, Mullana. “She was referred from Ambala civil hospital to Mullana after her condition worsened. Ever since she tested positive, her children have been living with us,” says the uncle. “They have two paternal uncles, but they expressed helplessness. In today’s time, it’s difficult to fend for one’s own family, how does one look after another’s children?” he says. The children are students of Classes 10 and 6 in a government school. “With schools closed, they are home and share a strong bond with my children. The elder sister keeps consoling her brother whenever he gets upset,” he says. Hit hard by the pandemic, the uncle has sought government help and submitted documents required with the district administration. “I don’t expect a new house from the government but at least it can help with their education and insurance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/labourer-comes-to-rescue-of-siblings-orphaned-due-to-covid-in-ambala-101622815217543.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 523 new Covid-19 cases, 50 deaths in last 24 hours||Delhi reported 523 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, according to the health department's official update on Friday evening. As many as 50 deaths were recorded in this duration, the bulletin stated. Both the single-day spike and the number of new deaths in the national capital on Friday showed a marginal increase from last day's tally, the data showed. Delhi had on Thursday reported 487 new Covid-19 cases and 45 deaths.With today's stats, the cumulative number of total positive cases in Delhi has mounted to 1,428,449 while the death toll now resides at 24,497.Delhi's Covid-19 test positivity rate (TPR) also peaked slightly to 0.68% from 0.61% a day ago. However, the TPR remained below 1% for the fifth consecutive day on Friday. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), a consistent positivity rate below 5%, for a period of at least two weeks before an outbreak, is recommended before the area can be considered to be completely under control. Delhi’s positivity rate has remained below the stipulated mark for over two weeks now.While the number of active cases in Delhi is currently 8,060, the case fatality rate is 1.71%. At the peak of the fourth wave, Delhi reported scores of deaths every day, witnessing the highest single-day spike on May 3, when 448 people succumbed to the disease in a span of 24 hours, but the percentage of deaths has come down drastically since then.The Delhi health department further shows that 1,161 patients were discharged from hospitals in the national capital in the last 24 hours after they were cured of Covid-19. As many as 53,035 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the last 24 hours, of which 37,747 received the first dose while 15,288 received the second. Government data shows that 5,551,966 people have so far been vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi, while the number of active cases has come down to 8,060.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-523-new-covid-19-cases-50-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101622812772736.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||DU students take on waste: Raise awareness about environment||Subscribing to Greta Thunberg’s channel and holding digital protests isn’t just what students from various Delhi University colleges are limiting themselves to. This year, while celebrating World Environment Day, some students of the varsity are all up for proactive drives, like Project Srijan. This initiative in Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies (SSCBS) has been initiated to tackle the problem of electronic waste by ensuring its proper disposal. “Amid the pandemic the reliance on gadgets has increased manifold leading to a greater amount of e-waste. To tackle this problem head on, we have placed customised bins in various target markets to provide convenient disposal options. Old wires that don’t work, and other electronic gadgets that people usually discard under a tree because of not knowing what to do with it, can now dispose the waste in a productive way,” says Parnika Srivastava, a final year student of SSCBS, informs, “We also channelise this e-waste to help an underprivileged community, by providing them employment opportunities by producing DIY products using the waste component of the collected e-waste. This is then sold through third party, at various digital carnivals.” Elaborating on their efforts, especially amid the lockdown, Tanmay Bhateja, a first year student of SSCBS, says, “Our team comprises more than 50 students at present. To continue sensitising the masses, the team undertook online sessions with several colleges and schools, and urged them to hold on to their e-waste during the current lockdown, and give us an opportunity to dispose it in the right manner when the situation permits after lockdown opens. We plan to install specialised e-waste bins in as many public places as we can.”This Environment day, the group of students from SSCBS will celebrate their achievements by connecting digitally and discussing how far they have made it, in tackling e-waste throughout Delhi-NCR. “So far, through conducting collection drives using customised bins we have succeeded in channelising more than four thousand kgs of e-waste to the formal recycling sector within just one year of operations; ensuring proper disposal from various areas including Rohini, Greater Noida, Nehru Place, Pushp Vihar, Ghaziabad, Malviya Nagar, Vivek Vihar, Indirapuram etc,” says Nimish Dayal, a second year student of SSCBS.Besides electronic waste, the sudden rise in medical waste has also become a growing concern in the times of pandemic. To tackle this, and rid their housing societies and complexes from such waste, some DU students will be seen clad in PPE kits and protective gear, to clean the locality and streets nearby their homes. “Me and my friends reside in the same locality, and are going to clean our streets by properly disposing off used masks and gloves. The pandemic has resulted in a lot of garbage that includes face masks, face shields and gloves. Gloves and face shields are basically plastic and do not decompose; masks leads to an increased cloth waste. Therefore not ensuring their proper disposal pollutes the environment terribly. And if not disposed properly, these can be put to reuse and sold as fresh pieces, as reported by the Delhi Police in a recent case. Therefore, as citizens of the nation, it is our duty to clean the waste and protect the environment,” says Pooja Santosh, a student of Hindu College.And there are some DU students who are also engaging in plantation drives, to mark this day! “On World Environment Day, I’m engaging in a plantation drive along with my friends,” says Abhishek Kumar, a student of Kirori Mal College, adding, “We have all resolved to plant seeds or saplings, and nurture them. We’ve even purchased seeds for this activity, and while we won’t be able to do it together in our college, we will do it near our homes and share our photos with each other and our classmates.”Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-students-take-on-waste-raise-awareness-about-environment-101622813417517.html
04-06-2021||Lucknow||BJP in shock over its workers’ rebellious mood, Yogi govt days numbered: SP||Asserting that the Yogi government’s days are numbered in Uttar Pradesh, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday claimed the BJP leadership is in shock over the “rebellious attitude” of party workers, allegedly ignored by the government. The BJP leadership is in shock over the “rebellious attitude” of party workers and those of the RSS, who have gone in “hibernation as they were ignored” by the government, claimed Yadav. This has driven the top leadership of the BJP to hold “constant meetings and brainstorming (sessions) in AC rooms from Delhi to Lucknow", Yadav said. "But the situation is that if they try to persuade one leader, the other one gets angry. To bridge the rift between the government and the organisation, the leaders are tweeting only," he said. The former chief minister apparently referred to the recent visits of the BJP’s two central leaders from Delhi to Lucknow to meet the top brass of the party leaders and the state government, which they described as routine. Yadav also asserted that the Samajwadi Party has secured a greater reach and acceptance among the public and the BJP leader has grown apprehensive of it. The former chief minister also accused the state government of suppressing the number of government employees and health and other frontline workers who died while discharging their anti-Covid duties. He said the government was suppressing the number because it wants to save the money to be given as compensation to its employees' families. That is why the government is not releasing any list of its employees who died on duty, he said. “The government is trying to befool people with fudged data. It wants to save itself from paying the money by hiding deaths of its employees on duty due to Covid,” said Yadav. “To hide its failure, it has been claiming fewer deaths of government employees due to Covid-19. Had the government’s intentions been clear, it would have had no hitch in releasing the list of its employees who died due to Covid," Akhilesh said in a statement issued here. He said the SP workers would reach every village and meet families of each Covid victim and ask about their grievances. "It is expected from the party workers that they will help the needy people and not let anyone sleep hungry," he said. The people are more fed up with the government's misrule than the pandemic, said Yadav, adding lakhs of people died of Covid-19 and black fungus infection due to the carelessness in treatment. He said the BJP will no longer be successful in tricking people to vote for them during the next assembly elections in 2022. In 2022, the “BJP's farewell is certain” and so is the formation of a socialist government, he said, adding the people have made up their minds for it. “This has made the BJP scared and it has triggered talks of reshuffle in the party and the government in UP,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-in-shock-over-its-workers-rebellious-mood-yogi-govt-days-numbered-sp-101622811331082.html
04-06-2021||Pune||With drop in Covid patients, hospitalisation of non-Covid cases gains pace in Pune||Pune: Private hospitals in the city are seeing a rise in non-Covid admissions following a drop in the virus infection. Administrators of private hospitals said that though the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) still has control over 80% of beds, many non-Covid cases are getting treated now. According to the district health report, there were 5,213 active Covid cases within PMC limits. Of this, 2,286 are in home isolation and 2,927 are hospitalised. “We are yet to receive any official order about releasing beds, but have started admitting non-Covid patients, emergency and routine surgery. The Covid ward has been isolated and other patients are coming to the hospital now. We have 113 non-Covid patients and 83 Covid cases. As the number of Covid cases is going down, it is impractical to keep the beds vacant when non-Covid patients are reaching out to hospitals for treatments. We have also started to reduce the number of ICU beds increased earlier for Covid patients as it is expensive to keep this facility functional. We will increase the count of beds if Covid cases rise in future,” Dr HK Sale, executive director, Noble Hospital PuneDr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director at Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital, said that as some restrictions have been eased in the city people have started to step out and undergo routine medical procedures. “We have started admitting non-Covid patients. We will increase beds if the virus cases rise in future. During the peak of the second wave, maximum number of Covid patients was admitted and now the count has dropped by almost 90%. Now, non-Covid check-ups, surgical treatments have resumed. Also, since unlocking has begun, people have resumed visiting us for routine investigations, minor surgeries,” said Dr Oswal. Manisha Naik, assistant medical officer, PMC, said, “As there is a possibility of a third wave, we have not released beds at major hospitals in Pune. Private hospitals can admit emergency non-Covid patients.” As the number of active cases has declined, the count of critical patients and those on oxygen support has reduced. On Thursday, there were 1,391 patients on oxygen support and 742 were critical in Pune. The number has drastically reduced in the last 15 days. On May 20, there were 1,328 Covid patients who were critical and 4,360 on oxygen support. Covid cases fall in the cityComparison of hospitalised Covid patients in Pune May 20 Active patients – 15,043Home isolation – 6,239Hospitalised – 8,804Critical – 1,328On oxygen support- 4,360June 3Active patients – 5,213Home isolation – 2,927Hospitalised – 2,286Critical – 742On oxygen support – 1,391||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/with-drop-in-covid-patients-hospitalisation-of-non-covid-cases-gains-pace-in-pune-101622812156676.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||17 girls among 30 children orphaned due to Covid in Haryana||The Haryana government has so far identified 30 children orphaned during the Covid-19 pandemic. Of them, 17 are girls and 13 boys. Officials said a majority of the children were orphaned during the second wave after having lost a parent either during the first wave or earlier. Of the 30 children, 23 are siblings and at least 16 live with their grandparents and the rest with other relatives. Also read: 23 children orphaned due to Covid-19 in PunjabThey said the number of children who have lost a single parent is likely to go up as the verification process is still on. The number of orphaned children is also likely to be more than 40 once the exercise is completed. Financial assistance for children The Haryana government has announced monthly financial assistance for children in non-institutional care with ₹2,500 a child aid to be given to families taking care of orphaned children. This aid will be given till the children turn 18 years old. A sum of ₹12,000 will be deposited in the bank accounts of such children every year as other expenses till the children attain the age of 18 years. For assistance to children in institutional care, the government will give ₹1,500 for each orphaned child every month for upbringing. At present, 59 childcare institutions are functional in Haryana. This amount will be deposited in the bank account as a recurring deposit and the maturity amount will be given on attaining the age of 21 years, while all other expenses will be borne by the childcare institutions. Institutional care for adolescent girls In case of adolescent girls orphaned due to Covid, free residential education will be provided in Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas. A sum of ₹51,000 will be credited in the accounts of orphan girls under the Mukhya Mantri Vivah Shagun Yojana and at the time of their marriage, this amount along with interest will be given to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/17-girls-among-30-children-orphaned-due-to-covid-in-haryana-101622811617433.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||SC grants interim bail to ex-Unitech promoter Sanjay Chandra||The Supreme Court on Friday granted interim bail to real estate firm Unitech’s erstwhile promoter Sanjay Chandra in view of his father-in-law’s death last month. He had sought bail for four weeks and has been asked to surrender by June 19.Senior advocate Siddharth Dave, who appeared for Chandra, said a memorial for his client’s father-in-law is scheduled for June 12. He added Chandra’s wife was alone making arrangements.Chandra is accused of fraud and cheating thousands of homebuyers by not handing over possessions of flats on time. The Economic Offences Wing of the Delhi Police submitted a charge sheet against Chandra, his father, and his brother in July 2015.Chandra was granted bail by a Delhi court in January 2021, but the top court set aside the order in March this year. Since then, Chandra has been in jail.Also Read | Editors Guild welcomes SC judgment on sedition case against journalist Vinod DuaChandra applied for both regular and interim bail. The vacation bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and MR Shah felt the regular bail could be heard and decided by the bench which had earlier cancelled his bail. However, in the interim, the vacation bench decided to give Chandra 15-day bail.“He is accused of a serious fraud involving thousands of crores. You must know the reason why his bail had to be cancelled,” the vacation bench said when Dave pressed for at least three-week.In October 2017, the Supreme Court granted bail to the Chandra brothers on the condition that they deposit ₹750 crore with the court’s registry by December 31, 2017. It took three years for the Chandras to deposit this amount.In August 2020, when Chandras applied for bail, the Supreme Court found that the timeline for deposit was breached and the sum of ₹750 crore had to personally come from Chandras. The court found that the money deposited with the registry was the amount procured from the monetization of assets of Unitech Limited that was held by a Court-appointed Committee.Besides, a forensic audit report of the Unitech firm submitted to the Supreme Court found serious instances of money laundering and siphoning of funds to offshore locations by the erstwhile management headed by Chandra. On these grounds, the top court rejected Chandra’s bail plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-grants-interim-bail-to-ex-unitech-promoter-sanjay-chandra-101622811137243.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||What do Delhi’s death registration figures tell us about Covid-19 death toll?||Delhi’s three municipal corporations issued 33,109 death certificates in April and May this year at the peak of the Covid second wave, roughly three times the number registered in 2020 and 73.8% of the figure in 2019, records showed. During these two months in 2021, the official Covid death toll in Delhi was 13,210 – 5,120 in April and 8,090 in May. The data from the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC), South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) – which together have 95% of the Capital’s population – pointed towards excess or uncounted deaths, which experts say was responsible for an undercounting of Covid mortality during the second wave. In April and May 2020, the three corporations issued 10,258 death certificates. The nationwide lockdown in place during these two months may have forced many people to apply for certificates later. In April and May 2019, the three corporations gave out 19,047 death certificates. Also Read | Delhi University likely to provide fee waiver to students orphaned by Covid-19Municipal authorities clarified that death registrations did not necessarily reflect the total death count in a particular month because some people apply for certificates later. Civic authorities attributed the increase in death registrations to the second wave of Covid-19 and clearance of backlog due to technical problems. Jai Prakash, mayor of NDMC, said death certificate are issued after someone’s kin applies for it and crematoriums also separately issue a slip for funeral. “The hike in death registrations in April and May this year is also because of second wave of Covid-19 where thousands of people died, which is also present in government records. The number of death registrations is just a suggestive data and based on it cannot precisely say that so many deaths occurred in a particular month,” Prakash said. Precise information about number of deaths due to Covid-19 can only be ascertained by conducting a door-to-door survey, he added. A senior SDMC official said on the condition of anonymity that other than Covid-19, the surge was also because of backlog created by technical glitches. “Earlier this year, registrations of death and birth certificates were made completely online but there were initial glitches due to which death certification process was affected. This also created a backlog but now everything is fine and that backlog is being cleared,” the official said. According to municipal data, 9,657 deaths were registered across the three civic bodies in April 2019 while the number was 9,390 in May 2019. In 2020, when coronavirus pandemic hit the city, death registrations across the three corporations dropped to 4,783 for April 2020 and 5,475 for May 2020. When the second wave of Covid – fourth for Delhi – ravaged the city in April and May this year, the number of death registrations increased. In April, the three municipalities issued 9,109 death certificates while in May, 24,000 certificates were issued. “Second wave of Covid is one of the main reasons behind the surge. In April and May 2020, the lockdown was very strict and no one could come for registrations of deaths of their kin. Other than this, due to restriction on traffic movement, fewer people died in that period due to which the number of death registrations in those months in 2020 is less,” EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain said. He also said that the issuance of death certificates by civic bodies did not give a clear picture about number of deaths in any particular month. If someone applied for a death certificate in May and got the certificate in that month, then the death will be registered in May even if the person died in April, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/what-do-delhi-s-death-registration-figures-tell-us-about-covid-19-death-toll-101622808617116.html
04-06-2021||Other||Sacked minister quits Telangana’s ruling party||Former Telangana minister Eatala Rajender, who was sacked from the state Cabinet on May 2 on charges of land encroachments, on Friday resigned from the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). He told reporters that he has sent his resignation letter to the party and would also meet the assembly speaker later to resign as an assembly member.Rajender, who is expected to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) next week, said he ended his 19-year-old association with the TRS to protect his self-respect. He said he was pained at the way chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, popularly known as KCR, sacked him without even giving him an opportunity to offer an explanation.Rajender added he also resigned from the assembly in 2006 for the sake of self-respect. “Every time, I contested the elections, I won the Huzurabad seat, because the people of the constituency are with me,” he said.Also Read | Niti Aayog’s SDG index ranks Andhra Pradesh 3rd, Telangana 11thRajender said he and Rao began drifting apart in 2016 when despite taking a prior appointment to meet the chief minister, he and a few other TRS lawmakers were stopped at the gate and refused entry into his camp office. Rajender questioned whether there was a single Other Backward Caste or Scheduled Caste official in the chief minister’s office. “Not just me, several other ministers also faced humiliation in the KCR rule. I had been facing humiliations silently only in the interest of the state. Otherwise, there is no need to be a minister, who is worse than a slave.”Former MLA Enugu Ravinder Reddy, ex-Karimnagar zilla parishad chairperson Tula Uma are also likely to join the BJP along with Rajender.The TRS reacted strongly. “It is like betraying one’s own mother. Telangana became a reality only because of KCR. Leaders might come and go, but the TRS will remain strong under the leadership of KCR,” TRS leader Palla Rajeshwar Reddy said. He wondered whether Rajender would be able to protect his self-respect if he joined the BJP and said he would fade out of politics soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sacked-minister-quits-telangana-s-ruling-party-101622808437058.html
04-06-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Seven Deadly Sins of Social Media||This week, it appeared as though Covid-19 was not the only thing going viral across the planet, giving rise to comment and concern. A moronic, but equally contagious post, began showing up on the timelines of a whole swathe of Facebook users, from continents as far flung as Australia, Asia, America and Europe. “I was wondering where everyone went!” began the awkwardly-worded canard, quickly going on to declare: “Thanks for the tip to circumvent Facebook... Works!! I have a whole new profile. I see posts from people I didn’t see anymore. Facebook’s new algorithm picks the same people - around 25 - who will see your posts...” And then without much ado, the message urges naïve readers to further perpetuate the myth, by copy pasting it on to their own timelines. And lo and behold, without so much as a whisker of scepticism, this idiotic communique has proliferated on user after user’s timelines, as if the whole world has overnight been infected by another deadly virus, this time one that destroys grey matter and all vestiges of common sense. On its part, Mark Zuckerberg’s social media platform has been vainly attempting to quell the contagion, posting numerous and strongly worded advisories that it is false information which has been circulating since 2017, one which has already been debunked in no uncertain terms-but to little avail. (“Facebook does not set a limit on the number of people whose posts are shown in your News Feed.”) So, with no signs of it abating, our attention has been naturally drawn this week to other, similarly hilarious/ odious/ ludicrous practices that have yet to be called out, on the social media platform. And so here they are, gentle reader: The Seven Deadly Sins of Social Media — in the form of popular Bollywood film titles… 1) Mujhse Dosti Karoge! (The Sin of Sycophantic Sucking up) There was a time when the practice of toe-curling sycophancy, unctuous fawning and cringe-inducing toadying were called out for the blatant brown-nosing that they were; but that was a time before the advent of social media. For some inexplicable reason, those given to such execrable demonstrations of smarminess, have assumed a carte blanche to carry on the revolting practice on social media, with a no-holds-barred attitude, making the rest of us reach for the barf bags, all too frequently. 2) ‘Cull’ Ho Na Ho (The Sin of Passive Aggression) You know this type. The ones who want to get a tart message across to some hapless individual on their friend’s list, but rather than come out and say what’s on their mind directly, they prefer to beat around the bush, hoping to get their message across, through a general post, ostensibly addressed to everyone, but actually aimed like a tiny poison dart, at the heart of the particular individual who irks them. There are many ingenious ways they employ to achieve this. Most common among them is to slight A by heaping fulsome — and mostly undeserved — praise on B, on the assumption that A and B are rivals. Complicated? Yes. Tedious? Certainly. Pathetic and juvenile? And how… Oh, and yes, these passive aggressive types are also the ones who will issue periodic veiled threats announcing with sweet regularity, that they are on the verge of culling their friends’ list, in the hope that people be nicer to them, … 3) Dil Dhadakne Do (The Sin of Generic, Gushing Banality) Wish, wish, wish. Every holiday, every festival, every religious celebration, every world event, every famous person who dies, every meme they’ve received, every schlock kindergarten wisdom they’ve marvelled at, every joke they’ve thought funny, even every joke they’ve not thought funny, will end up on these people’s timelines, in an endless carousel of gush. And the prodigious Niagara Falls of their sentimentality is matched only by the ingenuity with which they come up with a million hashtags to accompany their vapid posts with. 4) Band Baaja Baaraat (The Sin of Blatant Exhibitionism and Unbridled Showing Off) Welcome to Show Off Central. Your homes, your cars, your toys, your boys, your PJs, your Porsches, your pearls… all served up daily, by the hour, every hour, in all their pixelated splendour, for your “friends” to envy and covet. What’s more we are informed, this extreme practice of “neighbour’s envy, owner’s pride”, has given rise to a whole range of businesses such as mock up cabins in private jets, Olympic sized swimming pools and luxury limousines, which you can rent by the hour, to service your proclivity for in-your-face, runaway exhibitionism. 5) Dharm (The Sin of Relentless Virtue Signalling) This transgression is perhaps the most disingenuous, because it seeks to deceive not only the viewer, but also its originator, by conveying a vastly exaggerated sense of their saintliness and virtue. This type of post is marked by its propensity to constantly advertise the individual’s good deeds, their numerous acts of charity and their benevolence and singular generosity of spirit, with such dogged consistency, that the light bouncing off their halos is said to be able to guide lost ships at sea. 6) Meri Aawaz Suno (The Sin of Desperate Attention Seeking and Posting Too Frequently) There’s no way escaping from this transgression on your timeline, because it’s in your face, every day, in every way. Whereas conventional wisdom caps it at posting once or twice daily on FB, half a dozen posts before lunchtime, is routine for this compulsive attention seeker, because of course, as everyone knows, you can’t have too much of a good thing. 7) Thappad (The Sin of Virulent, Overt Hatred) This one needs no explanation; you just have to look out for the grammar (non-existent), vocabulary (ditto) and punctuation (way too many exclamation marks and mostly every word in ALL CAPS) which accompany this truckload of freshly minted manure. Leading to the question: What is the co-relation between poor communication skills and a proclivity to verbal violence? Because apart from inferior grammar, puerile name calling and low-grade insults, these posts offer little, by way of wit or acuity. So, there you have it, gentle reader — The Seven Deadly Sins of Social Media. Which ones are you guilty of? Or in other words, among the seven, Hum Aapke Hain Koun..?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-seven-deadly-sins-of-social-media-101622808377598.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab withdraws order to supply vaccines to private hospitals amid row||After embarrassment over its move to sell Covaxin doses to private hospitals at a premium, the Punjab government on Friday decided to take back the Covid-19 vaccines.According to official sources, the decision was taken on the directions of state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu who also announced a probe into the sale of the Covid vaccine to private hospitals.Also read: ‘Will order an inquiry’: Punjab health minister on charges of vaccine diversion“The state has decided to take back the vaccines from private hospitals and the payment is to be given back. A letter will come soon,” read a WhatsApp message sent by a senior IAS official on a group of civil surgeons of Punjab.Principal Secretary, health, Hussan Lal has confirmed that the government is taking back the vaccines from private hospitals.One-time measure or considered move? On Thursday, Hindustan Times reported how the state government was selling the Covaxin bought for ₹400 a dose to private hospitals for ₹1,060 a dose. These hospitals were administering the vaccine to the common man for ₹1,560 a dose.The HT report showed how the Punjab government was making money on the pretext of corporate social responsibility (CSR) by selling Covaxin doses procured from its quota to the private hospitals. The state health authorities on Thursday had again justified the move, saying that it was “only a one-time measure”.So far, 80,000 doses have been sold to private facilities, 30,000 of which went to a single hospital in Mohali, an official said, requesting anonymity.The government could have earned more than ₹5crore from the sale of vaccines.The state nodal officer for vaccination and senior IAS officer, Vikas Garg, on Wednesday justified the state government’s decision, saying the profit would be used only to buy vaccines and this was a one-time measure. “The decision of providing the vaccine doses to private hospitals was taken on public demand,” he said.However, Hindustan Times has learnt that it was a well thought out move to create a CSR fund.An official privy to the developments, requesting anonymity, said the one-time-measure statement came after discussions among senior health functionaries who were the brain behind the idea of generating funds from vaccines.It is learnt that the vaccine was provided to some private hospitals on Thursday against advance payments made by them.Political slugfest over pandemic premium Union ministers Prakash Javadekar and Anurag Thakur, Shiromani Akali Dal leaders Sukhbir Singh Badal and Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Aam Aadmi Party state chief Bhagwant Maan criticised the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government for “making profit from the pandemic”.Thakur accused the Punjab government of black-marketing vaccines. “Punjab has shown a careless and callous attitude towards the people of the state by charging four times from people for the jab. Why should an individual pay over ₹3,120 for two doses when the Centre is providing vaccines free to the state government? Instead of facilitating the vaccination process, the Punjab government is looting the people during the pandemic,” he said.“Will (Congress leader) Rahul Gandhi investigate why vaccines have been supplied to Congress cronies who are charging a pandemic premium and indulging in black-marketing instead of saving the lives of the poor? And does he have the courage to question his own party’s government in Punjab?” Thakur added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jabbed-punjab-govt-to-take-back-vaccines-sold-to-private-hospitals-101622808017862.html
04-06-2021||Ranchi||36 Jharkhand tribal women stranded in Tamil Nadu to return home||Thirty-six tribal women from Jharkhand who were stranded in Tamil Nadu due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown in the southern state will return to their home district of Dumka on Friday evening, a senior official said.The women, hailing from remote areas of the district, used to work in textile firms in Tamil Nadu's Tirupur. However, many of them lost their jobs due to the Covid-19 situation and were stranded there, she said."As soon as we got information about tribal migrant workers from our district getting stranded in Tirupur, we ensured their return with the help of the Chief Minister's Office and non-profit organisations. The women have reached Dhanbad and are on their way to Dumka," Deputy Commissioner Rajeshwari B said.The 36 women will undergo Covid-19 tests and will be quarantined for seven days. After completion of their isolation, they will be tested again and then allowed to return to their homes if reports return negative, she said.Speaking to PTI on the issue, Chief Minister Hemant Soren said, "The state government is committed to ensuring the safety and honour of Jharkhand's workers across the country and even abroad.""Since last year's migrant crisis, all the district administrations have been instructed to act proactively in cases of emergency and extend support to ensure the return of the workers," he added.The Jharkhand government had last month rescued 26 migrant workers from the state stranded in Nepal due to a coronavirus-induced lockdown in the Himalayan country.Garment manufacturers in Tirupur, a major textile cluster in Tamil Nadu, are facing hardships due to lockdowns and a steep hike in yarn prices, forcing many to minimise output.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/36-jharkhand-tribal-women-stranded-in-tamil-nadu-to-return-home-101622807151781.html
04-06-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata's Durga Puja organisers in aid of cyclone-affected people||The community Durga Puja organisers of Kolkata are reaching to the people of cyclone- battered Sunderbans with the relief materials.Forum for Durgotsab, an umbrella organisation of 500 puja committees, provided relief materials to the people of Sandeshkhali.Around 20 members of the forum went to Jyotishpur village, which is still under water, with relief materials for 125 families, its general secretary Saswata Basu said on Friday."We had taken relief materials for 125 families, but it was shared by 500 families in the village that showed us how the people stood by each other during such a crisis," said Basu, one of the organisers of the Hatibagan Sarbajanin Durga Puja.The materials included tarpaulins, mosquito nets, food items and drinking water."Our effort is too little but we were happy with whatever we could do," Basu said.The forum will visit the area again in the coming days with relief materials, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkatas-durga-puja-organisers-in-aid-of-cyclone-affected-people-101622807168800.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi University likely to provide fee waiver to students orphaned by Covid-19||The Delhi University (DU) may provide a fee waiver to students who lost one or both of their parents to the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19), officials informed news agency PTI on Friday. PC Joshi, the acting vice-chancellor, said that the varsity is "actively considering" the fee waiver matter. The administration has asked colleges currently under DU to conduct a survey and prepare a list of students who have lost their parents to the novel coronavirus."Delhi University has written to its colleges to conduct a survey of students who have lost their parents due to coronavirus. We have sought a report in the matter by Monday," Dean of Colleges, Balaram Pani, told PTI.The Delhi university's vice-chancellor, at a prayer meeting held in the memory of varsity employees who lost their lives to the infection, said that a key area for the administration is providing free education for all DU students who lost their parents during the pandemic, at least till the time they are studying the university.According to the news agency, the principal of one of the colleges under DU welcomed the initiative and said that once the decision is finalised by the university, the proposal will be put before the college's governing body for approval. Since ours is a college funded by the Delhi government and it is a financial matter, we will need to get it approved by the governing body," the college principal explained.There are three kinds of colleges currently under the Delhi University. These are -- colleges funded by trusts, colleges funded by DU, and colleges fully or partially funded by the Delhi government. According to the report, there are at present 28 colleges funded by the Delhi government, including 12 that are fully funded by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) dispensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-university-likely-to-provide-fee-waiver-to-students-orphaned-by-covid19-101622803367411.html
04-06-2021||Pune||Global village idiot: Random notes on healthcare...||It’s Wednesday, 9.30 am, and I am sitting in the Mediclaim department at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, waiting to submit paperwork as part of the pre-admission process. Well, my younger brother is doing it (he is meticulous).I have just submitted the Covid antigen test sample, which is a prerequisite for any medical procedure nowadays. It’s like a final “go, no-go” decision point, after all the other relevant medical “go no-gos” have been checked and cleared. I’ll get the report in an hour. If the report is negative (no Covid), then surgery can proceed; if the report is positive, surgery will be postponed and I will self-quarantine (though I have no symptoms), so that I am not a risk to others. If the report is negative, I will be admitted for the surgery early Friday morning - which is when this column appears in HT Pune.The hospital is coordinating with the insurance company for approval of cashless pre-authorisation. Insurers are typically enthusiastically optimistic when they are selling policies, and cautiously suspicious when it comes to authorisations and claims.My decisions related to hospital processes are not, however, dependent on the insurer’s yes/no: in a surgical intervention it is my responsibility to ensure I have the best attitude going in, the best attitude coming out and the best attitude during. To achieve that it is important I pick the best facilities within my limited means, and not the best facilities my insurance company is willing to approve. In times of a pandemic, it is critical to minimise any risk of other/further infections apart from risk associated with surgery.The insurer has to ensure they are not being taken for a ride, because it is a reality that people get insurance companies to pay for a lot of procedures simply because… So when one is filling out medical declaration forms, it is important to provide all historical information accurately and truthfully, because it helps the insurer evaluate your requirements against the terms mutually agreed to in the policy. I happen to be at Mangeshkar hospital on account of the fact that my orthopaedic, Dr Shirish Pathak, operates here. A couple of months ago, I twisted my left knee climbing down a flight of stairs and since then I have had pain while getting around. Due to the pandemic restrictions, the best course of action had been to grin and bear it. Eventually in the first week of May, I had to admit the pain was considerable (my knee was buckling). A thorough examination, x-rays and MRI scans confirmed that I had a complete ACL tear. ACL reconstruction surgery at the earliest was the order of the day. It was an easy decision because Dr Pathak does not recommend surgery unless it’s the only way out - he weighs all evidence in the patient’s specific context. Since December, I have visited the Chellaram Hospital, Jehangir Hospital, Dr Pathak’s Ortho Sports Clinic, PH Diagnostics, Poona Hospital and Mangeshkar hospital, for various medical reasons. That’s more hospital visits in five months than in the past five years. I am not the kind of person who second-guesses doctors or Googles information. My approach is to trust my doctor, or if it’s a new ailment, select a specialist doctor after consulting friends or family who are doctors themselves (no, I am not in favour of crowd-sourced or app-sourced information).I have visited Jehangir and Chellaram regularly for checkups - the doctors and healthcare personnel are super professional, attentive and facilities are impressively up-to-date. My recent visits in pandemic times have made me feel safe since their protocols are outstanding, quick and patient-oriented. PH Diagnostics in Kothrud has been very impressive and safe. Mangeshkar hospital is right up there with the best in the city - their efficiency, courtesy, and patient-care is seamless. Safety protocols are clearly visible and everyone (right from administrator Sachin Vyavahare to reception staff) is accessible and prompt in addressing patient needs.Yesterday, I was at Poona Hospital near Alka Talkies. My brother-in-law had a heart attack and my sister rushed him to the hospital as per recommendation of the family physician. An angiogram revealed 100% and 90% blocks on his arteries. An angioplasty was performed, stent implanted and he was in ICU all in good time. The hospital seemed well organised, staff all helpful and following safety protocols.It’s 10.50 am now and I just got the Covid antigen test report - it is negative. Yesssssss! I feel like I have just won a new contract or finished writing a new book. Because the negative report is an affirmation of the precautions we have been following since March 2020. It renews my faith that social distancing, precautions and appropriate lifestyle choices work, and that we have to continue the same vigilance and self-care. A big part of my faith is coming from first-hand experience at the healthcare institutions: I have found fearless, committed, competent and safety-oriented doctors, nurses, technicians and staff everywhere. They do this every day. And they have been doing this every day throughout the last 15 months of the pandemic. #Respect.Am looking forward to the surgery and thereafter, will get onto the road to rehabilitation and recovery … but that will be a different journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-random-notes-on-healthcare-101622803756910.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Plea in Delhi High Court to operationalise non-functional hospitals before third Covid-19 wave||A plea in the Delhi High Court on Friday urged it to direct the Delhi government to take immediate steps for ensuring operation of non-functional hospitals and to improve Mohalla clinics in the national capital to deal with the predicted third wave of Covid-19.Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to the Centre and Delhi government and sought their stand on the petition which also seeks formulation of a scheme for fair and transparent distribution of the ₹one crore compensation to family of frontline workers who succumbed to Covid-19 while performing their duties.The plea by a Delhi resident has also sought speeding up of construction of all the hospitals, which are not yet completed and to use the staff of Mohalla clinics, if they are not being operationalised, to provide tele-consultation or man Covid centres.The petition has contended that if instant and prompt steps, precautions and necessary measures are not taken to prepare for a third wave of Covid-19, "it may result in many unfortunate/undesired deaths and this time death rate will be more than our expectations".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/plea-in-delhi-high-court-to-operationalise-non-functional-hospitals-before-third-covid-19-wave-101622801184715.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||23 children orphaned due to Covid-19 in Punjab||Twenty-three children have been orphaned by the coronavirus pandemic in Punjab. These include children whose both parents died of Covid-19 or who lost one parent earlier and the remaining single parent succumbed to the infection in the past 14 months, thereby rendering the child orphaned, according to the department of social security and women and child development department. Also read: ‘Will order an inquiry’: Punjab health minister on charges of vaccine diversion to private hospitalsThe Covid orphans have been identified after the state government announced relief measures for children who have lost both their parents and families that have lost their breadwinner in the pandemic. The child development project officers (CDPOs) of each block have been designated as special mentors for each such child and they will act as counsellor-cum-motivator for the child. Principal Secretary, social security, women and child development, Raji P Shrivastava said the data is for the period from March 31, 2020, to May 31, 2021, but subject to being updated based on fresh information received from the field. She declined to share details of the children affected by Covid, saying that the data has been uploaded onto the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) portal and is confidential. The department of social security, women and child development is the nodal department for the care of orphaned children. Social investigation being conducted “In all cases of children orphaned by Covid-19, social investigation is being conducted. The child and his close relatives are being interviewed and their views ascertained. Initially, most such children have been taken in by their close relatives. Those who are not accepted by relatives or those who do not have relatives, will be taken into children’s homes. Siblings will stay in the same childcare institution,” a department official said. Relief measures till beneficiaries turn 21 The state government has decided to provide ₹1,500 a month as social security pension and free education until graduation to all those children orphaned in the pandemic and families that have lost their breadwinning member, beginning July 1. The government will ensure free education in government institutions for such children and kids belonging to families that have lost the breadwinner to Covid. Also, they will be eligible for ₹51,000 under the Ashirwad Scheme and entitled to free ration under the smart ration card scheme and under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana. The relief measures will be provided to orphans until they attain the age of 21 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/23-children-orphaned-due-to-covid-19-in-punjab-101622802736651.html
04-06-2021||Other||Maya expels two senior leaders over anti-party activities||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati has expelled two senior leaders Lalji Verma and Ramachal Rajbhar, who are also party MLAs, on the charge of indulging in anti- party activities during the recently concluded panchayat elections, a press statement by the BSP’s state unit said. Verma was also replaced as the BSP legislature party leader in the assembly. The post has now gone to Shah Alam aka Guddu Jamali, the party MLA from Mubarakpur in Azamgarh district. Expressing surprise over his expulsion from the BSP, Lalji Verma ruled out joining any other political party.“I will continue to work as a committed soldier of the BSP. I could not campaign for the party during the panchayat elections due to Covid-19 infection. I was admitted in SGPGI (Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences), Lucknow. I had informed the party chief about my ailment,” he said.The expulsion of the two senior leaders when the BSP is gearing up its cadre for the 2022 assembly polls has surprised political analysts. An influential Kurmi community leader, Verma was a founder member of the party and a close aide of BSP founder the late Kanshi Ram. Projected as the backward class face of the BSP, he represented Katehri assembly constituency in Ambedkar Nagar district. Ramachal Rajbhar, a close confidant of the BSP chief, represented Akbarpur assembly constituency in Ambedkar Nagar district. Owing to his influence among the backward castes, particularly the Rajbhar community in central and east UP, Mayawati had promoted him as the party’s national general secretary earlier. He was also made the party’s Uttarakhand in-charge to expand its support base in the hill state before the 2022 assembly election there. A party leader said the BSP’s performance was below expectations in its stronghold in Ambedkar Nagar district in the recently concluded panchayat elections. The party won only seven of the 41 zila panchayat ward seats there. Verma was forced to withdraw his wife Sobhawati Verma, a former zila panchayat chairperson, from the election due to an objection raised by BSP sector coordinator Ghanshyam Kharwar. Verma’s relations with the party leadership soured when his close aides were not permitted to contest the panchayat election, the party leader said. Earlier, Verma faced humiliation in the by-poll for the Jalalpur assembly seat in 2019 when his daughter Chaya Verma was defeated by the SP candidate, he said. Shyam Sunder Verma aka Sadhu Verma, said to be a close aide of Lalji Verma, contested the zila panchayat ward election as an independent candidate after the BSP denied him the party ticket. Sadhu won the election by a margin of 11,000 votes. The BJP was planning to field Sadhu as the party candidate in the election the zila panchayat’s chairman post to be held in June-end, the party leader said, claiming that Sadhu met senior BJP leaders on Wednesday. There were rumours that Lalji Verma would also join the BJP, he said. The BSP leader alleged that Ramachal Rajbhar was hobnobbing with SP leaders and Mayawati showed him the door on the basis of the party coordinators’ report. To win the support of the Rajbhar community, Mayawati had earlier appointed Bhim Rajbhar as the state unit president, he said. The BSP had 18 MLAs in the legislative assembly. After rebellion by nine MLAs — Ramvir Upadhyaya, Anil Singh, Aslam Raini, Aslam Ali, Mujtaba Siddiqui, Hakim Lal Bind, Hargovind Bhargava, Sushma Patel, Vandana Singh — and the expulsion of Lalji Verma and Ramachal Rajbhar, the party’s strength has been effectively reduced to seven MLAs in the assembly. Mayawati has already announced that the BSP will go it alone in the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. She will hold a meeting with senior party leaders to discuss the strategy for the elections, the BSP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maya-expels-two-senior-leaders-over-anti-party-activities-101622802616079.html
04-06-2021||Bhopal||SDM removed over sexual harassment charges in MP’s Dewas||A sub-divisional magistrate has been removed from his post after a food inspector in Madhya Pradesh’s Dewas accused him of sending her obscene messages, touching her, and making inappropriate comments after calling her inside his cabin. “I ran away from his cabin. Later, he called me and said it was just a trailer. I objected but he did not stop,” said the inspector. “I called my husband and we both talked to him, but he misbehaved with us. Later, I lodged the complaint with the district collector with all proofs having screenshots of chats and text messages.”The inspector has also filed a police complaint.Also Read | MP man booked for killing neighbour’s pet dogCollector Chadramouli Shukla said the woman showed him the obscene chats and messages and added he has removed the sub-divisional magistrate and attached him to the district headquarters. He has ordered a probe into the matter.Additional police superintendent Suryakant Sharma said they were investigating the matter and collecting evidence. “A First Information Report will be lodged after investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/sdm-removed-over-sexual-harassment-charges-in-mp-s-dewas-101622802317916.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Man arrested for stabbing woman in Delhi’s Rohini||A 28-year-old woman was critically injured after she was stabbed eight to ten times allegedly by her 50-year-old neighbour outside her home in outer Delhi’s Rohini Sector-11 late Thursday evening. The attack was captured on a couple of CCTV cameras installed near the crime scene and the footage is circulating on social media. The attacker was arrested and the kitchen knife he used for the crime has been recovered, the police said.Though the exact reason behind the alleged attack is still to be ascertained, a preliminary investigation by the police has revealed that the two neighbours were not on good terms for the past few months, and the woman had filed a police complaint against the man about a month ago.In the 1.06-minute video footage, the woman is seen standing in a lane near a car, scrolling on her smartphone. A man wearing a cap is standing behind her. The woman starts walking but then, turns back and points her finger at the man and says something to him. As she turns around and starts walking again, with the phone near her right ear, the man is seen rushing towards her and both of them go out of the camera’s frame.Also Read | Delhi man detained after night-long search over PM Modi threat callFurther in the video, the two surface again, most likely in another camera. This time, the man is seen holding a knife and attacking the woman, as she falls on the ground trying to shield herself. However, the man continues stabbing her. Soon, another man is seen trying to stop the alleged attacker. The second man then grabs his arm and pulls him back. The suspect then leaves the crime scene, as per the footage.Deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said that the stabbing took place around 7.30pm on Thursday. The injured woman was first rushed to a nearby hospital. Since her condition was serious, she was referred to Sagdarjung hospital.“The woman’s condition is now stable. We registered a case and caught the suspect later in the night with the help of technical surveillance and human intelligence network. He has been arrested,” said DCP Singh.According to the DCP, the woman and the arrested neighbour knew each other for the past eight months. “The exact reason behind the attack will be ascertained when we record the woman’s statement. The arrested man is being interrogated and further details will be shared accordingly,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-arrested-for-stabbing-woman-in-delhi-s-rohini-101622801777207.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Over 400 children need govt help in J&K after second Covid wave||The second Covid-19 wave has taken a toll on children with nearly 400 having lost a parent or both parents to the infection in Jammu and Kashmir. The Union Territory administration is in the process of compiling data of such children before extending financial help to enable them to continue with their education. Also read: After first infection, Covid-19 risk reduces for up to 10 months: StudyUT social welfare secretary Sheetal Nanda said, “We are in the process of collecting data of Saksham scheme beneficiaries and intend to be ready with it by June 20. Over 400 children have either lost a parent or both parents to the infection so far in J&K. After verification, we need to open their bank accounts. They will be joint accounts of the minor with a major guardian. Besides, we need details such as where they are studying.” The divisional commissioners in Kashmir and Jammu and all district heads have been given the June 20 deadline after which the process of sanctioning relief will begin. Lost both parents in two weeks, teen struggles to come to terms The move comes as a helping hand for children like a 15-year-old student at an elite school in Jammu who lost her parents to Covid-19 within a fortnight in May 2021. The girl’s mother was a music teacher at the school. She is now being taken care of by her paternal aunt. Kamaljeet Kaur, a friend of the girl’s mother, said: “She is with her paternal aunt for now, but then what? She has to be taken care of and her uninterrupted studies should be ensured by the administration. She is a student of Class 11. She needs counselling for her mental and emotional well-being. I was able to talk to her once on her mother’s cell phone but since then no one is responding to my calls. I plan to visit her house and intend raising funds for her,” she said. Special scholarship announced Earlier this week, the J&K government constituted a five-member panel for hand-holding families of Covid victims. Apart from financial assistance of ₹1,000 a month to such families, the government has approved scholarship to their children. Under the scheme, the surviving spouse and the eldest surviving member of the affected families will receive a special monthly pension of ₹1,000 through direct bank transfer (DBT), provided they are not otherwise receiving any pension under other schemes. The scheme will provide special scholarships to children who lost their earning parent(s), sibling(s), guardian(s) to Covid. The special scholarship of ₹20,000 and ₹40,000 will be paid annually through DBT to children studying up to Class 12 and those pursuing higher education, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-400-children-need-govt-help-in-j-k-after-second-covid-wave-101622801536563.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||'Will order an inquiry': Punjab health minister on charges of vaccine diversion to private hospitals||Responding to allegations by the opposition about Covid-19 vaccines being sold to private hospitals by the state government for profit, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday said that he will definitely initiate an inquiry.While speaking to reporters, Singh said that it was not his department, and an inquiry will be made for the same."I don't have control over vaccines. This comes under the chief secretary and other officials. I just look over treatment, testing, sampling of Covid-19, and vaccination camps. We will definitely set an inquiry, I myself can inquire about the matter," he said.He added, "We don't have the full picture. We will get to know by 3 pm today and we will release a statement. Purchasing is not my department. We have appointed several nodal officers for different departments. We will get a report and inform you."Earlier, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had demanded a high court-monitored probe into the alleged selling of Covid-19 vaccine doses by the Punjab government to private hospitals for profit."The Punjab government is getting vaccines at ₹400 but selling them to private hospitals at ₹1,060. And private hospitals is administering vaccine on higher prices. A case should be registered against Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu for diverting vaccines meant for the common man to private institutions," Badal had said.He added that if this corporatisation of vaccine distribution is not stopped, the SAD would be 'forced to approach the courts for justice.Further, he said that vaccine doses were available in the State but they were being sold to private institutions instead of being given free of cost to the common man.He also claimed that in Mohali alone 35,000 doses were sold to private institutions to earn a profit of nearly ₹2 crore in a single day.He also condemned State chief secretary Vinni Mahajan for allegedly asking people to get themselves vaccinated at two private institutions at inflated rates.Punjab recorded 2,206 new Covid-19 cases and 91 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the state bulletin on Thursday. As many as 4,512 people recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours. The fresh cases pushed the total Covid-19 case tally in the state to 5,74,114.The active number of Covid-19 cases in Punjab stands at 28,673. With the new fatalities, the Covid-19 death toll in the state mounted to 14,840.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-order-an-inquiry-punjab-health-minister-on-charges-of-vaccine-diversion-to-private-hospitals-101622800379957.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi man detained after night-long search over PM Modi threat call||A man suspected to be a drug addict called the police control room around midnight and allegedly threatened to kill Prime Minister Narendra Modi, prompting a night-long search that ended with the caller’s detention in the early hours of Friday, officers aware of the matter said. The call sent the Delhi Police and the central agencies into a tizzy. Several teams were formed to locate the caller, identified as Salman alias Arman, before he was traced to northeast Delhi’s Khajoori Khas.An Intelligence Bureau (IB) and Delhi Police’s Special Cell team was questioning the caller, who has not been arrested yet. A police officer, who did not want to be named, said a team engaged the caller in a conversation while the other traced his location to Khajoori Khas through technical surveillance. The central agencies were also alerted about the call, the officer said.Also Read | Committee to look into deaths due to oxygen shortage in Delhi soon: Sisodia“The teams spotted him [the caller] near Khajoori Khas Chowk and overpowered him. He was brought to the Khajoori Khas police station where the IB and special cell officers also arrived and are questioning him. His identity has been established as Salman alias Arman, a resident of Loni in Ghaziabad. He appears to be a drug addict,” the officer added.The officers said the interrogation team is trying to ascertain why Salman made the threat and whether someone had influenced him. Further legal action was likely to be taken on the basis of his questioning, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-detained-after-night-long-search-over-pm-modi-threat-call-101622801056472.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Pakistan denies Sikh jatha nod to visit, cites second Covid wave||The Sikh jatha (group) of pilgrims won’t be visiting historic gurdwaras in Pakistan on the martyrdom day of the fifth Sikh Master, Guru Arjan Dev, on June 6 as the neighbouring country has declined permission, citing the second wave of Covid-19.The jatha was scheduled to leave for Pakistan by the Attari-Wagah border checkpost on June 6 to attend a religious function being organised at Gurdwara Dehra Sahib, the place of martyrdom in Lahore, to mark the anniversary.Also read: After first infection, Covid-19 risk reduces for up to 10 months: StudyThe Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), which leads the jatha, had made preparations for the visit. “This time, the Government of India allowed the jatha to go but we did not get permission from Pakistan in view of the pandemic,” SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said.SGPC assistant secretary (media) Kulwinder Singh Ramdas said Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) president Satwant Singh had given the information over phone. He said pilgrims who had deposited their passports could collect them from the pilgrimage department of the SGPC.According to a bilateral agreement signed in 1950 to guarantee the rights of minorities in both countries after the Partition, about 3,000 Sikh pilgrims are allowed to visit gurdwaras in Pakistan on four religious occasions: The birth anniversary of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, the martyrdom anniversary of Guru Arjan Dev, the foundation day of Khalsa Panth (Baisakhi) and the death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjit Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pakistan-denies-sikh-jatha-nod-to-visit-cites-covid-101622800696548.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi man threatens to kill PM Modi, calls PCR; arrested||A 22-year-old man was arrested from northeast Delhi's Khajuri Khas area after he called the Police Control Room (PCR) and allegedly threatened to kill Prime Minister Narendra Modi, officials said on Friday.The accused, who has been identified as Salman alias Arman, told police that he made the call as he "wanted" to go to jail. He is addicted to drugs and was sent to a juvenile correction home in 2018 in a murder case, they said.The accused called the PCR on 112 around Thursday midnight and threatened to kill PM Modi, the police said.The number from which the call was received was immediately traced and shared with the district police unit, which then located him to Khajuri Khas, a senior police officer said.According to preliminary investigation, Salman was under the influence of drugs at the time of making the call. He was scolded by his father around 10 pm.During interrogation, the senior officer said, the man told police that he made the call as he "wanted" to go to jail. When asked why he wanted to go to jail, he said, "Wahin mann lagta hai mera (I like being there)."Salman also told police that he is addicted to drugs and that he took some smack around 7 pm on Thursday, he said.Senior officers of the Delhi Police will further interrogate him with Intelligence Bureau officials in accordance with the protocol before taking any legal action, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-threatens-to-kill-pm-modi-calls-pcr-held-101622799056496.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Committee on deaths due to oxygen shortage in Delhi to begin work soon: Sisodia||New Delhi: Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday said that a committee set up by the Delhi government to review cases of deaths of Covid-19 patients because of oxygen shortage in hospitals will soon start functioning, once the file is approved by lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal.“In Delhi, during the second wave, we have come across information concerning deaths [that took place] because of oxygen shortage in hospitals, in light of which the Delhi government set up a committee of medical experts... The file concerning setting up the committee has been sent to the office of the lieutenant governor,” said Sisodia in a live streamed video press briefing on FridayHe further said, “As soon as it receives L-G’s approval, the committee will start functioning. The committee is supposed to hold meetings twice every week and review each case. In such cases, relatives of the deceased are entitled to a financial assistance of (up to) ₹5 lakh.”Also Read | Over 1.93 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses still with states: CentreThe panel set up by the government is also entrusted with ascertaining the criteria for compensation to be given to the families. To be sure, the family of any Delhi resident who dies of Covid-19 is supposed to be given ₹50,000 compensation under a separate scheme. This panel will decide on any compensation over and above this amount. The compensation can be up to ₹5 lakh, said a government order issued on May 27, a copy of which HT has seen.“The committee will check whether oxygen was being used properly in the hospitals as per the norms. The committee will check the steps taken by the hospital to maintain sufficient oxygen stock with respect to patients admitted therein,” the order read.A senior officer in the office of Delhi’s lieutenant governor, said, “Once the file is received, it will be processed immediately.” The committee includes a doctor from the department of medicine and another from anaesthesia at Lok Nayak Hospital, an anaesthetist from Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital, an official from the directorate general of health services, and two heads of private hospitals.At least 32 people in two city hospitals died ostensibly due to oxygen shortage in April and May.Twenty patients, most of whom were admitted to the intensive care unit in Jaipur Golden Hospital died around midnight on April 23 after the pressure in the oxygen system became low when the hospital switched from liquid medical oxygen to oxygen cylinders.Twelve more people, including the head of the department of gastroenterology, died in Batra Hospital on May 2 when the hospital was forced to switch to oxygen cylinders after it ran out of liquid oxygen for 80 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/committee-on-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-in-delhi-to-begin-work-soon-sisodia-101622797216241.html
04-06-2021||Other||Tiger dies at Ranchi zoo, samples sent for testing after Covid ruled out||A 10-year-old tiger died at Ranchi’s Bhagwan Birsa Biological Park after showing symptoms such as fever on Thursday night, officials said on Friday and added a rapid antigen test ruled out Covid-19 but the big cat’s samples were being sent for advanced testing. The park, which now has nine tigers, has procured kits to test all the carnivores for Covid there.“...we are sending the swab, blood samples and [a] lung [of the tiger] to IVRI [Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly] for more detailed investigation and find out if the animal was infected with any coronavirus like disease,” said O P Sahu, a veterinary doctor at the park. Sahu added the tiger’s blood test suggested liver and kidney infection and that the rapid antigen test was conducted on Friday morning.Rapid antigen tests have been found to be less accurate than the polymerase chain reaction tests, which are considered the gold standard for detecting Covid-19.Eight Asiatic lions at the Hyderabad zoo tested positive for Covid-19 in May. It was the first such instance in the country and prompted the Centre to order the closure of all national parks, sanctuaries, and national zoological parks. The lions were isolated and have since recovered while similar cases have been reported from other parts of the country.Also Read | 12 big cats killed in accidents triggered by dumping of leftover food: ReportThe Central Zoo Authority (CZA) has sent guidelines and advisories to the zoos -- ranging from prevention to sample collection to detection in suspected cases to safety protocols for animal keepers -- amid the surge in Covid-19 cases. According to the United States Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and Prevention, there is currently no evidence that animals play a significant role in spreading the coronavirus disease to humans. It said in an advisory on its website that more studies are needed to understand if and how different animals could be affected by Sars-CoV-2, and that Covid-19 can spread from people to animals in some situations, especially during close contact.A four-member veterinary doctors’ team was on Friday due to conduct the post-mortem on the tiger, who was brought to Ranchi from Bengaluru’s Bannerghatta Biological Park in November 2014.Officials said the tiger had a fever on Tuesday which subsided after medication. On Wednesday, the tiger did not eat well. “It did not eat at all on Thursday. Then, we called an expert from Ranchi Veterinary College and a vet from Tata Zoo. We also consulted vets in Hyderabad. The animal was given saline. But it could not survive,” said the park’s director, Y K Das. Das said the tiger was genetically weak. “It was suffering from health issues. Its liver and kidney were comparatively weak.”Das said the tiger did not show Covid symptoms when asked why a test for the disease was not conducted as per the CZA’s directions.”...we tried to test it for Covid, but the test kit was unavailable. Then, we procured it from outside, which was delivered on Thursday night.” Das said the tiger had been isolated from the beginning. “We have procured 24 test kits and Covid tests will be conducted of all the carnivores...”Praveen Kumar, an assistant professor at Ranchi Veterinary College who examined the tiger, said by then, its condition had deteriorated. “We gave saline to the animal with difficulties, as its vein was not found. The Covid test kit was brought but the test could not be conducted on Thursday night, as diluents were missing in the kit.” Kumar said he does not suspect it to be coronavirus. DS Srivastava, a former state wildlife board member, blamed the park for negligence. “The tiger fell seriously sick amid Covid pandemic. Why was the Covid test done at the first stage? Even if the tiger was not suffering from coronavirus, why it was not given proper treatment from specialist doctors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tiger-dies-at-ranchi-zoo-samples-sent-for-testing-after-covid-ruled-out-101622796136352.html
04-06-2021||Bhopal||MP: Parents of kids below 12 years to get vaccination priority||The Madhya Pradesh government has decided to prioritise the vaccination of parents having children below 12 years of age, so that they can look after the kids in case the latter get infected with Covid-19.The decision has been taken in view of the projection that the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic would impact children more, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said."We have decided to give priority in vaccination to the parents of children less than 12 years of age as it is feared that the third wave of corona will affect them the most," he said in a statement issued on Thursday night."This will help in better care of the children as their parents will be around them in case they contract the infection," he added.The chief minister said the state has brought the second wave of the pandemic under control, but there are fears that the third wave will hit."We have made preparations for the third wave by setting up special wards for children and strengthening the overall health services," Chouhan said.He also said that it was also brought to the notice of the government that there are many children who want to go abroad for higher studies."Therefore, the state government has decided that the vaccination of such students should also be done on priority, so that they can safely go to foreign countries for education," he said.Madhya Pradesh on Thursday reported 846 coronavirus positive cases and 50 fatalities, taking the state's tally to 7,82,945 and toll to 8,207, the health department has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-parents-of-kids-below-12-years-to-get-vaccination-priority-101622795447134.html
04-06-2021||Jaipur||Gehlot asks Centre for timely supply of black fungus injections||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday asked the Centre to supply Amphotericin B injections used for the treatment of black fungus in a time-bound manner."Like Remdesivir injections, the Central government has taken the responsibility of allocating Amphotericin B injection to states. But the states are not getting the injections on time which is causing a lot of trouble to the patients," he said in a tweet in Hindi.“If this injection is given to the patient in time, then their life can be saved,” he added.Gehlot appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to ensure the availability of Amphotericin B injections so that patients can be treated on time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/gehlot-asks-centre-for-timely-supply-of-black-fungus-injections-101622795456114.html
04-06-2021||Ranchi||126 released on parole in May to decongest Jharkhand jails in Covid-19 time||In a bid to decongest overcrowded prisons of Jharkhand for containing the spread of coronavirus, 126 prisoners have been released on parole in May following a recent Supreme Court order, an official said on Thursday.The 30 jails of the state have around 21,000 inmates against a capacity of 16,900."We released 126 eligible prisoners on parole for 90 days last month in the wake of Supreme Court direction," the official said.Between January and April, 10 prisoners were given parole in the state.Another senior official said that to decongest prisons in the state, a new jail has been set up at Barhi in Hazaribag with a capacity to accommodate 300 inmates. This is in addition to the states 30 jails, of which seven are central jails, 15 district jails, seven sub-jails and one open jail.Another jail with a capacity to house 325 prisoners is likely to come up by July 15 at Nagar Utari in Garhwa, he said.Besides, some 1,200 prisoners have been shifted to less crowded jails from overcrowded ones to decongest the prison, he said.Jail superintendents were earlier asked to furnish the list of prisoners who may be eligible for bail or parole as per the apex court order.Taking note of the "unprecedented surge" in Covid-19 cases, the Supreme Court on May 7 ordered immediate release of prisoners who were granted bail or parole last year amid the pandemic to decongest jails.The court had observed that decongestion of prisons housing around 4 lakh inmates across the country is a matter concerning "health and right to life of" prisoners and police personnel.The apex court earlier asked all states and union territories to constitute High-Powered Committees (HPC) to consider releasing on parole or interim bail prisoners and under-trials for offences entailing up to seven-year jail term to decongest prisons in the wake of the pandemic.The HPC in the state comprising Justice AK Singh of Jharkhand High Court, Principal Secretary Home Rajiv Arun Ekka and IG Prisons Birendra Bhushan had met on May 17 to review the situation, sources said.It decided that 90 days of parole can be sanctioned to eligible prisoners while the period for those already on parole can also be extended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/126-released-on-parole-in-may-to-decongest-jharkhand-jails-in-covid-19-time-101622793286640.html
04-06-2021||Gurugram||99-year-old woman from Gurugram beats Covid-19 in home quarantine||Showing what a strong willpower can do, a 99-year-old woman from Gurugram has recovered from the Covid-19 infection during home quarantine.Speaking to ANI, Laddo Devi's grandson Daksh said, "She is 99 years old as per the document. But she says that she has seen the 1918 Spanish flu, so I believe her age must be more than what the document declares. She was quarantined after testing positive for the virus."Daksh said, "Looking at the prevailing health infrastructure situation in the country, we did not admit her to a hospital. Instead, we gave her the treatment at home itself with the help of Asha workers and 'Ayushman Bharat' officials."He further said that once her oxygen level went down to 82 but they got her treated in a natural way."We have already planted a variety of plants like the snake plant, money plant, etc., for the natural supply of oxygen. We kept her in the fresh open air," he explained.Daksh also said that the doctor recommended a pump for the breathing exercise which helped her a lot."At times, she refused to eat and also to drink water but we kept her feeding in every half-hour interval. I was tested negative only some time ago so I knew I would not contract it again. With all the precautions, I looked after her throughout her quarantine period," he added. (||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/99yearold-woman-from-gurugram-beats-covid-19-in-home-quarantine-101622792883254.html
04-06-2021||Bhopal||MP man booked for killing neighbour’s pet dog||A 53-year old man was booked for allegedly killing his neighbour’s pet dog after it bit his wife in Indore, said police.Narendra Vishvaiyya, 53, was arrested under Section 429 (mischief by killing and maiming cattle) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the complaint of neighbour Vedik Pathak.Police also booked Pathak, the dog’s owner, under Section 289 (negligent conduct with respect to animal) of IPC.Also Read | Cops carry corpse on foot after family refuses to help in BhopalDwarkapuri police station in-charge Santosh Dwivedi said, “Vishvaiyya claimed that he shot the dog dead with his licensed rifle because it bit his wife and she had to be administered an anti-rabies injection.”“He said the dog bit several people in the locality but the owner didn’t do anything,” said Dwivedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-man-booked-for-killing-neighbour-s-pet-dog-101622792895933.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s April Covid surge was driven by Delta replacing Alpha variant: Paper||Delhi’s rapid surge of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in April is linked to the Delta variant of concern B1.617.2 overtaking the earlier predominantly found Alpha variant B1.117, shows a yet-to-be peer-reviewed paper from the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB). The paper, which was uploaded to MedRxiv Thursday night, states that the B1.117 variant – which was initially reported from UK in December last year – was “minimal” in Delhi in the month of January, rapidly increasing to 20% in February, and 40% in March. Even this rapidly spreading variant of concern was, however, overtaken by April by the Delta variant first found in Maharashtra. The proportion of the Delta variant increased from 5% in February to 10% in March, before overtaking the Alpha variant by April and accounting for 60% of the sequenced samples, according to the paper. This increase in the proportion of the Delta variant was paralleled by a large increase in the positivity rate. Also Read | Scientifically Speaking: Decoding the evolution of coronavirusesThe positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive – in Delhi had jumped to over 36% by April third week, meaning one in every three samples being tested was found to have Covid-19. Based on data from India and the UK, the researchers from IGIB estimate that the Delta variant is as much as 50% more transmissible than the Alpha variant, which is also manifold more transmissible that the wild-type Sars-Cov-2. The researchers also found that the breakthrough infections – Covid-19 after immunisation – were disproportionately because of the Delta variant. They are yet to determine whether the variant also leads to increased case fatality ratio – proportion of deaths among positive cases. “While much more remains to be done, three takeaways for now are: Delta (B.1.617.2) is more transmissible than Alpha (B.1.1.7), there seems to be greater immune escape and reinfection, and fully vaccinated breakthroughs were disproportionately due to Delta,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director, IGIB in a tweet. An earlier study from the same institute found that it was causing more breakthrough infections in a tertiary care hospital. The researchers found that of the 33 healthcare workers who got the infection, almost half the infections were caused by B1.617 variant. “The dominance of B.1.617 could be explained by prevalence of this lineage in community infection or simply reflect transmission among healthcare workers. The data nonetheless raises the possibility of a transmission advantage of B.1.617 in vaccinated individuals,” said the yet-to-be peer-reviewed article from mid-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-april-covid-surge-was-driven-by-delta-replacing-alpha-variantpaper-101622791336090.html
04-06-2021||Jaipur||Gehlot announces incentives for pvt hospitals to set up medical oxygen plants||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday announced incentives for private hospitals to set up medical oxygen plants."In order to promote medical oxygen manufacturing in the state, Rajasthan Chief Minister has announced a special package for medical oxygen manufacturing enterprises. The special package is extended to include hospitals where the minimum investment criteria are relaxed," an official statement said."The hospitals can avail the benefit of capital subsidy equivalent to 25 per cent of the investment made or ₹4,01,000 per nm3/hour of manufacturing capacity, whichever is lower subject to a maximum of ₹50 Lakh," it added.Parsadi Lal Meena, Industries Minister, Government of Rajasthan, said that the move to include hospitals under the package came at the request of the medical fraternity."Under this special package, during the current fiscal if any hospitals are making investments for setting up a medical oxygen plant, can avail the Capital subsidy equivalent to 25 per cent of the investment made in plant and machinery and equipment or Capital Subsidy equivalent to ₹40,000.- per nm3/hour or m3/hour of medical oxygen manufacturing capacity, whichever is lower, subject to a maximum of ₹50 lakh," the statement said."For ease of understanding, hospitals are required to set up a plant having at least eight nm3/hour medical oxygen manufacturing capacity i.e. approximately 30 cylinders per day," it added."Similarly, enterprises other than hospitals are also eligible to avail the benefit of Capital Subsidy equivalent to 25 per cent of the investment made in plant and machinery and equipment, subject to a maximum of ₹50 lakh. Only investors who have set up and commenced the operations between April 30 2021 and September 30 2021 can avail of the benefits of this special package," the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/gehlot-announces-incentives-for-pvt-hospitals-to-set-up-medical-oxygen-plants-101622790243099.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal to hold 2 meetings, discuss likely Covid-19 third wave preps||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is set to hold two meetings on Friday to discuss preparations for the possible third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. "The CM will meet the expert committee at 11 and the preparation committee at 3,” Kejriwal’s office said in a tweet.A 13-member committee was constituted by the Delhi government on May 27 to prepare an action plan for a possible third wave of Covid-19 in the country. The panel is tasked with assessing the current status and projected requirements of the health infrastructure such as hospitals, oxygen plants and drug supplies in the city.Learning from the mistakes, the government has also set up another eight-member expert panel to devise a strategy for mitigation and management of the third wave of Covid-19.India was hit by a catastrophic second wave of Covid-19 as the daily numbers of cases and deaths jumped to unprecedented levels, overwhelming the healthcare system. People were running from pillar to post to secure basic beds with oxygen set up, oxygen concentrators and even basic medicines. The national capital also suffered the brunt of the second wave as it led to crematoriums running out of space to bury the dead.The trajectory is now on the downward trend, however, many experts and the government have warned people to not let their guards down due to the impending third wave. As of Friday morning, the country has a total caseload of 28,574,350 and its death toll stands at 340,702.On June 2, a report by India's largest public sector bank, the State Bank of India (SBI), suggested that the intensity of the third wave could be as severe as the second wave. In the five-page-long report, the bank said that the average duration of the third wave of the pandemic in the worst-hit countries is 98 days as against 108 days during the second wave.Delhi has been under lockdown since April 9 in view of the massive surge in Covid-19 cases. The situation has, however, improved significantly now. On Thursday, the city recorded 487 new Covid cases and 45 deaths in the last 24 hours in the capital, according to the daily health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-to-hold-2-meetings-discuss-likely-covid-19-third-wave-preps-101622789831053.html
04-06-2021||Indore||Remdesivir scam accused planned to make 80K fake injections, says Indore Police||Indore Police investigations has revealed that the accused in the fake Remdesivir scam case planned to make and sell 80,000 counterfeit units of the injection.Two patients in Indore died after being administered with the fake remdesivir injections, which comprised glucose salt water.Four accused in the scam who were arrested Gujarat Police and brought in for questioning on Indore Police remand last month were sent back after their remand got over, police said.Speaking to ANI, Rajesh Raghuvanshi, Additional SP, Indore (East) said, "Sunil Mishra, Kaushal, Puneet and Kuldeep, who were brought on remand from Gujarat, were sent back on Wednesday after the completion of their interrogation. On interrogation, it was revealed that the accused collected the original Remdesivir through a nurse and after that started the work of making fake Remdesivir in Mumbai."According to the police, the gang members used to procure empty vials, collect labels and other materials and fill the vials with glucose salt water. The accused had set up a factory in a farmhouse in Gujarat's Morvi."The accused had procured empty vials and labels to make 80,000 fake Remdesivir injections. However, only after making about 5,000 Remdesivir injections, the Gujarat Police caught them and busted the case. 1200 Remdesivir fake injections were sold in Madhya Pradesh. 700 of such fake injections were sold in Indore and 500 injections were sold in Jabalpur. While some were sold in other states. A large number of counterfeit Remdesivir were also caught by Gujarat Police," added Raghuvanshi.Apart from the four accused, 12 more people who were their associates and mediators in Indore were arrested.A case has been registered against the accused under several sections including cheating and culpable homicide not amounting to murder in the Vijay Nagar Police Station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/remdesivir-scam-accused-planned-to-make-80k-fake-injections-says-indore-police-101622788237326.html
04-06-2021||Bhopal||Cops carry corpse on foot after family refuses to help in Bhopal||Habibganj police station staff carried the corpse of a 32-year-old man found dead on railway tracks after his family refused to take his body in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal.According to an official statement of Madhya Pradesh Police, on Wednesday Habibganj police stated that a corpse was found in a drain between railway tracks behind Kanha Tower."To verify the information, two Sub-Inspectors (SIs) Amit Bhadauria and Abhimanyu Singh Rajawat went to the spot. They found the corpse in a drain between the tracts in a mutilated condition after being hit by a train. There was no road to the spot through which a vehicle could be taken there so the SIs carried the body on foot for 1km and brought it to the main road," the police said.The statement added that police took the help of people residing nearby to identify the corpse, and the deceased was identified as 32-year-old Anoop Singh a resident of Ishwar Nagar in Bhopal."When police reached his house it was found locked, and it was discovered that his wife is pregnant and presently at her parents' home in Betul. His elder brother Ajab Singh was also contacted who said he was at a village in Sehore district. He said he had no relation with the deceased and would not come to collect the body for the last rites," police informed.The statement added that after family members refused to come forward and claim the body of the deceased, both SIs carried the corpse on foot for 1 kilometre to the parked vehicle, from where it was taken to Gandhi Medical College for post-mortem.After the post-mortem, the body was kept in a mortuary till it was cremated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/cops-carry-corpse-on-foot-after-family-refuses-to-help-in-bhopal-101622788256077.html
04-06-2021||Other||Lightning caused deaths of 18 elephants in Assam: Report||Lightning killed 18 elephants in Assam’s Nagaon district on May 12, according to the final report on the deaths, ruling out poisoning, electrocution by humans, or disease as their causes.The report, submitted to the state government on Thursday, has been compiled after studying other reports by experts and agencies. “It is natural that when such a big incident like this happens some people will think the deaths to be an outcome of human intervention. But the reports of government agencies and experts show the deaths were caused by lightning,” Assam forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya said.Guwahati’s North-Eastern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory cited post-mortems of the elephants and also concluded the elephants died due to lightning. “As per in situ spot evidence, the death of the elephants in the herd may not be attributed to any infectious pathological agent or any toxin or poison.”Also Read | Man-animal conflicts claim 14 lives in Kerala this yearMeteorological data obtained from Meghalaya-based North East Space Application Centre confirmed that lightning had taken place in Nagaon on May 12.Since poisoning and electrocution by farmers to protect their crops from the pachyderms have been reported in Assam, it was suspected humans may have been responsible for the May 12 deaths.“The sudden and tragic deaths of 18 elephants may not be attributed to retaliatory killing by poisoning or electrocution or any deadly disease but to the cause of accidental electrocution by lighting that occurred on the fateful day of May 12 with a strong negative lightning flash with a peak current of 39,000 amperes at 9:28 am,” the final report said.The state government also consulted national and international experts and organisations by submitting photographic and video evidence of the site and the carcasses. “They pointed out that in there have been such mass deaths of animals due to lightning such as the one in Africa where around 400 wild buffaloes died,” said chief wildlife warden M K Yadava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lightning-caused-deaths-of-18-elephants-in-assam-report-101622784015501.html
04-06-2021||Other||Doctor assaulted in Assam accuses police of inaction||A doctor has alleged police inaction a week after the relatives of a patient allegedly assaulted him in Assam’s Hailakandi district. Gaurav Bhattacharjee said he was beaten up on May 27 when the patient was declared dead at Hailakandi Civil Hospital. “The patient was Covid infected and had breathing issues. He died within few minutes after reaching the hospital. We could not even start the treatment. This has become common... people are bringing patients to the hospital at the last moment, which is causing more deaths. After the death, my duty was to declare him dead, which I did. But the family members started shouting at me and some started beating me,” Bhattacharjee said.“I was saved by my colleagues, but no action has been taken against the culprits. Not only me, but my colleagues are also afraid of going to hospitals because we can face such assaults.”Also Watch | IMA prez demands action after Assam doctor attacked over Covid patient’s deathBhattacharjee’s mother, Rupali, said they lodged a police complaint and sought security for doctors. “But no action has been taken in last seven days and I am afraid to send my son to duty now. I would like to request the health minister to ensure minimum safety and security for doctors...”Sudip Chakraborty, the hospital superintendent, said a case has been lodged and Bhattacharjee was called to identify the culprits. “We want more security arrangements inside our hospital so that doctors and health workers feel safe while working.”Police superintendent Ramandeep Kaur they have received the complaint from the doctor, but he could not identify the culprits. “He was also hesitating to lodge a complaint initially and they came to police one day after the incident happened. We have taken details ...the culprits will be arrested soon. We are also willing to ensure the safety and security of doctors and health workers.”Over two dozen people were arrested on Tuesday for assaulting a doctor in Assam’s Hojai district after a patient died of Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doctor-assaulted-in-assam-accuses-police-of-inaction-101622783595391.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Around 70% vaccines slots for 18-44 age group in Meerut booked by Delhi residents: Official||People living in Delhi and Haryana and booking slots for their second dose of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Meerut, district immunisation officer Praveen Gautam claimed, news agency ANI reported on Friday. "Around 70% slots of Covaxin's second dose for the 18-44 age group have been booked by people from Delhi," Gautam said, according to ANI. “We're discouraging them,” he added.Many were able to book their slots in the initial period of the third phase of the immunisation drive but it has met with hiccups due to the acute shortage of the vaccines against Covid-19. Several states, including Delhi and Maharashtra, have suspended their immunisation drives for the people in the age group of 18-44 citing a shortage of doses.The central government opened the immunisation drive for all above 18 on May 1 in the third phase.On Wednesday, the Delhi high court issued notice to the Centre on two pleas to make the second dose of both vaccines against Covid-19, Covaxin and Covishield, available in the national capital.One of the petitions pending in the high court was moved by a lawyer, Ashish Virmani, who received the first dose of Covaxin on May 3 and since May 29 has been unable to book a slot for receiving the second jab which has to be taken within six weeks of the first.Subsequently, Virmani also travelled to Meerut, which around 98km away, to receive the second dose of the vaccine, advocate Pallav Mongia, representing Virmani, told the court during the hearing.The court also pulled up the Delhi government and gave an earful about not ensuring the availability of vaccine doses. "Why did you (Delhi government) start it (vaccination) if you were not sure you can provide the second dose also? You should have stopped," the court while hearing the petitions."You opened so many vaccination centres everywhere with so much pomp and splendour and now you say you don't know when the second dose stock would be available," it also said.Meanwhile, Justice Rekha Palli has issued a notice to the Delhi government and sought its stand on whether it can provide the second dose of Covaxin to those who got the first jab, before the expiry of the incubation period of six weeks between the two doses.The court will resume the hearing on the petitions on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/around-70-vaccines-slots-for-18-44-age-group-in-meerut-booked-by-delhi-residents-official-101622776722572.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Partly cloudy sky today; AQI in moderate category||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Friday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be at 24 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 39°C. The minimum temperature on Thursday was also 24°C, and the maximum temperature was 38°C. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality dropped in the moderate category on Friday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 186.Also Read | Case count below 500 for the 1st time since mid-March, less than 50 deathsAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air is in the moderate category as forecasted. Surface winds are strong and west south-westerly. Isolated thunderstorms with gusty winds are likely in Delhi for the next two days and local dust uplifting is likely. The short-lived dust spike is likely to improve by following the rain and the washing out process. AQI is forecasted to stay in the moderate category with PM10 as the lead pollutant for the next two days. An increase in the long-range transport of dust from the arid regions is likely as the transporting winds are becoming favorable. AQI is likely to slip to the moderate to poor category on June 6.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-partly-cloudy-sky-today-aqi-in-moderate-category-101622776935327.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Reopened for business||This afternoon the kiosk is booming, as always, with the “deck-level” sound of singer Prahlad Badhana’s devotionals in praise of “Dev Narayan.” A few folks are standing by the counter, waiting for adrak chai (ginger tea). The glass jars are filled with mithais, laddus and biscuits. While swirls of dust caused by the passing cars on the kachchi sadak (unmetalled road) are settling down on this chai shack, here in Gurugram’s Sector 35.It seems like any afternoon of the pre-pandemic era. “But I’m in mask,” points out tea man Rajesh Kumar. So are the customers.“Nahin nahin, even our noses are properly covered,” he clarifies, laughing, on this WhatsApp video chat, as he details the ambiance of the place.In his 30s, Mr Kumar is a rare fellow showing no anxiety about our pandemic-ridden lives.“I’m not stressed,” he insists, but with no cockiness in his voice, as if respectful of the feeling of helplessness lurking in the air.Not that he hasn’t suffered due to the coronavirus pandemic. Mr Kumar’s stall was shut down for a month as the Delhi region reeled under the crushing second wave. His earnings stopped. He returned to his village in Rajasthan.“I accepted the situation,” he says, noting, “I would have felt differently if the government had closed only my stall.”Mr Kumar came back a week ago (all his family remain Covid-free) and reopened the stall three days back—the lockdown in the Millennium City has been relaxed. Since the stall is surrounded by factories and warehouses, “my customers consist of labourers, taxi drivers and courier wale”. These are people who can’t work from home, and come to him for chai breaks between their work shifts.It was like a jungle here when he set up the stall a decade ago, he informs. The office block at the back of his stall used to be a dense cluster of trees. Mr Kumar’s recollections of earlier times suggest that the surrounding region has dramatically transformed. Probably the only thing that seems to have stayed unchanged is his tea shop, along with its wooden shelves and glass jars and chipped kettle (which he does replace with new ones regularly).One day, when the pandemic recedes, you ought to drop by Mr Kumar to enjoy his company, his earthy chai, and his stall (this reporter has experienced the place in the pre-pandemic era).The stall would serve daily from 5.30am to 10pm, but now the opening hours are from 9am to 3pm. After which Mr Kumar walks to his room in nearby Narsinghpur village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-reopened-for-business-101622765564405.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Sisodia flags jab shortage, says Centre has no concrete plan to manage Covid||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday criticised the BJP-led Centre’s Covid-19 management and said the Union government didn’t have any “concrete plan”, as he flagged vaccine shortages across the country despite a ₹35,000 crore allocation in the Union budget.Sisodia was responding to BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra’s press conference earlier in the day, where he alleged that Covid-19 death figures in the Capital were underrecorded.“It is evident that Sambit Patra and the BJP are neither concerned about the shortage of vaccines nor a potential third wave. He only went on abusing [Delhi chief minister] Arvind Kejriwal in his press conference. It shows that the BJP has no concrete Covid management plan. I was hoping that he [Patra] would share information about the Centre approving new vaccines, or that he would shed light on the budget allocation of ₹36,000 crore for vaccines. But he did not...,” said Sisodia.“This is the BJP’s new tactic — blame Kejriwal for everything. People in the country want vaccines, they don’t want to hear baseless rants about Kejriwal. People are asking the BJP why they sell vaccines to other countries. Were they clueless about a Covid-19 wave? Where have you spent ₹36,000 crore meant for vaccines? Where are the vaccines? Why are vaccine centres being forced to be suspended across countries? Why does the private sector have so much stock?... [The BJP] leadership should tell their leaders to focus on vaccines and Covid-19 management, instead of wasting time on using filthy language against Kejriwal. BJP should also accept that the country’s vaccine programme is in a mess because of them,” he added.The BJP on Thursday asked the AAP government in Delhi for a white paper on issues related to Covid-19, asking if the number of deaths was “fudged” to keep the official tally down.BJP spokesperson Patra hit out at Kejriwal over the number of “unaccounted” deaths, citing a media report that the MCDs issued 34,750 death certificates for April and May while the official Covid tally for the period was 13,201. “We want to hold the AAP accountable for what has happened,” Patra said.“Delhi’s fatality rate of 2.9% is more than double the overall national rate of 1.3%, he said. Did you fudge death numbers...,” Patra said, addressing Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sisodia-flags-jab-shortage-says-centre-has-no-concrete-plan-to-manage-covid-101622765266799.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Case count below 500 for the 1st time since mid-March, less than 50 deaths||Delhi’s daily Covid-19 tally dipped below 500 cases for the first time since mid-March, while deaths of the infection also dropped to a 45-day low, as the Capital continued to recover from the fourth surge of the coronavirus. Data from the state government’s daily health bulletin showed that the Covid-19 test positivity has been below for 5% for two weeks.The city added 487 new infections on Thursday, the fewest since March 16, when Delhi logged 425 infections.The seven-day average of cases, known as case trajectory, continued to drop sharply, falling to 768 on Thursday, the lowest since the last week of March.The test positivity rate, a crucial metric to gauge the spread of an infection, stayed below 1% in the city for the fourth straight day as well. The city recorded a positivity rate of 0.61%.Positivity rate is a crucial metric as experts say it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when a dropping positivity rate is coupled with decreasing new cases, it indicates that the spread of the virus is reducing within the community. Tracking a region’s positivity rate serves as a good barometer for whether cases are going to increase or decrease in the coming days.The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control. In Delhi, this number has been below the threshold for 14 days now.With 1.4 million cases recorded in Delhi so far, experts said there may not be a huge surge in cases in the city for at least six months, even as the city is in the process of adding beds and oxygen capacity in preparation for the third surge.“I don’t think that there will be another surge in infections at least for the next six months; a lot of the susceptible people were infected during the current surge. There isn’t much of a susceptible pool left in the city to drive more infection,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor in the department of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.Over 1k black fungus cases in Delhi: JainAt least 89 patients in the national capital have died of mucormycosis so far, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said, on Thursday, adding that there have been at least 1,044 cases of the fungal infection in the city after the April-May surge in Covid-19 cases.“There is also a severe shortage of Amphotericin-B,” said Jain, referring to the only last-line antifungal medicine that can effectively treat mucormycosis, which is commonly known as ‘black fungus’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/case-count-below-500-for-the-1st-time-since-mid-march-less-than-50-deaths-101622764732025.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||No curbs on Ramdev, he’s entitled to his opinion: HC||The Delhi high court on Thursday refused to restrain yoga instructor Ramdev from making any statements against allopathy or in favour of Patanjali’s Coronil kit, saying he was entitled to his opinion under free speech laws.A single-judge bench of Justice C Hari Shankar was hearing a suit filed by Delhi Medical Association (DMA), accusing Ramdev of falsely representing Coronil as a cure for Covid-19 and spreading misinformation about modern medicine, or allopathy. The court issued summons, advised Ramdev not to speak about the efficacy of modern medicine until the next hearing, but refused to pass a restraining order without going through his formal reply.It said that “considerable time has passed since the passing of allegedly injurious statements” and added that “the allopathic profession was not so fragile”.Ramdev’s counsel, senior advocate Rajiv Nayyar, told the court that his client has already retracted his remarks made against doctors on May 22. “Then tell your client to not make any statements…I have no objection to him making statements on Coronil… ” the court said as Nayyar urged the judge to not make this a part of the order. Ramdev has three weeks to file his reply.The court said that DMA should file a public interest litigation instead of a suit, and that the yoga guru’s statements are covered under freedom of speech and expression.“If I feel some science is fake…Tomorrow I feel homeopathy is fake...Do you mean they will file a suit against me?...It is public opinion. I do not think your allopathic profession is so fragile,” the court said. “It is an opinion…. Any case founded on prayer for blocking statements has to be tested on (the) anvil of Article 19(1)(a)… There is a right…Terminology may be offensive,” the court observed.Senior advocate Rajiv Datta, appearing for DMA, argued that Ramdev’s statement affects doctors as Coronil does not cure Covid-19, and it is misleading. He claimed a token damage of ₹1 from him saying that it was a suit for civil rights of the doctors.The judge said he was “least concerned” with the association’s argument that Ramdev was a powerful person with a huge following. “Ramdev is a person who doesn’t have faith in allopathy. He believes everything can be cured by yoga and Ayurveda. He may be right or wrong. … You people should rather be spending time to find a cure for the pandemic instead of wasting the court’s time,” the judge remarked.Dutta also submitted that the Ayush ministry had made a statement that Coronil was not a cure for Covid-19 and could not be advertised as such, and had also asked Patanjali to give details, after which Ramdev said that it was an immunity booster.DMA’s counsel further claimed that Patanjali had made ₹25 crore from Coronil sales after it was touted as a cure for Covid. To this the court said, “Is he (Ramdev) to be blamed for people buying Coronil?”The matter will be next heard on July 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-curbs-on-ramdev-he-s-entitled-to-his-opinion-hc-101622764028341.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi moves SC, wants 10 power plants closed||The state government filed a petition before the Supreme Court seeking the closure of 10 thermal power plants around the national capital that are using outdated pollution control technology, environment minister Gopal Rai said.In a statement released on Thursday, Rai said around 10 thermal power plants located in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab are significantly contributing to the pollution levels in the Capital.“We have been writing to the central government and requesting its cooperation regarding this pollution from thermal plants. However, no action has been taken against these plants; instead, they have been allowed to pollute with a total disregard for the health of citizens,” Rai said.He added, “We hope that the Supreme Court will take the necessary steps and direct closure of these plants on an urgent basis.”Rai said the compliance timelines given to these thermal plants by the Union ministry of power were revised to December 2019 from 2018. This has been again extended to 2022, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-moves-sc-wants-10-power-plants-closed-101622762880076.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Advocate’s Friends Colony West home robbed of cash, silverware||Two burglars broke into a Delhi high court advocate’s apartment in Friends Colony West in the early hours of Thursday and decamped with crockery, silverware, cash, and court documents, police said.Senior advocate Avnish Ahlawat, an additional standing counsel in the court, was asleep in the ground floor of her apartment when the burglary took place around 4am. Her family was not in the city.The suspects were spotted on footage from CCTV cameras installed in and around the residential complex, which has 12 apartments, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (south-east) RP Meena said a case of house trespass and theft has been registered at the New Friends Colony police station, and several teams have been tasked to nab the suspects. When contacted, Ahlawat declined to comment.A senior police officer associated with the case said the burglary came to light when Ahlawat woke up around 5.30am and found crockery and silver missing from the kitchen.The kitchen window’s latch was bent, indicating that the robbers made their way in through it. Ahlawat informed the police about the incident, following which a crime spot inspection team and forensic experts reached her house.“The boundary wall of the building is close to the railway tracks. Ahlawat’s apartment was locked from inside. The suspects scaled the boundary wall and entered the house. The involvement of an insider cannot be ruled out,” said an officer.As per the contents of an FIR registered on Ahlawat’s complaint, apart from the silverware, the thieves stole nearly ₹20,000 in cash, two briefcases containing court papers and cheque books, some locker keys, and a pair of sports shoes.The apartment where the burglary took place is several metres away from the main entry and exit gate of the residential complex where two security guards were on night duty. “They did not see or hear anything because of the distance,” an officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/advocates-friends-colony-west-home-robbed-of-cash-silverware-101622759662695.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||‘No arbitrary arrests of medicine buyers’: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Thursday clarified that it has not asked the city police to indiscriminately arrest people buying medicines, oxygen cylinders and essentials for personal use, saying that the “ idea is not to harass the general public”.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh asked Delhi Police to sensitise its force on the guidelines for booking someone of hoarding and black marketing. The court also asked the amicus curiae to go through various FIRs and list out ones in which no offence of hoarding and black marketing was being made out.“Please sensitise your force. The idea is not to harass the general public… You should internally have some guidelines.. what constitutes hoarding and black marketing… It is only those cases where there is hoarding or black marketing, action can legitimately be taken,” the court said.“Amicus and his team of volunteers may examine the same and pick out cases where according to their understanding no offence is made out since it is represented before us that they have been unfairly booked,” the court added.The order comes while hearing the suo motu contempt proceedings which said that independent contempt action would be taken against all such people indulging in hoarding equipment or medicines or selling the same at prices above the MRP. The court issued notices to all the people named in over 40 FIRs pursuant to its May 2 order.During the hearing, DCP (legal) Rajesh Deo of the Delhi police assured that he would take steps in accordance with the court’s suggestion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-arbitrary-arrests-of-medicine-buyers-delhi-hc-101622758922454.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh admitted to PGIMER after oxygen dip||Legendary sprinter Milkha Singh, 91, who recently contracted coronavirus infection, was on Thursday admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of the Covid hospital at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) due to dipping levels of oxygen.The development comes four days after the former Commonwealth Games Champion and 1960 Rome Olympian was discharged from a Mohali hospital where he was admitted for Covid-19 treatment.His son, Jeev Milkha Singh, confirmed that the nonagenarian was admitted to PGIMER after his health deteriorated at home.PGIMER in its statement on Thursday said he has been kept under observation and is stable now.Singh had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 19 last month after which he was admitted in a Mohali hospital on May 24.Singh’s wife Nirmal Kaur, 82, who had also contracted the infection last month, is still receiving treatment at Fortis Hospital, Mohali. The hospital in a statement on Thursday said that Nirmal continues to be in the ICU with fluctuating oxygen requirements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/milkha-singh-admitted-to-pgimer-after-oxygen-dip-101622753653135.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tops UTs in achieving sustainable development goals||Chandigarh has emerged as the top union territory in the third edition of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) India Index 2020–21. In the SDG Index released by NITI Aayog in Delhi on Thursday, Kerala with 75 marks out of 100 topped among the states and Chandigarh with 79 marks led among the UTs in terms of sustainable developments goals achieved. Chandigarh’s overall performance has also improved – from 70% marks in 2019 to 79% in 2020. Since its launch in 2018, the index has been documenting and ranking the progress made by states and union territories towards achieving the sustainable development goals. These were adopted by all United Nations Member States in 2015 as a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity by 2030.From covering 13 goals with 62 indicators in its first edition in 2018, the third edition comprises 16 Goals on 115 quantitative indicators, with a qualitative assessment on Goal 17. Tweeting about Chandigarh’s performance, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore said, “Commendable effort by the citizens, officers, counsellors and NGOs who are actively involved in ensuring the overall development of Chandigarh.”Where UT fared better than the restThe City Beautiful continues to be on the top in the country in “providing quality education”. It has the lowest dropout rate, highest gross enrolment ratio and best language proficiency in the country. 100% of its schools have access to basic infrastructure, such as electricity and drinking water. The enrolment rate in elementary education improved from 82.7% to 85.78% between 2019 and 2020. For higher secondary, it was 81.55% and higher education at 50%. Average dropout rate, which was zero in 2019, increased to 4.52%.Among UTs, Chandigarh was the best in achieving “zero hunger” by meeting the 100% coverage target under the National Food Security Act. With 99% marks, the city was best in “clean water and sanitation”. It achieved 100% target for individual household toilets constructed under the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) and all city schools have separate toilets for girl students. Also performing best in “life on land”, Chandigarh increased its forest cover from 18.91% to 19.32% and tree cover from 8.77% to 22.34% between 2019 and 2020, say the Niti Aayog Report. Poor performance With the crime rate against women nearly doubling between 2019 and 2020, Chandigarh was one of the worst performers in achieving the “gender equality” goal. In 2019, there were 59.8 crimes against women per 1,00,000 female population, which increased to 95.20 in 2020. In contrast, Puducherry’s crime rate against women is 12.1. Murders per 1,00,000 population increased from 1.32 to 2.20 and cases under Prevention of Corruption Act and Indian Penal Code per 10,00,000 population increased by four times from 1.10 to 4.24. In industrial development as well, the city was among those on the bottom of the list. Remarkably, it scored zero for ease of doing business. Manufacturing employment nearly halved from 15.15% to 8.47% from the previous year.The city fared poorly in achieving “climate action” goals. While Lakshadweep had 100% renewable energy out of total installed generating capacity, Chandigarh’s figure was 69%. CO2 saved from LED bulbs per 1,000 population for Chandigarh stands at 48 tonnes, which is even lower than Delhi’s 67.57 tonnes, while Lakshadweep’s is 309.48 tonnes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tops-uts-in-achieving-sustainable-development-goals-101622753473397.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity’s daily Covid deaths drop to four, lowest in seven weeks||Showing no major downturn despite the Covid-19 cases receding steadily for the past three weeks, tricity’s daily deaths on Thursday dropped to four, a first in the past 49 days.Since recording four deaths on April 15, the tricity had seen the daily fatalities rise swiftly, hitting the peak of 38 on May 5. While the Covid cases had started coming down after touching the all-time high of 2,612 on May 10, the deaths had remained in double digits for three straight weeks until the figure came down to nine on June 1.Among those who died on Thursday, three were from Mohali and one from Chandigarh, while Panchkula reported no casualty for the second time in the past three days.On the other hand, there was a slight rise in the Covid-19 cases with 366 people testing positive in the tricity, against 337 on Wednesday.Only Chandigarh saw the cases dropping further, from 134 a day ago to 111 on Thursday. Mohali’s cases rose from 153 to 191 and in Panchkula 64 infections were reported, up from 50 the day before. On a positive note, the active cases in the tricity reduced from 4,204 on Wednesday to 3,994 on Thursday.The daily positivity rate – proportion of tests returning positive – was 4% in Chandigarh, 4.9% in Panchkula, but a tad higher in Mohali, at 6.9%.The latest fatalities took Chandigarh’s toll to 762, while the cases reached 60,399. A total of 1,135 patients are still under treatment in home isolation or at hospitals and 58,502 have been cured, a recovery rate of 96.8% - currently highest in the tricity.In Mohali, the cumulative cases and deaths stand at 67,035 and 978, respectively. As many as 2,243 people are still recuperating and 63,814 (95.19%) have recovered.With no death, Panchkula’s toll stayed at 352, but cases climbed to 29,879, of which 616 are active.‘Continue to exercise caution’“There was a significant decrease in Covid-19 cases for the last one month, but there was no proportionate drop in the number of deaths in the tricity. It is a good sign that the fatalities have started coming down, but people should take care not to lower their guard and continue to follow Covid appropriate behaviour,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, Chandigarh.Dr VK Nagpal, UT joint director, health, said, “Our rapid response teams are working round the clock to assess the patient from the moment a positive report arrives. Even though cases have decreased, continued prompt response has helped people get hospital care sooner, which in turn has helped bring the mortality graph down too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricitys-daily-covid-deaths-drop-to-four-lowest-in-seven-weeks-101622752693220.html
04-06-2021||Other||ASIs’ killing: Jagraon police bring two accused on police remand||Two of the main accused in the killing of assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh, have been brought to Jagraon on police remand. The duo, along with their accomplices, had gunned down the ASIs at Jagraon grain market on May 15.The two accused have been identified as Baljinder Singh alias Babbi of Moga’s Mahla Khurd village and Darshan Singh of Sahauli village in Ludhiana. They were carrying a cash reward of ₹2 lakh each on their heads. The Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) had nabbed them from Dabra of Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh on May 28 when they were planning to board a train to Maharashtra.After their arrest, a local court in Ludhiana sent them to 10-day police custody. Confirming the development senior superintendent of police (SSP) Jagraon Charanjit Singh Shoal said the duo was brought to Jagraon on police remand and questioning is on.As per police sources, the accused are associates of notorious gangster Jaipal Bhullar and cops are trying to trace the hideouts of the gangster through them. Police are also trying to ascertain how the accused had procured drugs and weapons used in the crime. Earlier on May 20, six aides of gangster Jaipal, including Darshan’s wife Satpal Kaur alias Noni, were arrested with a cache of weapons and ammunition. Punjab police chief Dinkar Gupta had stated that preliminary questioning of the suspects had revealed that Baljinder had come to Jagraon grain market in his mini-truck to pick Jaipal and Jassi and drop them at a hideout outside the state. Darshan had turned up at the spot with some clothes for the gangster and his associate. Gupta said the ASIs who were on duty confronted Baljinder on suspicion of drug smuggling following which Darshan opened fire from his .32 revolver.Darshan, Jaipal and Jassi then fled in their I-10 Hyundai car, while Baljinder drove off in his mini-truck and joined them after some time. They all fled towards Rajasthan. As per information, Darshan and Baljinder had been earlier convicted in two different murder cases. They had come in contact while serving the jail term. Darshan was granted remission while undergoing his sentence while Baljinder was released on bail by the high court. Darshan reportedly has two more criminal cases pending against him and was also involved in opium smuggling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/asis-killing-jagraon-police-bring-two-accused-on-police-remand-101622752453314.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||NGT directs Punjab govt to look into plea for restitution of public park in Ludhiana||Observing that parks are the lungs of the society, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Punjab government to look into a plea against concretisation of green area of a public park situated at Kidwai Nagar in Ludhiana.A bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said that as per its February 2014 order, the tiling or concretisation of pavements should not exceed five percent, and footpath and tracks should be constructed only with permeable and semipermeable, perforated blocks.“There is no doubt that parks being the lungs of the city need to be maintained following the best practices, in accordance with the observations of the Hon’ble Supreme Court and this Tribunal, referred to above. There is, however, no presumption that the law on the point will not be followed. It is not a case that the Tribunal needs to determine any question. Only issue is the compliance of well-established norms by the state authorities. Accordingly, the secretary, urban development, Government of Punjab and the commissioner, municipal corporation, Ludhiana, may look into the matter and take remedial measures as are found necessary, following due process of law,” the bench said.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by the Council of Engineers seeking restitution of the green area of a public park (Mini Rose Garden) situated at Kidwai Nagar, near Industrial Area- A, Ludhiana and for injunction against commercialisation and concretisation of the park under the Smart City Mission. According to the applicants, “The Ludhiana Smart City Ltd. is developing Mini Rose Garden (land area around 3.50 Acres) under Smart city Mission with a budget of ₹3.48 crore of Public Funds.“Despite knowing the facts that park size is not big as compared to number of surrounding residents of densely populated localities (which is in core area of Ludhiana), situated very close to Industrial Area of Ludhiana, Ludhiana Smart City Ltd is going to commercialise and concretise the park by constructing buildings for indoor badminton court building, cafeteria, water fountains, concrete paths and parking with solid interlocking tiles in contrary to judgments as held by Supreme Court,” the plea said.The petitioners further stated, “Due to concretisation of parks and green belts, the rain water does not seep through preventing recharge of ground water. The concretisation causes an increase in temperature of the environment as it absorbs heat and cools down very slowly as compared to open earth surface and green areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ngt-directs-punjab-govt-to-look-into-plea-for-restitution-of-public-park-in-ludhiana-101622752333129.html
04-06-2021||Other||For 4th day in row, Ludhiana’s daily Covid count remains below 300||The district recorded 228 fresh Covid-19 cases and six deaths in the last 24 hours, health department officials said on Thursday. It is for the fourth day in a row that the daily count of cases has fallen below the 300-mark.The district currently has 3,325 active cases.The deceased include four women and two men, the oldest being a 77-year-old woman resident of Haibowal Kalan, and the youngest a 30-year-old woman from Samrala who was brought dead at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala.The remaining are a 69-year-old man of Rumi village, a 65-year-old woman resident of Janta Enclave and a 54-year-old male resident of Issru village. Besides, a 32-year-old woman resident of Janta Nagar also succumbed to the virus.The total number of deaths due to Covid-19 since the beginning of the pandemic is 2013 while 84,850 residents have tested positive until now. Of the total, 79,512 patients have recovered.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said the number of Covid cases have also decreased in Ludhiana, but the health department teams are working day and night to bring the count to zero.She said the health department team is carrying out extensive sampling, vaccination and awareness to control the spread. She further said, “People are scared of Covid-19 but they should also know that it is very easy to stay away from this virus. All they need to do is follow the health department’s guidelines.” She added, “By getting vaccinated, taking a Covid test if experiencing symptoms and observing basic precautions such as wearing masks, washing hands and maintaining adequate social distancing can help keep the virus at bay.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/for-4th-day-in-row-ludhiana-s-daily-covid-count-remains-below-300-101622752213266.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir seeks HC-monitored probe into Punjab govt selling jabs to private hospitals||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday demanded a high-court monitored probe into the manner in which the Congress government “is creating an artificial shortage of vaccines for the common man by selling doses at a hefty profit to private hospitals.”Sukhbir’s demand came a day after HT highlighted in its report that how the state government’s move to sell vaccine to private hospitals has raised eyebrows. “A case should be registered against state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu for diverting vaccines meant for the common man to private institutions,” Sukhbir told reporters here. “It’s a scam. Vaccine doses were available in the state but they were being sold to private institutions instead of being given free of cost to the common man. A Covaxin dose costing the state ₹400 was being sold to private institutions at ₹1,060. The private hospitals were further selling the dose at ₹1,560,” alleged Sukhbir.“Rahul Gandhi had recently demanded free vaccines for all. He should now tell if he supports the Punjab government’s move to force the common man to pay ₹1,560 per dose,” said the Akali Dal chief.Flaying chief secretary Vinni Mahajan, Sukhbir alleged that she had “assumed the role of a marketing director of private institutions by tweeting that people should get themselves vaccinated at two private institutions.”Mahajan was not available for her comments. AAP, CONG hand in gloveOn rebel AAP MLAs Sukhpal Khaira, Jagdev Singh Kamalu and Pirmal Singh Khalsa joining the Congress, Sukhbir said: “This clearly shows that the Congress and the AAP are working hand in glove with each other.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-seeks-hc-monitored-probe-into-punjab-govt-selling-jabs-to-private-hospitals-101622752153254.html
04-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 2 minors booked for raping classmate after offering her lift||Two minors have been booked for raping and assaulting their 17-year-old classmate in a car in Khanna town on Wednesday.The accused are residents of Guru Nanak Nagar and Navi Abadi localities of Khanna. Both are absconding since the incident.The victim’s mother said that on Wednesday, her daughter, along with another girl from her class, had gone to purchase books. Few hours later, she returned home alone, profusely crying. The victim told her mother that when she and her friend were on the way to the market, they ran into the accused who offered them a lift in their car. Since the two were their classmates, the victim and her friend accepted the offer.After driving for some distance, the accused asked the victim’s friend to get off. Before the victim could gauge the situation, the accused locked the doors of the car and sped off with her. When they reached the entrance of Radha Swami Vatika in Sun City Colony, the accused stopped the car and one of them raped her. They then pushed her off the car and sped away. Inspector Rajinder Kaur of Khanna City 2 police station said that after recording the statement of the victim, a case under Section 376- D (rape which also include a clause of bearing the medical expenses and rehabilitation of the victim) and 354 (any man who assaults or uses criminal force to any woman) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered. Since the victim is a minor, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has also been invoked. “Both the accused are minors and on the run. Efforts are on to nab them,” said the inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-2-minors-booked-for-raping-classmate-after-offering-her-lift-101622751973084.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Online camps, hobby classes keeping Chandigarh kids engaged this summer break||As the Covid-19 pandemic continues to encumber the outdoor life for adults and minors alike, teachers and parents are adopting new ways to keep their wards occupied this summer vacation.In Chandigarh, most parents have put their faith in online hobby classes.Government schools in the city announced summer vacation on May 8 and are set to open soon. Several private schools stuck to their academic calendar and declared the break around May-end, while Vivek High School, Sector 38, pushed the date to June 14 based on the feedback from parents.With an aim to make the holidays interesting and productive for children, some schools are organising summer camps. Sweety Bahl, a teacher at DAV Sector 15, who has arranged for a week-long summer camp for the students, said, “The theme of the camp is the environment. Principal Anuja Sharma and the teachers are helping students learn skills like tie-dying with natural ingredients, making green terrariums and papier mache.”Similarly, St John’s High School in Sector 26 is holding coding classes for students, according to principal Kavita Das. “We have designed our holiday homework in such a way that students will have to apply their creative minds in preparing their projects,” she said.Hobby centres in the city have also taken to the online approach. Pracheen Kala Kendra has been holding online classes for dance and fine arts. Pracheen Kala Kendra secretary Sajal Koser said, “We are planning to start offline classes for students at the centre from June 10 onwards after discussion with their parents and checking the government’s guidelines. We are likely to hold online workshops for classical dance, music and fine arts from June 15 onwards.”Many parents, however, say that children are now averse to online classes after studying in the mode for over a year. Nitin Goyal, whose children study in a city-based school, said, “We have tried to get our kids involved in various online classes, including online karate, but they are more inclined towards Whatsapp calls with friends and online games.” He added that without any release of pent-up energy, kids are getting moodier and more irritable.Dr Adarsh Kohli, professor of clinical psychology at PGIMER, said, “Hobby classes are useful if chosen well as per the child’s interests and inclinations. It is a good change for the child from routine activities. Children are missing out on a productive period of their childhood and their social economical and psychological quotient is being neglected. The joys of learning, meeting, sharing and talking are not being experienced due to the pandemic and parents have to fill in these gaps.”Meanwhile, some schools are not holding any summer classes at all. Speaking about this, director of Strawberry Fields High School, Sector 26, Atul Khanna, said, “Our teachers have been working constantly since 2020, so we have decided to give them time-off to be with their families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/online-camps-hobby-classes-keeping-chandigarh-kids-engaged-this-summer-break-101622751793835.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||No drug case for years in at least 10 Sangrur villages||At Santpur village in Sangrur district’s Dirba block, no resident was booked in a drug case in the past 10 years. Sarpanch Lal Singh (55) says the village that shares border with Haryana has been drug-free as elders were more interested in sports, mainly wrestling and kabaddi. The youngsters only towed the line by engaging themselves in sports and other activities such as organising blood donation camps. According to police records, no drug case FIR was registered for years in Santpur, Nagakheri, Ratangarh Sindran, Nihalgarh, Ghanaur Jattan, Mardkheda, Bhaini Ganduan, Satoj, Khanpur Fakiran, and Maidevas villages. Hardeep Singh, husband of Ratangarh Sindran sarpanch Jaswinder Kaur, says no drug-related FIR was lodged since 2013 as the residents opposed drugs and women even stood up against the illicit liquor trade. “A woman whose husband used to drink alcohol smuggled from Haryana had informed the police years ago. The incident triggered awareness among women and they all stepped in to check illicit liquor and drug trade. People inform the police whenever they come across something fishy,” says Hardeep. Nirmal Singh, 38, a private school teacher, says education and reports of drug deaths in other parts of the state made people taking a stance to eradicate drugs. Khanpur Faqiran sarpanch Balveer Singh says the village’s youth club and panchayat members didn’t allow drugs in the village for years. “The village has a population of over 2,200 and all are against drugs. The youths spend their time in sports and agriculture,” added Balveer. Former sarpanch of Bhaini Ganduan Bikar Singh says there has been no drug case in the village for about a decade. “People support the panchayat. I have served as sarpanch and never tried to save anyone who violated the law. The residents never allow smugglers to enter the village,” he said. Charan Singh, husband of Satoj sarpanch Kiranpal Kaur, says villagers support the police drive to make the village drug-free. Dirba deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Mohit Agarwal says many villages haven’t seen a drug case for years. “We intensified the drive against drugs and got good response from panchayat members and residents,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-drug-case-for-years-in-at-least-10-sangrur-villages-101622751734399.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||A day before meeting Kharge panel, Capt brings Sukhpal Khaira, 2 other rebel AAP MLAs into Cong fold||The ruling Congress in Punjab got a shot in the arm when three rebel Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs, including former leader of opposition (LOP) Sukhpal Singh Khaira, Jagdev Singh Kamalu and Pirmal Singh Khalsa, joined the party on Thursday ahead of next year’s assembly polls in the state. The MLAs were welcomed into the party fold by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh minutes before he left for Delhi in a helicopter for a one-on-one meeting with three-member committee constituted by the Congress to resolve infighting in the Punjab unit. Amarinder’s wife, Patiala MP Preneet Kaur, was also present at the helipad where the three legislators met the chief minister and posed for photos which were posted on social media by the state Congress from its official handle promptly. “Chief Minister @Capt Amarinder Singh before leaving for Delhi today welcomed Sukhpal Singh Khaira, MLA and former leader of opposition and his two AAP MLA colleagues named Jagdev Singh Kamalu, MLA Maur, and Pirmal Singh Dhaula, MLA Bhadaur, into the party fold (sic),” the Punjab Congress tweeted. The three MLAs resigned from the membership of the state assembly. “Their resignations have been received in the speaker’s office,” an official of the state assembly said. The trio’s entry into the Congress, in a well-choreographed move timed with his meeting with the central team, is being seen as a boost for the chief minister. It could not have come at a more opportune moment for Amarinder, who, though, the tallest of the party in Punjab, is being openly targeted by a section of the Congress, particularly former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa, who are trying to paint a dismal picture of the party’s poll prospects. The AAP rebels’ entry has provided an opportunity to him to send out a message to the party leadership that he retains his appeal and can get leaders from rival parties. After the meeting, Amarinder said their induction has been approved by Congress president Sonia Gandhi. After joining the Congress, Khaira thanked Sonia and former party president Rahul Gandhi, besides heaping praise on Amarinder for his stand on the three farm laws. “Justice will definitely be delivered in the 2015 sacrilege and subsequent police firing incidents,” he said. He also termed his decision of joining the AAP a “political blunder”. However, not everyone in the Congress seems pleased with Khaira’s return to the party fold due to the ED raids at his premises three months ago and his sharp personal attacks against some party leaders, including the chief minister, earlier. While it is homecoming for Khaira, a two-time legislator from Bholath who first got elected to the state assembly as a candidate of the Congress in 2007, Kamalu and Khalsa are first timers. After quitting the Congress, Khaira had joined the AAP in 2015. He won the Bholath seat in 2017 and was later appointed LOP in the state assembly. However, he fell out with the party leadership after Arvind Kejriwal tendered an apology to Akali leader Bikram Majithia in a defamation case. When the party removed him as the leader of opposition, he, along with a few other AAP MLAs, rebelled and floated his separate Punjab Ekta Party (PEP). Khaira later contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Bathinda seat but lost. Amarinder in DelhiAmarinder, who has already reached Delhi, will meet the three-member committee comprising leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former MP Jai Prakash Agarwal at 11 am on Friday. On reaching the Capital, the CM went into a huddle with cabinet ministers Vijay Inder Singla and Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, MPs Ravneet Singh Bittu, Manish Tewari and Gurjeet Singh Aujla and his advisers at Kapurthala House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-day-before-meeting-kharge-panel-capt-brings-sukhpal-khaira-2-other-rebel-aap-mlas-into-cong-fold-101622751733342.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh doc, lawyer file plaint against Baba Ramdev for slander||Former president of the Indian Medical Association,Chandigarh branch, has lodged a complaint against yoga guru Baba Ramdev for his derogatory comments against medicine practitioners and allopathic doctors in India.The complaint was filed at the SSP window by Dr GS Kichhar, a former faculty member at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, and former president of the IMA, Chandigarh branch.Meanwhile, former president of the District Bar Association, Chandigarh, advocate Ravinder Bassi, has also filed a criminal complaint against Baba Ramdev. The case is now listed for June 7.Dr Kichhar, in his complaint, said that the derogatory statements made by Ramdev, who is a public figure, will create an atmosphere of panic and fear among the people against modern medicine. He added that “by spreading fear of allopathy, he has spread fear against Covid vaccination”.Bassi said in his complaint that “the so-called godman Baba Ramdev made false claims with his ayurvedic medicine, Coronil. He even called a press conference in this regard and claimed that he had tested the medicine on more than 200 people in collaboration with a private university. Later, he ran away from his statement and said that it was not a medicine, but an immunity booster”.“Now in this time of emergency, he is calling the doctors foolish and allopathy a pseudo science,” he added.The advocate has prayed that Ramdev be summoned and punished under Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 276 (Sale of drug as a different drug or preparation) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 51 and 52 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.The doctor has urged the authorities to take strict legal action against Baba Ramdev under the Sedition Law, the Disaster Management Act, the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954, the Epidemic Act and other applicable laws, for damaging the reputation and the image of allopathy and its practitioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-doc-lawyer-file-plaint-against-baba-ramdev-for-slander-101622751553104.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Profiteering from pandemic: 80k vials already sold, officials now say it was one-time measure||A day after Hindustan Times report exposed how the Punjab government was minting money in the name of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) by selling Covaxin doses procured from its quota to the private hospitals, the state authorities on Thursday said that it was only a one-time measure. So far, 80,000 doses have been sold to private facilities, 30,000 of which went to a single hospital in Mohali, an official said, requesting anonymity. The government could have earned more than ₹5 crore from the sale of vaccines.The report created uproar with various opposition leaders, including Union minister of state Anurag Thakur, SAD chief Sukhbir Badal, Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal, taking on the Punjab government for “making profit from the pandemic”. Nodal officer for the vaccination and senior IAS officer Vikas Garg, who on Wednesday had justified the state government’s decision saying profit will be used only to buy vaccines, said it was only a one-time measure and no private hospital will get the doses henceforth. “The decision of providing vaccine doses to private hospitals was taken on public demand,” he added. However, Hindustan Times has learnt that it was a well-thought-out move to create CSR fund by selling the vaccine procured at ₹400 for ₹1,060. The report also highlighted how private hospitals were further charging at least ₹1,560 per dose from the customers. An official privy to the developments, requesting anonymity, said the ‘one-time-measure’ statement came after discussions among senior health functionaries who were the brain behind the idea of generating funds from vaccines. HT has learnt that the vaccine was provided to some private hospitals on Thursday as well against the advance payments made by them. Earlier in the day, Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur accused the Punjab government of “black-marketing”. “Punjab has shown a careless and callous attitude towards the people of the state by charging four times from people for the jab. Why should an individual pay over ₹3,120 for two doses when the Centre is providing vaccines free to the state government. Instead of facilitating the vaccination process, Punjab government is looting the people amid the pandemic,” he said. “Will Rahul Gandhi investigate why vaccines have been supplied to Congress cronies who are charging a ‘pandemic premium’ and indulging in black-marketing instead of saving the lives of the poor? And does he have the courage to question his own party government in Punjab,” Thakur said. Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal also shared the HT report on her Twitter handle, saying, “Amarinder government created an artificial shortage of Covid vaccine in government hospitals and then sold the vials to private hospitals at a premium. Earlier, he handed over ventilators to private hospitals, which charged hefty fee from patient. Profiteering from people’s misery, how low can this government fall!” Reached out by HT, health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu distanced himself from the government’s controversial decision to sell the state’s vaccine quota to private hospitals on premium. “ Only nodal officer for vaccination Vikas Garg and chief secretary Vini Mahajan can reply on vaccinations being sold to private hospitals. I can only tell you about the testing, number of cases and many other things,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/profiteering-from-pandemic-80k-vials-already-sold-officials-now-say-it-was-one-time-measure-101622751433123.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University closes teaching departments, libraries till June 9||Panjab University (PU) on Thursday decided to extend the closure of its teaching departments and libraries till June 9, in view of the pandemic situation.The office of the dean students welfare (DSW) in a notice stated that the decision had been taken in view of the orders of the Chandigarh administration. “To comply with the orders of the Chandigarh administration, teaching departments and libraries of PU will remain closed till June 9. It has already been advised that the hostel residents should go back to their families for their safety and health,” reads the notice issued.The varsity has also advised hostel residents not to come back until the PU authorities issue a notice in this regard. PU last month had closed all physical services including libraries and labs on campus in view of the recent surge in the number of Covid-19 cases.Meanwhile, students on Thursday again held a protest on campus demanding reopening of the libraries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-closes-teaching-departments-libraries-till-june-9-101622751253733.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Disabled in truck-car crash, Chandigarh woman awarded ₹14-lakh relief after 5 years||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), Chandigarh has awarded over ₹14 lakh compensation to a resident of Sector 15, who was left “permanently disabled” in a road accident that took place in 2016.Rupinder Kaur, 41, had filed a case against Bal Krishan of Sangrur, who owned the truck that caused the accident, and its driver Makhan Singh. Kaur runs a paying guest facility and tuition classes.On January 6, 2016, she was on her way in a car to Kesri Singh Pura village in Ganganagar district of Rajasthan to meet her maternal grandfather. She was in the rear seat of the car with other occupants. Due to traffic jam at Sunam city, the car was stopped on the side of the road when a speeding tanker hit rammed into it, leaving the claimant injured and permanently disabled.Kaur sustained a spinal cord fracture resulting in the paralysis of both lower limbs besides other injuries. She spent more than ₹10 lakh on her treatment and is still unable to move.As both the driver and truck owner did not respond, they were proceeded against as ex-parte.The MACT partly allowed the claim petition and awarded compensation of ₹14,21,000 in favour of the woman. She shall also be entitled to interest on the amount of compensation at 7.5% per annum from the date of claim petition till realisation.“The truck owner and driver are jointly and severally liable to pay the amount of compensation to the claimant,” the tribunal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/disabled-in-truck-car-crash-chandigarh-woman-awarded-14-lakh-relief-after-5-years-101622751012955.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Uploading balance sheets online: Chandigarh school body to approach SC||The Independent School Association (ISA) has decided to challenge the Punjab and Haryana high court’s May 28 judgment mandating private schools to upload balance sheets online.Announcing this on Thursday, ISA president HS Mamik said, “We feel that the judgment had many errors and we will approach the Supreme Court next.”Mamik added that uploading the balance sheets online will violate the privacy of the schools and make it harder for the management to run them.Meanwhile, the UT education department has taken note of the HC judgment. Director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “Based on the judgment, we will give the private schools some time to upload their balance sheets online. Action will be taken against those who don’t comply.”Parents’ body welcomes movePresident of the Chandigarh Parents Association Nitin Goyal said, “We had been waiting since 2018 for this to happen. Now schools will be able to show how much money they made during the pandemic and this will help parents, who are demanding fee waivers for the 2021-2022 academic session.”While most schools are rallying behind the ISA’s stance on the issue, the head of a private school, wishing not to be named, said many schools were transparent with their dealings and wouldn’t mind uploading their balance sheets online.The Punjab and Haryana high court on May 28 had upheld the Chandigarh administration’s order mandating private unaided schools to upload balance sheets on their websites. The ISA, a body of 78 private schools, and Kabir Education Society, Chandigarh, had moved the high court last year, challenging various provisions of the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, as extended to the UT. The law was adopted by the UT in 2018.The plea was filed after the UT administration had issued show-cause notices to the schools, asking as to why penalties should not be imposed against them for not uploading balance sheets for the last financial year. The schools had also challenged the constitution of the Fee Regulatory Authority, arguing that asking them to upload balance sheets violated their rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/uploading-balance-sheets-online-chandigarh-school-body-to-approach-sc-101622750893025.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Losses mount for apple growers in Himachal as hailstones continue to batter orchards||Losses are compounding for Himachal farmers as frequent hailstorms continue to batter orchards in the main apple-growing regions of the state. Apple growers have suffered losses to the tune of ₹300 crore so far, besides the damages to the stone fruits.Inclement weather conditions this time have dashed the hopes of farmers, who were expecting good returns after a lean season last year that was adversely impacted by the Covid-induced lockdown. High moisture content has already led to outbreak of many fungal diseases in orchards, including deadly scab that emerged after two decades in 2019. “Weather this time is quite unpredictable. Jagged hailstones hammered the crops between Shilaru and Matiana on Wednesday evening. Hardly any crop is left now. Orchards bore the brunt of spring snow in April and the damages were way too intense,” said Devender Sarswati, a retired government official who owns an apple orchard in Shilaru in Theog subdivision. The hailstones extensively damaged the anti-hail nets used to cover the apple plants. Untimely snowfall in the last week of April and repeated hailstorms have broken the backbone of apple farmers, said Harish Chauhan, president of Fruit, Vegetable and Flower Growers Association. He said the government pegged the crop losses at only ₹250 crore whereas the intensity of the damage was much high. “The government only assesses crop losses. The farmers never get compensated,” he claimed. “We don’t have enough funds to compensate the farmers. The damage report will be sent to the central government,” said Himachal horticulture minister Mahender Singh Thakur. He also expressed serious concern over the insurance companies not compensating the farmers for their losses. The horticulture department will hand over the cases of the insurance companies to special investigating units, he said. “If required, we will get it investigated by central agencies,” he added. The ₹60,000 crore apple economy is the mainstay of over two lakh farming families in Himachal Pradesh. Apples are mainly grown in Shimla, Mandi, Kullu, Kinnaur and a few regions of Chamba , Sirmaur and Lahaul and Spiti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/losses-mount-for-apple-growers-in-himachal-as-hailstones-continue-to-batter-orchards-101622750714255.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Toll collection at Sanwara plaza: Himachal HC seeks reply from Centre, state, NHAI||Himachal Pradesh high court on Thursday directed the central and state governments besides the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to file reply in the matter related to collection of fee at Sanwara toll plaza in Solan. The court also directed that the prayer for interim relief will be considered after the reply is filed by the respondents. A division bench comprising Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed these orders on a public interest litigation, wherein the petitioner has alleged that the toll plaza at Sanwara is illegal and contrary to the National Highway Fee (Determination of Rates and Collection) Rules, 2008, which provide that no toll plaza can be established in the same section within a distance of 60km, whereas other toll plazas are situated at Chandimandir in Panchkula and Parwanoo in Solan, which are within 60km range from Sanwara plaza. He has also challenged the completion certificate issued to GR Infra Projects by the NHAI and has alleged that major part of the construction work of flyover and its underpass at Kumarhatti, Saproon and near Timber Trail Resort in Parwanoo were not complete and the toll was being levied before completion of work. He has also claimed that the toll road has not been maintained properly and part of the stretch is accident prone, as there is no proper barricading of the roads which join the toll road from the towns and villages along the national highway. The petitioner has also prayed to quash the contract, construction, completion certificate issued to GR Infra and scrap the notification fixing the toll charges payable by the vehicles crossing the Sanwara toll plaza. The court in its previous hearing had stayed the collection of toll tax at the Sanwara plaza till June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/toll-collection-at-sanwara-plaza-himachal-hc-seeks-reply-from-centre-state-nhai-101622750713100.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||29 die, 1,801 contract Covid in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday reported 29 Covid-related deaths and 1,801 fresh infections, taking the overall cases to 2,95,879 and total fatalities to 3,992.Of the deaths in the UT, 15 were reported in Jammu division and 14 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 1,247 are from Kashmir while 554 are from Jammu, besides 22 travellers.The number of patients who were cured in the UT on Thursday was 2,694, including 1,808 from Kashmir and 886 from Jammu. The active positive cases dropped to 30,657 from the highest ever figure of 52,848 on May 13. The overall number of people who recovered reached 2,61,230, improving the recovery rate to 88.28%.The officials said that 46,372 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT with the overall number of tests reaching 8.69 million. Officials said with 329 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 194 in Budgam, 153 in Jammu district, 148 in Baramulla and 143 in Pulwama.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.17 lakh cases and 1,871 deaths of the total. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,085 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 786 deaths .The month of May was most devastating for Jammu and Kashmir recording the highest 1,14,382 Covid-19 cases and 1,625 deaths related to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/29-die-1-801-contract-covid-in-jk-101622750654292.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Lashkar offshoot behind fatal attack on BJP leader in Tral: Police||People’s Anti Fascist Front (PAFF), a previously unknown group, has claimed the responsibility for the killing of the chairman of Tral municipal committee Rakesh Pandita. In a statement to local media, PAFF accused Pandita, a BJP leader, of creating a “network of informers, drug traffickers and immoral activities”. The PAFF said it was “keeping an eye on the activities of these forces”.Police said PAFF appears to be a front of militant organisations active in south Kashmir and added that security forces have cordoned off the attack scene and launched a search operation to nab the assailants. The police said that PAFF is the name created as a cover to Lashkar and other groups active in Kashmir.Pandita was shot dead in Jammu and Kashmir’s Tral on Wednesday night when he was visiting a friend’s house, the police said and added his personal security officers (PSOs) were not accompanying him when he was attacked. The police cited violation of the standard operating procedure and said Pandita, 56, should have avoided going to his native village without his security cover, which was provided to him along with a secured accommodation in Srinagar. The police are investigating why the PSOs were not accompanying Pandita and said action could be taken against his security officers.“He (Rakesh Pandita) had gone to Jammu and left PSOs in Kashmir. After returning from Jammu, he went to Tral without PSOs to meet his friend Mustaq Bhat. The investigations are going on,” said a senior police officer.After the killing, police have issued fresh instructions to political workers and leaders not to move without PSOs.Pandita was shot at around 10.15pm, a police spokesperson said. He added that his friend Mushtaq Ahmad’s daughter also suffered injuries in the shooting and was hospitalised in a critical condition.At least 12 local bodies and panchayat members have been killed since elections at the grassroots level were held in 2018. The members were promised security by the government, but many alleged that no security is being provided to them. In March, two councillors and one PSO were killed when militants entered the municipal council office in Sopore. Later, the police claimed to have arrested people involved in the attack.“We were promised adequate security by the government, but unfortunately, only people who are affiliated with the BJP or the parties which are close to New Delhi have been given security,” said a councillor from Sopore.BJP spokesman Altaf Thakur, who is also BDC member from Tral, said in the last three years, 17 BJP workers have been killed in different militant attacks in Kashmir. “Most of the councillors and panchayat members have been provided security. These attacks won’t deter us from carrying out political activities.”Meanwhile, former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti condemned the killing, saying such senseless acts of violence have only brought misery. “Shocked to hear that BJP leader Rakesh Pandit has been shot dead by militants. These senseless acts of violence have brought only misery to J&K [Jammu and Kashmir]. My condolences to the family and may his soul rest in peace (sic),” she tweeted.Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha echoed her. “Saddened to hear about the terror attack on the Councillor Shri Rakesh Pandita at Tral, Pulwama. I strongly condemn the attack. My condolences to the bereaved family in this time of grief,” he tweeted. Sinha added that “terrorists will never succeed in their nefarious designs” and those responsible for such heinous acts shall be brought to justice. Several senior leaders of J&K Pradesh Congress committee have also strongly condemned the killing of Pandita.Jammu mourns Pandita’s deathPall of gloom descended on Roop Nagar when the mortal remains of Rakesh Pandita were consigned to flames here on Thursday. Pandita’s funeral pyre was lit by his son Paras Pandita. BJP MP Jugal Kishore Sharma, J&K BJP president Ravindra Raina and former MLC Vikram Randhawa were also present. The Kashmiri Pandit community was in a state of shock over the “barbaric killing”, while BJP MP Jugal Kishore Sharma blamed Pakistan for the murder. Pandita is survived by his mother Sharika Pandita, wife Aparna Pandita, son Paras Pandita, besides two brothers Sanjay Pandita and King Pandita. Sanjay said his brother kept democracy alive in Kashmir. “When elections were announced in Kashmir, many parties refused to contest, but my brother contested the election and won. Even though the situation in Kashmir was not good, he used to go to his area so that the problems of the people could be addressed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lashkar-offshoot-behind-fatal-attack-on-bjp-leader-in-tral-police-101622750653051.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Patti shootout: Cops start process to extradite gangster Lakhbir from Canada||Tarn Taran police have started the process to extradite gangster Lakhbir Singh, alias Landa, who was the mastermind of Patti shootout in which an Akali worker and his associate were shot dead on May 27.Amandeep Singh, alias Aman Fauji, Akali worker with criminal taint, and his accomplice Prabhjit Singh of Patti city, were shot dead by two car-borne men when they were returning after paying obeisance at a tomb in Patti. Aman and Prabhjit’s third accomplice Samsher Singh, alias Shera, received a bullet injury in his stomach.Facing eleven criminal cases, including three of murder bid, Landa, a resident of Harike town, had fled to Canada in 2017, said police. He is facing cases under the Arms Act and the NDPS Act in Tarn Taran, Moga and Ferozepur districts, and Chandigarh. Last case against Landa was registered under attempt to murder at Kot Isse Khan police station of Moga district in September 2016.Landa’s name emerged after Tarn Taran police arrested vice-president of a Patti Truck Union Malkit Singh, alias Laddu, who is also an associate of Patti Congress MLA Harminder Singh Gill, for conspiring the Patti killings. Police said Landa demanded ₹20 lakh ransom from a Patti-based person. Aman Fauji, who was known to that person, had refused to give ransom. Holding a grudge, Landa hired notorious criminal Preet Sekhon for executing Aman Fauji and his aides. Sekhon allegedly executed the crime at Landa’s behest, police said. “We have written to the Union government for pressing the Interpol to issue a red-corner notice against Landa, who is presently staying in Canada. A lookout circular has already been issued against him. We will continue to pursue the case until Landa is extradited,” said a senior police official, who didn’t wish to be named. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale confirmed the development. He said efforts to nab Preet Sekhon were also on.Officials said police have also issued a lookout notice against Sekhon, who is facing five criminal cases, including three of murder. He was accused of killing his sister and her mother-in-law in 2011. He had also allegedly killed a bouncer in Amritsar last year. Sekhon had claimed responsibility for the Patti shootout on his Facebook page.Congman held for sheltering accusedPolice on Thursday arrested one Rajwinder Singh, alias Raj Sarpanch, of Talwandi Budh Singh village for sheltering the accused, including Preet Sekhon. The SSP said it came to light that Raj sheltered Sekhon and his aides after the shootout. The pistol used for executing the crime was also kept in Raj’s home. The pistol has been recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patti-shootout-cops-start-process-to-extradite-gangster-lakhbir-from-canada-101622750413125.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-army chief fails to join probe, FIR against Capt’s relative cancelled||A Patiala court has accepted the cancelation report of Punjab Police in an FIR in which former army chief General JJ Singh (retd) was a complainant, and another armyman Captain Amarjit Singh Jeji (retd), a relative of CM Captain Amarinder Singh was accused.The case hit the headlines during the 2017 assembly elections in which General JJ Singh was a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidate against Amarinder from the Patiala assembly segment.On February 8, 2017, Gen JJ Singh lodged a complaint against Capt Amarjit Singh (retd), grandson of freedom fighter Sewa Singh Thikriwala, for stopping him from garlanding the latter’s statue during his election campaign on January 24.On his complaint, an FIR was registered at the Civil Lines police station under Sections 341 (wrongful restraint) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).In his complaint, Gen Singh alleged that he was carrying out a cycle rally during his campaign and on the way, he wanted to pay tributes to Thikriwala, but the accused stopped him from garlanding the freedom fighter’s statue.In fact, the SAD nominee was publicly snubbed by Captain Amarjit, who had accused the former of using the statue of Thikriwala for political gains. After a verbal duel, Gen Singh put the garland on the outer boundary wall of monument.However, after losing elections, Gen Singh failed to join investigation. The police sent several reminders to him, but to no avail. Later, the police filed cancelation report in court, which also issued several summons, but he didn’t appear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exarmy-chief-fails-to-join-probe-fir-against-capt-s-relative-cancelled-101622750053104.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||6,000 cops to keep vigil in Amritsar on Operation Bluestar anniversary||The Amritsar commissionerate police will deploy more than 6,000 cops to keep a vigil in Amritsar on the 37th anniversary of Operation Bluestar, conducted by the army in 1984 to flush out militants hiding in the Golden Temple complex, on June 6.Since various Sikh bodies, including separatist outfits, have started organising programmes to observe the anniversary, a flag march was conducted by the police from Hall Gate to Heritage Street that leads to the Golden Temple on Thursday.Besides calling senior police officers, including SPs and DSPs, from the neighbouring districts of Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran and Pathankot, companies of the Punjab Armed Police (PAP), Punjab Police commandos and anti-riot police, will also be deployed. Amritsar police used to call paramilitary forces on the Operation Bluestar anniversary every year after a clash took place between radical Sikh activists and Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) task force at the Golden Temple complex in 2014, in which several people were injured. However, the central forces have not been called since 2019.The movement of the cops in uniform and civvies around the Golden Temple complex and markets leading to it has been intensified. Permanent barricading has been strengthened around the Golden Temple with additional police force to maintain law and order. “Around 2,500 cops will be deployed inside and outside the Golden Temple. Besides, 3,000 to 3,500 police personnel will keep a vigil in other parts of the city,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP-law and order) Parminder Singh Bhandal.He said: “We will also ensure that Covid norms are not violated. On June 5 and 6, there is complete lockdown (weekend lockdown) in the city. We appeal to the people to comply with the orders and keep their establishments shut on Saturday and Sunday. Nobody will be allowed to disrupt peace in the city.”Meanwhile, Pro-Khalistan group Dal Khalsa will hold “Ghallughara Yadgari Samagam” on June 5 evening at Bhai Gurdas Hall at the Golden Temple complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/6000-cops-to-keep-vigil-in-amritsar-on-operation-bluestar-anniversary-101622749813096.html
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor manufacturing racket busted in Tarn Taran village, 5 held||A joint team of the excise department and Punjab Police have busted an illicit liquor manufacturing racket in Jalloke village, situated on the banks of Sutlej and along the border of Tarn Taran and Ferozepur districts.Five persons, identified as Balwant Singh, Gurdev Singh, Bohar Singh, Jeet Singh and Tarlochan Singh, have been arrested during the search operation that was launched under the supervision of excise officer Navjot Bharti. DSP (operations) Iqbal Singh was leading the police team.The excise department has also recovered 18000-kg lahan (raw material used for producing illicit liquor) and 180-litre illicit liquor. The liquor was being smuggled to the nearby villages. “Continuing our drive against illicit liquor under operation Red Rose, it was our fourth search and cordon operation in the district in the period of last one month. Besides the recovery of the lahan and illicit liquor, we have also seized 15 drums, nine cans and nine silver pots used for storing illicit liquor and lahan,” said Bharti.He said: “We had also taken the help of an excise team based on Ferozepur district for the raid. More such operations will be conducted in the coming days.”A case under sections of the Excise Act has been registered against the accused at the Patti sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illicit-liquor-manufacturing-racket-busted-in-tarn-taran-village-5-held-101622749633104.html
04-06-2021||Other||1000 samples to be collected in Lucknow during sero-survey||As the state government is all set to launch a massive sero survey in all 75 districts to ascertain prevalence of Covid infection from Friday, samples of people in the state capital will also be collected for three days under the exercise. “About 1,000 samples will be taken in three categories and depending upon the need the number of samples will be increased,” said Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar, chief medical officer, Lucknow.The three categories are urban and rural people who tested positive in first wave and those who contracted Covid infection in the second wave of the pandemic. The survey involves testing the blood serum to determine the presence of antibodies against the coronavirus. “The samples will be sent to the lab at the King George’s Medical University,” said a senior health official in Lucknow.In September last, the state health department had conducted serological survey in eleven districts including Meerut, Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Kaushambi, Prayagraj, Moradabad, Ghaziabad, Baghpat and Agra to understand development of antibodies among population.“The tests are conducted on samples from the population selected via sampling techniques,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. If the samples are detected with sufficiently high quantities of antibody in people during sero sampling, it suggests that those people have been infected in the past.The result of the sero sampling done in September last year suggested about one in five of the 16,000 people tested showed prevalence of antibodies against the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen that causes the Covid-19 disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1000-samples-to-be-collected-in-lucknow-during-serosurvey-101622748672319.html
04-06-2021||Mumbai||'All we could see was smog': Panic after fumes emit from Badlapur firm||Locals at Badlapur complained of foul stench in the MIDC area on Thursday around 10pm.Fire brigade officials informed that overheating of chemicals – such as benzene and sulphuric acid – stored at a factory in Badlapur MIDC released fumes into the air. The fire brigade started cooling operations and brought the situation under control by 11.45pm.A fire brigade personal said, “On Thursday, the two chemicals had overheated and emitted fumes, which spread across the entire area. The gas is not hazardous but residents found it difficult to breathe, and developed itchy eyes cough. We reached the spot and immediately and started the reactor cooling machine to control the temperature of the chemicals. We started making emergency announcements in the area asking residents to stay in their home. We’ll also investigate the matter in detail and take necessary action against the company for negligence.”Sai Kiran, one of the residents of the area, said, “We could not even see the building next to ours. All we could see was smog. So we immediately called the fire brigade. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panic-after-fumes-emit-from-badlapur-firm-101622748012312.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||WhatsApp gaining consent by ‘trick’: Govt||The Union government on Thursday told the Delhi High Court that WhatsApp has “unleashed its digital prowess” by obtaining “trick consent” from its users with notifications asking them to accept the new termsThe government also told the court about WhatsApp’s “game plan” to get the users to accept its updated privacy policy before India’s Personal Data Protection (PDP) Bill becomes a law.In the plea before the court, the government sought that WhatsApp be “desisted” from any action of “pushing notifications” related to its updated 2021 privacy policy. It also sought directions to WhatsApp to place on record the number of times such notifications were being pushed every day basis, and its conversion rate (notification to acceptance of the updated 2021 privacy policy by users).The affidavit came on a hearing of several pleas challenging WhatsApp’s new privacy policy, which, according to the firm, has come into effect from May 15. The matter was not heard on Thursday as the bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh did not assemble.“WhatsApp is indulging in anti-user practices by obtaining ‘trick consent’ from the users for its updated privacy policy. It is submitted that millions of WhatsApp existing users, those who have not accepted the updated 2021 privacy policy are being bombarded with notifications on everyday basis,” the Centre said in the affidavit.“WhatsApp has unleashed its digital prowess to the unsuspecting existing users and would like to force them to accept the updated privacy policy by flashing such notifications at a regular interval. The game plan is very clear, i.e., to transfer the entire existing user base committed to updated 2021 privacy policy before the PDP Bill becomes the law,” the affidavit added.The company pushed back the deadline for its contentious new privacy policy launched this January. The updated policy will allow WhatsApp to share data about users’ interactions with business accounts with its parent company, Facebook.The social media intermediary is also at loggerheads with the government over the implementation of new IT rules, and has challenged them in the High Court on the grounds that it makes them identify the first originator of all information.It has claimed that the provision of “traceability” in the new IT Rules is a violation of the Right to Privacy, according to Indian law.WhatsApp, in a May 17 hearing on pleas challenging its privacy policy, told the Delhi High Court that it may delete user accounts for not accepting new privacy policy, but would do it in a phased manner by gradually restricting services while persuading users to come on board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/whatsapp-gaining-consent-by-trickgovt-101622747126017.html
04-06-2021||Bangalore||‘Humiliated’: Mysuru civic body chief resigns||Bengaluru Mysuru City corporation commissioner Shilpa Nag on Thursday announced her resignation from the Indian Administrative Services during a press conference citing ‘humiliation’ and that she cannot work in a ‘suffocating environment’. “With deep sorrow and regret, I am hereby submitting my resignation to the Indian Administrative Service . I humbly ask your kind self to accept this and relieve me of my moral dilemma, pain and sorrow for the sacrilege of the sacred service we have taken oath to serve and protect,” Nag said on Thursday in Mysuru, about 125 kms from Bengaluru.A 2014 batch officer, Nag’s resignation has rekindled the debate against the functioning of the district administration of Mysuru.Nag made an apparent reference to Rohini Sindhuri, the Mysuru deputy collector, who has been at the receiving end of criticism from other political leaders including the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday said that he had no knowledge of Nag’s resignation and said that he would comment once he gets all the information.Nag said that she is sending her resignation to the chief secretary.The IAS officer, who has served in various positions in different districts in her tenure, said that she was being targeted and “humiliated” time and again.She said that despite getting most of the work done in her corporation limits, there were calls being made to her office citing dereliction of duty in preparation of the Covid-19 pandemic in the city.“They are meting out insults and spreading misinformation. No one should work with so much arrogance,” she said, making another apparent reference to Sindhuri. “I cannot work in this suffocating environment,” she added.Sindhuri was also the target of her colleagues from other districts when at least 24 persons died due to shortage of Oxygen in Chamarajanagar, about 40 kms from Mysuru.Denying all allegations, Sindhuri on Thursday said, “It is untrue that there was any harassment from me and none has been mentioned even in the statement issued by Smt Shilpa Nag”. She said that her entire focus has been towards managing Covid-19 alone. The Mysuru DC even alleged that Nag had stopped attending Covid-19 reviews.“The Mysuru City Corporation was submitting unsigned and contradictory ward wise Covid-19 figures on new cases, deaths and active cases. I had ordered that same be rectified,” Sindhuri said.She added that by asking Covid care centres to be opened and other pandemic related work “constitutes harassment by any stretch of imagination”.She even said that Nag is yet to furnish details of CSR coming in from private companies towards the pandemic and other works.“It is for everyone to note that over the last 10 days Smt Shilpa has been issuing statements to press and media against the District Administration. A conduct not expected from a Mysuru City Commissioner,” Sindhuri added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/humiliated-mysuru-civic-body-chief-resigns-101622747473638.html
04-06-2021||Other||K’taka announces 2nd financial relief; extends curbs till June 14||Bengaluru The Karnataka government on Thursday extended the ongoing lockdown by one more week and also announced a second financial package. The restrictions will remain in force till 6am on June 14. Announcing the extension, chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday in Bengaluru said, “Even though there is a decline in Covid-19 infections in the existing situation, the spread of the (corona) virus has continued. Based on the advice of medical experts, the existing guidelines and strict restrictions in force at present, it has been reviewed as suitable and decided to be extended till 6 am on June 14.” Besides extending the lockdown, the CM also kept his promise of providing a second financial package by announcing a relief of ₹500 crore. He announced a financial relief of ₹3,000 for power loom weavers which would benefit 59,000 such units that would cost the state exchequer ₹35 crores. “Unorganized workers of film and television Industry will get ₹3,000 relief. This will benefit 22,000 registered workers and will incur an expenditure of (Rs) 6.6 crores,” a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO) said. Others who are likely to benefit are fishermen, priests Asha and Anganwadi workers among other sections. Yediyurappa had already announced a financial package of ₹1,250 crore last month. The second financial package comes amid criticism from the opposition and trade union activists who have stated that the paltry sums does little to alleviate sufferings of hundreds of thousands of people who have no source of livelihood or income due to the lockdown. “It is going to be a month since these restrictions came into place. People are yet to receive any relief from the first package itself and the government has announced a second package. We had asked that at least ₹10,000 be deposited to their accounts before the lockdown. Where will these people run around to get the money now? And what use is ₹2000- ₹3000 which is not even enough to pay a month’s rent,” Ramalinga Reddy, the working president of the Congress party in Karnataka said on Thursday.Yediyurappa said that at least 70% of those from the first package are beginning to receive payments and the process of paying out from the second package will start in a couple of days. The CM said that excess milk procured from farmers will be converted to milk powder and distributed to school children along with food grains for June and July, costing the state ₹100 crore. “Teachers of unaided schools will be given a relief of Rs. 5000 each. This will amount to Rs. 100 crore. An assistance of ₹5 crores will be given to advocates welfare fund,” according to the statement. The chief minister announced that micro, small, medium enterprises will be given concession for paying fixed charges for the month of May and June which will cost ₹120 crores to the government. Yediyurappa said that though the restrictions would continue across the state but the government did make some concessions. According to the latest guidelines, all establishments which are directly engaged in exports are permitted to function with 30% of their staff strength. The guidelines added that the department of commerce and industry will notify the list of permitted units and establishments. “All such units which employ more than 1000 persons shall do covid-19 test for at least 10% of the employees randomly twice a week,” according to the new guidelines. The document added that a separate SOP will be issued for garment exporting units shortly.On Thursday, Karnataka recorded 18,324 new infections at a positivity rate of 12.20%. There were 24,036 recoveries that further brought down the active caseload to 286,789, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. However, the fatality rate continues to remain at a high of 2.80% as 514 more died in the battle against the virus that takes the state’s toll to 30,531. Yediyurappa said if the positivity rate comes down to below 5% or 3%, then the state is ready to give some kind of relief in restrictions as earlier. A government-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC) had submitted a report earlier this week to the state health ministry on steps required to contain the prolonging of the second wave of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-announces-2nd-financial-relief-extends-curbs-till-june-14-101622747473028.html
04-06-2021||Dehradun||4 Uttarakhand SDRF trek 5 hours to cremate Covid+ive man’s body, his son refused||Four personnel of Uttarakhand’s state disaster response force (SDRF) of police trekked 5 km for the cremation of a 90-year-old Covid-19-infected man in Pithoragarh district on Wednesday after his family and villagers abandoned the body.The SDRF personnel came to the village from their base camp in Pithoragarh city after receiving a call for help from the dead man’s son on Tuesday night.“The deceased, Mohan Ram, was bed-ridden. He died on Tuesday after which his family undertook his Covid-19 test in which he tested positive. They then abandoned the body as other villagers were refusing to lend a hand in getting him cremated. His son Bheem Bahadur then contacted us on Tuesday at 10.30 pm,” sub-inspector Manohar Kanyal, who led the team of four, said.Kanyal promised to come the following day.“Next morning, we four left our camp at 6.30 am and reached the house at 11.30 am. There, none of his family members or the villagers came forward to help us in getting the body packed or arranging wood at the cremation ground. We did it all by ourselves,” he said.The SDRF officer said after putting the body on a PPE kit, they carried him 1km down towards a motorable road.“From there, we carried it in a hearse till the closest motorable spot to the crematorium ground. We had to carry the body in bamboo on foot, braving the difficult hilly terrain to a cremation ground that was downhill near a river. There, too, we have to arrange the wood on our own to set the pyre to cremate the body,” he said.Kanyal said he and his colleagues don’t “run away from such hard work because it’s the service of humanity in these difficult times”. But it is very upsetting, he said, when well-off people like the family of this man refuse to carry the cremation of their dear ones. “If the family is not financially sound, then we can understand their problem, but at least those who can afford on their own, should not do this,” he said.Six days ago, in another incident, an SDRF team had helped an 82-year-old Covid-19 infected man get admitted to a hospital by carrying him on a stretcher for about 7 km on hilly terrain.As the man used to live alone in the village, nobody came to help him in taking him to a nearby hospital. The SDRF men, after receiving an SOS call, reached there and got him admitted to a Covid-19 hospital.Director general of state police Ashok Kumar said, “The department has been helping the needy ones in this pandemic by providing help like providing oxygen cylinders, arranging ambulances and getting hospital beds for patients.”“We have been doing this all under an initiative known as ‘Operation Hausla’ under which we also cremate abandoned bodies of Covid-19 infected people. We would continue to serve humanity,” said Kumar.In the second wave of the pandemic, police have cremated 792 bodies of Covid-19 infected people till May 31. They also arranged ambulances for 600 people, provided oxygen cylinders to 2,726 people, medicine for 17,609 people and hospital beds for 792 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/4-uttarakhand-sdrf-trek-5-hours-to-cremate-covid-ive-man-s-body-his-son-refused-101622746433043.html
04-06-2021||Other||Yogi announces resumption of OPDs, surgeries from Friday||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday announced the resumption of outpatient department (OPD) services, as well as surgeries, at the state’s district hospitals, community health centres (CHCs) and primary health centres (PHCs) from Friday.He also announced that the partial corona curfew would be relaxed in one more district, Jhansi, from Friday as the number of active Covid cases there fell below 600. Now, only nine districts, including Lucknow, will continue with the partial corona curfew.Markets and shops will remain open from 7am to 7pm daily in Jhansi from Friday while adhering to Covid safety protocols and relevant restrictions. Relaxations are already in place in 64 other districts. Nevertheless, weekend curfew and night curfew will continue statewide.“Given the improvement in the Covid situation in the state, we will start OPD services at the district hospitals, CHCs, and PHCs and surgeries as well from June 4. However, more and more people should be encouraged to make use of tele-consultation and the e-Sanjavini app for it. Only in special circumstances, people should visit OPDs. Under no circumstance, should there be a violation of Covid safety protocols,” he said at a Covid-19 review meeting.He also noted that there had been reports of negligence and mischief in administering vaccines in some parts of the country as well as in UP.“Such things are inappropriate. Considering such acts as crime, act strictly against those responsible,” he said to officials.He said that so far, the state had administered a total of 1.9 crore vaccine doses to people in the state, adding that three lakh people got vaccine cover in the last 24 hours. He asked the officers concerned to take all possible steps to enhance daily vaccination capacity in the state.He said the Covid recovery rate had reached 97.4% in the state and there had been a fall by 91.8%. Currently, the state has 25,546 active Covid cases.Regarding preparations for the predicted third wave of pandemic, Yogi said that the state government had set June 20 as the deadline for establishment of PICUs (paediatric intensive care units) and NICUs (neo-natal ICUs) and the deadline will not be extended. “So, accomplish the task by pre-set deadline,” he said to the officers concerned.Regarding training of personnel to tackle the third wave, Yogi said the five-day training programme of 85 master trainers was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-announces-resumption-of-opds-surgeries-from-friday-101622746392187.html
04-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra prepares five-level unlock plan||In view of the improvement in the state’s Covid-19 situation, the government is planning to lift lockdown restrictions, albeit via a five-level unlock plan. It has decided to categorise districts and cities based on their testing positivity rate and occupancy rate of oxygen beds. Those coming under level 1 are likely to be freed from all restrictions. The proposal was discussed in the state disaster management authority (SDMA) meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. A decision is likely on Friday, the officials said.Districts and cities under level 2 are likely allowed to open up all activities, but they may face restrictions on timings or number of people. Mumbai is likely to be part of level 2. State relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar also clarified that local trains will not be allowed to run, as of now.The state relief and rehabilitation department has proposed to bifurcate districts and cities into five levels. The districts and cities to be made part of level 1 will have less than 5% weekly positivity rate and less than 25% occupancy rate of oxygen beds. Similarly, cities and districts with up to 5% positivity rate and 25-40% occupancy rate will be incorporated in level 2 of the plan, 5% to 9% positivity rate and 40-60% occupancy will come under level 3, 10-20% of positivity rate and 60-75% occupancy rate areas will come under level 4 and areas having 20% and above positivity rate and 75% and above occupancy rate will not be having any change in lockdown restrictions, the relief and rehabilitation minister said.Among cities, municipal corporations with more than 1 million population will be considered as a unit and they will also be eligible to get relaxations on the basis of their current situation.Wadettiwar said, “Those coming under level 1 category will not be having any restrictions. There are some 18 units (districts and cities) that are likely to come under it. It means all the shops, hotels, restaurants, malls, theatres, offices etc. will be allowed to open with 100% capacity. Mumbai is likely to come in level 2 category where all the activities will also be allowed, but with some restrictions limited to number of people or timings.”A senior official privy to the development said there will be no restrictions on inter-district travelling for areas coming under level 1 to 4. “People from these areas will not require any e-pass. However, those who want to enter and leave the areas under level 5 category, also known as red zone, will require an e-pass,” he said.A decision on the five-level unlock plan is likely to come on Friday, he added.The state government on Thursday clarified that the proposal is still under consideration. The clarification was issued, following a statement made by the relief and rehabilitation minister that said that the proposal was approved in the SDMA meeting and will come in force from Friday onwards. Later in the evening, he clarified that he forgot to use the “in-principle” word, while sharing the information with the mediapersons.“We have not stopped the spread and infection of corona completely as yet. The infection is increasing in some rural areas as of now. We will have to think before taking any definite step about relaxing the restrictions in consideration of dangerous and changing mutations of coronavirus. The restrictions imposed in the state are not lifted as yet. The detailed guiding instructions to impose harder restrictions or give relaxation will be notified through a government decision,” said a clarification issued on Thursday evening.“The proposal to relax restrictions on the basis of these parameters is under consideration and the decision regarding its implementation will be taken after taking comprehensive review of the situation from the concerned administrative units of the district. The information regarding this is being examined from the local administration. The official decision will be conveyed after this. Instructions about implementation of this decision will be explained in the abovementioned government decision,” it added.“The proposal was discussed in the SDMA meeting but since health officials were not part of it, the chief minister asked the relief and rehabilitation department to share the proposal with them and take their opinion after which a decision can be taken. Later, Wadettiwar made the announcement,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.This led to a mess and also attracted criticism from the opposition leaders who were quick to allege that there is lack of coordination among the Uddhav Thackeray-led coalition government.State BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said this indicates there is no coordination among the ruling partners. “Maharashtra is facing a situation similar to a confused ruler and a chaotic state. Relief and rehabilitation minister declared a decision of unlocking in a meeting chaired by the chief minister. Later, the state government issued a clarification that it is just a proposal and a decision is yet to be taken,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-prepares-five-level-unlock-plan-101622746212196.html
04-06-2021||Noida||Vaccination camp for specially-abled, transgenders & senior citizens on June 7||Noida: The social welfare department of Gautam Budh Nagar administration is holding a separate vaccination camp for the differently-abled, transgenders and senior citizens in Noida on June 7. The camp will be held from 10am to 4pm at Vikas Bhavan auditorium located in Greater Noida, officials said.A target of vaccinating 200 people above 18 years has been set, the officials said.“The department concerned has identified 50 differently-abled beneficiaries, while 70 people have been identified from the old age home run by the social welfare department in Greater Noida. Apart from this, the district magistrate has instructed to include transgenders in the drive as well. Hence, we are publicising among their communities that they can come and get vaccinated here,” said Shailendra Bahadur Singh, district social welfare officer, GB Nagar.He said that the registration of transgenders for vaccination will be done on June 4 and 5 at room number 117, Vikas Bhawan. Since people from other categories have already been identified, their details are with the administration and their prior registration is not required, said the officials.“It is very difficult to convince people in the transgender community to come and get vaccinated. Two days back, I reached out to their community leader over phone but she said that they do not ‘trust’ vaccines. Her brother got fever a day after getting vaccinated so they got scared. However, I tried to make them understand that it is just a side effect,” said Singh.Ram Kali, a transgender who works with the NGO Basera Samajik Sansthan, said that the community follows what their leader tells them to. “Various rounds of counselling are required to get transgenders vaccinated as they only follow what their community leader tells them. We have so far been able to get only around 50 transgenders vaccinated at the Sector 30 district hospital,” she said. The NGO works with over 2,000 transgenders in GB Nagar.As per a statement from the social welfare department, people from the transgender community can contact at 7042563106 for registration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-vaccination-camp-for-specially-abled-transgenders-and-senior-citizens-on-june-7-101622745792721.html
04-06-2021||Other||Kanpur BJP leader removed from post after visuals of him pressuring police to release alleged criminal||Hours after visuals of one of its local party functionaries in Kanpur forcing the police to release a person with dubious conduct and 27 cases against him went viral, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) quickly removed the leader from the post and set up a three-member inquiry into the authenticity of the charges against him. “We have removed him from his post and a three-member inquiry committee would submit its report and that report would form the basis of any further action against the person,” BJP’s Kanpur district unit chief Dr Veena Arya Patel said. She said the report would be sent to party’s regional and state leadership. A birthday party thrown by BJP’s Kanpur district secretary Narayan Singh Bhadauria at a guesthouse in violation of the Covid-19 protocol was attended by Manoj Singh, who according to the police, has around 27 cases against him. Out on parole granted by the high court, Singh is now on the run. Police are conducting raids to arrest Singh and the BJP functionary. Visuals of the incident showed Bhadauria and his supporters blocking the police team’s jeep from taking Manoj Singh away. The police had arrived at the guesthouse after a tip-off about the presence of some people with dubious conduct there, police officials said. “It’s true that some people managed to free an accused with a history sheet. Cases under appropriate section have been registered and raids are on,” said Raveena Tyagi, deputy commissioner of police, Kanpur (south). Police officials said that the even the BJP functionary had a few cases on him. Bhadauria, who is now on the run, had earlier denied any involvement in the entire case and said he did not know the people who helped the criminal escape.“My presence is natural as I organised the party and I was there to cut the cake. I did not participate in any such activity,” he said.Two other people with allegedly dubious conduct, Vikas Tiwari and Raj Pandit, also out on parole, were reportedly present at the BJP functionary’s birthday function. They too managed to escape, people aware of the matter said. “Stripped of his post already, he could face strict action. A report has been sought and is expected within 24 hours by our district unit,” a senior UP BJP functionary said, admitting that such developments dent the party’s reputation. “I think police are doing their job and the law will catch up with all those who are guilty,” said the BJP leader who asked not to be named.The opposition targeted the BJP claiming this was the latest proof of “goondaraj” (lawlessness) in UP.“I hope the chief minister is watching. This is goondaraj,” said Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Anurag Bhadauria.In the run-up to 2017 UP assembly polls, the BJP had consistently targeted the SP rule claiming there was “goondaraj”. The Congress asked why the BJP functionary wasn’t arrested by the police immediately.“Didn’t he get benefit of being a functionary of the ruling party? Visuals showed him being present, arguing with the police party, when a mob managed to free a criminal from police captivity,” asked Congress spokesman Anshu Awasthi. He said, “If SP rule was goondaraj, then BJP rule is jungleraj.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kanpur-bjp-leader-removed-from-post-after-visuals-of-him-pressuring-police-to-release-alleged-criminal-101622745792220.html
04-06-2021||Noida||Three arrested for holding sub-inspector hostage in Jewar||Greater Noida: Three persons were arrested Wednesday night for allegedly attacking a police team during a search in Chanchli village in Jewar. The police team had visited the spot to nab a suspect, Balbeer, 35, in connection with a narcotics case. However, the suspect’s family and locals allegedly attacked the police team, which led to a chaotic situation, said the police.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida said Balbeer was allegedly involved in smuggling marijuana. “Two sub inspectors and two constables had visited his house to conduct a search. However, a number of locals gathered at the spot and started resisting the search operation,” he said.Umesh Bahadur, SHO, Jewar police station, said that three of the police personnel exited the house due to stiff resistance while the suspects held one sub-inspector – Jaideep Singh – hostage and bolted the door from inside. “They manhandled the sub-inspector and tore his uniform,” he said.A video of the incident was circulated on social media, in which the SI was seen sitting on a cot allegedly being held hostage by the suspects. Later, additional force was sent to the spot and the three suspects – Balbeer, his wife Neetu, 32, and a relative Rajni, 30 were arrested.Police said a case has been registered against them under Section 147 (rioting), Section 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), Section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC. “The three suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. We are trying to nab more people involved in the attack,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-arrested-for-holding-sub-inspector-hostage-in-jewar-101622745732820.html
04-06-2021||Other||Murder convict who jumped parole injured in encounter||New Delhi A 27-year-old murder convict, who jumped parole and allegedly stabbed a businessman a few weeks ago for refusing to pay extortion money, was shot in his leg in an encounter with a police team in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri in the early hours of Thursday, police said.The suspect, Aman Pilla, allegedly fired a round at a head constable, hitting him in his bullet-proof vest, after which the policeman returned fire and injured his left leg.Deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parwinder Singh said Pilla is a member of the notorious Tillu Tajpuria gang and has 16 previous criminal cases against him. “He was convicted for a murder in 2015 and was released on parole for a month in March due to the pandemic. But he jumped parole and began extorting businessmen,” said Singh.After jumping parole, Pilla, a resident of Mangolpuri, allegedly stabbed a businessman in the same neighbourhood on April 22 for not giving into his extortion demand. An attempt to murder case was registered against him and the police were on his trail ever since.Late Wednesday night, police received a tip-off that Pilla would visit Mangolpuri to meet his family. “We laid a trap near Mangolpuri flyover and noticed him on a motorcycle around midnight. When we asked him to stop, he took out a pistol and fired at a head constable,”said the DCP.After a brief exchange of fire, Pilla was overpowered and a gun with five bullets was recovered from him.He was taken to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital where doctors said he is now out of danger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/murder-convict-who-jumped-parole-injured-in-encounter-101622745732130.html
04-06-2021||Noida||Two held for attempting to break ATM machine in Noida||Noida: Two men were nabbed by the Noida police late Wednesday for allegedly attempting to steal an ATM machine located in Chhajarsi.The suspects were identified as Shahnawaz and Haider Ali, both Chhajarsi residents. According to the police, they had allegedly attempted to break and steal an ATM machine from a kiosk around 2am on June 2.“The bank had received an alert and information was shared with us, following which teams were dispatched to the kiosk. The suspects had managed to flee but the machine had been severely damaged,” said Vivek Triwedi, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.He said that a case was registered under sections 379, 511 and 427 of the Indian Penal Code.“We obtained CCTV footage of the incident and were able to track the suspects. We had a tip-off about their movement in the area following which check posts were set up,” said the SHO.The duo, travelling on a motorcycle from the Char Murti crossing, was stopped near Parthala Chowk. Officers said they allegedly tried to fire at the police team and Shahnawaz was injured in the retaliatory firing. He was taken to a nearby hospital while Ali was taken into police custody.Police said Shahnawaz has gone to jail from Delhi in connection with a murder case and has also been booked in a robbery case at the Sector 39 station, previously. Police recovered two countrymade pistols, tools used to break the machine and a motorcycle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-held-for-attempting-to-break-atm-machine-in-noida-101622745674394.html
04-06-2021||Noida||Noida: 1,800 people penalised in an hour’s drive for violating Covid guidelines||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar police on Thursday fined about 1,800 people in a one-hour special drive aimed at implementing Covid-19 guidelines in the district. Police officials said that the department collected ₹1.81 lakh in fines during the drive that was conducted from 7.30am to 8.30am. Besides, 50 people were booked in the district under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, the officials said, adding that police have regularly been fining people for violating Covid-19 protocols such as wearing a mask and maintaining social distance. “We had reports that the guidelines were not being followed in wholesale markets and mandis where people congregate in the morning hours. Several teams were formed to conduct the drive,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1. A total of 1,790 challans were issued on Thursday, most of them for not wearing masks and not following social distancing, the officials said. Most of the fines -- 1,192 -- were issued in Greater Noida, followed by Central Noida (396) and Noida (196). Six challans were also done by the Noida traffic police, said the officials. “Our teams visited the mandis in the morning and issued challans for violating the norms. The situation will improve now. We will ensure that all relevant guidelines are being followed,”said Vishal Pandey, additional DCP, zone 3. A total of 100 police teams from 21 stations in the district, along with ACP teams, did the checking at 110 prominent public places like Sector 110 market, Surajpur Chowk, Sector 71, and several Greater Noida areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-1-800-people-penalised-in-an-hour-s-drive-for-violating-covid-guidelines-101622745673840.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Those with special needs to get dedicated vaccination centres||The Delhi government has directed all district magistrates (DMs) and chief district medical officers to ensure at least one dedicated vaccination centre for the differently abled in every zone, and to provide walk-in facility to all such beneficiaries.The centres will only vaccinate differently abled people older than 45 years, with senior government officials citing shortage of doses as the reason to exclude the 18-45 age group.“In order to facilitate Covid-19 vaccination of persons with disabilities, a decision has been taken for operationalisation of a dedicated Covid-19 vaccination centre (CVC) in each district where facilitated vaccination in walk-in mode, with on-site registration, can be undertaken,” said the order issued by the state health department on Wednesday.Last week, the Delhi government ordered that dedicated vaccination centres for persons with disabilities be set up in each district, following demands from disability rights activists.Cheshta Yadav, DM (northwest), said a special vaccination centre has been opened at a community centre of the Delhi Development Authority in Vijay Vihar, Rohini Sector 1. “To get a vaccine shot at such centres, the beneficiary will have to bring a supporting document as proof of disability. These include PwD identify cards or proof of residence in a PwD shelter home, or centre, or any other relevant PwD certificate,” she said.To ensure a good turnout, the DMs are also roping in NGOs to spread awareness of these centres and provide transportation wherever required. Isha Khosla, DM (north), said she has tasked all sub-divisional magistrates in her district to identify and reach out to such beneficiaries and ensure their safe transportation. “Even at the centre, we have sensitised our officers to be more alert in terms of offering any kind of assistance to those coming to get the jab. We have deployed extra civil defence volunteers to assist beneficiaries on wheelchairs or even in general,” she said.Ankita Chakravarty, DM (south), said they have opened a centre for people with disabilities at the Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Chhatarpur.“Beneficiaries can drop in between 9am and 5pm from Monday to Saturday,” she said.The south-east district has identified the school of excellence in Kalkaji as its model PwD centre. “This institute has all the required disabled-friendly infrastructure, such as ramps and markings for visually challenged, so that the vaccination drive can be conducted smoothly,” said a district official.Muralidharan, general secretary of the NGO, The National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled, said in addition to dedicated vaccination centres, it is also crucial to undertake steps aimed at quelling vaccine hesitancy and generating awareness among the differently abled.However, activists and organisations continue to seek vaccination at home for disabled people since commuting is likely to be a challenge for many. National-level para-athlete Gulfam Ahmed , who is struggling to get vaccinate, said: “There are people who are bedridden due to spinal cord injuries or other issues. Such individuals will not be able to go out for vaccination. The government should consider the possibility of vaccinating these people at home. With mobility issues, it’s not easy to reach vaccination sites located in far-flung areas,” said Ahmed.Dr Satendra Singh, a disability rights activist and a teacher at DU’s University College of Medical Sciences, said the government could conduct door-to-door vaccination for elderly people and disabled people as the country had done in the case of polio vaccination.“Whether it’s a separate PWD centre or near a home vaccination centre, both are futile in some cases. A majority of hospitals and centres are not completely accessible to people with severe disability, or those who are old,” said Singh.With inputs from Sadia Akhtar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-orders-dedicated-vaccination-centres-for-differently-abled-in-each-zone-101622745673259.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Several elderly residents want shots at home||Padma Ranganathan, a 100-year-old resident of Saket, is finding it difficult to get vaccinated. The centenarian is homebound due to age-related ailments and mobility issues. Ranganathan’s daughter Reena Ramachandran said her mother has not stepped out of the house since the outbreak of Covid-19.“My mother is going to be 101 shortly and lives alone with a caretaker. She lives on the first floor and movement is a problem for her. For the past one year, we have not allowed any visitors and she is in quarantine. However, this cannot continue forever. She needs to get the vaccine,” said Ramachandran.She said the current mechanism of vaccination was not conducive for disabled or elderly people, who cannot visit vaccination sites easily.“The system needs to devise methods to reach out to the vulnerable section of our society. Some states are already doing home vaccination. It’s not a very novel idea for the country,” said Ramachandran. She said nearly 52% of her colony’s residents are senior citizens, which necessitated vaccination on an urgent basis. “These include families where both partners are bedridden and have not been vaccinated. If the administration is not able to vaccinate a section of people in an area, then how will the immunisation process be successful? By leaving out people, the virus gets a window to mutate and multiply,” she said.Ramachandran’s mother is among several people who are homebound due to age-related ailments, and are yet to get vaccinated. Besides underlying health issues, that many of the elderly live alone also becomes a factor that prevents them from visiting vaccination centres.As per Delhi’s electoral roll last revised on January 15 this year, around 1.22 million people are in the age bracket of 60-69 years, 0.67 million are aged 70-79, and 0.23 million aged over 80 years. As of June 2, the number of people vaccinated in the 60+ category stood at 1.03 million.Major (retd) Ranjit Singh, president of the Defence Colony RWA, which is home to many senior citizens, said the association was trying to work on a mechanism of vaccinating old people at home in collaboration with a private hospital.“At least 40% of the population in our colony are above 60,” said Singh.Preeti Johar, CEO of Family of Disabled, said her organisation has been receiving requests from people who cannot visit vaccination centres.“People with severe muscular dystrophy and other ailments need to be vaccinated at home. In fact, people with disabilities need to be prioritised,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhis-senior-citizens-want-vaccines-at-home-101622745672144.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt told to furnish info on minors orphaned due to Covid-19||The Delhi high court on Thursday said it was “dismayed” that though the Juvenile Justice Act was notified in 2015, little progress has been made regarding the foster care of children.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said there was no mechanism for sponsoring foster care of children who were rendered orphans by the Covid-19 pandemic and are in a vulnerable situation due to the loss of one or both parents.“We are dismayed that even though the JJ act has been notified 2015 and there is a separate department in Delhi government with a complete mandate, little progress appears to be made.… It appears... there has been some feverish activity as if to show that Delhi government has woken to the reality,” the court said.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, who appeared for the Delhi government, said efforts are being made to rectify the situation.The court replied that the government is bound by its statement that steps are being taken and must comply with timelines.During the hearing, the court also directed the Delhi government to take steps to gather information on minors who have been rendered orphans by the pandemic.“Loss of one or both parents not only damages children, but also puts them in a vulnerable situation which could be manipulated to their disadvantage,” the court said.It directed various departments of Delhi government to call all RWAs, police stations, schools and hospitals to give information on children who lost one or both parents. It asked the secretary (health) of the Delhi government to issue directions to all hospitals to furnish information of patients who were survived by children to the department of Women and Child Development without delay.Advocate Prabhsahay Kaur, representing NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan, submitted that there was a complete lack of information on the number of children made orphans by the pandemic, or their identities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-directs-govt-to-collate-info-on-covid-orphans-101622745615585.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Dhankar murder: SUV recovered from stadium was a stolen one, say police||Police on Thursday said the investigation into the killing of wrestler Sagar Dhankar has revealed that the Brezza SUV, which was recovered from New Delhi’s Chhatrasal Stadium, was stolen from outer Delhi’s Rohini a few months ago.The 23-year-old Dhankar had died following a brawl with world champion Sushil Kumar and his associates at Chhatrasal Stadium on the night of May 4. Two of Dhankar’s friends, Sonu and Amit Kumar, were also assaulted by the two-time Olympic wrestler and his aides, police said.A video of the incident had also surfaced on social media, in which 38-year-old Kumar and his associates were seen attacking a man who was lying on the floor with sticks.Police said the stolen vehicle was in the possession of Gulab alias Pehalwan, who is one of nine men arrested so far for Dhankar’s murder. The documents of the car that showed Gulab as its owner turned out to be forged, and the crime branch investigating team is likely to book him for forgery and include forgery charges in the murder case as well, officers associated with the probe said.“Since the vehicle was found to be stolen from the jurisdiction of KN Katju Marg police station, we will soon be informing that police station about the crime. Gulab is presently in jail. The KN Katju Marg police may seek his custody through the court concerned and arrest him separately in the car theft case,” said an investigator, who did not want to be named.Police said 24-year-old Gulab is a member of Kala Asauda-Neeraj Bawana gang and he was arrested along with three other members of the gang – Bhupender alias Bhupi,38, Mohit alias Bholi,22, and Manjeet alias Chunni Lal,29 – from outer Delhi’s Kanjhawala in connection with Dhankar’s murder. They were caught by the Rohini district police on May 25, two days after Kumar was arrested with his associate Ajay Sherawat from Delhi’s Mundka.According to the officer, Gulab, Bhupender, Mohit, Manjeet and a few other associates had reached Chhatrasal Stadium on the night of May 4, after getting a call from another member of their gang, Kala Sethi, who is known to Kumar.“Gulab and the others arrived in two cars – the Brezza and a Scorpio -- and were carrying weapons. They were involved in the assault on Dhankar and his associate. On hearing police sirens, they fled the stadium, leaving behind their vehicles and weapons,” added the officer.At the time of the arrest, the Rohini police was unaware that the Brezza recovered from the stadium was stolen from their jurisdiction. Even the crime branch team was unaware of the vehicle being stolen. But when the ownership documents of the car were verified, they turned out to be forged. The vehicle had a Jharkhand registration plate at the time it was stolen from Rohini, the officer added.Police said they have arrested nine persons, including Kumar and Gulab, for Dhankar’s murder while at least four persons are still absconding. Investigators said the suspects have been identified and searches are on to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dhankar-murder-suv-recovered-from-stadium-was-a-stolen-one-say-police-101622745614416.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||Soon, take your learners’ licence test from home||After fully shifting 12 transport services online, the Delhi government is now working on issuing learners’ driving licences through the internet, senior transport officials said on Thursday.Once implemented, an applicant will not have to visit the RTO to give the learners’ licence test. The project is likely to take off in a month or so. “It will be an e-learners’ licence with a validity of six months which will be issued. This is something which has not been tried in any other state in India so far. We used the seven weeks of lockdown to work on the project,” said a senior transport official.The process will require applicants to register on the transport department website to get a virtual appointment to take the learners’ licence test from their homes. The applicant will go through a standard online tutorial and then take the test. The candidates will also have to sit for a test to check for colour blindness, after which the e-learners’ licence will be issued, another official said.“All information regarding learners’ licence fees, required documents, minimum age and eligibility will be available on the dedicated web link in the transport department website. Besides, it will also contain an FAQ and a question bank,” the official said.The learners’ licence test, which has 10 objective type questions, will take 10 minutes. An applicant gets the licence if he/she scores six out of 10 marks in the computerised test.In March and April, HT reported that switching to a completely online mode of issuing learners’ driving licences was part of the second phase of the state transport department’s online services project. From February 18, Delhi had fully shifted 12 transport services, including applying for renewal and duplicate DL or RC, permit or RC transfer, among others, to the online mode. The second phase will include 58 services.Under the online system, the Delhi transport department, in a first, was able to clear 64% of the 77,421 online applications it received for services related to driver’s licence and vehicle RC between February 18 and March 30, HT reported on April 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/learners-license-to-go-online-delhi-transport-dept-says-101622745613790.html
04-06-2021||Noida||Covid second wave doubles traffic police’s role in Noida||Noida: Traffic police officials have been doing a dual role for the past two months in Gautam Budh Nagar. Besides regulating the traffic, they have been helping family members of Covid-19 patients in arranging oxygen cylinders and ambulances. For instance, the traffic control room on Thursday received a call from Mohit Rana, a resident of Sector 22, that his father was in need of an oxygen concentrator at home. The traffic police verified the request and swiftly arranged an oxygen concentrator for him. “First, I searched for an oxygen concentrator in the market but it was not available. I then contacted the traffic police who provided the concentrator with a security deposit of ₹1000,” Rana said.Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), GB Nagar, said that in the last few months the control room saw a decline in the routine traffic-related calls. “Due to the second wave of the pandemic, people started facing new problems. They needed oxygen cylinders and ambulances, among other things. There are also some people who lost jobs and faced problems in arranging food. We then decided to cater to these needs through our control room,” he said.Saha said that the control room number – 9971009001 – which earlier responded to only traffic-related calls, started helping people affected by Covid-19. “As we receive calls from people, we send our team to help them. We have associated with some NGOs who help us in this initiative,” Saha said. Police on Wednesday provided food to about 100 low-income families in Surajpur, the officials said.Omveer Singh, a head constable at the traffic control room, said that the control room randomly calls residents and asks if they or someone in their neighbourhood need any help. “A few days ago, we received a call from an ice-cream vendor. He said that his business is badly affected due to the lockdown and he was unable to arrange food. We immediately sent a team and helped him,” Singh said.The officials said that the Rotary Club also helped them in this initiative. Naveen Kumar Aggarwal, president, Rotary Club Noida, said that the club is running a kitchen for about two months and has provided food to 250 Covid patients living alone. “Our primary goal during the second wave was to provide blood and plasma to people. But we helped people arrange food supplies in this difficult times,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-second-wave-doubles-traffic-police-s-role-in-noida-101622745612713.html
04-06-2021||Delhi||From June 5, Delhi govt to distribute free grains to those without ration cards||From Saturday, the Delhi government will start distributing free rations to people outside the ambit of the public distribution system (PDS), through a network of 280 government schools, as part of relief measures announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal last month in view of the lockdown that has affected household incomes, said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday.Later in the day, food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain said, “By the night of June 2, the rations have reached 158 schools. Packages will be reaching the remaining schools by June 4. The whole process is being monitored by the chief minister.”Delhi has been under a lockdown since April 19, in an effort to contain the alarming surge in Covid-19 cases which had left the city’s health-care infrastructure overwhelmed -- between April 15 and May 10, the city was reporting over 20,000 Covid-19 cases a day. On May 4, Kejriwal had announced that rations for the 7.2 million PDS beneficiaries will be distributed for free in the months of May and June. On May 18, he announced that free rations would also be given to people without ration cards.The long delay in implementing the scheme, however, has caused more distress to people, said a few daily wagers HT spoke to.“I have had no income since the lockdown was imposed and we are a family of four. For nearly two months now, we have been availing of daily meals at a hunger centre set up by the government. After the CM announced last month that rations would be given to those without ration cards, we were relieved. But we had to buy essentials in May because the government did not give us anything. We are out of savings now. It is a good thing that the scheme is finally taking off,” said Manish Ranjan, who works as a porter at the Gandhi Nagar wholesale garments market.Amardeep Jha, who works at a gear box manufacturing factory in Naraina, said, “We have ration cards from Bihar. But they are not valid in Delhi. So, we had to struggle a lot for food in the month of May. There was no work and my employer did not pay me as the factory was closed the whole month. We were worried about how we would manage in June. We are relieved now to hear about the free ration scheme. If only the government had started it sooner.”The initiative also gain importance considering that Delhi has also not implemented the ‘One nation, one ration card’ policy beyond a pilot project that is so far limited to one municipal ward in Seemapuri assembly segment. The Delhi government has estimated a maximum of two million beneficiaries under the proposed scheme, over and above the 7.2 million beneficiaries under PDS . People who do not have ration cards will be provided five kilos of food grains for free every month. The 280 schools for distribution of the ration have been identified in a fashion that ensures at least four distribution centres in each of the 70 assembly constituencies. The distribution will be done between 10am and 4pm daily, except on Sundays, said a senior government official who did not wish to be identified.The official further said, “People will have to come with some identity document such as Aadhaar card, PAN card, etc. Those who have no document proof will have to sign a self-declaration form. They will be registered on a portal on the spot. All schools have been given log-in IDs to the portal. They have to ensure that beneficiaries are not present in the PDS network and there is no case of one person availing of ration twice.”Anjali Bhardwaj, Right to Food campaigner, who is also a member of the Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan, said: “It is a good thing that the government has finally announced a date for ration distribution among people who do not have ration cards. The government has a bigger challenge ahead in terms of efficient implementation of the scheme.” The Delhi government had launched a similar scheme in March 2020 too when the nationwide lockdown had happened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-june-6-delhi-govt-to-distribute-free-grains-to-those-without-ration-cards-101622745613236.html
04-06-2021||Noida||Beneficiaries from Delhi-NCR turning towards Ghaziabad vaccination centres||Ghaziabad: Many residents of Delhi-NCR in the 18-45 years age group are now turning to vaccination centres in Ghaziabad to get a Covid-19 vaccine, especially a dose of Covaxin. The district has two government-run centres -- one at Ghanta Ghar Ramlila Ground and the other at community health centre (CHC) in Dasna -- that provides exclusive Covaxin vaccination, according to the district health department. “I got a slot here under the 18-45 category. Today, I got the first dose of Covaxin with ease. I am a resident of West Delhi, and I had expected that there could be some problem regarding the local address proof. But it did not happen,” said a Delhi resident requesting anonymity, who received his first dose at CHC, Dasna. The officials at the vaccination centre admitted that many people from neighbouring cities are turning to Ghaziabad for getting a vaccine dose. “About 20% of the beneficiaries who visit the centre are from Delhi-NCR. We take up their vaccination as they have valid address proof of UP such as Aadhaar card or rent agreement. The trend has started after the Centre allowed vaccination for the 18-45 group. It seems that there is a shortage of Covaxin outside UP,” said an officer at the CHC who wished not to be identified. An HT team had visited the vaccination centre on Wednesday. When asked that the Uttar Pradesh government has mandated that a beneficiary in the 18+ group must produce a residence proof of the state to get the jab, Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said, “Beneficiaries in 18-45 group can book slots online. If they are from outside UP, we ask them for proof of residence and provide them vaccination if they produce valid documents. There are some cases when people insist and we give them doses.”The CMO said that the demand of Covaxin has increased lately. “At present, we are not making new sessions of Covaxin for 45+ category since we have to save the vaccine stock for second dose to be given to beneficiaries under the 18-45 category. Once we receive enough stock of Covaxin, we do start sessions for 45+ age group,” said Gupta. It is not just the Covaxin which is drawing people from outside UP to Ghaziabad, many are also availing walk-in facilities at private centres providing Covishield. “On Tuesday, we vaccinated about 1,000 beneficiaries. Of them, about 7% were from outside areas, including Delhi, Faridabad, and Gurugram,” said a spokesperson of Max Hospital at Vaishali which has recently opened its paid vaccination centre administering Covishield at Cambridge School in Indirapuram. However, officials in nearby Gautam Budh Nagar said that they are allowing vaccination of people who are residing in UP. “We are taking up vaccination of only those who are residing in UP. If they are from outside UP, but have temporary residence in UP, we are allowing them to get a vaccine,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer of GB Nagar. However, private hospitals in GB Nagar are free to vaccinate anyone who has got an appointment on Co-WIN app since it is paid one, Ohri said.According to June 2 figures from the Ghaziabad health department, a total of 562,089 doses of Covishield were administered while 60,780 doses of Covaxin were given to beneficiaries so far since January 16 this year. The figures showed that about 19,914 doses of Covaxin were given to beneficiaries in April while it increased to 23,014 in May. Likewise, 188,953 doses of Covishield were given to beneficiaries in April while 216,156 doses were administered in the month of May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/beneficiaries-from-delhi-ncr-turning-towards-ghaziabad-vaccination-centres-101622745612157.html
04-06-2021||Noida||Noida authority to continue oxygen supply service||NOIDA: Even as the demand for medical oxygen has declined to a large extent in the city, the Noida authority on Thursday said that it will continue providing oxygen cylinders and refilling facilities for Covid-19 patients.The authority started supplying oxygen cylinders on May 3 from its two counters set up at community centres in sectors 93B and 135, amid the shortage of oxygen in the city. Currently, it provides, on an average, two cylinders daily in home delivery service while there is a demand for about 15 cylinders daily for refilling, said officials. However, between May 3 and May 20, the authority provided over 1,500 oxygen cylinders to Covid-19 patients in need from its various centres. But the demand declined sharply since then and it supplied just over 200 cylinders from May 21 to June 3, the officials said. “Serving even one patient daily is important for us. Therefore the oxygen supply service will continue,” said Mukesh Vaish, authority’s project engineer who is in-charge of the service.The authority provides the D-type oxygen cylinders of two different capacities -- 40-litre and 5-litre -- for ₹500 and ₹200, respectively.On May 11, the authority decentralized the process and started refilling empty cylinders at eight more locations in the city, said officials. On May 16, it also started home delivery of oxygen cylinders.Meanwhile, the Greater Noida authority that provided around 700 oxygen cylinders in the past one month has shut down two centres (out of four) as the demand declined to seven cylinders daily from 40, said officials.“We have shut down two oxygen counters in the city as the demand has declined due to the decrease in number of patients. Now, anyone who is in need can get cylinders from two centres located in City Park and Saini village,” said Deep Chand, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-to-continue-oxygen-supply-service-101622745492812.html
04-06-2021||Noida||Expecting curfew to end soon, Ghaziabad looks to stakeholders||Ghaziabad: With fewer fresh cases of Covid-19 being reported daily in the district, besides the number of active cases coming down, officials said it is likely that the partial Corona curfew may be lifted as soon as Monday in Ghaziabad. The administration in this regard on Wednesday called on several stakeholders and asked them to make coordinated efforts to uphold Covid protocols.“Since the number of active cases is on the decline due to a lesser number of fresh cases and more patients getting discharged, we expect that the partial Corona curfew may be relaxed by Monday. We are keeping a tab on the daily figures. We have directed all stakeholders to cooperate in order to control the spread of infection so that cases keep below 600,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.According to an Uttar Pradesh government order late April, all districts in the state which have more than 600 active coronavirus disease cases are to observe the partial Corona curfew.On May 30, however, the state government directed that in case active cases fall below 600, the restrictions will ease but if the cases go above 600 again, the restrictions are to automatically come into place. The government had also eased restrictions across the state barring 20 districts, which included Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, under this rule.As per control room figures of Thursday, the number of active cases in Ghaziabad stand at a figure of 727 while neighbouring GB Nagar has a tally of 730 active cases. On May 31, Ghaziabad’s tally of active cases was 1,025 while GB Nagar’s tally of active cases stood at 947.“We have taken note of suggestions made by residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), transporters, traders’ associations and others. Once the relaxations come into play, the suggestions will be evaluated. They have also been asked to take up voluntary community containment directions given earlier by the administration,” Pandey said. The DM said he has asked these stakeholders, as well as auto-rickshaw unions to observe all Covid protocols in order to avoid any spread of the virus. “We have assured the admin that RWAs will cooperate with them, and we are even ready to abstain for community activities in societies; besides, we will form teams which will spread awareness in the community and keep an eye out for people flouting Covid-protocols,” said Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of the flat owners’ federation, who was part of the meeting on Wednesday. He suggested the admin also focus on expediting and increasing coverage of vaccination. “We are ready to make arrangements for vaccination and will also prepare lists of eligible beneficiaries. We will also arrange for doctors, on our part, so that fewer health staff members are engaged and manpower is saved for other Covid related duties,” he added. Markets in the district have been closed since the partial corona curfew was enforced on the night of April 30. “We have suggested that staggered opening and closing time for markets should be done away with and shops should be allowed to open from 8am to 8pm. Otherwise, shoppers panic. Further, we requested that odd-even opening of markets should be avoided as it creates confusion and traders also need to open shops as they have suffered losses during the curfew,” said Rajneesh Bansal, chairperson of Turab Nagar Vyapar Mandal, a traders’ association.He added that a request for vaccination of traders and their staff should also be looked at.“The associations are ready to make arrangements. Majority of our staff do not have access to online booking modes. So, if the administration can arrange for camps, we will make arrangements,” he added.Dilshad Ahmad, president of the Ghaziabad auto-rickshaw chalak sangh, said that auto-rickshaw drivers will cooperate fully, otherwise all stakeholders and residents will suffer if cases go beyond 600. “We will not allow overcrowding in our autos and no passenger will be allowed to board the vehicle without a face mask. All vehicles will carry bottles of sanitisers as well. Helping keep the curfew at bay is the responsibility of all stakeholders. If the number of cases goes above 600, we all will face closure and hence, difficulties,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/expecting-curfew-to-end-soon-ghaziabad-looks-to-stakeholders-101622745492105.html
04-06-2021||Noida||Non-Covid OPDs open at govt hospitals in Noida||Noida: Non-Covid medical services at government facilities in Gautam Budh Nagar are set to start again on Friday. The non-Covid OPD (out-patient department) and IPD (in-patient department) services had been halted in the district on April 14 after a surge in Covid cases.The services are being restarted as per a state government order, which says that OPD and IPD services are to be resumed at all Community Health Centres (CHCs) and Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in the district, with Covid protocols in place, while the surgical OPD will start only at the district hospital.“There are 25 Covid-19 patients admitted at the district hospital, as of now. As per state government orders, we will start surgical OPD at the hospital on Friday. This will help non-Covid patients whose surgeries were pending. Before the surgeries, the patient’s RT-PCR test or TrueNat test will be done to ensure they are Covid negative,” said Dr Renu Aggarwal, chief medical superintendent of the Sector 30 District Hospital.Officials said that as the number of Covid cases in the district go down, opening such services will help non-Covid patients who need medical attention. The district reported 45 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday and currently has 730 active cases.“Apart from the surgical OPD at the district hospital, orthopaedic, ENT and eye OPDs will be resumed at PHC and CHCs across the district. The order states that patients who come with Covid symptoms at any of these health centres will be tested at a separate flu corner, so that they stay isolated from other patients. Covid tests of these patients will be ensured,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer.At the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida, some OPD departments were resumed from May 24.“We restarted with antenatal and diabetic OPD services last week, besides immunization clinics. Apart from this, we resumed OPD consultations for post-Covid complications last week. We will open other OPD services gradually in the coming days,” said GIMS director Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta.Meanwhile, some private Covid hospitals in the district have also opened their non-Covid OPD and IPD services.“Our OPD service was resumed on May 31 in which, during the first two days, we received around 150 patients whose surgeries were pending, who came for consultations. We are getting over 400 patients daily now,” said Dr Ajeet Kumar, director of public relations, Sharda Hospital.The non-Covid OPDs were opened at all three branches of Yatharth Hospital in the district on June 1. “We have been getting over 350 patients at the OPD on a daily basis at the Greater Noida branch, around 300 per day at the Sector 110 branch and around 110 at the Greater Noida west branch,” said Dr Sunil Balyan, medical superintendent at Yatharth Hospital, Greater Noida.Fortis Hospital in Noida said it opened its OPD last week. “We are getting about 200-250 OPD cases on a daily basis since opening last week,” said Hardeep Singh, zonal director, Fortis Hospital, Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noncovid-opds-open-at-govt-hospitals-in-noida-101622745252165.html
04-06-2021||Noida||Below normal monsoon likely in Noida: IMD||Noida: The region, including Noida and Ghaziabad, is likely to experience “slightly below normal rainfall” this monsoon, said weather scientists.The Southwest monsoon usually hits the region late June with an average of 65cm (long period average) of rainfall between June 1 and September 30, said experts, which is considered normal for the National Capital Region. Last year the region received 57.6 cm of rainfall which was about 88% of long period average (LPA). “This year we expected slightly below-normal monsoon rainfall for the National Capital Region (NCR), considering the Safdarjung observatory as the centre and considering Noida a part of the region,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD).For the whole country, the IMD has forecasted the southwest monsoon to be normal — 96% to 104% of LPA, which is 88cm.Last year in 2020 the monsoon arrived in NCR on June 25, which according to the IMD was the first time in the past four years when it came earlier than usual. Usually, monsoon rains arrive on June 29 in this part of the country.Meanwhile, Noida on Thursday saw a slight rise in mercury after a short respite from heat earlier this week. The IMD forecasted that the mercury may cross 40°C in the next few days with no sign of rains for next seven days. Officials said that a maximum temperature of 41.5 degrees Celsius is normal for the first week of June.According to the IMD, Noida saw a maximum and minimum temperature of 37.6 degrees Celsius and 25.6 degrees Celsius on Thursday against 34 and 24.2 degree Celsius a day earlier, respectively. At Safdarjung, considered average for the NCR, the minimum and maximum temperature was recorded at 38.2 degrees Celsius and 24.4 degrees Celsius respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/below-normal-monsoon-likely-in-noida-imd-101622745132063.html
04-06-2021||Pune||2.1 mn beneficiaries received first jab in Pune district||Pune: Over 2.1 million beneficiaries have received their first dose and over 0.5 million beneficiaries got their second dose in Pune district. The frequent shortage of vaccine doses affected the inoculation drive. However, officials said that the campaign will improve post June 15.On Thursday, 30,624 beneficiaries were inoculated within Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, whereas, 3,638 beneficiaries were inoculated in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). Pune rural inoculated 2437 beneficiaries. A total of 36,699 beneficiaries were given jabs on Thursday at 250 centres across Pune district.Between April 3 and April 9, Pune district administration was able to inoculate 373,016 lakh beneficiaries as per the CoWIN dashboard. Since then, the vaccination has not seen an upward trend. Between May 29 and June 3, Pune district has seen only 176,730 beneficiaries receiving the jab.Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health, Pune Circle, said that vax stock is expected to increase from June 15. “On Wednesday, we received over 72,000 Covishied and 12,000 Covaxin doses, more than the total stock supplied in May. There is a shortage of vaccines nationwide. However, after June 15, there is a possibility that the stock of vaccine would increase thus improving the speed of the vaccination across Pune city and district,” said Dr Deshmukh. As per the health department, there are a total of 2,914,612 beneficiaries in Pune rural and only 1,147,960 are inoculated. Of the total, 32% or 929,889 beneficiaries have received their first jab. And, only 218,071 received their second jab so far, that is only 9 per cent of total beneficiaries.In PMC, of the 1,630,264 beneficiaries, 1,092,187 beneficiaries have received vaccination. There are 832,774 first dose beneficiaries and 259,413 second dose beneficiaries in PMC limits.As of Thursday, Pune district needs 480,000 vaccination doses to carry out vaccination for the next few days.Rubal Agarwal, PMC additional municipal commissioner, said that on Thursday, 146 sites were functional for vaccination in the city.“We had 131 sessions of Covishield for 45-plus beneficiaries with first and second dose. And at 15 sessions there was Covaxin administered to beneficiaries who were 18-plus for the second dose. Sites on Thursday opened at 8 am,” said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/21-mn-beneficiaries-received-first-jab-in-pune-dist-101622744712023.html
04-06-2021||Gurugram||NGO claims Covid care centre in Gurugram vandalised by owner of plot||A Covid care centre set up by a non-governmental organisation (NGO) in Sector 61 near Badshahpur was ransacked on Thursday morning, allegedly by the landowner, who wanted the camp to be removed from the site, members of the NGO alleged. The foundation officials said there was no patient at the facility at the time of the incident.NGO officials said they had a verbal agreement with the owner to use the site till June 30 and then find an alternative site.JP Singh, HR director of Hemkunt Foundation, the NGO, alleged that tents, boards and other items inside the camp were damaged and they were forced to close the facility. A police complaint was lodged in the evening by the foundation at the Sector 65 police station.Police officials said it is a dispute between the landowner and the foundation, but added that a case under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 427 (mischief causing damage) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC was registered. Police said of the 22 people booked, only two, including the landowner, were named in the FIR.Deepak Kumar, SHO of Sector 65 police station, said a police team and the subdivisional magistrate of Badshahpur, Satish Yadav, visited the spot as soon as they received a complaint. “The landowner is planning to set up his own makeshift oxygen centre for residents and they have been asking the Hemkunt Foundation to vacate. There is no legal or written agreement between the parties, due to which they are bound to vacate the private property. We have intervened and given two days to shift their set up,” said Kumar.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said they have deployed police at the site as a precautionary measure. “I will be holding a discussion with them and an appropriate site would be given based on the requirement,” he said.The care centre set up by the foundation had 150 beds and 350 chairs to provide oxygen support to Covid-19 patients.Following the incident, a representative of the foundation took to social media and alleged they were being forcibly evicted by the locals. Within minutes, around 1,000 users retweeted it and the post got more than 240 reactions.Singh, who is also in charge of the camp, said they had already paid 3.5 lakh to the landowner. “The owner came to the camp on Wednesday and asked us to vacate the site within a day. How is this possible? We asked them to wait till June 30 so that we could make alternative arrangements. Action should be taken against miscreants,” said Singh.The landowner did not respond to text messages and phone calls requesting comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ngos-covid-care-camp-in-sector-61-vandalised-by-landowner-101622744652055.html
04-06-2021||Other||Bouncer phones cops to surrender after killing wife, son; then dies by suicide||A bouncer with a Delhi-based property dealer allegedly committed suicide by jumping before a train after strangulating his wife and one-year-old son in Siwah village of Panipat, police said.Police said as per preliminary probe, the man took the step following an argument with his wife on Thursday evening.He got into an argument with his wife on Thursday afternoon and allegedly strangulated her and his son before jumping before a train, police said.He had made a call to his friend in Delhi and the police control room confessing that he had killed his wife and son.The man’s father said that he was out of the village and came to know about the incident from his son’s friend in Delhi. On reaching home, he found his daughter-in-law and grandson dead and later, they recovered his son’s body from railway tracks.After getting the information, Panipat police and GRP reached the spot and their bodies were sent for postmortem.The family said the couple had gotten married in 2018 and for the past few months, they had some family dispute and the man was depressed.Panipat superintendent of police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan, who reached the village, said the man had also called the PCR asking to be arrested for killing his wife and son but later committed suicide and his body was found from railway tracks.Police investigation is on and the bodies have been sent for postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panipat-bouncer-kills-wife-son-before-committing-suicide-101622739372331.html
04-06-2021||Pune||Pre-monsoon showers put Pune dam levels at highest point in three years||Given the pre-monsoon rain that Pune has witnessed this summer season (March to May), the water level in all four dams is now “good”, as compared to the last three years. Panshet dam, as of June 1, reported holdings at 37.11 per cent of full storage capacity, whereas Khadakwasla, is at 42.84 per cent. As per data furnished by the water resources department, Temghar dam is 9.47 per cent full. In 2020 and 2019, during the same time period, dam storage here was nil, as repair works were on. However, this year, due to good rainfall in the ghat and catchment areas, dam have filled up. As per IMD, from March to May in 2021, Pune received 145.4 mm of rainfall as opposed to the 38.8mm normally expected in the city.HV Gunale, chief engineer of the water resources department, Pune division, said that due to the good rainfall, many farmers do not need any irrigation support for their crops.“As there is good rainfall, water used is also less this time. Moreover, the catchment areas saw good rainfall, which has left the dams with good water storage ahead of the monsoon season,” said Gunale. Irrigation department officials also noted that water from dams has been released twice this summer for irrigation. The water reaches the rural areas via the Mutha canal, ensuring Rabi crops get enough water during the summer season. As of Thursday, there is 7.88 TMC of water in all the four dams, collectively. This is 27.05 per cent of the collective dam capacity. In 2020, in the first week of June, there was 6.85 TMC of water in all four dams collectively, which was 23.52 per cent of collective capacity, said irrigation department officials.As of Thursday, Khadkwasla has 0.85 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) of water, Panshet has 3.95 TMC, Warasgaon has 2.73 TMC and Temghar has 0.35 TMC of water in storage.Water storage in damns (as percentage of capacity)PanshetJune 2021 -- 37.11June 2020 -- 3.32June 2019 -- 16.10VarasgaonJune 2021 -- 21.34June 2020 -- 21.92June 2019 -- 8.45TemgharJune 2021 -- 9.47June 2020 -- 0June 2020 -- 0KhadakwaslaJune 2021 -- 42.84June 2020 -- 36.65June 2019 -- 41.71||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/premonsoon-showers-put-dam-levels-at-highest-point-in-three-years-101622729111058.html
04-06-2021||Other||BJP councillor shot dead in J&K; previously unknown group claims responsibility||Srinagar: A previously unknown group has claimed responsibility for the killing of a councillor in Jammu and Kashmir’s Tral on Wednesday night when he was visiting a friend’s house on his way back from Jammu city without his security cover.Rakesh Pandita, 56, a leader of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), was shot dead while his friend Mushtaq Ahmad’s daughter suffered injuries in the shooting and was hospitalised in a critical condition. Pandita was cremated in Jammu on Thursday.People’s Anti Fascist Front (PAFF), the group, claimed responsibility for the killing in a statement that accused Pandita of creating a network of informers, drug trafficking and “immoral activities”. It added it was “keeping an eye on the activities of these forces”.“He [Pandita] had gone to Jammu and left PSOs [Personal Security Officers] in Kashmir. After returning from Jammu, he went to Tral without his PSOs to meet his friend... The investigations are going on,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.Police said PAFF appears to be a front of militant organisations active in south Kashmir and added security forces have cordoned off the attack scene and launched a search operation to nab the assailants. They cited the standard operating procedure and said Pandita should have avoided going to his native village without his security cover, which was provided to him along with secured accommodation in Srinagar.At least 12 local bodies members have been killed since elections at the grassroots level were held in 2018. The members were promised security, but many allege that it was not provided to all. In March, two councillors and one PSO was killed in an attack on the Municipal Council office in Sopore in Baramulla district.“We were promised adequate security... unfortunately, only people affiliated to the BJP or the parties close to New Delhi have been given security,” said a councillor from Sopore, requesting anonymity.Police issued fresh instructions to political workers and leaders against moving without their security covers after the killing of Pandita, whose body was taken to Jammu for his last rites.BJP leader Altaf Thakur, who is also from Tral, said 17 workers of their party have been killed over the last three years. “Most of the councillors and panchayat members have been provided security. These attacks would not deter us from carrying out political activities.”Police were investigating why the PSOs were not accompanying Pandita and said action could be taken against them.Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti condemned the killing saying such senseless acts of violence have only brought misery. “Shocked to hear that BJP leader Rakesh Pandit has been shot dead by militants. These senseless acts of violence have brought only misery to J&K [Jammu and Kashmir]. My condolences to the family and may his soul rest in peace,” she tweeted.Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha echoed her. “Saddened to hear about the terror attack on the Councillor Shri Rakesh Pandita at Tral, Pulwama. I strongly condemn the attack. My condolences to the bereaved family in this time of grief,” he tweeted. Sinha added “terrorists will never succeed in their nefarious designs” and those responsible for such heinous acts shall be brought to justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-councillor-shot-dead-in-j-k-previously-unknown-group-claims-responsibility-101622698809809.html
